23376672|Two hundred samples of leaves of Lycium andersonii A. Gray, each representing one plant and divided among six different locations, were assayed by emission spectrography. Information for 12 different elements is reported in terms of concentrations, frequency distribution, correlations, and some soil characteristics. The objective was to ascertain the nature of variability for mineral elements within a species. Composition varied significantly for all 12 elements among locations, all within about 20 km. At least part of the variation was due to soil characteristics. Samples from Rock Valley were highest in K, Na, and Li, which effect is associated with volcanic outcrop. Samples from Mercury Valley were highest in P, Mg, Ba, and B. At least Mg is related to the soil composition. Correlation coefficients between element pairs were often very different for all 200 samples versus those obtained for individual locations. Some of the values for all 200 samples together proved to be artifacts. The highest correlation was for Ca  Sr (positive) and next was Ca  Mg (also positive). Most correlations were slightly or strongly positive (24 of 32). Only P  Ca, Ca  Na, Ca  B, and Sr  P seemed to be significantly negative of the 32 correlations examined. Frequency distribution patterns where common populations were grouped were often normally distributed. Li, as previously reported, and Na, Cu, Mn, and B and Ba at some locations were not normally distributed. Wide variations in the concentrations of individual elements in leaves of these species were encountered.
23377647|No genetic variation was observed for three proteins examined from samples of saliva from 22 black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes). The comparable data concerning levels of genetic variation in other taxa at these loci are too inconclusive to provide a meaningful interpretation of the observed absence of genetic variation. The absence of genetic variation observed in the black-footed ferret population is compatible with the reported levels of genetic variation in terrestrial carnivores and populations that have undergone bottlenecks. Suggestions for additional studies using different approaches both to increase the number of loci that are used to determine the level of genetic variability in the black-footed ferret and to provide a more meaningful comparative data base are provided.
23376611|It is the responsibility of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to conserve plants and animals... and the habitat on which they depend... which are officially listed according to federal or state laws in catregories that imply significant potential for extinction. The BLM also provides for the conservation of the habitats of unlisted extinction-prone (i.e., sensitive) plants and animals. It also applies to all BLM programs and actions related to the public lands, the federal subsurface mineral estate, and the submerged lands of the Outer Continental Shelf (OSC).
23378266|Desert rodent communities are compared for evidence of convergent evolution at various levels of organization, including the systemic (physiological, anatomical, etc.), autecological, and synecological. Convergence is quite pronounced at the systemic level, less pronounced at the autecological level, and even less detectable at the synecological level. This is not to imply that community convergence does not occur, but rather that our current abilities to quantify and detect convergence at the community level are rudimentaryand our data base is still far from adequate to the task of rigorously comparing community attributes. Most research on the ecology, behavior, physiology, and community structure of desert rodents has been conducted on North American species inhabiting deserts of the United States. The patterns of species coexistence that have been elucidated in these deserts are often presumed to apply in other deserts of the world. It has become apparent in recent years, however, that the complex North American desert system is unique in many ways, perhaps especially in the biogeographic history of its habitats and faunas, from most of the other deserts of the world. The North American deserts offer an unusually diverse fauna of desert rodents (both alpha and beta diversity are high) which evidences patterns of distribution and coexistence that excite biologists working with the mechanisms of competitive interactions. Similar studies carried out in other deserts might very well lead to a different set of ideas concerning the ways in which desert rodents manage to coexist and how desert communities develop over time. The present paper is an attempt to compare community structure and development as well as patterns of coexistence among the various faunas of desert rodents of the world. Although data are sketchy for many areas, sufficient information is available to allow a preliminary comparison of methods of adaptation and coexistence to be made.
23376565|Eriogonoideae is a subfamily of the knotweed family, Polygonaceae, endemic to the New World, and is composed of 14 genera and perhaps 320 species. It differs primarily from the other members of Polygonaceae in lacking well-defined sheathing stipules or ochrea. The species of Eriogonoideae vary from tiny, fragile annuals to herbaceous perennials, low subshrubs or shrubs to large and often arborescent shrubs. The seemingly most primitive extant genus of the subfamily is Eriogonum (247 species), which is widespread in central North America. A series of genera are closely related to Eriogonum, and probably have evolved directly from Eriogonum. These genera are Oxytheca (9 species) of the western United States, and Chile and Argentina of South America; Dedeckera and Gilmania, both monotypic genera of the Death Valley region of California; Stenogonum (2 species) of the Colorado Plateau and adjacent areas of the Rocky Mountain West; Goodmania and Hollisteria, 2 monotypic genera of central and southern California; and Nemacaulis, a monotypic genus of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. A second major complex of genera also probably evolved from Eriogonum. In this group, the most elementary genus is Chorizanthe (about 50 species), in which the extant perennial members of the genus are perhaps evolutionarily the oldest taxa of the subfamily. These perennials are restricted to Chile, while in the western United States and northwestern Mexico of North America, only annual species are found. Mucronea (2 species) of California and Centrostegia (4 species) of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico are clearly related to Chorizanthe. In a somewhat intermediate position between the Eriogonum complex and the Chorizanthe complexbut still more closely related to the latter than the formeris the genus Lastarriaea (2 species) found in California, Baja California, and Chile. All of these genera belong to the tribe Eriogoneae. A second tribe, Pterostegeae, contains only 2 discordant, monotypic genera: the shrubby perennial genus Harfordia of Baja California and the more widespread annual, Pterostegia, of the western United States. While time and evolution have obscured the relationships between Eriogoneae and Pterostegeae, the affiliations among the various genera of the tribes can be ascertained to some degree. The geographical center of origin of the subfamily may have been in a subtropical climate, with the differentiation of modern-day genera occurring in temperate, xeric regions of North America. The origin of Chorizanthe was an ancient development, with the migration of the primitive perennial members into South America in the Tertiary. The subsequent development of the annual habit, and migration of annual species of Eriogonoideae into South America has probably occurred in the Quaternary. The intermediate stages of evolutionary development of the genera and species of the subfamily occurred in a habitat similar to the pinyon-juniper woodlands of the Great Basin, while evolution of the more advanced genera and species has occurred in xeric grasslands, chapparral scrub, or xerophytic "hot desert" communities.
23376654|Residual effects of sprinkle irrigation from 19681970 on populations of Mojave Desert shrub communities were observed in late 1974. The sprinkle-irrigated plots showed a residual increase in density of four species, but other species either failed to reproduce in significant numbers or lost all gains made during the years following treatment. The seven-year change for the irrigated plots was equivalent to a gain of 1178 perennial plants per ha, but the nonirrigated plots lost an average of 1050 plants per ha equivalent during the same period. The biomass gain after seven years was equivalent to 1000 kg/ha for irrigated plots and 310 for nonirrigated plots.
23377641|A vegetation inventory of current and historic black- footed ferret (Mustela nigripes, BFF) habitat was completed in the 1983 growing season. White-tail prairie dog (Cynomys leucurus) colonies near Meeteetse, Wyoming, provide the only known BFF habitat. Four other prairie dog complexes located in Wyoming, documented historic BFF habitat, were also inventoried. Prairie dog burrows occur in two of eight vegetation types present in the current BFF habitat study area. They are junegrass (Koeleria cristata) and sagebrush/junegrass (Artemisia tridentata/K. cristata; named for dominant species). In historic BFF habitat, prairie dog burrows occur in six vegetation types: birdfoot sagewort/western wheatgrass (Artemisia petadifida/Agropyron smithii), alkali sagebrush (Artemisia longiloba)/mixed grass, Gardner saltbush (Atriplex gardneri)/mixed grass, and thickspike wheatgrass-threadleaf sedge (Agropyron dasystachyum-Carex filifolia), mixed shrub/mixed grass, and Gardner saltbush. Similarities among all five complexes are plant heights generally less than 66 cm, level to gently rolling topography, and severe disturbance due to historical grazing, vegetation manipulation, and other human-related activities. Of the vegetation parameters measured, only plant height appears to be important to white-tail prairie dog distribution. White-tail prairie dog colonies do not appear to depend on a particular vegetation type; consequently, vegetation type alone should not be used to identify BFF habitat.
23376547|Seven aquatic and semiaquatic communities surrounding Utah Lake and its bays are described. Similarities and differences in the community types are discussed. Prevalent species in each type are given. The flora contained 483 species, 150 of which were prevalent enough to be included in the quantitative data analysis. Distichlis stricta was the most important and widespread species. Total cover varied in the communities from 10 to 77 percent. Asexual reproduction was shown to increase in importance as moisture in the soil increased. Introduced exotic species were shown to invade most successfully those habitats that show the greatest variability in moisture and/or those that have the greatest internal variation.
23378176|The 10 endemic species of Balclutha in Hawaii are reviewed and compared with the Pacific and American forms of the genus. Two new species, nigriventris and fuscifrons, are described; kilaueae is transferred to a new genus Balolina n. comb.; beardsleyi is synonymized with saltuella, n. syn.; and hospes is relegated to a subspecies of incisa, n. stat. Descriptions and notes, together with illustrations and a key, are given for each taxon. Evidence is presented to suggest that all the endemic species of Balclutha have arisen within the islands from a single colonization and that the taxon showing the greatest similarity to them is the widespread Pacific species B. lucida. It is shown that the Hawaiian genus Nesolina is most closely related to the endemic species-group of Balclutha and that Balolina is an independent colonization.
23376550|There has been a drastic change in fish populations inhabiting Utah Lake during the last 100 years. When the pioneers first entered Utah Valley they found a well-established cutthroat trout population in Utah Lake and in the tributaries flowing into the lake. After intensive agricultural and industrial development this salmonid disappeared, and carp, white bass, and black bullhead are the common species today. The known history of the Utah Lake fisheries is summarized. Through proper management it is possible to establish a sport fishery of the common fish species currently in the Lake, including walleye, channel catfish, and largemouth bass. The ichthyofauna of Utah Lake may be an underrated natural resource. Today, no native sport fishery exists in Utah Lake, although sportsmen are harvesting introduced species. Utah Lake has a dynamic fishery that must be continually monitored and managed if it is remain productive.
23376679|The root systems of 48 perennial plants, representing nine species from the Rock Valley area within the northern Mojave Desert, were excavated by 10 cm depth increments to determine, by depth of soil, the distribution of roots larger than about  mm diameter. The depth of the root zone of all species was relatively shallow and obviously limited by depth of penetration of precipitation (about 10 cm mean annual rainfall). There were species differences, however, in distribution of roots. Even though a sizeable proportion of the root systems was in the first 10 cm of soil, this portion consisted largely of multiple woody tap roots with relatively few small roots. In all cases except one (Krameria parvifolia Benth), more small roots were in the second 10 cm than in the first. From 50 to more than 80 percent of the total root systems were in the first 20 cm. In most cases the majority of small roots was found between 10 and 30 cm in depth. Very fine roots were sampled separately by depth and zone without regard for species because they could not be differentiated by species. Relative depth distribution of very fine roots at Rock Valley for 010, 1020, and 2030 cm, was about 17, 42, and 41 percent, respectively. The total for the first 20 cm was 59 percent. On a 22 April date, there were 225 kg/ha roots from winter annuals in the Rock Valley area; 19 percent of them were in the first 5 cm of soil in contrast to 8 percent in 10 cm of soil for perennials. On Pahute Mesa located in the southern Great Basin desert area of the Nevada Test Site in Artemisia tridentata Nutt. var. tridentata, 8 percent of the roots was in the first 5 cm, indicating more shallow rooting compared with the northern Mojave Desert.
23376608|Biologists are often placed in the difficult position of defending a threatened habitat or animal with vague reasoning and faulty logic, simply because they have no better rationale at their immediate disposal. This places them at a distinct disadvantage and literally at the mercy of resource exploiters and their easily assignable dollar values. Although the initial dollar cost of delaying or precluding "developing" may be significant, the long-term benefits of saving the biological entities which might otherwise be destroyed are likewise great and are measurable in concrete terms which society is only now beginning to appreciate. Case histories are presented, a more profound rationale is explained, and the environmentalist is challenged to make his case sufficiently effective to reverse the current exploitive trends which threaten so many of earth's life forms.
23376602|Preservation of the habitat is the only logical strategy to save endangered species from early extinction. Ecological amplitudes of rare species are very narrow, so transplantation to such alien sites as botanical gardens is not a solution. Protection may not be the answer. We must learn as much as we can about the biology of the species in question, in the field and under laboratory conditions. The first steps must be to determine the distribution. This would be followed by analysis of soils by means of physical and chemical studies. Pollination ecology, associated species, phenological records, and genetic and cytological studies must be a part of the biological studies. Such studies would require teamwork by qualified botanists.
23376681|Fourteen species of native shrubs were transplanted to bare areas of the northern Mojave Desert in 1972 and 1973. By 1978 plants surrounded by small fences were larger (0.26 vs 0.11 m3 overall average for several species) and survived better (42 percent versus 23 percent) than unfenced plants. These effects are primarily due to reduced grazing of shoots. Loss of shrubs to pocket gophers or other burrowing rodents was not prevented by fencing.
23378180|Three tribes of Nirvaninae, namely, Balbillini (two genera and three species), Nirvanini (five genera and 26 species), and Occinirvanini (one genus and one species), occur on the Indian subcontinent. The tribes, genera, and species are redescribed, illustrated, and keyed. New taxa recognized are Balbillus indicus n. sp. (India: Kerala), Stenotortor subhimalaya n. sp. (India: West Bengal), Kana bispinosa n. sp. (India: Tamil Nadu), K. nigropicta n. sp. (India: Kerala), Sophonia bakeri n. sp. (India: Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh; Nepal), S. bifida n. sp. (India: West Bengal), S. complexa n. sp. (India: Meghalaya), S. complicata n. sp. (India: Mizoram, Meghalaya), S. keralica n. sp. (India: Kerala), Nirvana peculiaris n. sp. (India: Mizoram, Meghalaya), and N. striata n. sp. (India: West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh). The genus Quercinirvana Ahmed & Mahmood (type species: Q. longicephala Ahmed & Mahmood) is treated as a junior synonym of Sophonia Walker. Kana signata Distant and Nirvana greeni Distant are suppressed as junior synonyms of K. illuminata and N. linealis, respectively, and are transferred to Sophonia. Three other species transferred to Sophonia are Kana modesta Distant, Quercinirvana longicephala Ahmed & Mahood, and Nirvana insignis Distant. The relationships among various genera are discussed briefly. The genera Crispina Distant and Mohunia Distant are excluded from Nirvaninae.
23376607|Bees and other insect pollinators which are necessary for the successful reproduction of most species of flowering plants, including agricultural crops, have been ignored by our preservation efforts. This is unfortunate because bees, as low-fecundity organisms, are very susceptible to insecticides and populations are slow to recover from perturbations. Many species of bees, particularly specialized species in the western United States and the tropics, are vulnerable to extinction. With extinctions of specialized forms, generalized species, especially fugitives, are expected to increase because of their ability to utilize a variety of resources and survive beyond the confines of preserves. The possible effects of increased dominance by generalist pollinators on floral species composition is discussed.
23377629|Cataloged in two volumes is the world fauna of Scolytidae (including two subfamilies, 25 tribes, 225 genera, and about 5,812 species) and of Platypodidae (including three subfamilies, seven tribes, 32 genera, and 1,463 species). The higher categories are listed phylogenetically, together with pertinent bibliographic citations of literature listed in a previously published bibliography. Within each genus the species are listed alphabetically together with: (1) a citation of the original description (and original genus, if different from the present genus), (2) the kind of type and its sex, if known, (3) type locality (with lectotype designation, if applicable), (4) type repository, (5) a representation of published figures, (6) geographical distribution, (7) host distribution, (8) three categories of notes, and (9) citations of references to all published literature from 1758 to 1991. Reference citations for each species are divided into eight subject areas, with authors listed alphabetically (including year and page citations) within each of the subject areas. Synonyms for genera and for species-group names are listed by chronological priority below the valid name for the taxon together with type validation data, notes, and references. Infrasubspecific names are cited under notes of the valid taxon. An appendix to the catalog includes: (a) a world host-list, with the beetle species reported to attack each plant species listed, and (b) a supplement to the previously published bibliography (Wood & Bright 1987) that updates the original to the end of 1989. An index lists all nominate taxa and their associated nomen nudums. This is the first serious attempt to catalog the world fauna of Scolytidae since 1910 and Platypodidae since 1914.
23378270|Literature concerning North American nocturnal desert rodents is reviewed to delimit current knowledge of the importance of various factors to abundance, distribution, and genetic structure. In addition, strategies for further study are suggested. Abundance: That increased rodent abundance often follows flushes of annual plant growth that follow favorable rains is well established. The ultimate reason for this pattern has not been established. Competition is important as well, but predation and parasitism have received little consideration. Distribution: Patterns of distribution have been shown to correspond to temperature, moisture, substrate, or vegetative parameters. An important question that remains is to determine the relative importance of physiological specialization vs. interspecific interactions leading to habitat specialization. Genetic Structure: Despite a number of studies on desert rodent systematics, little is known of the genetic structure of desert rodent populations. Behavioral, demographic, indirect genetic, and direct genetic evidence can be used to detect deviations from panmixia.
23376653|This study was done to document the variability in time of phenological events at different locations on the Nevada Test Site. Phenological events for desert shrubs were recorded, and rainfall and temperature data were gathered for four to six years at eight sites that are located within the northern Mojave Desert, the southern Great Basin Desert, and the transitional zone between them. Results have been graphically displayed to show the variability in phenological activity encountered during the study period and also to show the general correlation between these events and the environmental regime that triggered a particular phenological stage among different species. For a given location a four-to-six-week range in beginning events from year to year was common. In addition to the usual spring activity that normally followed winter rain and snow, most shrub species resumed new growth, and six species were observed to flower and fruit following rare summer or early fall rains. In comparison to surrounding locations, the closed drainage basins within the study area have lower temperatures at night that result in a delay of phenological events in most shrubs.
23376603|Strategies used to enhance or help restore rare and endangered animal species are reviewed. No new strategies are presented, but rather a review of various levels at which programs can be initiated are indicated. Nearly 93 percent of the recognized endangered animals are vertebrates. Programs to help restore vertebrates can be aimed at either the habitat or the organism level. Habitat restoration or preservation is the more difficult to achieve and, accordingly, most strategies are aimed at the organism. Species, populations, or communities and ecosystems can be treated, but most often each requires a separate approach. Among organisms the species level attracts most of the enhancement effort because species are easier to understand and deal with. Numerous strategies are being tried with species, and several examples, such as the Aleutian Canada goose, Galapagos tortoise, a wingless undescribed orthropteran, and fish species requiring turbid water, are given. Populations or communities of animals are more difficult to work with, but some strategies such as faunal reserves are likely to be successful. A table listing 39 examples of endangered species from across the animal kingdom, along with the major reasons for their declines and currently working strategies or possible ones to help them recover, is presented.
23376593|Species endangerment has so far been addressed mostly by biologists. It is now important to involve social scientists, inasmuch as the problems are man caused. The history of our attitudes, our uses of the land, and the reasons wherefore are problems for everyone. The evidence suggests that the causes of endangerment may be grouped under (1) direct and indirect exploitation of resources, and (2) population displacement by modern agriculture, with consequent migration to the city or to the forest frontier, where accelerated forest destruction is the result. The displaced people are part of the marginalized two-thirds of the human race and will destroy what is left of nature in order to survive unless we help them become self-sufficient. Such a refocusing of Western civilization, which has so far been parasitic on nature and a marginalized humanity, will require a new world view by the dominant one-third of us, perhaps based on Whiteheadean philosophy, wherein we accept a participatory role in a complex of processes that evolve from one another.
23377643|A Habitat Suitability Index Model (HSI), following the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service HSI Model Series, is described for the black-footed ferret. The literature on which the model is based is reviewed, and model assumptions and structure are discussed. A realistic model is specified with variables and their functions that embody the critical spatial and resource heterogeneity characteristic of the broad geographic environment ferrets occupy. It assumes that ferrets can meet year-round habitat requirements within prairie dog colonies providing: (1) prairie dog colonies are large enough, (2) burrows are numerous enough, and (3) adequate numbers of prairie dogs and alternate prey are available. Five habitat variables are identified: V1 is the frequency distribution of colony sizes, V2 is the total area of colonies, V3 is burrow opening density, V4 is intercolony distance, and V5 is prairie dog density. Variables are compensatory. As more data become available and our understanding of ferrets expands, the basic model design can readily incorporate improvements without radical restructuring.
23376658|Above-ground and below-ground biomass, percent dead shrubs by species, and percent of dead stems of living species were determined for a site in the northern Mojave Desert.
23376675|Ambrosia dumosa (A. Gray) Payne cuttings grown in solution culture were exposed to 14CO2 to measure the distribution of labeled photosynthate among leaves, stems, and roots after 4, 24, and 48 h. For all sampling periods, the highest levels of 14C were found in leaves and the lowest in roots; however, considerable 14C had moved to roots in 48 h. In a 12-week study of A. dumosa in solution culture, plants increased in size more than 17 times and flowered and produced seeds. The plants had received 14CO2 in photosynthesis at the start. The gradual loss of 14C from the plants in the 12 weeks averaged 3.5 percent per week (coefficient of variation = 58 percent). This represents an average respiration rate of 0.21 mg C g dry weight1 h1. This compares favorably with other means for determining respiration rate. The percentage of 14C in the root portion of the plant varied little over 6 sampling periods, indicating that essentially none of the initially fixed 14C left the roots during the 12 weeks of test. The 14C entering fruits and seeds came from leaves only. The biomass of fruit parts resulted more from new photosynthate than from retranslocation from leaves. In a study in which A. dumosa plants were defoliated, little 14C moved from roots to new shoot growth.
23377639|Black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) use prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) for food and their burrows for shelter. Thus, prairie dog colonies are essential ferret habitat. Prairie dog control, which resulted in permanent loss of ferret habitat, is considered the primary reason for the ferret's endangered status today. Northern Pacific Railroad (presently Burlington Northern) lands were surveyed 19081914, just prior to the onset of widespread prairie dog control. In Montana the surveyed area included a belt about 483 km long and 192 km wide, from the Montana-North Dakota border westward to Livingston. In all, 6,661 sections (11.8%) of 22 counties were surveyed and 1,662 of these sections (24.9%) contained at least some prairie dogs. Prairie dog colonies (N=1,985) occupied all or part of 5,186, 16 ha (40ac) parcels and totaled a minimum of 47,568 ha, with a mean colony size of 24.5 ha (2.8% of the landscape in colonies). Two township-wide belt transect samplesT4N and R45Eshowed colonies were clumped in distribution. Two areas with large complexes of colonies are illustrated, and each area exceeded an estimated 15,000+ ha. The Tongue River-Otter Creek area had at least 20 complexes, with a mean intercomplex distance of 3.4 km; and the Powder River-O'Fallon Creek area had at least 33 complexes, with a mean intercomplex distance of 2.9 km. Historic land uses were similar to today's usesgrazing and a few crops. Historic prairie dog areas in Montana occupied an estimated 5,953 sq km. An estimated 90+% reduction in prairie dogs has occurred since 1914, largely if not totally due to poisoning. The elimination, fragmentation, and greatly reduced size of ferret habitat has undoubtedly contributed to the endangered status of ferrets. A few areas in Montana appear to contain enough prairie dogs to potentially harbor ferret populations. These areas could serve as reintroduction sites for ferrets, as well as examples of complex prairie dog ecosystems.
23378177|A study of the genus Colladonus and related genera of Mexico and Central America was based almost exclusively upon the examination of nearly the entire type series of all the Idiodonus species described by the late Dr. D. M. DeLong. All species referable to Colladonus are redescribed, and illustrations of the male genitalia are given for the first time. A key to the species of Mexico and Central America is also included. A brief discussion of the distribution and phylogeny of the group is given. Among 35 species described by DeLong in Idiodonus, 21 belong in Colladonus, 1 is assigned to Ollarianus Ball, 1 to Paratanus Young, 2 to Bonneyana Oman, 2 are retained in Idiodonus, 5 are relegated to four proposed new genera, and the remaining 3 have uncertain generic position. One new combination in Colladonus is proposed, and 16 names are treated as new synonyms. Eight new combinations are proposed in the treatment of related genera. New genera include: Paracolladonus, Paracrassana, Paranurenus, and Jaacunga. The subgenus Angulanus DeLong is elevated to generic rank.
23378265|The rodent superfamily Geomyoidea is an old, undoubtedly monophyletic lineage having only obscure affinities with other rodent groups. Geomyoid rodents, autochthonous in North America, experienced major evolutionary diversification in the Mio-Pliocene coincident with the development of the Madro-Tertiary Geoflora and the climatic trend toward increasing aridity and coolness. Extant geomyoids are divisible into two groups: (1) the Geomyidae, all members of which are fossorial, and (2) the Heteromyidae, whose members display an adaptive continuum from bipedal, xeric-adapted forms to scansorial, mesic-adapted forms. These moieties, although recognizable on biochemical criteria, become particularly difficult to distinguish when paleontological data are considered. Nevertheless, most lines of evidence indicate that the families Heteromyidae and Geomyidae are distinct, monophyletic lineages. The extant heteromyids comprise three main lineages (including six genera) that diverged during the Eocene: (1) subfamily Perognathinae (Chaetodipus and Perognathus); (2) subfamily Dipodomyinae (Dipodomys and Microdipodops); and (3) subfamily Heteromyinae (Liomys and Heteromys). Protein differentiation has occurred at heterogeneous rates among these major lineages. Based on available karyotypic data, the main direction of chromosomal evolution in the Heteromyidae appears to be toward increasing chromosome number. Cladistic analysis of morphological characters used in previous studies supports biochemical evidence allying Microdipodops with Dipodomys. A model is introduced to describe how heterochronic changes in ontogeny may explain the great breadth of morphological diversification within the superfamily. Taxonomic recommendations at the subfamilial, generic, and subgeneric levels are provided.
23376560|The high elevation floras of 9 mountainous "mainlands" (3 in the Sierra-Cascade system and 6 in the High Plateau-Wasatch-Teton system) and 15 isolated mountain "islands" in the Intermountain Region have been analyzed. Mainland floras support more species per unit area and show a smaller increase in diversity as area is increased than islands. In this respect, the isolated mountains behave as true islands. The number of endemics is low on the islands (never exceeding 5 percent of any flora), however; and the island floras are overwhelmingly dominated by species with no apparent modifications for long-range dispersal. Furthermore, the eastern mainland has exerted a far greater influence on the flora and the vegetation of the islands than has the western mainland, despite the fact that the former is downwind of the islands. Thus, evidence from endemics, dispersal ecology, and sources of the floras suggests that the isolated mountains have not acquired their full floras by long-range dispersal. We conclude that although the floras of the islands have many insular characteristics, they were less isolated in the relatively recent past than at the present. The island floras do not appear to be in equilibrium in the sense that immigrations equal extinctions.
23378269|Activity patterns of desert heteromyids are characteristic of many nocturnal rodents, with a peak of activity near dusk and a second prior to dawn. Seasonal activity varies with environmental conditions, going from activity throughout the winter in larger species to extended periods of torpor by smaller pocket mice. The rodents forage primarily for seeds, with pocket mice tending to feed under shrubs and on relatively low-density seed patches and kangaroo rats frequently foraging in the open for relatively high-density seed patches. The animals are usually solitary, with aggression exhibited between and within species. Burrow construction can be simple to extensive. Communication occurs visually, with odor (especially at sand bathing sites), and with sound (drumming). Reproductive behaviors are characterized by brief courtships and copulation. Subsequent maternal behavior includes nursing, grooming, and other forms of general maintenance. Individuals spend considerable time autogrooming, presumably to enhance temperature regulation and reduce parasite attack. Although many of the behavioral patterns seen in heteromyids are similar to other rodents, locomotory and auditory specializations appear to yield behaviors characteristic of the group of rodents.
23376598|Insects are an important element in the analysis of aquatic ecosystems, (1) because the limited dispersal abilities of many aquatic species means that they must make a living under existing conditions, and (2) because they are often sensitive to slight changes in water and stream quality, thus making excellent indicators of the physical and chemical conditions in a system. Examples of rare, ecologically sensitive species are presented from the Plecoptera, Ephemeroptera, and Trichoptera. Detailed studies of rare aquatic insect species should produce important information on critical habitats that will be useful in the protection of endangered and threatened species in other groups of animals and plants.
23378271|As is true of many assemblages of ecologically similar organisms, coexisting heteromyid rodent species differ conspicuously in morphology and in microhabitat affinity. These patterns are so common that their explanation represents a central problem of community ecology. In the case of desert rodents, two very different factors, predation and competition, have been advanced as the ultimate cause of the patterns. We outline the way in which each of these factors could produce observed community-level patterns and review the evidence for the action of each factor. We conclude that the "competition" hypothesis has more support at the moment, but that this is partly a result of the general lack of good experimental studies of predation in terrestrial vertebrate systems. We outline a general protocol for distinguishing the effects of predation and competition through careful examination of relationships between morphology, foraging and predator-avoidance abilities, and behavior. We think such "micro-ecological" analysis of the consequences of morphology holds much promise for improving our understanding of community-level patterns of morphology and resource use.
23376657|Frequency distribution according to plant size as measured by dimensional analysis on different mathematical bases were determined for 10 common perennial plant species from Rock Valley in the northern Mojave Desert in Nevada. A total of 4282 individual plants was measured. The data provide information concerning the stability and prosperity of the natural vegetation as judged by the relative proportions of individuals in the size-class spectrum, as well as show graphically the relative abundance of the different species in the study area. On the species level, the populations were close to normally distributed on the loge basis, but with remarkably negative skewness due to better segregation of the small-sized individuals into many segmental units. On the arithmetic basis, three categories of frequency pattern were recognized, but all with marked positive skewness due to better segregation of large-sized individuals into many segmental units. The feature common to all species studied is the preponderance of young individuals, which in many cases could have an abundance many times that of large individuals. The natural vegetation in Rock Valley, therefore, represents a reasonably active stage.
23376678|The distribution of photosynthate among plant parts subsequent to its production is needed to fully understand behavior of vegetation in any ecosystem. The present study, undertaken primarily to obtain information on transport of assimilates into roots of desert vegetation, was conducted in the northern Mojave Desert, where the mean annual rainfall is about 10 cm. Shoots of Ambrosia dumosa (A. Gray) Payne plants were exposed to 14CO2 in 1971, and the distribution of 14C in roots, stems, and leaves was subsequently measured at 1 week, 2 months, and 5 months. Only about 12 percent of the 14C photosynthate was stored in the root. Much of that stored in stems was available for new leaf growth. Photosynthate was labeled with 14C for 24 plants representing eight species in 1972. Results showed that after 127 days the mean percentage of 14C in roots as compared with the estimate of that originally fixed was 11.8; the percentage in stems was 43.8. The mean ratio of root to root plus stem for 14C was 0.212, but this value was only half that of the ratio for actual weights of these parts of field plants. The correlation coefficient for (14C in roots)/(14C in root + stem)  (dry wt of root)/(dry wt of root + stem) was +0.89. Small stems were the major storage organ for the 14C. To check the validity of the 14C data, root growth of eight perennial desert plants grown in the glasshouse was followed as plants increased in size. The mean percent of the whole plant that was root for eight species was 17.7 percent. The mean proportion of the increase in plant weights that went below ground for the eight species was 19.5 percent. This value is higher than the fraction of 14C found below ground, and therefore the 14C technique underestimates the movement of C to roots. Results of an experiment designed to test the value of the 14C-pulse technique for determining current root growth for some perennial species from the desert indicated that the transition part of roots where root growth continued after exposure to 14C was highly labeled. Old growth contained less 14C than new growth.
23376596|This paper presents a brief background on Utah's experience with the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to date, the Division of Wildlife Resources' involvement with resident endangered wildlife forms, including the Utah prairie dog, peregrine falcon, bald eagle, woundfin, Colorado squawfish and humpback chub, and problems associated with the listing of native fauna. Also discussed is a proposal to vest the division with authority for endangered plants by legislative mandate.
23376660|The aim of this study was to gain more understanding of the compositional structure of vegetation in the US/IBP Desert Biome validation site located in Rock Valley, Nevada. The vegetation data collected from 85 stands, randomly distributed to cover all physiographic variations in the study site, permitted categorization of the vegetation units either by coordinates or by class membership. The vegetational groupings so identified were then used for constructing a more reliable vegetation map for the Rock Valley validation site.
23377668|A taxonomic revision of the genera of Scolytidae (Coleoptera) in the world fauna is presented. Included are 215 valid genera and 273 invalid generic and subgeneric names. The type-species for each genus-group name was examined, including the type-specimen of the type-species in those taxa where a holotype, lectotype, or neotype has been designatedwith the exception of four contemporary genera, the type-series of which are lost, and six fossil genera for which no effort was made to locate the types. Taxonomic keys to the families of the Curculionoidea, and to the subfamilies, tribes, and genera of Scolytidae are presented. Descriptions and citations of the original validations of the two subfamilies and 25 tribes of Scolytidae are included. For each genus-group name there is a citation of its original validation, type-species, and synonymy. For each valid genus there is an indication of its distribution, the approximate number of valid species, basic feeding and mating habits, and citations of published keys for the identification of species. Of general interest to coleopterists is a review of the status and position of the families Platypodidae and Scolytidae within the Curculionoidea, including several characters not previously presented. These two families are entirely distinct from one another and from Curculionidae. The phyletic position of Platypodidae and Scolytidae is near the more primitive families of Curculionoidea and quite remote from specialized Curculionidae.
23378173|This article summarizes some observations of a varied nature on the biology, morphology, and evolution of the Cicadelloidea (Cicadellidae, Hylicidae, Eurymelidae) and Membracoidea (Membracidae, Aetalionidae, Biturritidae, Nicomiidae). These observations, made over a period of more than half a century, have previously been recorded at different times, but lie buried in the literature. It is hoped that their interest will justify repetition and draw attention to some promising lines of research.
23376561|Alpine vegetations and floras are compared in two transects across the Intermountain Region. The first extends from the Beartooth Mountains in the central Rocky Mountains to the central Sierra Nevada some 1200 km to the southwest. It includes six mountain ranges. The second transect crosses the Mojave Desert from Olancha Peak in the southern Sierra Nevada to Charleston Peak and thence to San Francisco Peaks in northern Arizona. The largest numbers of arctic-alpine species are in the Beartooth and Ruby mountains, indicating migrations of these species along the Rocky Mountain cordillera. The lowest numbers of arctic-alpine species are in the central and western Great Basin and in the Sierra Nevada. Srensen's Index of Floristic Similarity was calculated for all possible pairs of the nine alpine areas. There is little correlation of floristic similarity with alpine proximity across the Intermountain Region. Rather, any such correlation seems to be in a north-south direction; this is stronger in the eastern part of the region. Insularity and uniqueness of alpine floras seem to increase toward the western part of the basin. This is probably due to evolution of alpine endemics from preadapted low-land taxa.
23376666|In desert plants, transpiration rates decreased before photosynthetic rates when plants were entering a period of water stress. This may have adaptive consequences. A difference of 5 bars in the soil-moisture potential had considerable importance in reducing the rate of transpiration. In Helianthus annuus L. (sunflower) the photosynthetic rate decreased before the transpiration rate in contrast to Great Basin-Mojave Desert plants, and the changes occurred with a 1 bar difference in soil-moisture potential. Morphological changes in three desert plant species [Artemisia tridentata Nutt., Ambrosia dumosa (Gray) Payne, Larrea tridentata (Ses. Moc. ex DC) Cov.] as the soil-moisture potential decreased are given. With a mesic species, H. annuus, 20 percent reduction in photosynthesis and transpiration was reached at higher soil-moisture potentials than with the desert plants. Loss of net photosynthesis occurred in A. dumosa (a summer deciduous shrub) as soil reached 48 bars in the field, whereas L. tridentata (an evergreen shrub) at the same time was able to maintain a water potential difference betwen soil and plant of 10 to 15 bars and continue net CO2 gain well into the summer months.
23376656|The northern Mojave Desert, as are many deserts, is characterized in part by small "fertile islands" in which exist individual shrub clumps each containing two or more plants. These fertile sites promote characteristic organization of both plant and animal activity in the desert. Destruction of these fertile sites makes revegetation extremely difficult because most seedlings germinate in these sites. Some pioneer species do, however, germinate and survive in the bare areas between the fertile sites. Four such species in the northern Mojave Desert are Acamptopappus shockleyi Gray, Lepidium fremontii Wats., Sphaeralcea ambigua Gray, and Atriplex confertifolia (Torr. & Frem.) Wats. These four species may have a role in starting new fertile islands.
23376604|Rare species, including endangered ones, can be very valuable sources of information about evolutionary processes. They may be rare and valuable because: (1) they are evolutionary youngsters and could represent an entirely new evolutionary strategy of great scientific and practical value; (2) they are evolutionary relicts that have stored enormous amounts of genetic information of great worth; (3) they may represent endemic varieties that harbor a great deal of the genetic variability in the gene pool that would be of enormous value to a plant geneticist; the rarity of the plant is not necessarily correlated with the size of its gene pool; (4) they may represent unique ecological adaptations of great value to future generations. Studies of gene pools and the genetics of adaptation constitute a new and developing field of the future.
23377646|Fecal bile acid characteristics have been used to identify scats to species of origin. Fecal bile acids in scats from 20 known black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes), 7 other known small carnivores, and 72 of unknown origin were analyzed to determine if this procedure could be used as a tool to verify ferret presence in an area. Seventeen ferret scats were suitable for analysis and had a mean fecal bile acid index of 156  9. This was significantly different from mean indices for the other carnivores; however, substantial overlap among confidence intervals occurred for badgers, kit foxes, and especially long-tailed weasels. We conclude this method is not useful for making positive identifications of individual ferret scats and suggest that we may be able to definitively identify individual scats with reasonable confidence by using gas-liquid chromatography.
23376667|Rates of gaseous exchange were measured on selected desert shrubs native to the northern Mojave Desert to determine effects of varying chamber temperature, CO2 concentration, relative humidity, and root temperature in preliminary studies. Results indicate that changes in these parameters produced differences in the rates of photosynthesis and transpiration. Ceratoides lanata (Pursh) took up CO2 almost equally at 25 and 39 C. Doubling the CO2 concentration in the below-ambient range roughly doubled photosynthesis rates in C. lanata. Very small changes in relative humidity had marked changes in the photosynthesis and transpiration rates of four species studied, with greater effect on transpiration. Photosynthesis and transpiration increased, and water-use efficiency decreased in two species as soil temperature was increased from 9 to 29 C.
23376563|The Intermountain Region comprises a huge arena where major avifaunas more highly developed beyond the Great Basin come into contact. For this reason the distribution and composition of avifaunas in riparian and pinyon-juniper woodlands and in coniferous forests in this region are understood most clearly if considered as part of a broader system of patterns evident in western North America. Riparian woodland samples point to a complex meeting ground in the Intermountain Region of two major avifaunas of equivalent size, but from opposite distributional backgrounds. These northern and southern avifaunas do not mix among the samples represented except in western Nevada where two species of ultimate southern origin have penetrated a basically northern avifauna. Approaching the Great Basin, from the two centers of abundance of riparian species in the Snake and Colorado River drainages, species richness drops. Habitat depletion and, to a lesser extent, insularity play roles in this impoverishment. In the most depauperate riparian avifaunas, six species commonly coexist, each in a different family. Comparison of the pinyon zone avifaunas of two groups of mountain ranges, 90 km apart along the California-Nevada border, demonstrates a striking trade off among species of northern and southern biogeographic histories. The northern or Boreal forms, many of which are numerous in the Sierra Nevada, have had easy access to the favorable, cool, and relatively moist pinyon forests in the adjacent spur ranges. In contrast, the species of southern or Austral derivation prefer the warm and very arid pinyon woodland a short distance to the south. Few species are confined to either northern or southern sites, overlap in species composition is great, and equivalent species richness is achieved. However, despite these similarities, strong geographic differences in abundance of most species in each pinyon avifauna and the occurrence of at least 12 specific and subspecific range boundaries suggest the interposition between northern and southern pinyon areas of a substantial, but as yet poorly characterized, climatic barrier. Boreal species richness declines abruptly from high values in the southern Cascades and Sierra Nevada to low levels in a zone of impoverishment across western and central Nevada. From near 116 W Longitude in eastern Nevada, coincident with the appearance of fir and/or bristlecone pine forests, species numbers climb gradually until the main Rocky Mountains are reached. There, species richness compares favorably with that in the Sierra Nevada. The proportion of species favoring riparian woodlands over coniferous forests is higher on the island mountaintops of the Great Basin than in the Boreal "continents" of the Sierra Nevada-Cascades and Rocky Mountains. The western edge of the Great Basin richly demonstrates examples of stages in avian speciation. A full range of interactions is represented, from intergradation of poorly characterized races, through abrupt zones of hybridization between strongly marked subspecies of different racial complexes or of semispecies, to sympatry and infrequent interbreeding of closely-related, full species in recent secondary contact. These various zones of population interaction coincide strikingly with sharp floristic and climatic gradients. A major avifaunal break occurs between coastal or Sierra Nevadan forms that inhabit oak-chaparral and/or coniferous forest and closely-related interior forms that prefer pinyon-juniper or aspen-willow associations. In keeping with the special requirements of each species, contact zones and areas of disjunction show general, rather than precise, coincidence in the western Great Basin. There is no Great Basin Boreal Avifauna; the most distinctive interior forms occur across the entire span from eastern California to Colorado. The-low desert trough along the east side of the Sierra Nevada that divides major mountain systems in the western portion of the Intermountain Region is not the principal barrier dividing coastal Sierra Nevada from interior avifaunas. Instead, the major avifaunal transition occurs in a belt of variable width just east of the crest of the Cascade Mountains and Sierra Nevada, where the precipitation shadow and continental climate begin to exert crucial influence.
23376562|About 22 percent of the pigmy conifer woodlands of the United States occur within the Great Basin. Only a very few reports of these woodlands exist in the literature. Available reports are either of general descriptive nature or specific analysis of vegetation-environmental relationships on one mountain range. In order to better understand basin-wide synecological patterns, a cooperative study was carried out by personnel at Utah State University and the University of Nevada-Reno between 1972 and 1975. Vegetation, landform, geology, and soils data obtained from 463 systematically placed stands on a randomly chosen set of 66 mountain ranges have been used to derive patterns of latitudinal, longitudinal, and altitudinal variation in the floristic diversity in juniper-pinyon dominated woodlands across the Great Basin. The latitudinal-longitudinal patterns show greatest environmental and floristic diversity on the higher mountain ranges on the southern end of the Central Plateau portion of the study area where the Great Basin-Mojave Desert transition occurs. This is also where the elevational breadth of the woodland belt is greatest. Juniper-pinyon woodlands are largely lacking from northwestern Nevada. The lowest elevations for the type are found in the Dixie Corridor centered in southwestern Utah. The general elevation of these woodlands is highest in the west-central part of the Great Basin and declines both toward the Sierra Nevada on the west and the Wasatch Front-High Plateaus on the east. Use of the equilibrium theory of island biogeography gave incomplete explanations of the diversity patterns observed. Certain conceptual and methodical problems forced by this overly simplistic theory are discussed. The best correlations obtained were between species richness and an index of ecotopic diversity. Correlation of Basin-wide patterns of woodland floristics with surficial geology, landforms, and soils is non-discriminatory. However, broad-scale, phytogeographical variations in these woodlands are closely associated with climatic differences. Although much direct climatic data are lacking, it seems likely that the relative contributions of the transitory frontal systems moving inland from the Pacific, continental cyclones developing over the Great Basin, and convectional storms associated with the moist air from the Gulf of Mexico to induce precipitation at different seasons are regionally important in the causation of vegetation distribution and composition. The instability of temperature inversions is a likely determinant of the position of woodlands along the northern boundary of the type. The Pacific frontal systems break the inversions most readily and are thought to be the major cause for the lack of this vegetation in northwestern Nevada and on exposed mountain ranges along the northern boundary of the type. Such observations provide leads for relevant ecophysiological research to support or reject these notions.
23376549|Early studies on the macroinvertebrates and zooplankton of Utah Lake were taxonomic in nature. Since the late 1960s, macroinvertebrate studies have concentrated on the Goshen Bay area of Utah Lake. The rocky shore macroinvertebrate community along the eastern shore of Goshen Bay is the most diverse and productive in Utah Lake (Toole 1973). The dominant organisms are the amphipod Hyalella azteca and the chironomid Dicrotendipes fumidus. Also present along the eastern shore is an extensive zone of the sponge Meyenia fluviatilis (Smith 1972). Two taxa, Chironomidae and Oligochaeta, dominate the silty-ooze community in the southern portion of Utah Lake (Barnes et al. 1974). The life histories and the microdistributional patterns of the two dominant chironomids found in the silt-ooze area of Goshen Bay, Tanypus stellatus and Chironomus frommeri, have been extensively studied by Shiozawa and Barnes 1975. The distribution and abundance of the zooplankton in Utah Lake has been studied for one summer (Hanson et al. 1974). Little is known about the dynamics of the zooplankton community in Utah Lake.
23376595|There is no adequate inventory of population size and distribution of most of the world's animal and plant species and lower taxa. Furthermore, populations are rarely static and continue to change in response to both natural and man-made factors. Thus clearance today for public works or industrial projects can be reversed tomorrow as new information becomes available. Lacking assurance that a project can be completed without new endangered species surfacing places an untenable constraint on the commitment of dollars for new long-term programs. As a consequence of the absence of data, studies to determine occupied range, population levels, and habitat requirements of specific endangered species must be conducted on each project area. The direct costs of these studies are the responsibility of the project applicant. The time consumed results in project delays which can become a major expense item. Additional economic impacts are inherent in construction modifications and subsequent project operations intended to accommodate an endangered species. Finally, the withdrawal of natural resouces to support endangered species can conceivably reach a point where the squeeze on other societal programs becomes unacceptable.
23376568|The present paper compares the distribution of boreal birds and mammals among the isolated mountain ranges of the Great Basin and relates those patterns to the developing theory of insular biogeography. The results indicate that the distribution of permanent resident bird species represents an approximate equilibrium between contemporary rates of colonization and extinction. A shallow slope of the species-area curve (Z = 0.165), no significant reduction in numbers of species as a function of insular isolation (distance to nearest continent), and a strong dependence of species diversity on habitat diversity all suggest that immigration rates of boreal birds are sufficiently high to maintain populations on almost all islands where there are appropriate habitats. In contrast, the insular faunas of boreal mammals represent relictual populations that receive no significant contemporary immigration. The insular mammal faunas have been derived by extinction from a set of species that colonized the islands when habitat bridges connected them to the continents in the late Pleistocene. A relatively steep species-area curve (Z = 0.326), no effect of isolation on species diversity, and the absence of appropriate species from large areas of apparently suitable habitat all support this conclusion. Measures of habitat diversity that are closely correlated with bird species diversity do not account for much of the variation in number of mammal species among islands. Insular area is the single variable that accounts for most of the variability in both bird and mammal species diversity; this supports the approach of using standard parameters such as area in comparative empirical analyses and general biogeographic theory. The results of this study suggest that extremes of vagility among taxa and a recent history of paleoclimatic and geological changes make it unlikely that equilibrial distributions, of the sort MacArthur and Wilson (1967) propose for the biotas of oceanic islands, are characteristic of the insular distributions of terrestial and freshwater vertebrates of western North America.
23376567|The existence of a floristic transition zone can be inferred by the fact that a high proportion of indigenous plant species reach a distributional limit within the area. The vascular flora of Washington County, Utah, exhibits this character to a marked degree with 53.6 percent of the native flora reaching a distributional limit within the county. By looking at geographic distributions, ecological preferences, and range termination information for the component species, first approximations are made as to the probable factors mediating plant distributions within the county, particularly of the range-terminating species. The high proportion of range-terminating species in the flora may be accounted for mainly by limiting factors associated with abrupt shifts along two environmental gradients. The first factor is climatic and is mediated largely by altitude; change occurs primarily along a north-south gradient. The second is both climatic and edaphic and is mediated by factors other than altitude per se; it is oriented in an essentially east-west direction. Species with narrower tolerances are shown to be more sensitive to these environmental shifts. Some of the species distributions are better explained by a model involving the effects of interactions between habitat mosaic and genetic homogeneity of given populations on relative migration rates in the transition area. These species may have the capacity to migrate farther, but differences in migration rates give their distributional limits a quasi-stable aspect. These data suggest that species cannot simply be divided into those which are environmentally limited in their present distributions and those which are not. It seems more fruitful to regard these two conditions as extremes on a continuum which can be expressed as migration rate.
23376548|The plankton flora of Utah Lake includes a total of 295 species to date. This high number of taxa indicates greater diversity than previously suspected. Together with water chemical data it leads us to conclude that Utah Lake is a slightly saline eutrophic system. This conclusion is further substantiated by quantitative data which show very high levels of productivity during late summer and early fall.
23377651|An annotated bibliography of 351 references on the black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) shows 19 articles, mostly species descriptions, published from 1851 through 1899; 69 papers, mostly describing the range of the species, from 1900 through 1964; 156 papers dealing largely with the Mellette County, South Dakota, ferret research published from 1965 through 1980; and 107 publications since 1981 dealing primarily with the Meeteetse, Wyoming, ferrets.
23376569|Biogeographical considerations are important in the management of western shrublands. Seedings on rangelands have a higher probability of success when tried and tested principles are followed. It is usually best to seed mixtures that include adapted shrubs and herbs. Shrubs generally are well adapted to the environmental extremes of western ranges. Throughout the year, they provide nutrients for herbivores that are only seasonably available in herbs. Section Tridentatae of Artemisia is endemic to western North America and distinct from the analogous Eurasian section (or subgenus) Seriphidium. The groups have separate, distinguishable centers of diversity; the two groups seem to be connected in the geologic past by way of the more primitive subgenus Artemisia. Preliminary karyotypic evidence suggests different but advanced karyotypes for both groups; chemotaxonomic and morphological data indicate differences in the groups. The Tridentatae likely evolved in North America during late Tertiary or early Quaternary times under the stimulus of cycles of aridity. The Tridentatae (sagebrushes) are morphologically variable. Different accessions are differentially adapted. Management practices for various taxa should take into consideration the individual taxon's characteristics. Effort should be made to seed adapted taxa and accessions. Sagebrush management requires maintenance, seeding, or thinning, depending upon the circumstances.
23377649|Management guidelines are specified for monitoring and protecting the Meeteetse black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) population and habitat and for dealing with a series of special management considerations. The Meeteetse ferret population and habitat status are summarized as background. An annual management schedule is outlined, including methods and sources of existing baseline data with which to compare future results. The public support and organizational arrangements needed for successful overall management and recovery of the species are briefly discussed.
23376655|New Artemisia seedlings are not established each year. Many that are established fail to survive because of unfavorable rainfall in succeeding years. A total of 184 young plants was examined for the number of annual growth rings to ascertain the year of establishment after all vegetation had been killed near the time of a nuclear test event in 1965. The three most important recent years for establishment and survival of new seedlings (as of 1976 and based on a sample of 184 plants) were 1966 (9 percent), 1969 (29 percent), and 1973 (36 percent). A total of 27 percent was established in the other years from 1965 to 1976. These three years were also the years with high rainfall input during preceding winter and spring months. If old plants are killed, seeds germinate with much lower inputs of precipitation. Many seedlings germinated in 1968 at a site where old ones had been burned off even though the rainfall was not favorable. Plants of a given age varied greatly in size according to their competition. Seedlings germinating in old stands grew little in comparison with those germinating in areas where old plants had been killed. One exception was an area where intense competition occurred due to large numbers of new plants, resulting in growth restriction on all plants.
23378178|Genera new to science described below include: Amerzanna, Sinuala, and Stalubra. New species include: Amerzanna peruana (Peru), Amycle brevis (Mexico), A. grandis (Mexico), A. mankinsi (Honduras), Aphrodisias shaman (Mexico), Enchophora maculata and E. uniformis (Peru), Phrictus delicatus (Brazil), P. diligens (Colombia), Sinuala schmidti (Belize), S. stali (Honduras and El Salvador), S. tuberculata (Costa Rica), and Stalubra brunnea (Brazil and Guyana). In addition, Artacie dufourii (Signoret) is removed from synonymy with A. haemoptera (Perty). New generic synonymy includes Chilobia Stl (= Ecuadoria) Distant, Enhydria (Walker) (= Ulubra Stl). New synonymy of species includes: Copidocephala merula Distant (= Coanaco melanoptera Schmidt), Copidocephala viridiguttata Stl (= Coanaco ornanda Distant), Diareusa conspersa Schmidt (= D. dahli Ossiannilsson), Enchophora nigromaculata Distant (= E. nigrolimbata Lallemand), Enchophora recurva (Olivier) (= E. bohemani Stl), Enchophora sanguinea Distant (= E. florens Distant and E. longirostris Distant), Enchophora tuberculata (Olivier) (= E. parvipennis Walker), Enchophora viridipennis Spinola (= E. eminenta Schmidt), Enhydria tessellata (Walker) (= E. brachialis Stl), Fulgora graciliceps Blanchard (= Laternaria orthocephala Fonseca), Fulgora laternaria (Linnaeus) (= F. servillei Spinola), Phrictus auromaculatus Distant (= P. notatus Lellemand), Phrictus moebiusi Schmidt (= P. sordidus Caldwell). The two species of Fulgora are synonymized by Ridout. New combinations include Chilobia dichopteroides (Distant) (Ecuadoria) and Stalubra rufula (Lallemand) (Enhydria).
23376599|Endangered and threatened plants of Utah are evaluated as to their distribution in phytogeographic subdivisions, substrates, plant communities, elevations, and geological strata. The phytogeographic subunits were partitioned and comparisons made of distribution as outlined for the parameters cited above. A predictive model is suggested based on the nonrandom distribution of endemic plant species.
23376671|An area of 0.46 km2 divided into six zones in the northern Mojave Desert transitional with the Great Basin Desert has been studied. Diversity is high among the perennial plant species within the 0.46 km2 area. Common species for the two deserts that are present in the area studied are Atriplex confertifolia (Torr. & Frem.) S. Wats., Ceratoides lanata (Pursh) J. T. Howell, Grayia spinosa (Hook.) Moq., Ephedra nevadensis S. Wats. Some other species present include Lycium andersonii A. Gray, Lycium pallidum Miers, Ambrosia dumosa (A. Gray) Payne., Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC) Cov., Acamptopappus shockleyi A. Gray, and Krameria parvifolia, Benth. Some of the species are relatively salt tolerant and some are relatively salt sensitive. A total of 4282 individual plants were measured. There was considerable variation in distribution of the 10 dominant species present, apparently due to zonal variations of salinity dispersed within the study area. Correlation coefficients among pairs of the species for different zones illustrate interrelationships among the salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive species. Observations on an adjacent hillside with rock outcroppings indicate that the saline differences in this area are partly due to outcroppings of parent volcanic rock materials that yield Na salts upon weathering.
23378174|A taxonomic revision of the Neotropical genus Calliscarta Stl is presented. Most of the 19 species treated are described and illustrated, including 10 that are new to science. The new species include: abrupta (Bolivia), acuta (Peru, Venezuela), delicata (Bolivia, Peru), elongata (Ecuador, Peru), expansa (Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru), lora (Peru), marginata (Honduras), mexicana (Mexico), ornata (French Guiana, Venezuela), rugosa (Venezuela). Three cases of new synonymy are proposed: boliviana (Osborn) (= tinga Kramer), fasciata (Osborn) [= brunnea (Osborn)], decora (Fabricius) [= magnifica (Osborn)].
23376659|This report further describes the distribution and ecological characteristics of the natural vegetation at the Mojave Desert-Great Basin Desert interface. The region studied is one of extraordinary biological interest because of its geographic location straddling the boundaries of two large deserts of the western United States, and because of the kind and manner of its past land use (atmospheric and underground testing of nuclear devices). The present analysis determines the magnitude of variations in the phytosociological structure in this region and evaluates some relationships between its vegetation and environment. Vegetation and soils were sampled in 66 stands representing many possible physiographic variations. Relative density and relative coverage were determined for each perennial species and summed to provide an estimate of its importance value (I.V.). Importance values were used to ordinate stands to provide a synthesis of the phytosociological data and to portray the compositional relationships of species. The results of this study indicate that the area is dominated by several interrelated vegetational groupings. Correlations between the vegetational groups and the different environmental variables indicate that the distributional pattern of the vegetation is controlled largely by soil physical properties, salinity, and fertility levels.
23377650|A framework for recovery planning for the black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) is presented. Current species numbers are probably not sufficient to maintain long-term viability. Three options are presented for increasing ferret numbers: (1) increase available habitat for ferrets where they currently exist, (2) find more wild ferrets elsewhere, and (3) directly manipulate the ferret population through translocation and/or captive rearing. The first two options are either unlikely or currently unfeasible, making it necessary to initiate the third option to ensure ferret recovery. Even if additional ferret populations are located, option three should still be implemented. Three options for direct manipulation to increase ferret numbers and populations are discussed along with accompanying considerations. The captive-rearing/translocation option for species recovery is strongly recommended.
23376592|1978 was the first year in the history of man that legal power to eradicate a species was established. It is one of a number of signs of rapidly accelerating rates of extinction which may result in reduction of biological diversity by one-seventh to one-fifth, with a parallel reduction in the planet's capacity to support man and a permanent reduction in the potential body of biological knowledge. Species loss of such a degree would warrant designating the close of the Recent epoch and the opening of a new one of Biotic Impoverishment. A great deal of the extinctions will occur in the tropical forest areas of the globe but with possible environmental effects extending into the temperate regions. It will fall to science to help slow the rate of extinction, to decide on which species and ecosystems to concentrate conservation efforts, and to communicate the importance of biological diversity to government and society.
23378170|A brief survey of grassland leafhoppers of Karachi during 1985 revealed the existence of five new species of the family Cicadellidae. These include Exitianus major, E. minor, Chiasmus karachiensis, C. lobosa, and Goniagnathus bifurcatus.
23376673|Fifty samples of Atriplex hymenelytra (Torr.) S. Wats. were collected from several different locations in southern Nevada and California to test variability in mineral composition. Only Na, V, P. Ca, Mg, Mn, and Sr in the samples appeared to represent a uniform population resulting in normal curves for frequency distribution. Even so, about 40 percent of the variance for these elements was due to location. All elements differed enough with location so that no element really represented a uniform population. The coefficient of variation for most elements was over 40 percent and one was over 100 percent. The proportion of variance due to analytical variation averaged 16.2  13.1 percent (standard deviation), that due to location was 43.0  13.4 percent, and that due to variation of plants within location was 40.7  13.0 percent.
23377645|Activity of two radio-tagged black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) was investigated during October-November 1981 (an adult male monitored for 16 days), and during August-November 1982 (a young female monitored for 101 days). Aboveground activity of the male averaged 2.95 hr/night, 15% of the total time monitored. From 22 September to 5 November, aboveground activity of the female averaged 1.9 hours; 26% of the time she was stationary and 74% of the time she was moving. During August the juvenile female emerged at least once on 93% of the nights. She was least active in November. Both animals were primarily nocturnal (although daylight activity was not uncommon), and timing of nightly activity was similar, peaking from 0100 to 0359.
23376570|Conservation schemes require some portioning of the world into a discrete number of subunits which might benefit from similar management practices. The Holdridge Life Zone scheme, proposed for such purposes previously, is applied to Utah as an initial test of its usefulness. A hypothetical life zone map was developed entirely on the basis of weather station data and data derived from these values. This predictive map compared favorably to data on patterns of vegetation, mammal, reptile, and amphibian distribution in Utah.
23376605|In the evolutionary process, species continually come and go. Consequently, all species on earth today were, at one time, "rare and endangered" while in their infancy, and most will become "rare and endangered" once more as they are replaced. Therefore, decisions relative to protecting rare and endangered species are largely meaningless if based on numbers alone. They must include information about their biology and evolutionary history. Lists of endangered forms currently being prepared apparently include only those which are (1) scarce (rare and of restricted distribution), (2) named, and (3) sponsored. Their biological, economic, and academic values may be more important, but apparently are not often considered. As abundantly illustrated in western shrubs, genetically rich genotypes are sometimes maintained by only a few individuals, whereas uniform, and therefore rare, genotypes may in some circumstances, be represented by many individuals in uniform environments. Wise management decisions cannot, therefore, come from numbers alone.
23376557|Eighty-three species of fishes belonging to 26 genera live in the area bounded by the Sierra Nevada, Grand Canyon, Rocky Mountains, and Snake River Plain. The waters inhabited by these fishes are part of the Great Basin, Colorado River, Snake River, upper Pit River and upper Klamath River drainages. The adaptations and distribution patterns of these fishes have been shaped by extensional faulting and volcanic activity in the Great Basin, uplift of the surrounding ranges and plateaus, and cyclic fluctuations of the Pleistocene pluvials and interpluvials. Fossil evidence indicates that in the Pliocene many of the lineages had established distributions broadly inclusive of the present-day patterns, and the subsequent trends have been extinction and some species differentiation. Analysis of the fauna is based on designation of 48 barrier-bounded, faunally homogeneous drainage units and quantitative evaluation of patterns among species distributions and faunal similarities of drainages. Cluster analysis of species based on correlations among their patterns revealed the existence of a basic northern intermountain fluvial fauna consisting of Cottus bairdi, Prosopium williamsoni, Catostomus platyrhynchus, Rhinichthys cataractae, Richardsonius balteatus, and their vicariants. These fishes have similar ecology and dispersal patterns. They are ecologically associated with Salmo clarki (upstream) and Rhinichthys osculus (downstream), but these two species have broader distributions, probably because of more frequent colonization via stream capture by the former and extinction resistance by the latter. Rhinichthys osculus is the most widespread intermountain fish, being found in 32 of the 48 drainage units; Gila bicolor is next most widespread, being found in 21 units. Fifty-one of the 83 species are found in only one drainage unit; 18 of these are endemic to that unit (33 are more widespread outside the study area). Species distributions are broader in the north, and northern and peripheral units have more species. The species:area curve for the Great Basin shows a steep slope (z = .59), with especially low species density in small drainages, indicating high extinction and low colonization. Postpluvial aridity, especially in the south, is the major cause of extinction and a major cause of isolation. Principal components and cluster analysis of drainage units, based on shared species, show a high correspondence between faunal similarity and geographic proximity (and weakness of barriers) and also reveal the effects of extinction in erasure of patterns. The Wasatch Range, Sierra Nevada, and southern divide boundary of the Snake River Plain have been strong barriers, leading to intensive faunal differentiation. Strong barriers and concomitant differentiation also exist in eastern Nevada, near the original center of Basin and Range tectonism. Two dozen examples of vicariant species are found to be associated with stronger-than-average barriers. The colonization rate and extinction rate have both been accelerated in postsettlement time by introductions and habitat destruction. Most drainages and populations have been affected. Five species and many local populations have become extinct. Eighteen species and many more populations are vulnerable or threatened. Reversal of the trend will require sound ecosystem management of watersheds and restriction of exotic introductions.
23376668|Six Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC) Cov. plants were exposed to 14CO2 in a field experiment for 2 h. Three of the plants had been irrigated regularly in the preceding year. Ten small twigs from each plant were removed and counted for 14C activity at the end of 2 h. The stem portion of the twigs was of equal dry weight for the two sets of plants, but those irrigated had a greater weight of leaves per twig. The activity of 14C in leaves was equal for the two groups, but was higher in stems for watered plants than for unwatered plants. The results were best expressed as ratios. Dry weight of leaves  dry weight of stems was high for watered plants; cpm/g dry weight of leaves  cpm/g dry weight of stems was higher for unwatered plants. In another experiment in which leaves were removed before exposing stem portions of twigs to 14CO2, small green stems accounted for about  the total photosynthesis for a plant; the coefficient of variation was around 100 percent.
23376680|Populations of pocket gophers and rabbits regulate or control the perennial vegetation on relatively large sites in the northern Mojave Desert. Aboveground shoots are pruned and whole plants are killed by complete cutting of main roots.
23376597|The endangered and threatened fish fauna of the United States exhibits problems resulting primarily from habitat modification by man. The evolutionary history of the fauna has left it especially sensitive to biotic interactions. In addition, many forms are of such restricted distribution that the entire taxon can be destroyed by very minor perturbations. The effects of habitat modification on woundfin and roundtail chub in the Virgin River of Utah, Arizona, and Nevada are discussed. Parasitism by Lernea on White River springfish is shown to coincide with population decline in some, but not all, cases. Population declines of Pahrump killifish are related to biotic interactions with both goldfish and mosquitofish. Population size of Devils Hole pupfish are shown to be quite responsive to small changes in habitat availability. Fishes of the West are affected by the same general kinds of ecological problems that are causing extinctions throughout the world. The interplay of economics with perceived value in society has led us into the numerous ecological problems facing us today. There is some evidence to suggest that society is making some preliminary effort to slow the rate of extermination. Perhaps this is happening because the conclusions of ecologists, philosophers, and theologians regarding the relationship of man and environment are to some extent being translated into legislation as well as into conventional wisdom.
23376601|Human preservation of endangered species apparently commenced prior to recorded history with Ginks biloba, in China, a tree now known only under cultivation. A number of species have become extinct because man either failed to recognize their value or did not act quickly enough to preserve them even when their value was appreciated. A philosophy of conservation must be based upon cooperation with others looking to the future. Appropriate strategies that could be adapted from the military to achieve the objectives of species conservation include: (1) Know your enemy, his strengths and weaknesses, and the tactics he is likely to employ. (2) Inferior forces cannot hope to annihilate or completely neutralize an enemy, but can deflect him from his course. (3) If you have limited manpower, don't try to do too many things at once; concentrate on primary objectives. (4) Seek the most powerful allies you can find and learn to cooperate with them as nearly on their own terms as is compatable with your objectives. (5) Soften the enemy by harrassment, when possible, before beginning the final attack. (6) Make use of all the time that is available; do not risk defeat by premature attack. (7) Never give in as long as there is hope. (8) The most important principle of all, never underestimate what you are doing.
23376558|Few, if any, amphibians and reptiles are endemic to Utah. This is also true for much of the Great Basin, upper Colorado Plateau, southern Idaho, and Wyoming. Many species that would seemingly survive in this inland, mountainous area are not here. Only one widespread salamander and a few frogs and toads have occupied suitable habitats in the area. Lizards and snakes, like the amphibians, provide few distributions that extend throughout the area. A migration which presumably followed the Pleistocene Ice Age brought most of the species into the area as climatic conditions warmed. Distribution maps of our modern species and subspecies indicate rather clearly that these vertebrates have invaded the Intermountain Region in relatively recent geological time. Only the periphery of Utah and adjoining states to the east and west have been penetrated by many of the species in the regional fauna.
23377644|Aspects of the aboveground ethology and activity patterns of the black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) are described for a population in northwestern Wyoming as a first step in building a descriptive ethogram and quantification of activity patterns. We observed at least 237 individual ferrets for 208 hr on 441 occasions from 2 December 1981 through 25 September 1984. Maintenance behaviors (locomotion, alert, grooming and sunning, defecation and urination, digging, and predation) and social behavior (reproduction, ontogeny, maternal, play, agonistic) are described as well as some ferret-human interactions. Ferret vocalizations are subjectively described. We located ferrets during most months, including winter, but found that they were easiest to locate in summer. Ferrets were active at 38 C, in snow, in rain, and in winds to 50 kph.
23378183|Fifteen species, in 10 genera, of Delphacidae are recorded from Alaska. One, Kusnezoviella macleani, is described as new to science. Acanthodelphax analis (Crawford), Chilodelphax magnifrons (Crawford), Javesella arcanastyla (Beamer), and J. atrata (Osborn) are new combinations. Delphacodes saileri Beamer is a synonym of Javesella simillima (Linnavuori). Of the 15 species, 1 is recorded only from Alaska, 3 are Holarctic, 4 are Nearctic, and 7 are Palearctic and restricted to tundra habitats, with 5 of these apparently found only north of the Brooks Range.
23376665|Photosynthetic production of two Mojave Desert shrubs was measured under natural growing conditions at UCLA. Measurements of photosynthesis, transpiration, resistances to water vapor flux, soil moisture potential, and tissue water potential were made. Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt., a member of the C4 biochemical carbon dioxide fixation group was highly competitive in growth rate and production during conditions of adequate soil moisture. As soil moisture conditions declined to minus 40 bars, the net photosynthetic rate of Atriplex decreased to zero. However, the C3 shrub species Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC.) Cov. was able to maintain positive net photosynthetic production during conditions of high temperature and extreme low soil moisture through the major part of the season. The comparative advantages of the C4 versus the C3 pathway of carbon fixation was lost between these two species as the soil moisture potential declined to minus 40 bars. Desert plants have different strategies for survival, one of the strategies being the C4 biochemical carbon fixation pathway. However, many of the plants are members of the C3 group. In this instance, the C4 fixation pathway does not confer an added advantage to the productivity of the species in the Mojave Desert. Species distribution based on comparative photosynthetic production is discussed.
23378181|Eight new species of Flexamia DeLong are described, and two Mexican species previously synonymized are reinstated. Species are assigned to 13 species groups; keys are presented for the groups and for the 44 recognized species. Host data, in many cases with oligophagy coefficients, are presented for 37 of the species. Many species specialize on native, dominant, perennial, choridoid or panicoid grasses; some are monophagous. Seven sister species pairs specialize on the same (or a closely related) grass species; in addition, four closely related species appear to be restricted to Bouteloua curtipendula. Few if any specialists colonize their host throughout its entire range. Ecological factors such as phenology and/or host patchiness strongly influence geographic distribution. An intuitive phylogeny is proposed and is used as a basis for constructing 18 character transformations. The genus Flexamia probably originated in Mexico by division of an ancestral lineage from which the modern genus Spartopyge also diverged.
23376600|The plant phase of the Endangered Species Program is discussed from the point of view of a professional botanist in government service. Some of the new amendments are also discussed from a botanical standpoint. Federal agency programs and policies in the western United States are briefly reviewed. The strength of the Endangered Species Program is dependent upon input from qualified professional biologists in and out of government service. Some of the problems encountered in the program are outlined.
23376544|Utah Lake and its surrounding area have a rich natural and cultural background. The moderate climate, abundant fresh water, and fertile soils of Utah Valley made it an oasis to aboriginal dwellers as well as to the present inhabitants. An overview of the physical setting, geology, climate, human use, and recent history of Utah Lake is presented.
23376564|New habitats opened up in western North America since the recession of Lake Bonneville and Lake Lahontan have admitted a host of new species of Atriplex. Every known evolutionary force is operating and at accelerated paces. Autoploidy appears to be more common than in any other reported group of plants. Natural hybridization between closely related species has provided a wealth of fertile segregants from which new adaptive types have been and are being selected. Hybrids between more distantly related species are sterile and some appear to have given rise to fertile alloploid derivatives. All evidence points to a center of origin for Atriplex in northern Mexico. The numerous species which have migrated northward into western United States and Canada were apparently able to do so because attributes acquired to make them adaptive in the hot dry deserts of Mexico were characteristics which, uniquely, also pre-adapted them for colder climates and alkaline clay soils to the north. Woody species such as Atriplex canescens and A. confertifolia hybridize rather easily with herbaceous perennial species such as A. cuneata, A. gardneri, A. corrugata, and A. obovata. Since most such hybrids are at least partly fertile and produce F2 segregants of both woody and nonwoody types, the genetic basis for the accumulation of wood is apparently rather simple.
23376661|The purpose of this study is to further describe the distribution, habitats, and ecological characteristics of the natural vegetation in the northern sector of the northern Mojave Desert. Sixty-six stands were classified on the basis of shared leading dominant species. Each of these groupings is well defined and represents a sociologically distinct entity quite recognizable in the field. The relationships between each vegetational grouping and several environmental variables were statistically analyzed. Significant differences were found among plant groupings with respect to soil moisture tension, absolute and relative amounts of exchangeable Na, exchangeable K, cation exchange capacity, and elevation. The analysis of the relationship between the phytosociological behavior of the major leading dominant species and the environmental variables shows that some of the simple, or multiple, linear correlations obtained with regard to Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC.) Cov. were highly significant. Atriplex confertifolia (Torr. & Frem.) S. Wats. and Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt. showed the highest number of significant correlations obtained. Diversity varies from one vegetational grouping to the other as well as between stands of the same grouping. The grouping of L. tridentata has proved to be the most widespread, diversified, and, consequently, the most stable vegetation cover in the study area; it, therefore, represents a climax community. The vegetational grouping dominated by A. confertifolia, on the other hand, appears not to be a climax community.
23377640|The black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) occupied area lies in the western Big Horn Basin, Park County, Wyoming. Cody, a nearby town, shows a record high temperature of 40.5 C and a low of 43.3 C, with 173 days each year below 0 C. Area geology is dominated by Absaroka volcanics. Soils are shallow (0.5 m) and underlain by unconsolidated gravels; well-drained, medium-textured clay-loams (ca 1 m in depth); or clays derived from shale parent materials. Vegetation is characterized by a wheatgrass-needlegrass shrubsteppe type (Agropyron/Stipa/Artemisia). Prior to white settlement, the area hosted a diverse large mammal community. First white settlement began 18781885, with establishment of several area ranches. Predator and prairie dog (Cynomys leucurus) poisoning began about 1884. Heavy livestock grazing of public ranges followed the demise of bison (Bison bison) by 1890, which likely was conducive to a continuation of an ungulate-range relationship favoring prairie dog habitat. Ferret specimens from Crow Indian inhabitants of the region date to 1880s and two specimens from Park County date from the 1920s-1930s. Today ferrets are found on white-tailed prairie dog colonies (a "complex") totaling ca 2,995 ha. The areas occupied by these colonies are equally owned by private, state, and federal interests. Evidence shows many abandoned prairie dog colonies which, along with the current ones, total about 8,400 ha. Many of them may have been active simultaneously prior to poisoning in the 1930s.
23378172|On the basis of their unique genitalic characters, the Neotropical leafhopper species previously treated in the genus Doleranus Ball are placed in a new genus, Ileopeltus. Twelve species are treated, including six described as new. A key to the species and a cladistic hypothesis using Chlorotettix Van Duzee as the outgroup are presented. The new species of Ileopeltus include: nanocanthus (Panama), dorsalus and clavatus (Brazil and Venezuela), ventriculus and haplus (Brazil), and blockeri (Venezuela).
23376606|Analysis of the vascular floras of Utah, Colorado, and California suggest that a syndrome of life form and reproductive characteristics separates rare and common species. Woody plants are heavily underrepresented, and herbs are overrepresented on the official lists of endangered and/or threatened plants of the floras considered. Few of the rare species are descended from wind-pollinated ancestors, but instead are derived from insect-pollinated stock. Theory suggests that many of the rare taxa will ultimately be shown to be self-pollinated. The date show a tendency for rare species to be better represented among taxa having bilaterrally symmetrical as opposed to radially symmetrical flowers. In aggregate, the results suggest that most rare taxa are equipped for rapid exploitation of small, unusual habitats. Because many rare taxa appear to be dependent on insects for reproduction, their survival depends not only on appropriate physical habitat but also on healthy pollinator populations. Reproduction of outcrossed taxa will be handicapped by road dust and other sources of atmospheric particulate which might foul stigmatic surfaces. Self-pollinated taxa may have little generic variability and thus be especially sensitive to environmental modifications. Because most rare taxa are dicotyledonous herbs, herbicides such as 2, 4-D which have been widely used in vegetation management for control of broadleafed plants can be expected to have highly deleterious effects on populations of rare species in the target area.
23378182|The new genus Afronisia is founded with Eponisia albovittata Fennah as the type-species. Eponisia brunnescens Synave, E. flavescens Synave, E. pallida Linnavuori, and Nisia muiri Metcalf are transferred to this genus, and E. albinervosa Muir is placed in synonymy with Kermesia albinervosa Muir. Two new species are described: Afronisia bredoi, from Zaire, and A. gembuensis, from Nigeria. Keys are provided for separation of the African genera of Kermesiinae and for the seven species of Afronisia that are described and figured.
23377648|A minimum viable population (MVP) size is estimated for the critically endangered black-footed ferret by examining five basic methods: experiments, biogeographic patterns, theoretical models, simulation models, and genetic considerations. Each method is evaluated for its applicability to the ferret and endangered species in general with two criteria in mind: (1) potential research impacts to target species and (2) the value of scientific accuracy and precision in relation to short-term conservation needs. For the black-footed ferret, the genetic method proved to be the most useful, resulting in an MVP estimate of about 200 ferrets for maintenance of short-term fitness. For most endangered species, a combination of the simulation and genetic methods will probably yield the best estimate of MVP size. MVP estimates have direct implications for future research, management, and recovery efforts of endangered species.
23378268|Heteromyid rodents are distributed from the New World tropics to the deserts of North America, but their habitation of deserts is relatively recent. Their evolutionary history, though, is associated with progressive aridity, with larger quadrupedal taxa being more mesic (and primitive), and smaller quadrupeds and all bipeds more xeric. The correlation between water regulatory efficiency and body mass is strongly negative in heteromyids; bipedal Dipodomys spp. have water regulatory efficiency fixed at an intermediate level independent of mass. Heteromyids generally have basal metabolic rates reduced below the eutherian level, with the greatest reductions occurring in desert species. The use of torpor as an energy-conserving device is cosmopolitan in small (<40 g) heteromyids, but is inconsequential or lacking in larger ones. Bipedalism, characteristic of Dipodomys, confers no direct energetic advantages as revealed in treadmill studies. Large quadrupedal heteromyids have adaptive physiologies suitable for more mesic habitats, but smaller quadrupeds are suited for xeric existences; these characteristics likely reflect an evolution from a tropical ancestry to rather recent habitation of deserts. Bipedalism occurs only in xeric-adapted forms and has no directly discernible energetic benefit; yet it appears to relieve in some unknown way the energetic constraints of foraging.
23376545|Utah Lake is a remnant of Lake Bonneville, from which it originated about 8,000 years ago. Analysis of sediment cores reveals significant variations in lake salinity and sedimentation rates. Notable examples are a very dry, high-salinity period between 5000 and 6000 years ago; a major freshening, wet period between 2700 and 3000 years ago; and a very dry, high-salinity period between 1400 and 2600 years ago. smaller variations are interspersed through the lake's history. Long-term sedimentation rates are estimated at about 1 mm (0.039 in) per year in most of the lake, but post-colonization rates appear to be about 2 mm (0.079 in) per year. Faults in the lake appear to be lowering the lake bottom at about the same rate as sediment has been filling it. Bottom sediments consist of about 60 to 80 percent calcite in the lake proper, much of which precipitates from the lake water itself. The lake-bed faults are similar in character to those of the Wasatch Fault that bound the valley and mountains a few miles to the east. Lake bottom springs and seeds are localized, in the most part, along the eastern and northern lake margins where all major tributaries occur and groundwater recharge is largest. Only limited spring activity appears to be associated with the faults. In a geological sense, Utah is an old lakeshallow, turbid, and slightly salineand has been since its "birth" with the demise of Lake Bonneville approximately 8,000 years ago.
23378267|The functional morphology of desert heteromyid rodents (Perognathus, Dipodomys, Microdipodops) is reviewed with considerable new information provided. Specific attention is given to the interaction of anatomical structure and the behavioral and ecological patterns of these rodents. Inflation of the auditory bullae, although apparently related to improved hearing, is also shown to directly impact the structure and function of the feeding apparatus in desert heteromyids. The mechanics of high speed seed pouching behavior in Dipodomys deserti as well as the rates of digging activities of various heteromyids are described using data from slow motion films. The biomechanical consequences of cheek pouch loading for body size and locomotor behavior yield theoretical predictive models concerning interspecific differences in foraging behavior, dietary preference, and microhabitat selection. Structural modifications of the forelimb associated with use of external cheek pouches reduce the mechanical competence of these limbs for shock absorption during fast quadrupedal running. The relative size of various front and hind limb segments are correlated with quadrupedal, tripodal, and bipedal gaits in heteromyid rodents. The interdependence of body balance, gait, and speed are examined in Dipodomys merriami. Factors possibly contributing to the origin of bipedalism in rodents are reviewed and discussed.
23376594|The fact that mankind has desecrated much of the natural world is recognized. The rate of plant and animal extinction has increased in North America from an estimated 3 species per century 3,000 years ago to an average of 143 per century since 1620. Endangered species protection began in the Fish and Wildlife Service in 1938 with the purpose of the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge for the whooping crane. A committee on rare and endangered species was formed in 1962 by the director of the Fish and Wildlife Service and a tentative list was published in 1964. The Endangered Species Acts of 1966, 1969, and 1973, together with subsequent amendments, provide the legislative authority for the present program. The intent of Congress, through this legislative authority, is to avoid irreversible or irretrievable commitments of resources by identifying problems of environmental impact projects early in the planning stage. Examples in the step-by-step development of the legislation and its operation were reviewed.
23376669|Soil profiles underneath shrub clumps and bare desert pavement were examined at 62 study sites located in both open and closed drainage basins of the northern Mojave Desert. Highly significant differences occurred in the root zone underneath shrub clumps with higher concentrations of the following soil properties: electrical conductivity (EC25), Na, K+, Ca+ +, Mg+ +, Cl, NO3, and SO4=; exchangeable K+; cation exchange capacity; organic C and N; available P, and DTPA-extractable Fe and Mn. These differences reflect differential cycling caused by different plant species. The decomposition and mineralization of litter deposited underneath the perennial vegetation can account for these differences in soil properties which, collectively, increase the fertility of the soil underneath the vegetation canopy. Aboveground biomass of shrubs was measured and the nitrogen and mineral element composition of new photosynthetic tissue was determined. Estimates from a representative study site indicate that the reservoir of nitrogen and mineral nutrients in new leaf material of shrubs available for litter deposition could contribute 3.64 kg N, 0.31 kg P, 0.57 kg Na, 5.20 kg K, 4.95 kg Ca, 31.82 g Fe, and 4.30 g Mn per hectare. This source probably represents about one-third of the total amount of nutrients involved in annual turnover for the study area during a normal production year. The remaining contribution would be supplied from the standing dead wood in shrubs and as litter from annual plant species.
23376546|This paper summarizes hydrological and water quality findings from investigations by the authors and their colleagues over the past 10 years. Water and salt balances on Utah Lake for the July 1970 to July 1973 period show both evaporation (342,077 ac-ft/yr) and groundwater (114,355 ac-ft/yr) to be somewhat larger than previously estimated by others. The lake is eutrophic, turbid, and slightly saline, as might be expected in a shallow, basin-bottom lake in a semi-arid area. Overall water quality in the lake is fair to good and appears to be controlled more by natural factors than by the activities of man. An increase in total dissolved solids (TDS) from about 300 mg/l in major surface and shallow groundwater inflows to about 900 mg/l in the main lake is the most significant water quality change. Of this TDS increase, about one-half results from evaporation of about one-half of the total inflowing water, one-quarter from salts carried by mineralized deep-spring inflows, and the remaining one-quarter from the poorer quality surface inflows to the lake. Calcium carbonate (calcite) precipitation from the lake waters accounts for about 40 percent of the estimated 0.85 mm/yr (0.033 in/yr) long-term rate of sediment buildup of the lake bottom. This precipitated calcite is postulated to be an important turbidity source in the wave-stirred lake.
23378171|The subgenus Athysanella Baker is reviewed and a possible phylogeny of the group is discussed. A total of 35 species is recognized. Descriptions, illustrations, and a key to males are presented. Twelve new species are described: aphoda, cursa, deserta, furnaca, hemijona, krameri, pastora, strobila, stylosa, vativala, and whitcombi are from the western United States, and marthae is from Mexico.
23376663|At a site near Rock Valley, Nevada, dominated by volcanic rocks, both Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC.) Cov. and Lycium andersonii A. Gray were restricted in distribution. Larrea tridentata did not grow in the many small washes in the area, but L. andersonii grew only in the washes. Ambrosia dumosa (A. Gray) Payne was more dense and more dominant in wash areas than in nonwash areas.
23376677|In April and May of 1973, 24 individual plants were exposed to 14CO2 with techniques used in our other studies in the field. Seven to 8 months later, part of the plants were excavated and counted by plant part for 14C. The remainder of the plants were excavated at 13 months. The results indicated that from 3 to 20 percent of the carbon for leaves in the next year came from stems and roots of Grayia spinosa (Hook) Moq., Ceratoides lanata (Pursh) J. T. Howell, Atriplex confertifolia (Torr. & Frem.) S. Wats., Lycium pallidum Miers, Ambrosia dumosa (A. Gray) Payne, and Acamptopappus shockleyi A. Gray. Nearly all of the root segments were labeled at sampling time; however, some of the roots were labeled at higher amounts than others. Some roots had very little 14C, and these are assumed to be very new roots rather than dead roots because of their small size. The roots with high levels of 14C are assumed to be formed near the time of labeling, and those with low levels to be formed after the time of labeling. From 17 to 65 percent of the 14C fixed was recovered after 7 to 13 months.
23376674|Multivariate analysis of soil and plant data from the northern Mojave Desert was used to investigate aspects of the mineral nutrition of Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC.) Cov. Larrea tridentata biomass was significantly correlated with soil $NO{\begin \matrix \middle {-} \\3}$ and pH and leaf Fe content. Leaf cation accumulation was negatively correlated with leaf Fe concentration.
23378179|Cicada orni Linnaeus is among the most common and widespread cicadas in Portugal, and, unless a critical study of the male genitalia is made, it is easily confused with the much less widely distributed C. barbara lusitanica Boulard. These species are morphologically very similar and sometimes difficult to separate using existing keys. This study attempts to test the discriminating capabilities of numerical techniques commonly used for classificatory purposes, as well as to discover the most effective characters to distinguish between the two species. For these purposes, cluster analysis and principal component analysis were applied to a sample of 64 male specimens characterized by 40 characters (33 derived from the external morphology and 7 from genitalia). In WPGMA cluster analysis, product-moment correlations gave a better separation between these species than did taxonomic distance coefficients; moreover, the analysis derived from the genital characters alone gave better separation than the analyses based on the 33 external characters. Principal component analysis yielded a clear, interspecific separation along the first axis. The best characters to discriminate between males of the two species were the lengths of the pygofer (and its dorsal spine), the tenth abdominal segment, and the appendages of the latter (which are smaller in barbara lusitanica), as well as the width of the shaft of the aedeagus (thinner in orni). Finally, the uniformity of the general clustering pattern resulting from the two multivariate techniques suggests the presence of two distinct species, as also clearly indicated by behavioral data.
23377663|Presented are 21,488 references to published articles that treat the scientific study of bark and ambrosia beetles (Coleoptera: Platypodidae and Scolytidae) worldwide from 1758 to 1984 (about 200 post-1984 articles are included) in all subject areas. Each reference is accompanied by an indication of (a) whether or not the authors examined a copy of the article, and (b) the subject areas treated by the article.
23376670|Ecotonal distribution of salt-tolerant shrubs was investigated under different kinds of edaphic conditions common to open and closed drainage basins in the northern Mojave Desert. Contributing causal factors involved changes in soil salinity, texture, and moisture stress. Varying degrees of halophytism occurred, ranging from plant species that are facultative in their adaptation to salinity to those that require comparatively high salt concentrations in soil for normal growth and development.
23377642|Black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) are dependent on prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) for food and on their burrows for shelter and rearing young. A stable prairie dog population may therefore be the most important factor determining the survival of ferrets. A rapid method of determining prairie dog density would be useful for assessing prairie dog density in colonies currently occupied by ferrets and for selecting prairie dog colonies in other areas for ferret translocation. This study showed that visual counts can provide a rapid density estimate. Visual counts of white-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys leucurus) were significantly correlated (r = 0.95) with mark-recapture population density estimates on two study areas near Meeteetse, Wyoming. Suggestions are given for use of visual counts.
23376551|From an historical aspect, there are or have been 215 species and 62 families of terrestrial vertebrates found in the environs of Utah Lake. The classes Amphibia and Reptilia are represented by 4 species in 3 families and 12 species in 4 families, respectively. The class Aves has the highest numbers of species and families. The birds are represented by 152 species and 39 families. There are 47 species of mammals found within 16 families. Three additional species of reptiles have been reported to one of us by the Division of Wildlife Resources personnel as occurring in the environs of Utah Lake, but these are not recorded in the literature and have not been verified by us.
23376682|The revegetation of disturbed, arid lands is one of the great challenges of a desert. An attempt to encourage it is not an impossible task, however, if the natural and the man-made resources available are utilized and managed. Where rainfall and temperature conditions approach or exceed those of the Great Basin desert, restoration of disturbed land will occur through natural revegetation processes within a reasonable period of time. This is not generally the case in the more arid Mojave Desert areas where the moisture and temperature conditions are less favorable for germination and seedling survival. Restoration of vegetation by natural reseeding can, however, occur within local sites where moisture has concentrated as the result of terrain features forming catchment basins. Otherwise, the natural revegetation processes in the Mojave Desert areas require much longer periods of time (possibly decades or centuries) than are practical for meeting environmental protection standards imposed by current legislation. Through better understanding of the processes governing revegetation and the ability to control them, it is possible for man to more rapidly restore disturbed desert lands. Terrain manipulation to form moisture catchment basins, selection of seed from pioneering shrub species, preservation of existing shrub clump "fertile islands" in the soil, supplemental fertilization, irrigation, organic amendments, and transplanting vigorous shrub species are some of the important things that can be done to help restore disturbed desert land.
23377658|A comprehensive treatment of the vascular flora of Utah is presented. Keys are provided to families, genera, species, and infraspecific taxa (when present). Taxa are described, ecological data is given, and geographical information is provided. County distribution in Utah is given for each species and infraspecific taxon. General geographical information is given for taxa that extend beyond the boundaries of Utah. Chromosome numbers are provided for each taxon, where that information was available in literature. Indigenous taxa include some 2,572 species and 355 infraspecific taxa, or a total of 2,927. Introduced species number some 580, and the total taxa treated in the flora is 3,507. New nomenclatural proposals include Mertensia lanceolata var. nivalis (Wats.) Higgins stat. nov.; Chrysothamnus nauseosus (Pallas) H. & C. var. uintahensis (L. C. Anderson) Welsh stat. nov.; Machaeranthera canescens (Pursh) Gray var. latifolia (A. Nels.) Welsh stat. nov., and var. aristatus (Eastw.) Turner comb. nov.; Viguiera longifolia (Robins. & Greenm.) Blake var. annua (Jones) Welsh comb. nov.; Dudleya pulverulenta (Nutt.) Britt. & Rose var. arizonica (Rose) Welsh stat. nov.; Cordylanthus kingii Wats. var. densiflorus (Chuang & Heckard) Atwood stat. nov.; Cymopterus acaulis (Pursh) Raf. var. fendleri (Gray) Goodrich comb. nov.
23376566|The problem of distribution of plant endemics is explored, especially as regards distribution of these plant species on elevational and substrate bases. Endemics per unit area are greater at elevations above 1980 m and on finely textured soils. A summary of data and a list of references is presented.
23378175|A new species of Pazu, P. monoinyo, from the Inyo-Mono County area of California is described. Additional occurrence records are provided for Pazu balli (Beamer), and some of its morphological characteristics are illustrated and compared with P. monoinyo.
23376662|Frequency distribution patterns were developed for distance to nearest neighbor of the same species for Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC.) Cov., Ephedra nevadensis S. Wats., and Acamptopappus shockleyi A. Gray. The distances between shrubs had been determined previously in another study. About one-third or more of the nearest neighbor of its own kind was within less than one meter for each species, indicating that it was usually within the same shrub clump, which in turn is indicative of an aggregating effect. For L. tridentata and E. nevadensis much of this could be from the same original plant by crown diffusion (L. tridentata) or underground spreading (E. nevadensis). None of the three gave evidence of spacing at regular intervals when the nearest neighbor of a single individual within a shrub clump was outside that clump. Rather, they appeared to be randomly distributed under this condition, except possibly for A. shockleyi.
23377638|Extensive literature review and 48 mammal collections containing recent specimens of the endangered black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) are used to characterize historic distribution of the species. Specimens (n=120) were measured from eight collections to characterize black-footed ferret morphology and variation. Twenty-one Pleistocene and Holocene faunas in North America show ferrets dating to 100,000 yr B.P. Recent specimens (n=412) indicate close association with the prairie dog (Cynomys spp.) and suggest ferrets may have been less rare than previously thought. At least 103 (25%) of all specimens were taken by federal predator and rodent control agents, and males outnumber females in collections 2.04:1. Average and extreme measurement for external, cranial, and postcranial dimensions are tabulated. Ferrets show a high degree of sexual dimorphism, with discriminant analysis correctly classifying 95% of all specimens to sex. Ferrets also exhibit north-south clinal variation in size, but they do not appear to exhibit variation based on species of Cynomys associate. The taxonomic relationship among ferrets and close relatives is described.
23376556|The present Great Basin Floristic Province had achieved roughly its present topographic conformation by some time in the Miocene epoch and had a climate not too different from the present one, though probably a little warmer, moister, and less continental. Both the flora and the fauna took on a fairly modern aspect during the Miocene, as a result of worldwide evolutionary changes and more specific adaptation to the conditions of the region. Changes in the biota since that time mainly reflect evolution and migration at the level of species and, to a lesser extent, genera, in response to regional conditions and the repeated fluctuations in climate. The climatic reversals of the Pleistocene caused repeated inverse migrations of more northern, mesophytic elements in the flora, on the one hand, and more southern, xerophytic elements on the other. These expansions and contractions of range favored hybridization and genetic mixing among related plant species. The fauna of the region, dependent eventually on the flora, must have been subjected to basically the same set of repeated changes in range and local distribution during the Pleistocene. About 10,000 years ago many of the large mammals in the Intermountain Region, as elsewhere in North America, rapidly became extinct, perhaps largely through overkill by primitive man.
23376664|On two separate transects in the Rock Valley area of the northern Mojave Desert in the spring of 1976, 4 percent to 17 percent of the perennial plants were infested with the parasite Cuscuta nevadensis Jtn. (dodder), and dead pieces of dodder from previous years were on dead plants equivalent to another 5 percent, indicating that the dodder had a regulating effect on the plant population and may be an important cause of perennial plant death.
23376559|There are no endemic species of birds in the Great Basin. Nevertheless, a distinctive Great Basin avifauna exists which contains components of the Mojave Desert, Rocky Mountain, and Great Plains avifaunas as well as species obligate to sagebrush and the pinyon-juniper forest. Seemingly there has been little spread of California and Sierra Nevada species eastward, but a westward extension from the Rocky Mountains of several species is indicated. While several Rocky Mountain species reach their western limits on the eastern edge of the Great Basin, others have extended into the eastern portion. Two Great Plains representatives are late arrivals, namely the Baltimore Oriole and Indigo Bunting, with evidence of introgression now occurring with related western species. A similar but longstanding situation exists for the flickers. A zone of hybridization occurs in northern Utah between two species of junco. A rather abrupt junction zone between the Great Basin and Mojave Desert avifaunas exists in southern Nevada and extreme southwestern Utah. Several species representing the Mojave Desert avifauna have extended their ranges in recent years into southern Utah. Geographically variable birds show diverse patterns of distribution along with much clinal variation and intergradation. A center of differentiation for four species occurs in western Utah in the eastern portion of the Great Basin while two more occur in the western portion of the basin. The Wasatch Front is a dividing area between western and eastern races in several species. Extreme southwestern Utah constitutes a transition area where several species are represented by different races or intergradational populations. A study of the avifaunas of 14 boreal "islands" in isolated mountain ranges in western and southeastern Utah in comparison with the Rocky Mountain "continent" in central and northern Utah shows a close correlation between number of species present and habitat diversity. In addition, a low correlation exists between the number of species that are permanent residents on isolated mountains and the distance of those mountains from the "continent."
23376676|Larrea tridentata (Sesse Moc. ex DC) Cov. exposed to 14CO2 retained about 20 percent of its 14C after 16 and also after 26 months. In leaves, however, a lower specific activity was present at 26 months than at 16 months, and a smaller percentage of 14C in the plant occurred in leaves at 26 months than at 16 months (3 percent vs 10 percent). This indicates some, but little, reuse of carbon from the structural components of the plants. The strong tendency of the species to retain this carbon may be related to a survival mechanism. After 40 months the results were more erratic, with 11 percent of the 14C remaining in plants and only 2 percent of the total remaining in the leaves. The specific activity of 14C in the organic debris fraction obtained with saturated salt flotation of roots after small and fine roots had been physically removed indicated that from 27 to 35 percent of the organic debris had the same specific activity as roots and probably could be considered as roots. This compares with the 45 percent value determined previously by a different technique. The below-ground to aboveground ratio for biomass of these plants was about 2.5:1. The below-ground to above-ground ratio for the 14C was about 0.5 at 16 months, 1.3 at 26 months, and 2.5 at 40 months. The estimates obtained in this study were used to correct our previous data for below-ground biomass. Accordingly, somewhere between 3000 and 5000 kg/ha roots are present in the Rock Valley area. An increase with time of the below-ground to aboveground 14C ratio probably indicates loss of 14C from above-ground parts rather than additional transport to roots.
23376672|Two hundred samples of leaves of Lycium andersonii A. Gray, each representing one plant and divided among six different locations, were assayed by emission spectrography. Information for 12 different elements is reported in terms of concentrations, frequency distribution, correlations, and some soil characteristics. The objective was to ascertain the nature of variability for mineral elements within a species. Composition varied significantly for all 12 elements among locations, all within about 20 km. At least part of the variation was due to soil characteristics. Samples from Rock Valley were highest in K, Na, and Li, which effect is associated with volcanic outcrop. Samples from Mercury Valley were highest in P, Mg, Ba, and B. At least Mg is related to the soil composition. Correlation coefficients between element pairs were often very different for all 200 samples versus those obtained for individual locations. Some of the values for all 200 samples together proved to be artifacts. The highest correlation was for Ca  Sr (positive) and next was Ca  Mg (also positive). Most correlations were slightly or strongly positive (24 of 32). Only P  Ca, Ca  Na, Ca  B, and Sr  P seemed to be significantly negative of the 32 correlations examined. Frequency distribution patterns where common populations were grouped were often normally distributed. Li, as previously reported, and Na, Cu, Mn, and B and Ba at some locations were not normally distributed. Wide variations in the concentrations of individual elements in leaves of these species were encountered.
23377647|No genetic variation was observed for three proteins examined from samples of saliva from 22 black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes). The comparable data concerning levels of genetic variation in other taxa at these loci are too inconclusive to provide a meaningful interpretation of the observed absence of genetic variation. The absence of genetic variation observed in the black-footed ferret population is compatible with the reported levels of genetic variation in terrestrial carnivores and populations that have undergone bottlenecks. Suggestions for additional studies using different approaches both to increase the number of loci that are used to determine the level of genetic variability in the black-footed ferret and to provide a more meaningful comparative data base are provided.
23376611|It is the responsibility of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to conserve plants and animals... and the habitat on which they depend... which are officially listed according to federal or state laws in catregories that imply significant potential for extinction. The BLM also provides for the conservation of the habitats of unlisted extinction-prone (i.e., sensitive) plants and animals. It also applies to all BLM programs and actions related to the public lands, the federal subsurface mineral estate, and the submerged lands of the Outer Continental Shelf (OSC).
23378266|Desert rodent communities are compared for evidence of convergent evolution at various levels of organization, including the systemic (physiological, anatomical, etc.), autecological, and synecological. Convergence is quite pronounced at the systemic level, less pronounced at the autecological level, and even less detectable at the synecological level. This is not to imply that community convergence does not occur, but rather that our current abilities to quantify and detect convergence at the community level are rudimentaryand our data base is still far from adequate to the task of rigorously comparing community attributes. Most research on the ecology, behavior, physiology, and community structure of desert rodents has been conducted on North American species inhabiting deserts of the United States. The patterns of species coexistence that have been elucidated in these deserts are often presumed to apply in other deserts of the world. It has become apparent in recent years, however, that the complex North American desert system is unique in many ways, perhaps especially in the biogeographic history of its habitats and faunas, from most of the other deserts of the world. The North American deserts offer an unusually diverse fauna of desert rodents (both alpha and beta diversity are high) which evidences patterns of distribution and coexistence that excite biologists working with the mechanisms of competitive interactions. Similar studies carried out in other deserts might very well lead to a different set of ideas concerning the ways in which desert rodents manage to coexist and how desert communities develop over time. The present paper is an attempt to compare community structure and development as well as patterns of coexistence among the various faunas of desert rodents of the world. Although data are sketchy for many areas, sufficient information is available to allow a preliminary comparison of methods of adaptation and coexistence to be made.
23376565|Eriogonoideae is a subfamily of the knotweed family, Polygonaceae, endemic to the New World, and is composed of 14 genera and perhaps 320 species. It differs primarily from the other members of Polygonaceae in lacking well-defined sheathing stipules or ochrea. The species of Eriogonoideae vary from tiny, fragile annuals to herbaceous perennials, low subshrubs or shrubs to large and often arborescent shrubs. The seemingly most primitive extant genus of the subfamily is Eriogonum (247 species), which is widespread in central North America. A series of genera are closely related to Eriogonum, and probably have evolved directly from Eriogonum. These genera are Oxytheca (9 species) of the western United States, and Chile and Argentina of South America; Dedeckera and Gilmania, both monotypic genera of the Death Valley region of California; Stenogonum (2 species) of the Colorado Plateau and adjacent areas of the Rocky Mountain West; Goodmania and Hollisteria, 2 monotypic genera of central and southern California; and Nemacaulis, a monotypic genus of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. A second major complex of genera also probably evolved from Eriogonum. In this group, the most elementary genus is Chorizanthe (about 50 species), in which the extant perennial members of the genus are perhaps evolutionarily the oldest taxa of the subfamily. These perennials are restricted to Chile, while in the western United States and northwestern Mexico of North America, only annual species are found. Mucronea (2 species) of California and Centrostegia (4 species) of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico are clearly related to Chorizanthe. In a somewhat intermediate position between the Eriogonum complex and the Chorizanthe complexbut still more closely related to the latter than the formeris the genus Lastarriaea (2 species) found in California, Baja California, and Chile. All of these genera belong to the tribe Eriogoneae. A second tribe, Pterostegeae, contains only 2 discordant, monotypic genera: the shrubby perennial genus Harfordia of Baja California and the more widespread annual, Pterostegia, of the western United States. While time and evolution have obscured the relationships between Eriogoneae and Pterostegeae, the affiliations among the various genera of the tribes can be ascertained to some degree. The geographical center of origin of the subfamily may have been in a subtropical climate, with the differentiation of modern-day genera occurring in temperate, xeric regions of North America. The origin of Chorizanthe was an ancient development, with the migration of the primitive perennial members into South America in the Tertiary. The subsequent development of the annual habit, and migration of annual species of Eriogonoideae into South America has probably occurred in the Quaternary. The intermediate stages of evolutionary development of the genera and species of the subfamily occurred in a habitat similar to the pinyon-juniper woodlands of the Great Basin, while evolution of the more advanced genera and species has occurred in xeric grasslands, chapparral scrub, or xerophytic "hot desert" communities.
23376654|Residual effects of sprinkle irrigation from 19681970 on populations of Mojave Desert shrub communities were observed in late 1974. The sprinkle-irrigated plots showed a residual increase in density of four species, but other species either failed to reproduce in significant numbers or lost all gains made during the years following treatment. The seven-year change for the irrigated plots was equivalent to a gain of 1178 perennial plants per ha, but the nonirrigated plots lost an average of 1050 plants per ha equivalent during the same period. The biomass gain after seven years was equivalent to 1000 kg/ha for irrigated plots and 310 for nonirrigated plots.
23377641|A vegetation inventory of current and historic black- footed ferret (Mustela nigripes, BFF) habitat was completed in the 1983 growing season. White-tail prairie dog (Cynomys leucurus) colonies near Meeteetse, Wyoming, provide the only known BFF habitat. Four other prairie dog complexes located in Wyoming, documented historic BFF habitat, were also inventoried. Prairie dog burrows occur in two of eight vegetation types present in the current BFF habitat study area. They are junegrass (Koeleria cristata) and sagebrush/junegrass (Artemisia tridentata/K. cristata; named for dominant species). In historic BFF habitat, prairie dog burrows occur in six vegetation types: birdfoot sagewort/western wheatgrass (Artemisia petadifida/Agropyron smithii), alkali sagebrush (Artemisia longiloba)/mixed grass, Gardner saltbush (Atriplex gardneri)/mixed grass, and thickspike wheatgrass-threadleaf sedge (Agropyron dasystachyum-Carex filifolia), mixed shrub/mixed grass, and Gardner saltbush. Similarities among all five complexes are plant heights generally less than 66 cm, level to gently rolling topography, and severe disturbance due to historical grazing, vegetation manipulation, and other human-related activities. Of the vegetation parameters measured, only plant height appears to be important to white-tail prairie dog distribution. White-tail prairie dog colonies do not appear to depend on a particular vegetation type; consequently, vegetation type alone should not be used to identify BFF habitat.
23376547|Seven aquatic and semiaquatic communities surrounding Utah Lake and its bays are described. Similarities and differences in the community types are discussed. Prevalent species in each type are given. The flora contained 483 species, 150 of which were prevalent enough to be included in the quantitative data analysis. Distichlis stricta was the most important and widespread species. Total cover varied in the communities from 10 to 77 percent. Asexual reproduction was shown to increase in importance as moisture in the soil increased. Introduced exotic species were shown to invade most successfully those habitats that show the greatest variability in moisture and/or those that have the greatest internal variation.
23378176|The 10 endemic species of Balclutha in Hawaii are reviewed and compared with the Pacific and American forms of the genus. Two new species, nigriventris and fuscifrons, are described; kilaueae is transferred to a new genus Balolina n. comb.; beardsleyi is synonymized with saltuella, n. syn.; and hospes is relegated to a subspecies of incisa, n. stat. Descriptions and notes, together with illustrations and a key, are given for each taxon. Evidence is presented to suggest that all the endemic species of Balclutha have arisen within the islands from a single colonization and that the taxon showing the greatest similarity to them is the widespread Pacific species B. lucida. It is shown that the Hawaiian genus Nesolina is most closely related to the endemic species-group of Balclutha and that Balolina is an independent colonization.
23376550|There has been a drastic change in fish populations inhabiting Utah Lake during the last 100 years. When the pioneers first entered Utah Valley they found a well-established cutthroat trout population in Utah Lake and in the tributaries flowing into the lake. After intensive agricultural and industrial development this salmonid disappeared, and carp, white bass, and black bullhead are the common species today. The known history of the Utah Lake fisheries is summarized. Through proper management it is possible to establish a sport fishery of the common fish species currently in the Lake, including walleye, channel catfish, and largemouth bass. The ichthyofauna of Utah Lake may be an underrated natural resource. Today, no native sport fishery exists in Utah Lake, although sportsmen are harvesting introduced species. Utah Lake has a dynamic fishery that must be continually monitored and managed if it is remain productive.
23376679|The root systems of 48 perennial plants, representing nine species from the Rock Valley area within the northern Mojave Desert, were excavated by 10 cm depth increments to determine, by depth of soil, the distribution of roots larger than about  mm diameter. The depth of the root zone of all species was relatively shallow and obviously limited by depth of penetration of precipitation (about 10 cm mean annual rainfall). There were species differences, however, in distribution of roots. Even though a sizeable proportion of the root systems was in the first 10 cm of soil, this portion consisted largely of multiple woody tap roots with relatively few small roots. In all cases except one (Krameria parvifolia Benth), more small roots were in the second 10 cm than in the first. From 50 to more than 80 percent of the total root systems were in the first 20 cm. In most cases the majority of small roots was found between 10 and 30 cm in depth. Very fine roots were sampled separately by depth and zone without regard for species because they could not be differentiated by species. Relative depth distribution of very fine roots at Rock Valley for 010, 1020, and 2030 cm, was about 17, 42, and 41 percent, respectively. The total for the first 20 cm was 59 percent. On a 22 April date, there were 225 kg/ha roots from winter annuals in the Rock Valley area; 19 percent of them were in the first 5 cm of soil in contrast to 8 percent in 10 cm of soil for perennials. On Pahute Mesa located in the southern Great Basin desert area of the Nevada Test Site in Artemisia tridentata Nutt. var. tridentata, 8 percent of the roots was in the first 5 cm, indicating more shallow rooting compared with the northern Mojave Desert.
23376608|Biologists are often placed in the difficult position of defending a threatened habitat or animal with vague reasoning and faulty logic, simply because they have no better rationale at their immediate disposal. This places them at a distinct disadvantage and literally at the mercy of resource exploiters and their easily assignable dollar values. Although the initial dollar cost of delaying or precluding "developing" may be significant, the long-term benefits of saving the biological entities which might otherwise be destroyed are likewise great and are measurable in concrete terms which society is only now beginning to appreciate. Case histories are presented, a more profound rationale is explained, and the environmentalist is challenged to make his case sufficiently effective to reverse the current exploitive trends which threaten so many of earth's life forms.
23376602|Preservation of the habitat is the only logical strategy to save endangered species from early extinction. Ecological amplitudes of rare species are very narrow, so transplantation to such alien sites as botanical gardens is not a solution. Protection may not be the answer. We must learn as much as we can about the biology of the species in question, in the field and under laboratory conditions. The first steps must be to determine the distribution. This would be followed by analysis of soils by means of physical and chemical studies. Pollination ecology, associated species, phenological records, and genetic and cytological studies must be a part of the biological studies. Such studies would require teamwork by qualified botanists.
23376681|Fourteen species of native shrubs were transplanted to bare areas of the northern Mojave Desert in 1972 and 1973. By 1978 plants surrounded by small fences were larger (0.26 vs 0.11 m3 overall average for several species) and survived better (42 percent versus 23 percent) than unfenced plants. These effects are primarily due to reduced grazing of shoots. Loss of shrubs to pocket gophers or other burrowing rodents was not prevented by fencing.
23378180|Three tribes of Nirvaninae, namely, Balbillini (two genera and three species), Nirvanini (five genera and 26 species), and Occinirvanini (one genus and one species), occur on the Indian subcontinent. The tribes, genera, and species are redescribed, illustrated, and keyed. New taxa recognized are Balbillus indicus n. sp. (India: Kerala), Stenotortor subhimalaya n. sp. (India: West Bengal), Kana bispinosa n. sp. (India: Tamil Nadu), K. nigropicta n. sp. (India: Kerala), Sophonia bakeri n. sp. (India: Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh; Nepal), S. bifida n. sp. (India: West Bengal), S. complexa n. sp. (India: Meghalaya), S. complicata n. sp. (India: Mizoram, Meghalaya), S. keralica n. sp. (India: Kerala), Nirvana peculiaris n. sp. (India: Mizoram, Meghalaya), and N. striata n. sp. (India: West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh). The genus Quercinirvana Ahmed & Mahmood (type species: Q. longicephala Ahmed & Mahmood) is treated as a junior synonym of Sophonia Walker. Kana signata Distant and Nirvana greeni Distant are suppressed as junior synonyms of K. illuminata and N. linealis, respectively, and are transferred to Sophonia. Three other species transferred to Sophonia are Kana modesta Distant, Quercinirvana longicephala Ahmed & Mahood, and Nirvana insignis Distant. The relationships among various genera are discussed briefly. The genera Crispina Distant and Mohunia Distant are excluded from Nirvaninae.
23376607|Bees and other insect pollinators which are necessary for the successful reproduction of most species of flowering plants, including agricultural crops, have been ignored by our preservation efforts. This is unfortunate because bees, as low-fecundity organisms, are very susceptible to insecticides and populations are slow to recover from perturbations. Many species of bees, particularly specialized species in the western United States and the tropics, are vulnerable to extinction. With extinctions of specialized forms, generalized species, especially fugitives, are expected to increase because of their ability to utilize a variety of resources and survive beyond the confines of preserves. The possible effects of increased dominance by generalist pollinators on floral species composition is discussed.
23377629|Cataloged in two volumes is the world fauna of Scolytidae (including two subfamilies, 25 tribes, 225 genera, and about 5,812 species) and of Platypodidae (including three subfamilies, seven tribes, 32 genera, and 1,463 species). The higher categories are listed phylogenetically, together with pertinent bibliographic citations of literature listed in a previously published bibliography. Within each genus the species are listed alphabetically together with: (1) a citation of the original description (and original genus, if different from the present genus), (2) the kind of type and its sex, if known, (3) type locality (with lectotype designation, if applicable), (4) type repository, (5) a representation of published figures, (6) geographical distribution, (7) host distribution, (8) three categories of notes, and (9) citations of references to all published literature from 1758 to 1991. Reference citations for each species are divided into eight subject areas, with authors listed alphabetically (including year and page citations) within each of the subject areas. Synonyms for genera and for species-group names are listed by chronological priority below the valid name for the taxon together with type validation data, notes, and references. Infrasubspecific names are cited under notes of the valid taxon. An appendix to the catalog includes: (a) a world host-list, with the beetle species reported to attack each plant species listed, and (b) a supplement to the previously published bibliography (Wood & Bright 1987) that updates the original to the end of 1989. An index lists all nominate taxa and their associated nomen nudums. This is the first serious attempt to catalog the world fauna of Scolytidae since 1910 and Platypodidae since 1914.
23378270|Literature concerning North American nocturnal desert rodents is reviewed to delimit current knowledge of the importance of various factors to abundance, distribution, and genetic structure. In addition, strategies for further study are suggested. Abundance: That increased rodent abundance often follows flushes of annual plant growth that follow favorable rains is well established. The ultimate reason for this pattern has not been established. Competition is important as well, but predation and parasitism have received little consideration. Distribution: Patterns of distribution have been shown to correspond to temperature, moisture, substrate, or vegetative parameters. An important question that remains is to determine the relative importance of physiological specialization vs. interspecific interactions leading to habitat specialization. Genetic Structure: Despite a number of studies on desert rodent systematics, little is known of the genetic structure of desert rodent populations. Behavioral, demographic, indirect genetic, and direct genetic evidence can be used to detect deviations from panmixia.
23376653|This study was done to document the variability in time of phenological events at different locations on the Nevada Test Site. Phenological events for desert shrubs were recorded, and rainfall and temperature data were gathered for four to six years at eight sites that are located within the northern Mojave Desert, the southern Great Basin Desert, and the transitional zone between them. Results have been graphically displayed to show the variability in phenological activity encountered during the study period and also to show the general correlation between these events and the environmental regime that triggered a particular phenological stage among different species. For a given location a four-to-six-week range in beginning events from year to year was common. In addition to the usual spring activity that normally followed winter rain and snow, most shrub species resumed new growth, and six species were observed to flower and fruit following rare summer or early fall rains. In comparison to surrounding locations, the closed drainage basins within the study area have lower temperatures at night that result in a delay of phenological events in most shrubs.
23376603|Strategies used to enhance or help restore rare and endangered animal species are reviewed. No new strategies are presented, but rather a review of various levels at which programs can be initiated are indicated. Nearly 93 percent of the recognized endangered animals are vertebrates. Programs to help restore vertebrates can be aimed at either the habitat or the organism level. Habitat restoration or preservation is the more difficult to achieve and, accordingly, most strategies are aimed at the organism. Species, populations, or communities and ecosystems can be treated, but most often each requires a separate approach. Among organisms the species level attracts most of the enhancement effort because species are easier to understand and deal with. Numerous strategies are being tried with species, and several examples, such as the Aleutian Canada goose, Galapagos tortoise, a wingless undescribed orthropteran, and fish species requiring turbid water, are given. Populations or communities of animals are more difficult to work with, but some strategies such as faunal reserves are likely to be successful. A table listing 39 examples of endangered species from across the animal kingdom, along with the major reasons for their declines and currently working strategies or possible ones to help them recover, is presented.
23376593|Species endangerment has so far been addressed mostly by biologists. It is now important to involve social scientists, inasmuch as the problems are man caused. The history of our attitudes, our uses of the land, and the reasons wherefore are problems for everyone. The evidence suggests that the causes of endangerment may be grouped under (1) direct and indirect exploitation of resources, and (2) population displacement by modern agriculture, with consequent migration to the city or to the forest frontier, where accelerated forest destruction is the result. The displaced people are part of the marginalized two-thirds of the human race and will destroy what is left of nature in order to survive unless we help them become self-sufficient. Such a refocusing of Western civilization, which has so far been parasitic on nature and a marginalized humanity, will require a new world view by the dominant one-third of us, perhaps based on Whiteheadean philosophy, wherein we accept a participatory role in a complex of processes that evolve from one another.
23377643|A Habitat Suitability Index Model (HSI), following the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service HSI Model Series, is described for the black-footed ferret. The literature on which the model is based is reviewed, and model assumptions and structure are discussed. A realistic model is specified with variables and their functions that embody the critical spatial and resource heterogeneity characteristic of the broad geographic environment ferrets occupy. It assumes that ferrets can meet year-round habitat requirements within prairie dog colonies providing: (1) prairie dog colonies are large enough, (2) burrows are numerous enough, and (3) adequate numbers of prairie dogs and alternate prey are available. Five habitat variables are identified: V1 is the frequency distribution of colony sizes, V2 is the total area of colonies, V3 is burrow opening density, V4 is intercolony distance, and V5 is prairie dog density. Variables are compensatory. As more data become available and our understanding of ferrets expands, the basic model design can readily incorporate improvements without radical restructuring.
23376658|Above-ground and below-ground biomass, percent dead shrubs by species, and percent of dead stems of living species were determined for a site in the northern Mojave Desert.
23376675|Ambrosia dumosa (A. Gray) Payne cuttings grown in solution culture were exposed to 14CO2 to measure the distribution of labeled photosynthate among leaves, stems, and roots after 4, 24, and 48 h. For all sampling periods, the highest levels of 14C were found in leaves and the lowest in roots; however, considerable 14C had moved to roots in 48 h. In a 12-week study of A. dumosa in solution culture, plants increased in size more than 17 times and flowered and produced seeds. The plants had received 14CO2 in photosynthesis at the start. The gradual loss of 14C from the plants in the 12 weeks averaged 3.5 percent per week (coefficient of variation = 58 percent). This represents an average respiration rate of 0.21 mg C g dry weight1 h1. This compares favorably with other means for determining respiration rate. The percentage of 14C in the root portion of the plant varied little over 6 sampling periods, indicating that essentially none of the initially fixed 14C left the roots during the 12 weeks of test. The 14C entering fruits and seeds came from leaves only. The biomass of fruit parts resulted more from new photosynthate than from retranslocation from leaves. In a study in which A. dumosa plants were defoliated, little 14C moved from roots to new shoot growth.
23377639|Black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) use prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) for food and their burrows for shelter. Thus, prairie dog colonies are essential ferret habitat. Prairie dog control, which resulted in permanent loss of ferret habitat, is considered the primary reason for the ferret's endangered status today. Northern Pacific Railroad (presently Burlington Northern) lands were surveyed 19081914, just prior to the onset of widespread prairie dog control. In Montana the surveyed area included a belt about 483 km long and 192 km wide, from the Montana-North Dakota border westward to Livingston. In all, 6,661 sections (11.8%) of 22 counties were surveyed and 1,662 of these sections (24.9%) contained at least some prairie dogs. Prairie dog colonies (N=1,985) occupied all or part of 5,186, 16 ha (40ac) parcels and totaled a minimum of 47,568 ha, with a mean colony size of 24.5 ha (2.8% of the landscape in colonies). Two township-wide belt transect samplesT4N and R45Eshowed colonies were clumped in distribution. Two areas with large complexes of colonies are illustrated, and each area exceeded an estimated 15,000+ ha. The Tongue River-Otter Creek area had at least 20 complexes, with a mean intercomplex distance of 3.4 km; and the Powder River-O'Fallon Creek area had at least 33 complexes, with a mean intercomplex distance of 2.9 km. Historic land uses were similar to today's usesgrazing and a few crops. Historic prairie dog areas in Montana occupied an estimated 5,953 sq km. An estimated 90+% reduction in prairie dogs has occurred since 1914, largely if not totally due to poisoning. The elimination, fragmentation, and greatly reduced size of ferret habitat has undoubtedly contributed to the endangered status of ferrets. A few areas in Montana appear to contain enough prairie dogs to potentially harbor ferret populations. These areas could serve as reintroduction sites for ferrets, as well as examples of complex prairie dog ecosystems.
23378177|A study of the genus Colladonus and related genera of Mexico and Central America was based almost exclusively upon the examination of nearly the entire type series of all the Idiodonus species described by the late Dr. D. M. DeLong. All species referable to Colladonus are redescribed, and illustrations of the male genitalia are given for the first time. A key to the species of Mexico and Central America is also included. A brief discussion of the distribution and phylogeny of the group is given. Among 35 species described by DeLong in Idiodonus, 21 belong in Colladonus, 1 is assigned to Ollarianus Ball, 1 to Paratanus Young, 2 to Bonneyana Oman, 2 are retained in Idiodonus, 5 are relegated to four proposed new genera, and the remaining 3 have uncertain generic position. One new combination in Colladonus is proposed, and 16 names are treated as new synonyms. Eight new combinations are proposed in the treatment of related genera. New genera include: Paracolladonus, Paracrassana, Paranurenus, and Jaacunga. The subgenus Angulanus DeLong is elevated to generic rank.
23378265|The rodent superfamily Geomyoidea is an old, undoubtedly monophyletic lineage having only obscure affinities with other rodent groups. Geomyoid rodents, autochthonous in North America, experienced major evolutionary diversification in the Mio-Pliocene coincident with the development of the Madro-Tertiary Geoflora and the climatic trend toward increasing aridity and coolness. Extant geomyoids are divisible into two groups: (1) the Geomyidae, all members of which are fossorial, and (2) the Heteromyidae, whose members display an adaptive continuum from bipedal, xeric-adapted forms to scansorial, mesic-adapted forms. These moieties, although recognizable on biochemical criteria, become particularly difficult to distinguish when paleontological data are considered. Nevertheless, most lines of evidence indicate that the families Heteromyidae and Geomyidae are distinct, monophyletic lineages. The extant heteromyids comprise three main lineages (including six genera) that diverged during the Eocene: (1) subfamily Perognathinae (Chaetodipus and Perognathus); (2) subfamily Dipodomyinae (Dipodomys and Microdipodops); and (3) subfamily Heteromyinae (Liomys and Heteromys). Protein differentiation has occurred at heterogeneous rates among these major lineages. Based on available karyotypic data, the main direction of chromosomal evolution in the Heteromyidae appears to be toward increasing chromosome number. Cladistic analysis of morphological characters used in previous studies supports biochemical evidence allying Microdipodops with Dipodomys. A model is introduced to describe how heterochronic changes in ontogeny may explain the great breadth of morphological diversification within the superfamily. Taxonomic recommendations at the subfamilial, generic, and subgeneric levels are provided.
23376560|The high elevation floras of 9 mountainous "mainlands" (3 in the Sierra-Cascade system and 6 in the High Plateau-Wasatch-Teton system) and 15 isolated mountain "islands" in the Intermountain Region have been analyzed. Mainland floras support more species per unit area and show a smaller increase in diversity as area is increased than islands. In this respect, the isolated mountains behave as true islands. The number of endemics is low on the islands (never exceeding 5 percent of any flora), however; and the island floras are overwhelmingly dominated by species with no apparent modifications for long-range dispersal. Furthermore, the eastern mainland has exerted a far greater influence on the flora and the vegetation of the islands than has the western mainland, despite the fact that the former is downwind of the islands. Thus, evidence from endemics, dispersal ecology, and sources of the floras suggests that the isolated mountains have not acquired their full floras by long-range dispersal. We conclude that although the floras of the islands have many insular characteristics, they were less isolated in the relatively recent past than at the present. The island floras do not appear to be in equilibrium in the sense that immigrations equal extinctions.
23378269|Activity patterns of desert heteromyids are characteristic of many nocturnal rodents, with a peak of activity near dusk and a second prior to dawn. Seasonal activity varies with environmental conditions, going from activity throughout the winter in larger species to extended periods of torpor by smaller pocket mice. The rodents forage primarily for seeds, with pocket mice tending to feed under shrubs and on relatively low-density seed patches and kangaroo rats frequently foraging in the open for relatively high-density seed patches. The animals are usually solitary, with aggression exhibited between and within species. Burrow construction can be simple to extensive. Communication occurs visually, with odor (especially at sand bathing sites), and with sound (drumming). Reproductive behaviors are characterized by brief courtships and copulation. Subsequent maternal behavior includes nursing, grooming, and other forms of general maintenance. Individuals spend considerable time autogrooming, presumably to enhance temperature regulation and reduce parasite attack. Although many of the behavioral patterns seen in heteromyids are similar to other rodents, locomotory and auditory specializations appear to yield behaviors characteristic of the group of rodents.
23376598|Insects are an important element in the analysis of aquatic ecosystems, (1) because the limited dispersal abilities of many aquatic species means that they must make a living under existing conditions, and (2) because they are often sensitive to slight changes in water and stream quality, thus making excellent indicators of the physical and chemical conditions in a system. Examples of rare, ecologically sensitive species are presented from the Plecoptera, Ephemeroptera, and Trichoptera. Detailed studies of rare aquatic insect species should produce important information on critical habitats that will be useful in the protection of endangered and threatened species in other groups of animals and plants.
23378271|As is true of many assemblages of ecologically similar organisms, coexisting heteromyid rodent species differ conspicuously in morphology and in microhabitat affinity. These patterns are so common that their explanation represents a central problem of community ecology. In the case of desert rodents, two very different factors, predation and competition, have been advanced as the ultimate cause of the patterns. We outline the way in which each of these factors could produce observed community-level patterns and review the evidence for the action of each factor. We conclude that the "competition" hypothesis has more support at the moment, but that this is partly a result of the general lack of good experimental studies of predation in terrestrial vertebrate systems. We outline a general protocol for distinguishing the effects of predation and competition through careful examination of relationships between morphology, foraging and predator-avoidance abilities, and behavior. We think such "micro-ecological" analysis of the consequences of morphology holds much promise for improving our understanding of community-level patterns of morphology and resource use.
23376657|Frequency distribution according to plant size as measured by dimensional analysis on different mathematical bases were determined for 10 common perennial plant species from Rock Valley in the northern Mojave Desert in Nevada. A total of 4282 individual plants was measured. The data provide information concerning the stability and prosperity of the natural vegetation as judged by the relative proportions of individuals in the size-class spectrum, as well as show graphically the relative abundance of the different species in the study area. On the species level, the populations were close to normally distributed on the loge basis, but with remarkably negative skewness due to better segregation of the small-sized individuals into many segmental units. On the arithmetic basis, three categories of frequency pattern were recognized, but all with marked positive skewness due to better segregation of large-sized individuals into many segmental units. The feature common to all species studied is the preponderance of young individuals, which in many cases could have an abundance many times that of large individuals. The natural vegetation in Rock Valley, therefore, represents a reasonably active stage.
23376678|The distribution of photosynthate among plant parts subsequent to its production is needed to fully understand behavior of vegetation in any ecosystem. The present study, undertaken primarily to obtain information on transport of assimilates into roots of desert vegetation, was conducted in the northern Mojave Desert, where the mean annual rainfall is about 10 cm. Shoots of Ambrosia dumosa (A. Gray) Payne plants were exposed to 14CO2 in 1971, and the distribution of 14C in roots, stems, and leaves was subsequently measured at 1 week, 2 months, and 5 months. Only about 12 percent of the 14C photosynthate was stored in the root. Much of that stored in stems was available for new leaf growth. Photosynthate was labeled with 14C for 24 plants representing eight species in 1972. Results showed that after 127 days the mean percentage of 14C in roots as compared with the estimate of that originally fixed was 11.8; the percentage in stems was 43.8. The mean ratio of root to root plus stem for 14C was 0.212, but this value was only half that of the ratio for actual weights of these parts of field plants. The correlation coefficient for (14C in roots)/(14C in root + stem)  (dry wt of root)/(dry wt of root + stem) was +0.89. Small stems were the major storage organ for the 14C. To check the validity of the 14C data, root growth of eight perennial desert plants grown in the glasshouse was followed as plants increased in size. The mean percent of the whole plant that was root for eight species was 17.7 percent. The mean proportion of the increase in plant weights that went below ground for the eight species was 19.5 percent. This value is higher than the fraction of 14C found below ground, and therefore the 14C technique underestimates the movement of C to roots. Results of an experiment designed to test the value of the 14C-pulse technique for determining current root growth for some perennial species from the desert indicated that the transition part of roots where root growth continued after exposure to 14C was highly labeled. Old growth contained less 14C than new growth.
23376596|This paper presents a brief background on Utah's experience with the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to date, the Division of Wildlife Resources' involvement with resident endangered wildlife forms, including the Utah prairie dog, peregrine falcon, bald eagle, woundfin, Colorado squawfish and humpback chub, and problems associated with the listing of native fauna. Also discussed is a proposal to vest the division with authority for endangered plants by legislative mandate.
23376660|The aim of this study was to gain more understanding of the compositional structure of vegetation in the US/IBP Desert Biome validation site located in Rock Valley, Nevada. The vegetation data collected from 85 stands, randomly distributed to cover all physiographic variations in the study site, permitted categorization of the vegetation units either by coordinates or by class membership. The vegetational groupings so identified were then used for constructing a more reliable vegetation map for the Rock Valley validation site.
23377668|A taxonomic revision of the genera of Scolytidae (Coleoptera) in the world fauna is presented. Included are 215 valid genera and 273 invalid generic and subgeneric names. The type-species for each genus-group name was examined, including the type-specimen of the type-species in those taxa where a holotype, lectotype, or neotype has been designatedwith the exception of four contemporary genera, the type-series of which are lost, and six fossil genera for which no effort was made to locate the types. Taxonomic keys to the families of the Curculionoidea, and to the subfamilies, tribes, and genera of Scolytidae are presented. Descriptions and citations of the original validations of the two subfamilies and 25 tribes of Scolytidae are included. For each genus-group name there is a citation of its original validation, type-species, and synonymy. For each valid genus there is an indication of its distribution, the approximate number of valid species, basic feeding and mating habits, and citations of published keys for the identification of species. Of general interest to coleopterists is a review of the status and position of the families Platypodidae and Scolytidae within the Curculionoidea, including several characters not previously presented. These two families are entirely distinct from one another and from Curculionidae. The phyletic position of Platypodidae and Scolytidae is near the more primitive families of Curculionoidea and quite remote from specialized Curculionidae.
23378173|This article summarizes some observations of a varied nature on the biology, morphology, and evolution of the Cicadelloidea (Cicadellidae, Hylicidae, Eurymelidae) and Membracoidea (Membracidae, Aetalionidae, Biturritidae, Nicomiidae). These observations, made over a period of more than half a century, have previously been recorded at different times, but lie buried in the literature. It is hoped that their interest will justify repetition and draw attention to some promising lines of research.
23376561|Alpine vegetations and floras are compared in two transects across the Intermountain Region. The first extends from the Beartooth Mountains in the central Rocky Mountains to the central Sierra Nevada some 1200 km to the southwest. It includes six mountain ranges. The second transect crosses the Mojave Desert from Olancha Peak in the southern Sierra Nevada to Charleston Peak and thence to San Francisco Peaks in northern Arizona. The largest numbers of arctic-alpine species are in the Beartooth and Ruby mountains, indicating migrations of these species along the Rocky Mountain cordillera. The lowest numbers of arctic-alpine species are in the central and western Great Basin and in the Sierra Nevada. Srensen's Index of Floristic Similarity was calculated for all possible pairs of the nine alpine areas. There is little correlation of floristic similarity with alpine proximity across the Intermountain Region. Rather, any such correlation seems to be in a north-south direction; this is stronger in the eastern part of the region. Insularity and uniqueness of alpine floras seem to increase toward the western part of the basin. This is probably due to evolution of alpine endemics from preadapted low-land taxa.
23376666|In desert plants, transpiration rates decreased before photosynthetic rates when plants were entering a period of water stress. This may have adaptive consequences. A difference of 5 bars in the soil-moisture potential had considerable importance in reducing the rate of transpiration. In Helianthus annuus L. (sunflower) the photosynthetic rate decreased before the transpiration rate in contrast to Great Basin-Mojave Desert plants, and the changes occurred with a 1 bar difference in soil-moisture potential. Morphological changes in three desert plant species [Artemisia tridentata Nutt., Ambrosia dumosa (Gray) Payne, Larrea tridentata (Ses. Moc. ex DC) Cov.] as the soil-moisture potential decreased are given. With a mesic species, H. annuus, 20 percent reduction in photosynthesis and transpiration was reached at higher soil-moisture potentials than with the desert plants. Loss of net photosynthesis occurred in A. dumosa (a summer deciduous shrub) as soil reached 48 bars in the field, whereas L. tridentata (an evergreen shrub) at the same time was able to maintain a water potential difference betwen soil and plant of 10 to 15 bars and continue net CO2 gain well into the summer months.
23376656|The northern Mojave Desert, as are many deserts, is characterized in part by small "fertile islands" in which exist individual shrub clumps each containing two or more plants. These fertile sites promote characteristic organization of both plant and animal activity in the desert. Destruction of these fertile sites makes revegetation extremely difficult because most seedlings germinate in these sites. Some pioneer species do, however, germinate and survive in the bare areas between the fertile sites. Four such species in the northern Mojave Desert are Acamptopappus shockleyi Gray, Lepidium fremontii Wats., Sphaeralcea ambigua Gray, and Atriplex confertifolia (Torr. & Frem.) Wats. These four species may have a role in starting new fertile islands.
23376604|Rare species, including endangered ones, can be very valuable sources of information about evolutionary processes. They may be rare and valuable because: (1) they are evolutionary youngsters and could represent an entirely new evolutionary strategy of great scientific and practical value; (2) they are evolutionary relicts that have stored enormous amounts of genetic information of great worth; (3) they may represent endemic varieties that harbor a great deal of the genetic variability in the gene pool that would be of enormous value to a plant geneticist; the rarity of the plant is not necessarily correlated with the size of its gene pool; (4) they may represent unique ecological adaptations of great value to future generations. Studies of gene pools and the genetics of adaptation constitute a new and developing field of the future.
23377646|Fecal bile acid characteristics have been used to identify scats to species of origin. Fecal bile acids in scats from 20 known black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes), 7 other known small carnivores, and 72 of unknown origin were analyzed to determine if this procedure could be used as a tool to verify ferret presence in an area. Seventeen ferret scats were suitable for analysis and had a mean fecal bile acid index of 156  9. This was significantly different from mean indices for the other carnivores; however, substantial overlap among confidence intervals occurred for badgers, kit foxes, and especially long-tailed weasels. We conclude this method is not useful for making positive identifications of individual ferret scats and suggest that we may be able to definitively identify individual scats with reasonable confidence by using gas-liquid chromatography.
23376667|Rates of gaseous exchange were measured on selected desert shrubs native to the northern Mojave Desert to determine effects of varying chamber temperature, CO2 concentration, relative humidity, and root temperature in preliminary studies. Results indicate that changes in these parameters produced differences in the rates of photosynthesis and transpiration. Ceratoides lanata (Pursh) took up CO2 almost equally at 25 and 39 C. Doubling the CO2 concentration in the below-ambient range roughly doubled photosynthesis rates in C. lanata. Very small changes in relative humidity had marked changes in the photosynthesis and transpiration rates of four species studied, with greater effect on transpiration. Photosynthesis and transpiration increased, and water-use efficiency decreased in two species as soil temperature was increased from 9 to 29 C.
23376563|The Intermountain Region comprises a huge arena where major avifaunas more highly developed beyond the Great Basin come into contact. For this reason the distribution and composition of avifaunas in riparian and pinyon-juniper woodlands and in coniferous forests in this region are understood most clearly if considered as part of a broader system of patterns evident in western North America. Riparian woodland samples point to a complex meeting ground in the Intermountain Region of two major avifaunas of equivalent size, but from opposite distributional backgrounds. These northern and southern avifaunas do not mix among the samples represented except in western Nevada where two species of ultimate southern origin have penetrated a basically northern avifauna. Approaching the Great Basin, from the two centers of abundance of riparian species in the Snake and Colorado River drainages, species richness drops. Habitat depletion and, to a lesser extent, insularity play roles in this impoverishment. In the most depauperate riparian avifaunas, six species commonly coexist, each in a different family. Comparison of the pinyon zone avifaunas of two groups of mountain ranges, 90 km apart along the California-Nevada border, demonstrates a striking trade off among species of northern and southern biogeographic histories. The northern or Boreal forms, many of which are numerous in the Sierra Nevada, have had easy access to the favorable, cool, and relatively moist pinyon forests in the adjacent spur ranges. In contrast, the species of southern or Austral derivation prefer the warm and very arid pinyon woodland a short distance to the south. Few species are confined to either northern or southern sites, overlap in species composition is great, and equivalent species richness is achieved. However, despite these similarities, strong geographic differences in abundance of most species in each pinyon avifauna and the occurrence of at least 12 specific and subspecific range boundaries suggest the interposition between northern and southern pinyon areas of a substantial, but as yet poorly characterized, climatic barrier. Boreal species richness declines abruptly from high values in the southern Cascades and Sierra Nevada to low levels in a zone of impoverishment across western and central Nevada. From near 116 W Longitude in eastern Nevada, coincident with the appearance of fir and/or bristlecone pine forests, species numbers climb gradually until the main Rocky Mountains are reached. There, species richness compares favorably with that in the Sierra Nevada. The proportion of species favoring riparian woodlands over coniferous forests is higher on the island mountaintops of the Great Basin than in the Boreal "continents" of the Sierra Nevada-Cascades and Rocky Mountains. The western edge of the Great Basin richly demonstrates examples of stages in avian speciation. A full range of interactions is represented, from intergradation of poorly characterized races, through abrupt zones of hybridization between strongly marked subspecies of different racial complexes or of semispecies, to sympatry and infrequent interbreeding of closely-related, full species in recent secondary contact. These various zones of population interaction coincide strikingly with sharp floristic and climatic gradients. A major avifaunal break occurs between coastal or Sierra Nevadan forms that inhabit oak-chaparral and/or coniferous forest and closely-related interior forms that prefer pinyon-juniper or aspen-willow associations. In keeping with the special requirements of each species, contact zones and areas of disjunction show general, rather than precise, coincidence in the western Great Basin. There is no Great Basin Boreal Avifauna; the most distinctive interior forms occur across the entire span from eastern California to Colorado. The-low desert trough along the east side of the Sierra Nevada that divides major mountain systems in the western portion of the Intermountain Region is not the principal barrier dividing coastal Sierra Nevada from interior avifaunas. Instead, the major avifaunal transition occurs in a belt of variable width just east of the crest of the Cascade Mountains and Sierra Nevada, where the precipitation shadow and continental climate begin to exert crucial influence.
23376562|About 22 percent of the pigmy conifer woodlands of the United States occur within the Great Basin. Only a very few reports of these woodlands exist in the literature. Available reports are either of general descriptive nature or specific analysis of vegetation-environmental relationships on one mountain range. In order to better understand basin-wide synecological patterns, a cooperative study was carried out by personnel at Utah State University and the University of Nevada-Reno between 1972 and 1975. Vegetation, landform, geology, and soils data obtained from 463 systematically placed stands on a randomly chosen set of 66 mountain ranges have been used to derive patterns of latitudinal, longitudinal, and altitudinal variation in the floristic diversity in juniper-pinyon dominated woodlands across the Great Basin. The latitudinal-longitudinal patterns show greatest environmental and floristic diversity on the higher mountain ranges on the southern end of the Central Plateau portion of the study area where the Great Basin-Mojave Desert transition occurs. This is also where the elevational breadth of the woodland belt is greatest. Juniper-pinyon woodlands are largely lacking from northwestern Nevada. The lowest elevations for the type are found in the Dixie Corridor centered in southwestern Utah. The general elevation of these woodlands is highest in the west-central part of the Great Basin and declines both toward the Sierra Nevada on the west and the Wasatch Front-High Plateaus on the east. Use of the equilibrium theory of island biogeography gave incomplete explanations of the diversity patterns observed. Certain conceptual and methodical problems forced by this overly simplistic theory are discussed. The best correlations obtained were between species richness and an index of ecotopic diversity. Correlation of Basin-wide patterns of woodland floristics with surficial geology, landforms, and soils is non-discriminatory. However, broad-scale, phytogeographical variations in these woodlands are closely associated with climatic differences. Although much direct climatic data are lacking, it seems likely that the relative contributions of the transitory frontal systems moving inland from the Pacific, continental cyclones developing over the Great Basin, and convectional storms associated with the moist air from the Gulf of Mexico to induce precipitation at different seasons are regionally important in the causation of vegetation distribution and composition. The instability of temperature inversions is a likely determinant of the position of woodlands along the northern boundary of the type. The Pacific frontal systems break the inversions most readily and are thought to be the major cause for the lack of this vegetation in northwestern Nevada and on exposed mountain ranges along the northern boundary of the type. Such observations provide leads for relevant ecophysiological research to support or reject these notions.
23376549|Early studies on the macroinvertebrates and zooplankton of Utah Lake were taxonomic in nature. Since the late 1960s, macroinvertebrate studies have concentrated on the Goshen Bay area of Utah Lake. The rocky shore macroinvertebrate community along the eastern shore of Goshen Bay is the most diverse and productive in Utah Lake (Toole 1973). The dominant organisms are the amphipod Hyalella azteca and the chironomid Dicrotendipes fumidus. Also present along the eastern shore is an extensive zone of the sponge Meyenia fluviatilis (Smith 1972). Two taxa, Chironomidae and Oligochaeta, dominate the silty-ooze community in the southern portion of Utah Lake (Barnes et al. 1974). The life histories and the microdistributional patterns of the two dominant chironomids found in the silt-ooze area of Goshen Bay, Tanypus stellatus and Chironomus frommeri, have been extensively studied by Shiozawa and Barnes 1975. The distribution and abundance of the zooplankton in Utah Lake has been studied for one summer (Hanson et al. 1974). Little is known about the dynamics of the zooplankton community in Utah Lake.
23376595|There is no adequate inventory of population size and distribution of most of the world's animal and plant species and lower taxa. Furthermore, populations are rarely static and continue to change in response to both natural and man-made factors. Thus clearance today for public works or industrial projects can be reversed tomorrow as new information becomes available. Lacking assurance that a project can be completed without new endangered species surfacing places an untenable constraint on the commitment of dollars for new long-term programs. As a consequence of the absence of data, studies to determine occupied range, population levels, and habitat requirements of specific endangered species must be conducted on each project area. The direct costs of these studies are the responsibility of the project applicant. The time consumed results in project delays which can become a major expense item. Additional economic impacts are inherent in construction modifications and subsequent project operations intended to accommodate an endangered species. Finally, the withdrawal of natural resouces to support endangered species can conceivably reach a point where the squeeze on other societal programs becomes unacceptable.
23376568|The present paper compares the distribution of boreal birds and mammals among the isolated mountain ranges of the Great Basin and relates those patterns to the developing theory of insular biogeography. The results indicate that the distribution of permanent resident bird species represents an approximate equilibrium between contemporary rates of colonization and extinction. A shallow slope of the species-area curve (Z = 0.165), no significant reduction in numbers of species as a function of insular isolation (distance to nearest continent), and a strong dependence of species diversity on habitat diversity all suggest that immigration rates of boreal birds are sufficiently high to maintain populations on almost all islands where there are appropriate habitats. In contrast, the insular faunas of boreal mammals represent relictual populations that receive no significant contemporary immigration. The insular mammal faunas have been derived by extinction from a set of species that colonized the islands when habitat bridges connected them to the continents in the late Pleistocene. A relatively steep species-area curve (Z = 0.326), no effect of isolation on species diversity, and the absence of appropriate species from large areas of apparently suitable habitat all support this conclusion. Measures of habitat diversity that are closely correlated with bird species diversity do not account for much of the variation in number of mammal species among islands. Insular area is the single variable that accounts for most of the variability in both bird and mammal species diversity; this supports the approach of using standard parameters such as area in comparative empirical analyses and general biogeographic theory. The results of this study suggest that extremes of vagility among taxa and a recent history of paleoclimatic and geological changes make it unlikely that equilibrial distributions, of the sort MacArthur and Wilson (1967) propose for the biotas of oceanic islands, are characteristic of the insular distributions of terrestial and freshwater vertebrates of western North America.
23376567|The existence of a floristic transition zone can be inferred by the fact that a high proportion of indigenous plant species reach a distributional limit within the area. The vascular flora of Washington County, Utah, exhibits this character to a marked degree with 53.6 percent of the native flora reaching a distributional limit within the county. By looking at geographic distributions, ecological preferences, and range termination information for the component species, first approximations are made as to the probable factors mediating plant distributions within the county, particularly of the range-terminating species. The high proportion of range-terminating species in the flora may be accounted for mainly by limiting factors associated with abrupt shifts along two environmental gradients. The first factor is climatic and is mediated largely by altitude; change occurs primarily along a north-south gradient. The second is both climatic and edaphic and is mediated by factors other than altitude per se; it is oriented in an essentially east-west direction. Species with narrower tolerances are shown to be more sensitive to these environmental shifts. Some of the species distributions are better explained by a model involving the effects of interactions between habitat mosaic and genetic homogeneity of given populations on relative migration rates in the transition area. These species may have the capacity to migrate farther, but differences in migration rates give their distributional limits a quasi-stable aspect. These data suggest that species cannot simply be divided into those which are environmentally limited in their present distributions and those which are not. It seems more fruitful to regard these two conditions as extremes on a continuum which can be expressed as migration rate.
23376548|The plankton flora of Utah Lake includes a total of 295 species to date. This high number of taxa indicates greater diversity than previously suspected. Together with water chemical data it leads us to conclude that Utah Lake is a slightly saline eutrophic system. This conclusion is further substantiated by quantitative data which show very high levels of productivity during late summer and early fall.
23377651|An annotated bibliography of 351 references on the black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) shows 19 articles, mostly species descriptions, published from 1851 through 1899; 69 papers, mostly describing the range of the species, from 1900 through 1964; 156 papers dealing largely with the Mellette County, South Dakota, ferret research published from 1965 through 1980; and 107 publications since 1981 dealing primarily with the Meeteetse, Wyoming, ferrets.
23376569|Biogeographical considerations are important in the management of western shrublands. Seedings on rangelands have a higher probability of success when tried and tested principles are followed. It is usually best to seed mixtures that include adapted shrubs and herbs. Shrubs generally are well adapted to the environmental extremes of western ranges. Throughout the year, they provide nutrients for herbivores that are only seasonably available in herbs. Section Tridentatae of Artemisia is endemic to western North America and distinct from the analogous Eurasian section (or subgenus) Seriphidium. The groups have separate, distinguishable centers of diversity; the two groups seem to be connected in the geologic past by way of the more primitive subgenus Artemisia. Preliminary karyotypic evidence suggests different but advanced karyotypes for both groups; chemotaxonomic and morphological data indicate differences in the groups. The Tridentatae likely evolved in North America during late Tertiary or early Quaternary times under the stimulus of cycles of aridity. The Tridentatae (sagebrushes) are morphologically variable. Different accessions are differentially adapted. Management practices for various taxa should take into consideration the individual taxon's characteristics. Effort should be made to seed adapted taxa and accessions. Sagebrush management requires maintenance, seeding, or thinning, depending upon the circumstances.
23377649|Management guidelines are specified for monitoring and protecting the Meeteetse black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) population and habitat and for dealing with a series of special management considerations. The Meeteetse ferret population and habitat status are summarized as background. An annual management schedule is outlined, including methods and sources of existing baseline data with which to compare future results. The public support and organizational arrangements needed for successful overall management and recovery of the species are briefly discussed.
23376655|New Artemisia seedlings are not established each year. Many that are established fail to survive because of unfavorable rainfall in succeeding years. A total of 184 young plants was examined for the number of annual growth rings to ascertain the year of establishment after all vegetation had been killed near the time of a nuclear test event in 1965. The three most important recent years for establishment and survival of new seedlings (as of 1976 and based on a sample of 184 plants) were 1966 (9 percent), 1969 (29 percent), and 1973 (36 percent). A total of 27 percent was established in the other years from 1965 to 1976. These three years were also the years with high rainfall input during preceding winter and spring months. If old plants are killed, seeds germinate with much lower inputs of precipitation. Many seedlings germinated in 1968 at a site where old ones had been burned off even though the rainfall was not favorable. Plants of a given age varied greatly in size according to their competition. Seedlings germinating in old stands grew little in comparison with those germinating in areas where old plants had been killed. One exception was an area where intense competition occurred due to large numbers of new plants, resulting in growth restriction on all plants.
23378178|Genera new to science described below include: Amerzanna, Sinuala, and Stalubra. New species include: Amerzanna peruana (Peru), Amycle brevis (Mexico), A. grandis (Mexico), A. mankinsi (Honduras), Aphrodisias shaman (Mexico), Enchophora maculata and E. uniformis (Peru), Phrictus delicatus (Brazil), P. diligens (Colombia), Sinuala schmidti (Belize), S. stali (Honduras and El Salvador), S. tuberculata (Costa Rica), and Stalubra brunnea (Brazil and Guyana). In addition, Artacie dufourii (Signoret) is removed from synonymy with A. haemoptera (Perty). New generic synonymy includes Chilobia Stl (= Ecuadoria) Distant, Enhydria (Walker) (= Ulubra Stl). New synonymy of species includes: Copidocephala merula Distant (= Coanaco melanoptera Schmidt), Copidocephala viridiguttata Stl (= Coanaco ornanda Distant), Diareusa conspersa Schmidt (= D. dahli Ossiannilsson), Enchophora nigromaculata Distant (= E. nigrolimbata Lallemand), Enchophora recurva (Olivier) (= E. bohemani Stl), Enchophora sanguinea Distant (= E. florens Distant and E. longirostris Distant), Enchophora tuberculata (Olivier) (= E. parvipennis Walker), Enchophora viridipennis Spinola (= E. eminenta Schmidt), Enhydria tessellata (Walker) (= E. brachialis Stl), Fulgora graciliceps Blanchard (= Laternaria orthocephala Fonseca), Fulgora laternaria (Linnaeus) (= F. servillei Spinola), Phrictus auromaculatus Distant (= P. notatus Lellemand), Phrictus moebiusi Schmidt (= P. sordidus Caldwell). The two species of Fulgora are synonymized by Ridout. New combinations include Chilobia dichopteroides (Distant) (Ecuadoria) and Stalubra rufula (Lallemand) (Enhydria).
23376599|Endangered and threatened plants of Utah are evaluated as to their distribution in phytogeographic subdivisions, substrates, plant communities, elevations, and geological strata. The phytogeographic subunits were partitioned and comparisons made of distribution as outlined for the parameters cited above. A predictive model is suggested based on the nonrandom distribution of endemic plant species.
23376671|An area of 0.46 km2 divided into six zones in the northern Mojave Desert transitional with the Great Basin Desert has been studied. Diversity is high among the perennial plant species within the 0.46 km2 area. Common species for the two deserts that are present in the area studied are Atriplex confertifolia (Torr. & Frem.) S. Wats., Ceratoides lanata (Pursh) J. T. Howell, Grayia spinosa (Hook.) Moq., Ephedra nevadensis S. Wats. Some other species present include Lycium andersonii A. Gray, Lycium pallidum Miers, Ambrosia dumosa (A. Gray) Payne., Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC) Cov., Acamptopappus shockleyi A. Gray, and Krameria parvifolia, Benth. Some of the species are relatively salt tolerant and some are relatively salt sensitive. A total of 4282 individual plants were measured. There was considerable variation in distribution of the 10 dominant species present, apparently due to zonal variations of salinity dispersed within the study area. Correlation coefficients among pairs of the species for different zones illustrate interrelationships among the salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive species. Observations on an adjacent hillside with rock outcroppings indicate that the saline differences in this area are partly due to outcroppings of parent volcanic rock materials that yield Na salts upon weathering.
23378174|A taxonomic revision of the Neotropical genus Calliscarta Stl is presented. Most of the 19 species treated are described and illustrated, including 10 that are new to science. The new species include: abrupta (Bolivia), acuta (Peru, Venezuela), delicata (Bolivia, Peru), elongata (Ecuador, Peru), expansa (Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru), lora (Peru), marginata (Honduras), mexicana (Mexico), ornata (French Guiana, Venezuela), rugosa (Venezuela). Three cases of new synonymy are proposed: boliviana (Osborn) (= tinga Kramer), fasciata (Osborn) [= brunnea (Osborn)], decora (Fabricius) [= magnifica (Osborn)].
23376659|This report further describes the distribution and ecological characteristics of the natural vegetation at the Mojave Desert-Great Basin Desert interface. The region studied is one of extraordinary biological interest because of its geographic location straddling the boundaries of two large deserts of the western United States, and because of the kind and manner of its past land use (atmospheric and underground testing of nuclear devices). The present analysis determines the magnitude of variations in the phytosociological structure in this region and evaluates some relationships between its vegetation and environment. Vegetation and soils were sampled in 66 stands representing many possible physiographic variations. Relative density and relative coverage were determined for each perennial species and summed to provide an estimate of its importance value (I.V.). Importance values were used to ordinate stands to provide a synthesis of the phytosociological data and to portray the compositional relationships of species. The results of this study indicate that the area is dominated by several interrelated vegetational groupings. Correlations between the vegetational groups and the different environmental variables indicate that the distributional pattern of the vegetation is controlled largely by soil physical properties, salinity, and fertility levels.
23377650|A framework for recovery planning for the black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) is presented. Current species numbers are probably not sufficient to maintain long-term viability. Three options are presented for increasing ferret numbers: (1) increase available habitat for ferrets where they currently exist, (2) find more wild ferrets elsewhere, and (3) directly manipulate the ferret population through translocation and/or captive rearing. The first two options are either unlikely or currently unfeasible, making it necessary to initiate the third option to ensure ferret recovery. Even if additional ferret populations are located, option three should still be implemented. Three options for direct manipulation to increase ferret numbers and populations are discussed along with accompanying considerations. The captive-rearing/translocation option for species recovery is strongly recommended.
23376592|1978 was the first year in the history of man that legal power to eradicate a species was established. It is one of a number of signs of rapidly accelerating rates of extinction which may result in reduction of biological diversity by one-seventh to one-fifth, with a parallel reduction in the planet's capacity to support man and a permanent reduction in the potential body of biological knowledge. Species loss of such a degree would warrant designating the close of the Recent epoch and the opening of a new one of Biotic Impoverishment. A great deal of the extinctions will occur in the tropical forest areas of the globe but with possible environmental effects extending into the temperate regions. It will fall to science to help slow the rate of extinction, to decide on which species and ecosystems to concentrate conservation efforts, and to communicate the importance of biological diversity to government and society.
23378170|A brief survey of grassland leafhoppers of Karachi during 1985 revealed the existence of five new species of the family Cicadellidae. These include Exitianus major, E. minor, Chiasmus karachiensis, C. lobosa, and Goniagnathus bifurcatus.
23376673|Fifty samples of Atriplex hymenelytra (Torr.) S. Wats. were collected from several different locations in southern Nevada and California to test variability in mineral composition. Only Na, V, P. Ca, Mg, Mn, and Sr in the samples appeared to represent a uniform population resulting in normal curves for frequency distribution. Even so, about 40 percent of the variance for these elements was due to location. All elements differed enough with location so that no element really represented a uniform population. The coefficient of variation for most elements was over 40 percent and one was over 100 percent. The proportion of variance due to analytical variation averaged 16.2  13.1 percent (standard deviation), that due to location was 43.0  13.4 percent, and that due to variation of plants within location was 40.7  13.0 percent.
23377645|Activity of two radio-tagged black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) was investigated during October-November 1981 (an adult male monitored for 16 days), and during August-November 1982 (a young female monitored for 101 days). Aboveground activity of the male averaged 2.95 hr/night, 15% of the total time monitored. From 22 September to 5 November, aboveground activity of the female averaged 1.9 hours; 26% of the time she was stationary and 74% of the time she was moving. During August the juvenile female emerged at least once on 93% of the nights. She was least active in November. Both animals were primarily nocturnal (although daylight activity was not uncommon), and timing of nightly activity was similar, peaking from 0100 to 0359.
23376570|Conservation schemes require some portioning of the world into a discrete number of subunits which might benefit from similar management practices. The Holdridge Life Zone scheme, proposed for such purposes previously, is applied to Utah as an initial test of its usefulness. A hypothetical life zone map was developed entirely on the basis of weather station data and data derived from these values. This predictive map compared favorably to data on patterns of vegetation, mammal, reptile, and amphibian distribution in Utah.
23376605|In the evolutionary process, species continually come and go. Consequently, all species on earth today were, at one time, "rare and endangered" while in their infancy, and most will become "rare and endangered" once more as they are replaced. Therefore, decisions relative to protecting rare and endangered species are largely meaningless if based on numbers alone. They must include information about their biology and evolutionary history. Lists of endangered forms currently being prepared apparently include only those which are (1) scarce (rare and of restricted distribution), (2) named, and (3) sponsored. Their biological, economic, and academic values may be more important, but apparently are not often considered. As abundantly illustrated in western shrubs, genetically rich genotypes are sometimes maintained by only a few individuals, whereas uniform, and therefore rare, genotypes may in some circumstances, be represented by many individuals in uniform environments. Wise management decisions cannot, therefore, come from numbers alone.
23376557|Eighty-three species of fishes belonging to 26 genera live in the area bounded by the Sierra Nevada, Grand Canyon, Rocky Mountains, and Snake River Plain. The waters inhabited by these fishes are part of the Great Basin, Colorado River, Snake River, upper Pit River and upper Klamath River drainages. The adaptations and distribution patterns of these fishes have been shaped by extensional faulting and volcanic activity in the Great Basin, uplift of the surrounding ranges and plateaus, and cyclic fluctuations of the Pleistocene pluvials and interpluvials. Fossil evidence indicates that in the Pliocene many of the lineages had established distributions broadly inclusive of the present-day patterns, and the subsequent trends have been extinction and some species differentiation. Analysis of the fauna is based on designation of 48 barrier-bounded, faunally homogeneous drainage units and quantitative evaluation of patterns among species distributions and faunal similarities of drainages. Cluster analysis of species based on correlations among their patterns revealed the existence of a basic northern intermountain fluvial fauna consisting of Cottus bairdi, Prosopium williamsoni, Catostomus platyrhynchus, Rhinichthys cataractae, Richardsonius balteatus, and their vicariants. These fishes have similar ecology and dispersal patterns. They are ecologically associated with Salmo clarki (upstream) and Rhinichthys osculus (downstream), but these two species have broader distributions, probably because of more frequent colonization via stream capture by the former and extinction resistance by the latter. Rhinichthys osculus is the most widespread intermountain fish, being found in 32 of the 48 drainage units; Gila bicolor is next most widespread, being found in 21 units. Fifty-one of the 83 species are found in only one drainage unit; 18 of these are endemic to that unit (33 are more widespread outside the study area). Species distributions are broader in the north, and northern and peripheral units have more species. The species:area curve for the Great Basin shows a steep slope (z = .59), with especially low species density in small drainages, indicating high extinction and low colonization. Postpluvial aridity, especially in the south, is the major cause of extinction and a major cause of isolation. Principal components and cluster analysis of drainage units, based on shared species, show a high correspondence between faunal similarity and geographic proximity (and weakness of barriers) and also reveal the effects of extinction in erasure of patterns. The Wasatch Range, Sierra Nevada, and southern divide boundary of the Snake River Plain have been strong barriers, leading to intensive faunal differentiation. Strong barriers and concomitant differentiation also exist in eastern Nevada, near the original center of Basin and Range tectonism. Two dozen examples of vicariant species are found to be associated with stronger-than-average barriers. The colonization rate and extinction rate have both been accelerated in postsettlement time by introductions and habitat destruction. Most drainages and populations have been affected. Five species and many local populations have become extinct. Eighteen species and many more populations are vulnerable or threatened. Reversal of the trend will require sound ecosystem management of watersheds and restriction of exotic introductions.
23376668|Six Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC) Cov. plants were exposed to 14CO2 in a field experiment for 2 h. Three of the plants had been irrigated regularly in the preceding year. Ten small twigs from each plant were removed and counted for 14C activity at the end of 2 h. The stem portion of the twigs was of equal dry weight for the two sets of plants, but those irrigated had a greater weight of leaves per twig. The activity of 14C in leaves was equal for the two groups, but was higher in stems for watered plants than for unwatered plants. The results were best expressed as ratios. Dry weight of leaves  dry weight of stems was high for watered plants; cpm/g dry weight of leaves  cpm/g dry weight of stems was higher for unwatered plants. In another experiment in which leaves were removed before exposing stem portions of twigs to 14CO2, small green stems accounted for about  the total photosynthesis for a plant; the coefficient of variation was around 100 percent.
23376680|Populations of pocket gophers and rabbits regulate or control the perennial vegetation on relatively large sites in the northern Mojave Desert. Aboveground shoots are pruned and whole plants are killed by complete cutting of main roots.
23376597|The endangered and threatened fish fauna of the United States exhibits problems resulting primarily from habitat modification by man. The evolutionary history of the fauna has left it especially sensitive to biotic interactions. In addition, many forms are of such restricted distribution that the entire taxon can be destroyed by very minor perturbations. The effects of habitat modification on woundfin and roundtail chub in the Virgin River of Utah, Arizona, and Nevada are discussed. Parasitism by Lernea on White River springfish is shown to coincide with population decline in some, but not all, cases. Population declines of Pahrump killifish are related to biotic interactions with both goldfish and mosquitofish. Population size of Devils Hole pupfish are shown to be quite responsive to small changes in habitat availability. Fishes of the West are affected by the same general kinds of ecological problems that are causing extinctions throughout the world. The interplay of economics with perceived value in society has led us into the numerous ecological problems facing us today. There is some evidence to suggest that society is making some preliminary effort to slow the rate of extermination. Perhaps this is happening because the conclusions of ecologists, philosophers, and theologians regarding the relationship of man and environment are to some extent being translated into legislation as well as into conventional wisdom.
23376601|Human preservation of endangered species apparently commenced prior to recorded history with Ginks biloba, in China, a tree now known only under cultivation. A number of species have become extinct because man either failed to recognize their value or did not act quickly enough to preserve them even when their value was appreciated. A philosophy of conservation must be based upon cooperation with others looking to the future. Appropriate strategies that could be adapted from the military to achieve the objectives of species conservation include: (1) Know your enemy, his strengths and weaknesses, and the tactics he is likely to employ. (2) Inferior forces cannot hope to annihilate or completely neutralize an enemy, but can deflect him from his course. (3) If you have limited manpower, don't try to do too many things at once; concentrate on primary objectives. (4) Seek the most powerful allies you can find and learn to cooperate with them as nearly on their own terms as is compatable with your objectives. (5) Soften the enemy by harrassment, when possible, before beginning the final attack. (6) Make use of all the time that is available; do not risk defeat by premature attack. (7) Never give in as long as there is hope. (8) The most important principle of all, never underestimate what you are doing.
23376558|Few, if any, amphibians and reptiles are endemic to Utah. This is also true for much of the Great Basin, upper Colorado Plateau, southern Idaho, and Wyoming. Many species that would seemingly survive in this inland, mountainous area are not here. Only one widespread salamander and a few frogs and toads have occupied suitable habitats in the area. Lizards and snakes, like the amphibians, provide few distributions that extend throughout the area. A migration which presumably followed the Pleistocene Ice Age brought most of the species into the area as climatic conditions warmed. Distribution maps of our modern species and subspecies indicate rather clearly that these vertebrates have invaded the Intermountain Region in relatively recent geological time. Only the periphery of Utah and adjoining states to the east and west have been penetrated by many of the species in the regional fauna.
23377644|Aspects of the aboveground ethology and activity patterns of the black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) are described for a population in northwestern Wyoming as a first step in building a descriptive ethogram and quantification of activity patterns. We observed at least 237 individual ferrets for 208 hr on 441 occasions from 2 December 1981 through 25 September 1984. Maintenance behaviors (locomotion, alert, grooming and sunning, defecation and urination, digging, and predation) and social behavior (reproduction, ontogeny, maternal, play, agonistic) are described as well as some ferret-human interactions. Ferret vocalizations are subjectively described. We located ferrets during most months, including winter, but found that they were easiest to locate in summer. Ferrets were active at 38 C, in snow, in rain, and in winds to 50 kph.
23378183|Fifteen species, in 10 genera, of Delphacidae are recorded from Alaska. One, Kusnezoviella macleani, is described as new to science. Acanthodelphax analis (Crawford), Chilodelphax magnifrons (Crawford), Javesella arcanastyla (Beamer), and J. atrata (Osborn) are new combinations. Delphacodes saileri Beamer is a synonym of Javesella simillima (Linnavuori). Of the 15 species, 1 is recorded only from Alaska, 3 are Holarctic, 4 are Nearctic, and 7 are Palearctic and restricted to tundra habitats, with 5 of these apparently found only north of the Brooks Range.
23376665|Photosynthetic production of two Mojave Desert shrubs was measured under natural growing conditions at UCLA. Measurements of photosynthesis, transpiration, resistances to water vapor flux, soil moisture potential, and tissue water potential were made. Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt., a member of the C4 biochemical carbon dioxide fixation group was highly competitive in growth rate and production during conditions of adequate soil moisture. As soil moisture conditions declined to minus 40 bars, the net photosynthetic rate of Atriplex decreased to zero. However, the C3 shrub species Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC.) Cov. was able to maintain positive net photosynthetic production during conditions of high temperature and extreme low soil moisture through the major part of the season. The comparative advantages of the C4 versus the C3 pathway of carbon fixation was lost between these two species as the soil moisture potential declined to minus 40 bars. Desert plants have different strategies for survival, one of the strategies being the C4 biochemical carbon fixation pathway. However, many of the plants are members of the C3 group. In this instance, the C4 fixation pathway does not confer an added advantage to the productivity of the species in the Mojave Desert. Species distribution based on comparative photosynthetic production is discussed.
23378181|Eight new species of Flexamia DeLong are described, and two Mexican species previously synonymized are reinstated. Species are assigned to 13 species groups; keys are presented for the groups and for the 44 recognized species. Host data, in many cases with oligophagy coefficients, are presented for 37 of the species. Many species specialize on native, dominant, perennial, choridoid or panicoid grasses; some are monophagous. Seven sister species pairs specialize on the same (or a closely related) grass species; in addition, four closely related species appear to be restricted to Bouteloua curtipendula. Few if any specialists colonize their host throughout its entire range. Ecological factors such as phenology and/or host patchiness strongly influence geographic distribution. An intuitive phylogeny is proposed and is used as a basis for constructing 18 character transformations. The genus Flexamia probably originated in Mexico by division of an ancestral lineage from which the modern genus Spartopyge also diverged.
23376600|The plant phase of the Endangered Species Program is discussed from the point of view of a professional botanist in government service. Some of the new amendments are also discussed from a botanical standpoint. Federal agency programs and policies in the western United States are briefly reviewed. The strength of the Endangered Species Program is dependent upon input from qualified professional biologists in and out of government service. Some of the problems encountered in the program are outlined.
23376544|Utah Lake and its surrounding area have a rich natural and cultural background. The moderate climate, abundant fresh water, and fertile soils of Utah Valley made it an oasis to aboriginal dwellers as well as to the present inhabitants. An overview of the physical setting, geology, climate, human use, and recent history of Utah Lake is presented.
23376564|New habitats opened up in western North America since the recession of Lake Bonneville and Lake Lahontan have admitted a host of new species of Atriplex. Every known evolutionary force is operating and at accelerated paces. Autoploidy appears to be more common than in any other reported group of plants. Natural hybridization between closely related species has provided a wealth of fertile segregants from which new adaptive types have been and are being selected. Hybrids between more distantly related species are sterile and some appear to have given rise to fertile alloploid derivatives. All evidence points to a center of origin for Atriplex in northern Mexico. The numerous species which have migrated northward into western United States and Canada were apparently able to do so because attributes acquired to make them adaptive in the hot dry deserts of Mexico were characteristics which, uniquely, also pre-adapted them for colder climates and alkaline clay soils to the north. Woody species such as Atriplex canescens and A. confertifolia hybridize rather easily with herbaceous perennial species such as A. cuneata, A. gardneri, A. corrugata, and A. obovata. Since most such hybrids are at least partly fertile and produce F2 segregants of both woody and nonwoody types, the genetic basis for the accumulation of wood is apparently rather simple.
23376661|The purpose of this study is to further describe the distribution, habitats, and ecological characteristics of the natural vegetation in the northern sector of the northern Mojave Desert. Sixty-six stands were classified on the basis of shared leading dominant species. Each of these groupings is well defined and represents a sociologically distinct entity quite recognizable in the field. The relationships between each vegetational grouping and several environmental variables were statistically analyzed. Significant differences were found among plant groupings with respect to soil moisture tension, absolute and relative amounts of exchangeable Na, exchangeable K, cation exchange capacity, and elevation. The analysis of the relationship between the phytosociological behavior of the major leading dominant species and the environmental variables shows that some of the simple, or multiple, linear correlations obtained with regard to Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC.) Cov. were highly significant. Atriplex confertifolia (Torr. & Frem.) S. Wats. and Atriplex canescens (Pursh) Nutt. showed the highest number of significant correlations obtained. Diversity varies from one vegetational grouping to the other as well as between stands of the same grouping. The grouping of L. tridentata has proved to be the most widespread, diversified, and, consequently, the most stable vegetation cover in the study area; it, therefore, represents a climax community. The vegetational grouping dominated by A. confertifolia, on the other hand, appears not to be a climax community.
23377640|The black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) occupied area lies in the western Big Horn Basin, Park County, Wyoming. Cody, a nearby town, shows a record high temperature of 40.5 C and a low of 43.3 C, with 173 days each year below 0 C. Area geology is dominated by Absaroka volcanics. Soils are shallow (0.5 m) and underlain by unconsolidated gravels; well-drained, medium-textured clay-loams (ca 1 m in depth); or clays derived from shale parent materials. Vegetation is characterized by a wheatgrass-needlegrass shrubsteppe type (Agropyron/Stipa/Artemisia). Prior to white settlement, the area hosted a diverse large mammal community. First white settlement began 18781885, with establishment of several area ranches. Predator and prairie dog (Cynomys leucurus) poisoning began about 1884. Heavy livestock grazing of public ranges followed the demise of bison (Bison bison) by 1890, which likely was conducive to a continuation of an ungulate-range relationship favoring prairie dog habitat. Ferret specimens from Crow Indian inhabitants of the region date to 1880s and two specimens from Park County date from the 1920s-1930s. Today ferrets are found on white-tailed prairie dog colonies (a "complex") totaling ca 2,995 ha. The areas occupied by these colonies are equally owned by private, state, and federal interests. Evidence shows many abandoned prairie dog colonies which, along with the current ones, total about 8,400 ha. Many of them may have been active simultaneously prior to poisoning in the 1930s.
23378172|On the basis of their unique genitalic characters, the Neotropical leafhopper species previously treated in the genus Doleranus Ball are placed in a new genus, Ileopeltus. Twelve species are treated, including six described as new. A key to the species and a cladistic hypothesis using Chlorotettix Van Duzee as the outgroup are presented. The new species of Ileopeltus include: nanocanthus (Panama), dorsalus and clavatus (Brazil and Venezuela), ventriculus and haplus (Brazil), and blockeri (Venezuela).
23376606|Analysis of the vascular floras of Utah, Colorado, and California suggest that a syndrome of life form and reproductive characteristics separates rare and common species. Woody plants are heavily underrepresented, and herbs are overrepresented on the official lists of endangered and/or threatened plants of the floras considered. Few of the rare species are descended from wind-pollinated ancestors, but instead are derived from insect-pollinated stock. Theory suggests that many of the rare taxa will ultimately be shown to be self-pollinated. The date show a tendency for rare species to be better represented among taxa having bilaterrally symmetrical as opposed to radially symmetrical flowers. In aggregate, the results suggest that most rare taxa are equipped for rapid exploitation of small, unusual habitats. Because many rare taxa appear to be dependent on insects for reproduction, their survival depends not only on appropriate physical habitat but also on healthy pollinator populations. Reproduction of outcrossed taxa will be handicapped by road dust and other sources of atmospheric particulate which might foul stigmatic surfaces. Self-pollinated taxa may have little generic variability and thus be especially sensitive to environmental modifications. Because most rare taxa are dicotyledonous herbs, herbicides such as 2, 4-D which have been widely used in vegetation management for control of broadleafed plants can be expected to have highly deleterious effects on populations of rare species in the target area.
23378182|The new genus Afronisia is founded with Eponisia albovittata Fennah as the type-species. Eponisia brunnescens Synave, E. flavescens Synave, E. pallida Linnavuori, and Nisia muiri Metcalf are transferred to this genus, and E. albinervosa Muir is placed in synonymy with Kermesia albinervosa Muir. Two new species are described: Afronisia bredoi, from Zaire, and A. gembuensis, from Nigeria. Keys are provided for separation of the African genera of Kermesiinae and for the seven species of Afronisia that are described and figured.
23377648|A minimum viable population (MVP) size is estimated for the critically endangered black-footed ferret by examining five basic methods: experiments, biogeographic patterns, theoretical models, simulation models, and genetic considerations. Each method is evaluated for its applicability to the ferret and endangered species in general with two criteria in mind: (1) potential research impacts to target species and (2) the value of scientific accuracy and precision in relation to short-term conservation needs. For the black-footed ferret, the genetic method proved to be the most useful, resulting in an MVP estimate of about 200 ferrets for maintenance of short-term fitness. For most endangered species, a combination of the simulation and genetic methods will probably yield the best estimate of MVP size. MVP estimates have direct implications for future research, management, and recovery efforts of endangered species.
23378268|Heteromyid rodents are distributed from the New World tropics to the deserts of North America, but their habitation of deserts is relatively recent. Their evolutionary history, though, is associated with progressive aridity, with larger quadrupedal taxa being more mesic (and primitive), and smaller quadrupeds and all bipeds more xeric. The correlation between water regulatory efficiency and body mass is strongly negative in heteromyids; bipedal Dipodomys spp. have water regulatory efficiency fixed at an intermediate level independent of mass. Heteromyids generally have basal metabolic rates reduced below the eutherian level, with the greatest reductions occurring in desert species. The use of torpor as an energy-conserving device is cosmopolitan in small (<40 g) heteromyids, but is inconsequential or lacking in larger ones. Bipedalism, characteristic of Dipodomys, confers no direct energetic advantages as revealed in treadmill studies. Large quadrupedal heteromyids have adaptive physiologies suitable for more mesic habitats, but smaller quadrupeds are suited for xeric existences; these characteristics likely reflect an evolution from a tropical ancestry to rather recent habitation of deserts. Bipedalism occurs only in xeric-adapted forms and has no directly discernible energetic benefit; yet it appears to relieve in some unknown way the energetic constraints of foraging.
23376545|Utah Lake is a remnant of Lake Bonneville, from which it originated about 8,000 years ago. Analysis of sediment cores reveals significant variations in lake salinity and sedimentation rates. Notable examples are a very dry, high-salinity period between 5000 and 6000 years ago; a major freshening, wet period between 2700 and 3000 years ago; and a very dry, high-salinity period between 1400 and 2600 years ago. smaller variations are interspersed through the lake's history. Long-term sedimentation rates are estimated at about 1 mm (0.039 in) per year in most of the lake, but post-colonization rates appear to be about 2 mm (0.079 in) per year. Faults in the lake appear to be lowering the lake bottom at about the same rate as sediment has been filling it. Bottom sediments consist of about 60 to 80 percent calcite in the lake proper, much of which precipitates from the lake water itself. The lake-bed faults are similar in character to those of the Wasatch Fault that bound the valley and mountains a few miles to the east. Lake bottom springs and seeds are localized, in the most part, along the eastern and northern lake margins where all major tributaries occur and groundwater recharge is largest. Only limited spring activity appears to be associated with the faults. In a geological sense, Utah is an old lakeshallow, turbid, and slightly salineand has been since its "birth" with the demise of Lake Bonneville approximately 8,000 years ago.
23378267|The functional morphology of desert heteromyid rodents (Perognathus, Dipodomys, Microdipodops) is reviewed with considerable new information provided. Specific attention is given to the interaction of anatomical structure and the behavioral and ecological patterns of these rodents. Inflation of the auditory bullae, although apparently related to improved hearing, is also shown to directly impact the structure and function of the feeding apparatus in desert heteromyids. The mechanics of high speed seed pouching behavior in Dipodomys deserti as well as the rates of digging activities of various heteromyids are described using data from slow motion films. The biomechanical consequences of cheek pouch loading for body size and locomotor behavior yield theoretical predictive models concerning interspecific differences in foraging behavior, dietary preference, and microhabitat selection. Structural modifications of the forelimb associated with use of external cheek pouches reduce the mechanical competence of these limbs for shock absorption during fast quadrupedal running. The relative size of various front and hind limb segments are correlated with quadrupedal, tripodal, and bipedal gaits in heteromyid rodents. The interdependence of body balance, gait, and speed are examined in Dipodomys merriami. Factors possibly contributing to the origin of bipedalism in rodents are reviewed and discussed.
23376594|The fact that mankind has desecrated much of the natural world is recognized. The rate of plant and animal extinction has increased in North America from an estimated 3 species per century 3,000 years ago to an average of 143 per century since 1620. Endangered species protection began in the Fish and Wildlife Service in 1938 with the purpose of the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge for the whooping crane. A committee on rare and endangered species was formed in 1962 by the director of the Fish and Wildlife Service and a tentative list was published in 1964. The Endangered Species Acts of 1966, 1969, and 1973, together with subsequent amendments, provide the legislative authority for the present program. The intent of Congress, through this legislative authority, is to avoid irreversible or irretrievable commitments of resources by identifying problems of environmental impact projects early in the planning stage. Examples in the step-by-step development of the legislation and its operation were reviewed.
23376669|Soil profiles underneath shrub clumps and bare desert pavement were examined at 62 study sites located in both open and closed drainage basins of the northern Mojave Desert. Highly significant differences occurred in the root zone underneath shrub clumps with higher concentrations of the following soil properties: electrical conductivity (EC25), Na, K+, Ca+ +, Mg+ +, Cl, NO3, and SO4=; exchangeable K+; cation exchange capacity; organic C and N; available P, and DTPA-extractable Fe and Mn. These differences reflect differential cycling caused by different plant species. The decomposition and mineralization of litter deposited underneath the perennial vegetation can account for these differences in soil properties which, collectively, increase the fertility of the soil underneath the vegetation canopy. Aboveground biomass of shrubs was measured and the nitrogen and mineral element composition of new photosynthetic tissue was determined. Estimates from a representative study site indicate that the reservoir of nitrogen and mineral nutrients in new leaf material of shrubs available for litter deposition could contribute 3.64 kg N, 0.31 kg P, 0.57 kg Na, 5.20 kg K, 4.95 kg Ca, 31.82 g Fe, and 4.30 g Mn per hectare. This source probably represents about one-third of the total amount of nutrients involved in annual turnover for the study area during a normal production year. The remaining contribution would be supplied from the standing dead wood in shrubs and as litter from annual plant species.
23376546|This paper summarizes hydrological and water quality findings from investigations by the authors and their colleagues over the past 10 years. Water and salt balances on Utah Lake for the July 1970 to July 1973 period show both evaporation (342,077 ac-ft/yr) and groundwater (114,355 ac-ft/yr) to be somewhat larger than previously estimated by others. The lake is eutrophic, turbid, and slightly saline, as might be expected in a shallow, basin-bottom lake in a semi-arid area. Overall water quality in the lake is fair to good and appears to be controlled more by natural factors than by the activities of man. An increase in total dissolved solids (TDS) from about 300 mg/l in major surface and shallow groundwater inflows to about 900 mg/l in the main lake is the most significant water quality change. Of this TDS increase, about one-half results from evaporation of about one-half of the total inflowing water, one-quarter from salts carried by mineralized deep-spring inflows, and the remaining one-quarter from the poorer quality surface inflows to the lake. Calcium carbonate (calcite) precipitation from the lake waters accounts for about 40 percent of the estimated 0.85 mm/yr (0.033 in/yr) long-term rate of sediment buildup of the lake bottom. This precipitated calcite is postulated to be an important turbidity source in the wave-stirred lake.
23378171|The subgenus Athysanella Baker is reviewed and a possible phylogeny of the group is discussed. A total of 35 species is recognized. Descriptions, illustrations, and a key to males are presented. Twelve new species are described: aphoda, cursa, deserta, furnaca, hemijona, krameri, pastora, strobila, stylosa, vativala, and whitcombi are from the western United States, and marthae is from Mexico.
23376663|At a site near Rock Valley, Nevada, dominated by volcanic rocks, both Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC.) Cov. and Lycium andersonii A. Gray were restricted in distribution. Larrea tridentata did not grow in the many small washes in the area, but L. andersonii grew only in the washes. Ambrosia dumosa (A. Gray) Payne was more dense and more dominant in wash areas than in nonwash areas.
23376677|In April and May of 1973, 24 individual plants were exposed to 14CO2 with techniques used in our other studies in the field. Seven to 8 months later, part of the plants were excavated and counted by plant part for 14C. The remainder of the plants were excavated at 13 months. The results indicated that from 3 to 20 percent of the carbon for leaves in the next year came from stems and roots of Grayia spinosa (Hook) Moq., Ceratoides lanata (Pursh) J. T. Howell, Atriplex confertifolia (Torr. & Frem.) S. Wats., Lycium pallidum Miers, Ambrosia dumosa (A. Gray) Payne, and Acamptopappus shockleyi A. Gray. Nearly all of the root segments were labeled at sampling time; however, some of the roots were labeled at higher amounts than others. Some roots had very little 14C, and these are assumed to be very new roots rather than dead roots because of their small size. The roots with high levels of 14C are assumed to be formed near the time of labeling, and those with low levels to be formed after the time of labeling. From 17 to 65 percent of the 14C fixed was recovered after 7 to 13 months.
23376674|Multivariate analysis of soil and plant data from the northern Mojave Desert was used to investigate aspects of the mineral nutrition of Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC.) Cov. Larrea tridentata biomass was significantly correlated with soil $NO{\begin \matrix \middle {-} \\3}$ and pH and leaf Fe content. Leaf cation accumulation was negatively correlated with leaf Fe concentration.
23378179|Cicada orni Linnaeus is among the most common and widespread cicadas in Portugal, and, unless a critical study of the male genitalia is made, it is easily confused with the much less widely distributed C. barbara lusitanica Boulard. These species are morphologically very similar and sometimes difficult to separate using existing keys. This study attempts to test the discriminating capabilities of numerical techniques commonly used for classificatory purposes, as well as to discover the most effective characters to distinguish between the two species. For these purposes, cluster analysis and principal component analysis were applied to a sample of 64 male specimens characterized by 40 characters (33 derived from the external morphology and 7 from genitalia). In WPGMA cluster analysis, product-moment correlations gave a better separation between these species than did taxonomic distance coefficients; moreover, the analysis derived from the genital characters alone gave better separation than the analyses based on the 33 external characters. Principal component analysis yielded a clear, interspecific separation along the first axis. The best characters to discriminate between males of the two species were the lengths of the pygofer (and its dorsal spine), the tenth abdominal segment, and the appendages of the latter (which are smaller in barbara lusitanica), as well as the width of the shaft of the aedeagus (thinner in orni). Finally, the uniformity of the general clustering pattern resulting from the two multivariate techniques suggests the presence of two distinct species, as also clearly indicated by behavioral data.
23377663|Presented are 21,488 references to published articles that treat the scientific study of bark and ambrosia beetles (Coleoptera: Platypodidae and Scolytidae) worldwide from 1758 to 1984 (about 200 post-1984 articles are included) in all subject areas. Each reference is accompanied by an indication of (a) whether or not the authors examined a copy of the article, and (b) the subject areas treated by the article.
23376670|Ecotonal distribution of salt-tolerant shrubs was investigated under different kinds of edaphic conditions common to open and closed drainage basins in the northern Mojave Desert. Contributing causal factors involved changes in soil salinity, texture, and moisture stress. Varying degrees of halophytism occurred, ranging from plant species that are facultative in their adaptation to salinity to those that require comparatively high salt concentrations in soil for normal growth and development.
23377642|Black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) are dependent on prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) for food and on their burrows for shelter and rearing young. A stable prairie dog population may therefore be the most important factor determining the survival of ferrets. A rapid method of determining prairie dog density would be useful for assessing prairie dog density in colonies currently occupied by ferrets and for selecting prairie dog colonies in other areas for ferret translocation. This study showed that visual counts can provide a rapid density estimate. Visual counts of white-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys leucurus) were significantly correlated (r = 0.95) with mark-recapture population density estimates on two study areas near Meeteetse, Wyoming. Suggestions are given for use of visual counts.
23376551|From an historical aspect, there are or have been 215 species and 62 families of terrestrial vertebrates found in the environs of Utah Lake. The classes Amphibia and Reptilia are represented by 4 species in 3 families and 12 species in 4 families, respectively. The class Aves has the highest numbers of species and families. The birds are represented by 152 species and 39 families. There are 47 species of mammals found within 16 families. Three additional species of reptiles have been reported to one of us by the Division of Wildlife Resources personnel as occurring in the environs of Utah Lake, but these are not recorded in the literature and have not been verified by us.
23376682|The revegetation of disturbed, arid lands is one of the great challenges of a desert. An attempt to encourage it is not an impossible task, however, if the natural and the man-made resources available are utilized and managed. Where rainfall and temperature conditions approach or exceed those of the Great Basin desert, restoration of disturbed land will occur through natural revegetation processes within a reasonable period of time. This is not generally the case in the more arid Mojave Desert areas where the moisture and temperature conditions are less favorable for germination and seedling survival. Restoration of vegetation by natural reseeding can, however, occur within local sites where moisture has concentrated as the result of terrain features forming catchment basins. Otherwise, the natural revegetation processes in the Mojave Desert areas require much longer periods of time (possibly decades or centuries) than are practical for meeting environmental protection standards imposed by current legislation. Through better understanding of the processes governing revegetation and the ability to control them, it is possible for man to more rapidly restore disturbed desert lands. Terrain manipulation to form moisture catchment basins, selection of seed from pioneering shrub species, preservation of existing shrub clump "fertile islands" in the soil, supplemental fertilization, irrigation, organic amendments, and transplanting vigorous shrub species are some of the important things that can be done to help restore disturbed desert land.
23377658|A comprehensive treatment of the vascular flora of Utah is presented. Keys are provided to families, genera, species, and infraspecific taxa (when present). Taxa are described, ecological data is given, and geographical information is provided. County distribution in Utah is given for each species and infraspecific taxon. General geographical information is given for taxa that extend beyond the boundaries of Utah. Chromosome numbers are provided for each taxon, where that information was available in literature. Indigenous taxa include some 2,572 species and 355 infraspecific taxa, or a total of 2,927. Introduced species number some 580, and the total taxa treated in the flora is 3,507. New nomenclatural proposals include Mertensia lanceolata var. nivalis (Wats.) Higgins stat. nov.; Chrysothamnus nauseosus (Pallas) H. & C. var. uintahensis (L. C. Anderson) Welsh stat. nov.; Machaeranthera canescens (Pursh) Gray var. latifolia (A. Nels.) Welsh stat. nov., and var. aristatus (Eastw.) Turner comb. nov.; Viguiera longifolia (Robins. & Greenm.) Blake var. annua (Jones) Welsh comb. nov.; Dudleya pulverulenta (Nutt.) Britt. & Rose var. arizonica (Rose) Welsh stat. nov.; Cordylanthus kingii Wats. var. densiflorus (Chuang & Heckard) Atwood stat. nov.; Cymopterus acaulis (Pursh) Raf. var. fendleri (Gray) Goodrich comb. nov.
23376566|The problem of distribution of plant endemics is explored, especially as regards distribution of these plant species on elevational and substrate bases. Endemics per unit area are greater at elevations above 1980 m and on finely textured soils. A summary of data and a list of references is presented.
23378175|A new species of Pazu, P. monoinyo, from the Inyo-Mono County area of California is described. Additional occurrence records are provided for Pazu balli (Beamer), and some of its morphological characteristics are illustrated and compared with P. monoinyo.
23376662|Frequency distribution patterns were developed for distance to nearest neighbor of the same species for Larrea tridentata (Sesse & Moc. ex DC.) Cov., Ephedra nevadensis S. Wats., and Acamptopappus shockleyi A. Gray. The distances between shrubs had been determined previously in another study. About one-third or more of the nearest neighbor of its own kind was within less than one meter for each species, indicating that it was usually within the same shrub clump, which in turn is indicative of an aggregating effect. For L. tridentata and E. nevadensis much of this could be from the same original plant by crown diffusion (L. tridentata) or underground spreading (E. nevadensis). None of the three gave evidence of spacing at regular intervals when the nearest neighbor of a single individual within a shrub clump was outside that clump. Rather, they appeared to be randomly distributed under this condition, except possibly for A. shockleyi.
23377638|Extensive literature review and 48 mammal collections containing recent specimens of the endangered black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) are used to characterize historic distribution of the species. Specimens (n=120) were measured from eight collections to characterize black-footed ferret morphology and variation. Twenty-one Pleistocene and Holocene faunas in North America show ferrets dating to 100,000 yr B.P. Recent specimens (n=412) indicate close association with the prairie dog (Cynomys spp.) and suggest ferrets may have been less rare than previously thought. At least 103 (25%) of all specimens were taken by federal predator and rodent control agents, and males outnumber females in collections 2.04:1. Average and extreme measurement for external, cranial, and postcranial dimensions are tabulated. Ferrets show a high degree of sexual dimorphism, with discriminant analysis correctly classifying 95% of all specimens to sex. Ferrets also exhibit north-south clinal variation in size, but they do not appear to exhibit variation based on species of Cynomys associate. The taxonomic relationship among ferrets and close relatives is described.
23376556|The present Great Basin Floristic Province had achieved roughly its present topographic conformation by some time in the Miocene epoch and had a climate not too different from the present one, though probably a little warmer, moister, and less continental. Both the flora and the fauna took on a fairly modern aspect during the Miocene, as a result of worldwide evolutionary changes and more specific adaptation to the conditions of the region. Changes in the biota since that time mainly reflect evolution and migration at the level of species and, to a lesser extent, genera, in response to regional conditions and the repeated fluctuations in climate. The climatic reversals of the Pleistocene caused repeated inverse migrations of more northern, mesophytic elements in the flora, on the one hand, and more southern, xerophytic elements on the other. These expansions and contractions of range favored hybridization and genetic mixing among related plant species. The fauna of the region, dependent eventually on the flora, must have been subjected to basically the same set of repeated changes in range and local distribution during the Pleistocene. About 10,000 years ago many of the large mammals in the Intermountain Region, as elsewhere in North America, rapidly became extinct, perhaps largely through overkill by primitive man.
23376664|On two separate transects in the Rock Valley area of the northern Mojave Desert in the spring of 1976, 4 percent to 17 percent of the perennial plants were infested with the parasite Cuscuta nevadensis Jtn. (dodder), and dead pieces of dodder from previous years were on dead plants equivalent to another 5 percent, indicating that the dodder had a regulating effect on the plant population and may be an important cause of perennial plant death.
23376559|There are no endemic species of birds in the Great Basin. Nevertheless, a distinctive Great Basin avifauna exists which contains components of the Mojave Desert, Rocky Mountain, and Great Plains avifaunas as well as species obligate to sagebrush and the pinyon-juniper forest. Seemingly there has been little spread of California and Sierra Nevada species eastward, but a westward extension from the Rocky Mountains of several species is indicated. While several Rocky Mountain species reach their western limits on the eastern edge of the Great Basin, others have extended into the eastern portion. Two Great Plains representatives are late arrivals, namely the Baltimore Oriole and Indigo Bunting, with evidence of introgression now occurring with related western species. A similar but longstanding situation exists for the flickers. A zone of hybridization occurs in northern Utah between two species of junco. A rather abrupt junction zone between the Great Basin and Mojave Desert avifaunas exists in southern Nevada and extreme southwestern Utah. Several species representing the Mojave Desert avifauna have extended their ranges in recent years into southern Utah. Geographically variable birds show diverse patterns of distribution along with much clinal variation and intergradation. A center of differentiation for four species occurs in western Utah in the eastern portion of the Great Basin while two more occur in the western portion of the basin. The Wasatch Front is a dividing area between western and eastern races in several species. Extreme southwestern Utah constitutes a transition area where several species are represented by different races or intergradational populations. A study of the avifaunas of 14 boreal "islands" in isolated mountain ranges in western and southeastern Utah in comparison with the Rocky Mountain "continent" in central and northern Utah shows a close correlation between number of species present and habitat diversity. In addition, a low correlation exists between the number of species that are permanent residents on isolated mountains and the distance of those mountains from the "continent."
23376676|Larrea tridentata (Sesse Moc. ex DC) Cov. exposed to 14CO2 retained about 20 percent of its 14C after 16 and also after 26 months. In leaves, however, a lower specific activity was present at 26 months than at 16 months, and a smaller percentage of 14C in the plant occurred in leaves at 26 months than at 16 months (3 percent vs 10 percent). This indicates some, but little, reuse of carbon from the structural components of the plants. The strong tendency of the species to retain this carbon may be related to a survival mechanism. After 40 months the results were more erratic, with 11 percent of the 14C remaining in plants and only 2 percent of the total remaining in the leaves. The specific activity of 14C in the organic debris fraction obtained with saturated salt flotation of roots after small and fine roots had been physically removed indicated that from 27 to 35 percent of the organic debris had the same specific activity as roots and probably could be considered as roots. This compares with the 45 percent value determined previously by a different technique. The below-ground to aboveground ratio for biomass of these plants was about 2.5:1. The below-ground to above-ground ratio for the 14C was about 0.5 at 16 months, 1.3 at 26 months, and 2.5 at 40 months. The estimates obtained in this study were used to correct our previous data for below-ground biomass. Accordingly, somewhere between 3000 and 5000 kg/ha roots are present in the Rock Valley area. An increase with time of the below-ground to aboveground 14C ratio probably indicates loss of 14C from above-ground parts rather than additional transport to roots.
