41761886|A new species of the genus Sigmatostalix, S. uncinata, is described and illustrated from the province of Carchi in northern Ecuador. Sigmatostalix uncinata is compared with S. aristulifera, from which it mainly differs by the subquadrate lateral lobes of the lip having an apical, linear, uncinate appendix (vs. narrowly dolabriform and apically emarginate-bilobed); and a semilunate, rounded, concave callus (vs. absent or reduced to a low keel). The phylogenetic position of Sigmatostalix is discussed, and previous infrageneric schemes of classification are reviewed. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie del gnero Sigmatostalix, S. uncinata, de la provincia de Carchi en el norte del Ecuador. Sigmatostalix uncinata se compara con S. aristulifera, de la cual difiere principalmente por los lbulos del labelo subcuadrados, provistos de un apndice apical linear, y en forma de gancho (vs. dolabriformes y ernarginado-bilobados en el pice) y de un callo semilunado, redondo, cncavo (vs. ausente o reducido a una quilla baja en S. aristulifera). Se discute la posicin filogentica de Sigmatostalix y se resean los esquemas previos de clasificacin infragenrica.
41761720|A synopsis of the genus Macrocarpaea in Bolivia is presented. Four species are recognized including M. bangiana Gilg, M. cinchonifolia (Gilg) Weaver, M. cochabambensis Gilg-Ben., and M. fuentesii J.R. Grant, sp. nov. These are the four southernmost species of Macrocarpaea in the Andes.
41761780|A new taxonomic treatment of the genus Sigmatostalix in Costa Rica is presented. All the species are described and illustrated, and a key is provided for identification of Costa Rican taxa. Three new species are described. Sigmatostalix cardioglossa and S. savegrensis are related to the Mesoamerican group close to S. picta, but lack retrorse lobules on the lip lamina. Sigmatostalix cardioglossa has a cylindrical, non-canaliculate claw, and a 3-mamillate callus on the disc. Sigmatostalix savegrensis presents lateral sepals connate to the middle, entire, rheniform lamina of the lip, and open, semicircular callus. Sigmatostalix hymenantha is lectotypified, its taxonomic concept is reconsidered and Costa Rican material previously referred to this taxon is described as 5. integrilabris. Sigmatostalix integrilabris is a close relative of S. adamsii (a species here excluded from Costa Rican flora), from which it can be distinguished by the much wider lamina of the lip provided with a smaller callus, and the long column with small apical wings.
41761687|Gardenia kamialiensis (Rubiaceae) is newly described from the Morobe serpentine of Papua New Guinea. Supplementary descriptions are also provided for the previously unknown flowers of Guioa waigeoensis (Sapindaceae) and Psychotria haumugaensis (Rubiaceae).
41761917|Duthie, in his 1888 work, inadvertently published "Iseilema laxum Hack." as a superfluous, illegitimate name for the 1856 name I. prostratum (L.) Anderss. The subsequent 1889 publication of I. laxum by Hackel, which excluded the type of I. prostratum, is, therefore, heterotypic, a later homonym, and illegitimate. A new name is here proposed for "Iseilema laxum Hackel 1889 (non Hackel 1888)."
41761653|The following new combinations are proposed in the Oncidioid genus Lophiaris: Lophiaris andreana, L. cosymbephora, L. chrysops, and L. pachyphylla. Se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones en el gnero Oncidioide Lophiaris: Lophiaris andreana, L. cosymbephora, L. chrysops, y L. pachyphylla.
41761805|The vegetation of Ambitle Island is described from a recent survey of its principal environments. Although the interior forests are decidedly depauperate, at least one new species (Amphineuron lindleyi, Thelypteridaceae) has been discovered. The natural-growth communities are otherwise composed primarily of common plants distributed widely through the general region.
41761642|Xylaria pisoniae sp. nov. is described from leaves of Pisonia brunoniana on Hawaii, Hawaiian Islands. The fungus produces the anamorph and mature teleomorph in agar culture. It appears to be host-specific. Aspects of its biology are discussed.
41761828|Two different specimens were cited in the protologue of Campylocentrum tyrridion, but no type was designated. According to article 37.1 of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature, the name therefore was not validly published. Foldats, in his treatment of Orchidaceae for the Flora of Venezuela, revalidated the name by selecting as type one of the specimens cited in the original protologue. The species is illustrated and its nomenclature and geographical distribution is summarized. In addition, a key is provided to distinguish it from Campylocentrum fasciola, its closest related species. En el protlogo de Campylocentrum tyrridion se citaron dos ejemplares, pero no se design un tipo. De acuerdo al artculo 37.1 del Cdigo Internacional de Nomenclatura Botnica, el nombre no fue vlidamente publicado. Foldats, en su tratamiento de Orchidaceae para la Flora de Venezuela, revalid el nombre al seleccionar como tipo uno de los ejemplares citados en el protlogo original. Se ilustra la especie y su resume su nomenclatura y su distribucin geogrfica. Adems, se presenta una clave para distinguirla de su especie afin, C. fasciola.
41761309|The new species, Schoenus lymansmithii, is named in honor of its collector, Lyman Bradford Smith, 1904-1997. It represents the first member of Schoenus section Helothrix recorded from the Americas. A description and illustration are provided and its relationship to other taxa is discussed.
41761575|We present a revision of the historical treatment of the vascular plant species that have been considered endemic to the Yucatn Peninsula. The peninsula is considered geomorphologically and biogeographically a biotic province; therefore, the Mexican states of Campeche, Quintana Roo, and Yucatn, as well as the Peten of Guatemala and northern Belize, are included. The study includes the floristic and nomenclatural revision of all species of the Yucatn Peninsula, which at one time were considered to be endemic. It is based on pertinent literature and the revision of herbarium material collected to date. We currently recognize 168 endemic taxa of this region, for which we present their nomenclatural status, distribution in the region, growth form, common names, and uses. We present a list of the species and names excluded for nomenclatural reasons and because their distributions extend beyond the peninsular limits. With this revision, the percentage of endemism recognized for this region is reduced to 7.3% of its flora.
41761793|Extensive morphological study of Pennellia showed inconsistencies in previous delimitations of P. micrantha, P. robinsonii, P. mcvaughii, P. hunnewellii, P. tricornuta, and P. patens. The variations in trichome morphology, sepal and petal color, and branching pattern suggest that these characters are plastic and often unreliable in distinguishing P. micrantha from P. robinsonii, P. micrantha from P. tricornuta, or P. mcvaughii and P. hunnewellii from P. longifolia. As here delimited, Pennellia consists of seven species, of which one is South American and six are North American. Detailed descriptions of all species are provided. The relationship of Pennellia to the other genera of the Halimolobine cladeHalimolobos, Mancoa, and Sphaerocardamunis presented, along with Pennellia's distinguishing morphological characters.
41761726|Condylago furculifera from Panama is described and illustrated. This species is distinguished from its Colombian relative, C. rodrigoi, by more sparsely villous sepals (vs. densely white-villous); obovate-pandurate petals without decurrent basal lobes and the ovate (vs. orbicular) viscid callus. The most striking feature, however, is the inflorescence with persistent, Y-shaped, flattened pedicels, each articulated to an "epipedicel" to 2 cm long. Colombian photographs suggest that C. rodrigoi also has an epipedicel between the pedicel and the flower, but the pedicel is much simpler. This epipedicel is of special interest, as the Pleurothallidinae are usually characterized by having the ovary articulated directly to the pedicel. A key to the species is given.
41761570|Five new species of the Brazilian endemic genus Cryptanthus are here described: C. caulescens I. Ramirez, C. lutherianus I. Ramrez, C. microglazioui I. Ramrez, C. sergipensis I. Ramrez, and C. ubairensis I. Ramrez. Discussion about their affinities, geographical distributions, and illustrations are included. Cryptanthus beuckeri is lectotypified, and C. bromelioides, C. lacerdae, and C. zonatus are neotypified.
41761317|Cyrtopodium punctatum is a name broadly applied to plants of the southeastern United States, the Greater Antilles, Central and South America, including Trinidad. The name is hereby used for typically epiphytic plants from Florida, Cuba, Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, and along the Caribbean coast of South America. A new combination, Cyrtopodium macrobulbum, based on La Llave and Lexarza's Epidendrum (mayzifolium) macrobulbon, is proposed for the typically terrestrial plants from Mexico and Central America. A new forma is proposed to accommodate plants from El Salvador with yellow flowers. Cyrtopodium willmorei, resurrected from the synonymy of C. punctatum and maintained as a distinct species, eventually may be shown to be referable to C. macrobulbum. Cyrtopodium paniculatum is a terrestrial species found above 1000 m and appears to be restricted to the Andes Cordillera from Peru to Venezuela. Cyrtopodium naiguatae is hereby resurrected from the synonymy of C. paniculatum, based on the absence of an articulation between the leaf blades and sheaths and its smaller vegetative size. An artificial key is provided for the native species of Cyrtopodium from Florida, the Greater Antilles, Mexico, Central and South America north of the Orinoco River, including Cyrtopodium cristatum and C. parviflorum. Further research is needed to reassess the identification of specimens from Brazil, Argentina, and Peru previously referred to Cyrtopodium punctatum.
41761841|The morphology and anatomy of Bomarea ovallei, originally described in the genus Leontochir, are examined and compared to other species of Bomarea. Bomarea ovallei is restricted to a small area in northern Chile. It differs from other congeneric species in only two morphological characters. Overall, the evidence presented here supports the view of Ravenna (2000), who included Leontochir in Bomarea.
41761537|Six new species of Masdevallia Ruiz & Pav. are described from Bolivia (M. cocapatae, M. omorenoi, and M. martineae), Colombia (M. pastinata), Ecuador (M. scalpellifera), and Peru (M. vomeris). All are members of subgenus Masdevallia. Masdevallia scalpellifera belongs to section Aphanes, while the remaining five species belong to section Polyanthae subsection Alaticaules.
41761842|On the basis of a critical examination of the type collections of all taxa described in Arabis and Boechera from North America, we propose the following nomenclatural adjustments among the sexual diploid taxa. Seven new species of Boechera (B. evadens, B. rollinsiorum, B. serpenticola, B. shevockii, B. texana, B. ultraalsa, B. villosa) are described and new names are proposed for the taxa originally described as A. pulchra var. munciensis (B. lincolnensis) and A. breweri var. austinae (B. breweri ssp. shastaensis) . Ten new combinations (B. arcuata, B. atrorubens, B. fernaldiana ssp. vivariensis, B. formosa, B. howellii, B. nevadensis, B. paupercula, B. pendulocarpa, B. polyanthua, B. spatifolia) are validated. Notes on the delimitation, distribution, and/or typification of B. davidsonii, B. holboellii, B. johnstonii, B. lignifera, B. lyallii, B. microphylla, B. pallidifolia, B. pendulina, B. retrofracta, B. sparsiflora, and B. subpinnatifida are presented, with the last species reported for the first time from Idaho, Nevada, and Utah. Arabis davidsonii var. parva, A. demissa, A. hirshbergiae, and A. thompsonii are reduced to synonymy under B. davidsonii, B. oxylobula, B. johnstonii, and B. pallidifolia, respectively.
41761712|Carapa comprises trees confined to tropical forests in Africa and America. Previous revisions of the genus based primarily on herbarium specimens recognized few variable species, but also stressed the need for further research to clarify and understand the patterns of morphological variation in these species complexes. In the present revision, 27 species are recognized in Carapa of which 16 occur in Africa and 11 in America. Nine new species are described and illustrated, and a new combination is proposed. The remaining 17 species correspond to either recently described species or previously described species that had been placed in synonymy. A key to the 27 species and their distribution maps are provided.
41761300|Recent history of studies in the Bromeliaceae, Pitcairnioideae is reviewed with emphasis on the changes since the 1974 monograph by L. B. Smith. A basic subdivision in the Pitcairnioideae, based on leaf cross-section, first proposed in 1969, is reintroduced. The tribal divisions of Varadarajan and Gilmartin are discussed and rejected. Only two tribes are recognized, the Pitcairnieae (including the Brocchinieae and Puyeae) and a new tribe, Dyckieae. The latter is proposed for the series of genera lacking a sharp line of demarcation in leaf cross-section between the chlorenchyma and adaxial water storage tissue, Deuterocohnia, Dyckia, Encholirium and Hechtia. Two keys are provided, one based primarily on traditional characters used by Lyman B. Smith, the other initially using the leaf cross-section to divide the subfamily into the Pitcairnieae and Dyckieae. Navia plowmanii is transferred to Steyerbromelia.
41761318|Two non-coding regions of chloroplast DNA were used to examine phylogenetic relationships in the Hamamelidoideae (Hamamelidaceae). Sequences of trnL-trnF intergenic spacer and trnL intron were informative in resolving relationships among genera and at higher levels. Three major lineages are identified: the Corylopsis lineage, the Trichocladus lineage, and the Hamamelis lineage. Corylopsideae, Hamamelideae, and Dicoryphinae are found to be monophyletic; Loropetalinae and Eustigmateae appear to be paraphyletic, and Hamamelideae and Fothergilleae to be polyphyletic. These results are consistent with previous analyses based on nrDNA ITS sequences and the cpDNA matK gene. Morphological characters, such as apetaly, strap-shaped petal, and wind pollination, which have been used to define suprageneric groups, evolved independently in the three lineages.
41761865|The most ancient evidence of the existence of the avocado tree (Persea americana, Lauraceae) in Mesoamerica is about 10,000 years ago in Coaxcatlan, Puebla (Mexico). Since then, the history of the avocado has been preserved and recorded in Mesoamerica, the domestication center for the species, and in northern South America, where pre-Hispanic Mesoamerican cultures dispersed it. In colonial times, the Spanish valued the avocado fruit highly and documented it in numerous texts. Since then, the avocado tree has been introduced into places where the climate is appropriate for its cultivation. Avocado is now the fourth most important tropical fruit in the world, and Mexico is the main producer, with more than one million metric tons produced in 2005. La evidencia ms antigua de la presencia del aguacate (Persea americana, Lauraceae) en Mesoamerica es de hace 10,000 aos, en Coaxcatln, Puebla (Mxico). Desde entonces, la historia del aguacate ha sido documentada en Mesoamerica, su centro de domesticacin, y en el norte de Sudamrica, en donde fue dispersado por las culturas que habitaron en Mesoamerica en la poca pre-Hispnica. En el tiempo de la Colonia, los espaoles apreciaron esta fruta y la documentaron en numerosos textos. Desde entonces el aguacate ha sido introducido en los lugares donde el clima es apropiado para su desarrollo. Actualmente el aguacate es la cuarta fruta tropical ms importante en el mundo y Mxico es el principal productor con ms de un milln de toneladas mtricas producidas en el ao 2005.
41761555|Three new species, Catasetum yavitanse, Galeandra badia, and Galeandra duidensis, are described and illustrated. The genus Dipterostele is reinstated, 15 new miscellaneous combinations are proposed, and four commentary notes are presented.
41761526|Five species of Sarcoscypha (S. hosoyae, S. humberiana, S. knixoniana, S. korfiana, S. meso cyatha) are described as new based upon examinations of fresh and herbarium specimens. Though all Sarcoscypha species grow on woody substrata (twigs and branchlets), one of the new species, S. mesocyatha, occurs on the woody portion of fruits of Myrsine.
41761529|Specimens in several large herbaria were studied for a worldwide revision of the genus Euonymus L. (Celastraceae). These specimens included 14 new species, described here as new: Euonymus kengmaensis, E. vaganoides, E. aculeola, E. potingensis, E. hukuangensis, E. ficoides, E. subcordata, E. chengii, E. dolichopa, E. laxicymosa, E. hui, E. parasimilis, E. wui, and E. pereoriacea, from east and south Asia (mostly from China).
41761554|Eriogonum phoeniceum is described as a new species from Crystal Peak in west central Utah and the Mahogany Mountains of southeastern Nevada. Its closest relatives are E. ericifolium subsp. ericifolium, E. ericifolium subsp. pulchrum comb, nov., of Arizona, and Eriogonum thornei comb. et stat. nov., both from California.
41761948|Plant distributional records are reported from Conservation International's Foja expeditions. The floristic range extensions are compiled from alluvial lowland forest and cloudy upland habitats to 1900 m. Sixteen taxa are briefly discussed, including 4 fems, 1 monocot, and 11 dicots. Synonymies are newly proposed for Embelia kuborensis (Myrsinaceae), Medinilla sapoi-riverensis (Melastomataceae), and Pneumatopteris subappendiculata (Thelypteridaceae). Rekaman persebaran tumbuhan dilaporkan dari hasil survei Ekspedisi Foja yang disponsori oleh Conservation International. Perluasan kisaran floristik dikompilasi dari hutan dataran rendan aluvial dan dari habitat-habitat pegunungan berawan sampai ketinggian 1900 m. Enam belas taksa dibahas secara singkat, meliputi 4 tumbuhan paku-pakuan, 1 tumbuhan monokotil, dan 11 tumbuhan dikotil. Kesinoniman diusulkan untuk Embelia kuborensis (Myrsinaceae), Medinilla sapoi-riverensis (Melastomataceae), dan Pneumatopteris subappendiculata (Thelypteridaceae).
41761674|The karyotypes of five species of Solms-laubachia (Brassicaceae) from Hengduan Mountains (Sichuan and Yunnan provinces) are investigated for the first time. The karyotype formulas of S. minor, S. eurycarpa, S. pulcherrima, and S. linearifolia are the same and all have 2n=14=6m+6sm+2st, whereas that of S. retropilosa is 2n=28= 12m+12sm+4st. The first four species are diploids, the last is tetraploid, and the base number for Solms-laubachia is x=7.
41761784|The species of the Sobralia liliastrum complex in the Venezuelan Guayana are discussed and illustrated. Two species are recognized: Sobralia grantica, found on granite outcrops of the upper Orinoco river of Colombia and Venezuela, and to a lesser extend in white-sand shrublands of the upper Rio Negro basin of Brasil, Colombia, and Venezuela. This species is distinguished by the relatively small plants and flowers, the latter having a hyaline white labellum; the disc is pale yellow and the disc has elevated keels. The second species, Sobralia elisabethae, is apparently restricted to the highlands of the Guiana Shield and can be distinguished by a white labellum with a pale yellow throat and low, reddish orange keels. Plants of Sobralia found frequently in the white-sand shrublands of the Rio Negro basin in Brasil, Colombia, and Venezuela in shady habitats with the labellum white with a pale yellow throat and low, reddish orange keels are here tentatively referred to Sobralia elisabethae. Both Sobralia elisabethae and S. grantica were previously identified as S. liliastrum, a distinct species apparently restricted to Brazil's state of Bahia, but most likely extending into neighboring states, and that can be easily distinguished in vivo by the white labellum with a butter-yellow to pale yellow throat, and in the herbarium by the absence of keels on the disc of the labellum. Las especies relacionadas a Sobralia liliastrum de la Guayana venezolana son discutidas e ilustradas. Se reconocen dos especies: Sobralia granitica, que se encuentra en los afloramientos de granito a lo del Alto Orinoco tanto en Colombia como en Venezuela as como en los arbustales de arena blanca del Alto Ro Negro en Brasil, Colombia y Venezuela, donde es menos frecuente. Esta especie se distingue por el tamao relativamente pequeo de sus plantas y flores, las que tienen el labelo blanco hialino con un disco amarillo plido y con quillas elevadas. La segunda especie, Sobralia elisabethae, aparentemente esta restringida a regiones relativamente altas del Macizo de Guayana y se distingue fcilmente por tener el labelo blanco con la garganta amarillo plido y con quillas bajas de color anaranjado rojizo. Plantas de Sobralia frecuentes en los arbustales de arena blanca del Alto Ro Negro en Brasil y Colombia en ambientes sombreados tambin con el labelo blanco con la garganta amarillo plido y con quillas bajas de color anaranjado rojizo, se identifican aqu tentativamente como Sobralia elisabethae. Tanto Sobralia elisabethae como S. grantica antes eran identificadas como Sobralia liliastrum, una especie aparentemente restrigida al estado de Bahia de Brasil, pero que seguramente se extiende hasta estados vecinos, y que se distingue fcilmente en vivo por sus flores blancas con una garganta de color amarillo intenso hasta plido, y en el herbario por la ausencia de de quillas en el disco del labelo.
41761466|Schizopetalon, a genus of ten species endemic to north-central Chile and adjacent Argentina, is unique in the family Brassicaceae because of its pinnatifid petals. Three species, S. arcuatum, S. brachycarpum, and S. corymbosum, are described as new. The tribal relationship of Schizopetalon is critically evaluated. It is concluded that the tribe Schizopetaleae, which was defined by Schulz (1936) on the basis of having divided petals, is an artifical assemblage, and its three genera, Schizopetalon, Ornithocarpa, and Dryopetalon, can easily be assigned to other tribes. Schizopetalon is most closely related to the South American genus Mathewsia that has entire petals. Divided petals are believed to have evolved independently at least three times within the Brassicaceae. The phylogenetic relationships within Schizopetalon are analyzed, and Mathewsia is considered to be the sister group of the genus. Three species, S. walkeri, S. corymbosum , and S. maritimum, are unique in the family in their bifid, filiform, and spirally twisted cotyledons. They form, together with S. bipinnatifidum, a well-defined terminal clade within the genus.
41761606|In Heliconia psittacorum, a natural hybrid, Golden Torch (H. psittacorum  H. spathocircinata), and in H. rostrata of the family Heliconiaceae, the anthers are tetrasporangiate with prominent raphide crystal sacs along sutures of dehiscence. The dehiscence is introrse and by longitudinal slits. The epidermis is persistent. The anther wall is usually 5-or 6-layered. The tapetum is of the amoeboid type and irregularly 1-to 4-layered with columns of intact tapetal cells often extending between the microspore mother cells at meiosis. It becomes perisplasmodial and syncytial only after the microspores develop a thick intine. In addition to the endothecium, 1 or 2 middle layers, and several cells of the connective surrounding the microsporangium develop spiral thickenings. Successive cytokinesis in microspore mother cells follows meiosis. Meiotic abnormalities resulting in malformed pollen are common in cv. Golden Torch and cv. Sassy which hardly produce any functional pollen. Microspore tetrads are decussate, isobilateral, linear or t-shaped. The mature pollen grains have a thick intine the surface of which is studded with spinules representing the much-reduced exine. The pollen grains are inaperturate, spheroidal, starch-filled, and 2-celled at dispersal.
41761768|We typify 41 of Sargent's species names found in Crataegus series Coccineae.
41761600|Triosteum (Caprifoliaceae) includes three species from eastern North America and three from eastern Asia. The North American species and Triosteum sinuatum from Japan and northeastern China share axillary inflorescences and long calyx lobes. In contrast, the other two Asian species are characterized by terminal inflorescences and short calyx lobes. A sister group relationship between the Japanese and North American species would be congruent with a biogeographic pattern seen in several other groups (e.g., Hamamelis, Viburnum sect. Pseudotinus). We inferred the phylogeny of Triosteum on the basis of sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) and partial sequences of the gene for granule-bound starch synthase (GBSSI or waxy), using representatives of the other lineages of Caprifolieae for rooting purposes. In the combined data analysis, the North American species of Triosteum form a clade with the Chinese species, to the exclusion of the Japanese species, T. sinuatum. Axillary inflorescences and large calyx lobes may be ancestral in Triosteum, and changes to terminal inflorescences and small calyx lobes may have occurred along a branch showing very little molecular character change.
41761658|We present an updated checklist of leguminous trees and large shrubs that are reported to reach a height of at least 3 m in Mexico. The only existing checklist is from Standley (1922). The 611 species reported here represent 33% of the approximately 1851 species of Leguminosae in Mexico. For each species, the following information is provided: scientific name and author, original taxonomic citation, references to recognized taxonomic revisions (if any), information about the existence of infraspecific taxa, growth form and maximum height, and an indication of whether the species is endemic to Mexico. The relatively large number of arborescent legume species found in Mexico, together with the high rate of endemism in the group (283 species = 46.3% of total), provides evidence that this country is an important center of species diversity for this family. Se presenta una lista florstica actualizada de especies de leguminosas arbreas y arbustivas que llegan al menos a la altura de 3 m (la nica lista florstica que existe actualmente es la de Standley [1922]). Las 611 especies representan el 33.0% de las aproximadamente 1851 especies de Leguminosae de Mxico. Para cada especie, se proporciona la siguiente informatin: nombre cientfico y autor; la cita taxnomica original; referencias de revisiones taxonmicas reconocidas (si las hay); informacin acerca de la existencia de taxa infraespecifcos, el hbito, y la altura mxima; y una indicatin de si la especie es endmica de Mxico. El relativamente alto nmero de especies arbreas de leguminosas que se encuentran en Mxico, asi como su alta tasa de endemismo (283 especies = 46.3% del total), nos da evidencia que este pas es un centro importante de diversidad para miembros de esta familia de plantas.
41761588|On the basis of newly available plant material, the phylogenetic relationships of the neotropical tepui endemic Saccifolium bandeirae (Gentianaceae) were reanalyzed using rbcL, trnh intron, and matK sequence data. In contrast to Struwe et al. (1998), who found Saccifolium to be a member of the largely temperate-alpine Gentianaceae-Gentianeae, the results reported here unequivocally show that Saccifolium, together with Curta and Voyriella (and probably Hockinia and Tapeinostemon on the basis of morphological evidence), forms an exclusively neotropical clade that is sister to the remainder of the family. The shared possession of apically elongated anther connectives, tricolporate reticulate pollen, and an ovoid ovary that tapers into the style may provide morphological support for this relationship.
41761984|A category four tropical storm designated "Andrew" crossed southern peninsular Florida in early morning of August 24, 1992. The damage to property and vegetation was historic. Using the living collections of the Kampong as a base we examined the nature of the damage done to 83 ornamental exotic and 11 native species of woody plants. In the subsequent two years we have observed how individual plants or species have responded to the injuries. Literature cited reviews the studies of previous hurricanes, primarily damage to native vegetation or forestry plantings in tropical and subtropical America.
41761908|Taxonomists routinely question plant names and places, as well as the personal names and histories of the botanists themselves. Genealogy shares the common challenge of locating information about personal names, vital statistics, residences, and histories. Ancestry.com provides a virtual interface into centralized, archived records previously of limited availability. Various names of historical botanists and collectors associated with Harvard University Herbaria were queried resulting in U.S. Census data, U.S. draft registration cards providing handwriting samples, U.S. passport applications including two with photographs, ship manifests, and border crossings. Researchers can locate previously unavailable information about personal histories to help answer questions and uncertainties, and to confirm existing records about botanists' lives and travels. Additionally, Ancestry. com provides teachers with a helpful tool for students to better appreciate the lives of individual botanists within the larger context of history.
41761543|An unpublished letter from Joseph Dalton Hooker to Asa Gray written soon after the death of Robert Brown helps clarify the position of botanical systematics in the middle of the nineteenth century and some of the attitudes that helped shape the discipline over the ensuing century. Hooker compares the merits of George Bentham and John Lindley; he also writes extensively about Brown. He rates Brown as by far the superior botanist, although noting that his style of botany was very different from that of the mainland Europeans who so lauded him. He prefers Lindley over Bentham, in part because the latter was more an amateur, by which Hooker meant not fully committed to the science of botany. Brown's one failing was not discharging his obligations to the science. Lindley's activities in popularizing the natural system in Britain are also mentioned. Hooker makes very negative remarks about the work of the French botanist J.-B. Payer, author of the still-much-cited Trait d'organognie de la fleur. His dislike of this book is consistent with his positive analysis of Brown's work; Payer's study was insufficiently comparative and addressed issues of floral morphology in which Hooker was uninterested and that he considered too speculative.
41761613|As delimited herein, Solmslaubachia consists of nine species, of which eight are endemic to China and one is distributed also in Bhutan and Sikkim. A new species, S. gamosepala, is described. Seven species are reduced to synonymy, and a key to species and detailed descriptions and distributions are given.
41761485|All Catasetum species, varieties, and natural hybrids published up to December 1992 are listed in alphabetical order. The checklist provides taxon name, collation and date of publication, place and date of first published illustration (when not included in protologue), and type information. Relationship to other species, when possible, is also provided. Revisionary treatments of several groups will be published in subsequent papers, particularly subgenus Pseudocatasetum (Rolfe) Senghas and subgenus Catasetum section Catasetum, However, the authors believe many groups of subgenus Catasetum section Isoceras (Mansf.) Senghas can not be resolved without conducting extensive fieldwork in their native habitat or without the collaboration of other experts in the genus.
41761963|Two species of Epidendrum from the Guayana shield never accurately illustrated for the flora of Venezuela, E. apuahuense and E. longicolle, are discussed and illustrated. Dos especies de Epidendrum del macizo de Guayana que no se haban sido illustrados con precisin para la flora de Venezuela, E. apuahuense y E. longicolle, son discutidos e ilustrados.
41761644|Four holomorphic species are described as novel within the known Pleospora/Stemphylium relationship on the basis of single-conidium isolates developed in culture. The teleomorph and anamorph names and descriptions are attributable to E. G. Simmons: Pleospora paludiscirpi sp. nov. and Stemphylium paludiscirpi anam. nov. from Scirpus sp.; P. sedicola sp. nov. and S. sedicola anam. nov. from Sedum spectabile; P. tomatonis sp. nov. and S. tomatonis anam. nov. from Lycopersicon esculentum; and P. eturmiuna sp. nov. and S. eturmiunum anam. nov. from Lycopersicon esculentum.
41761516|Four new combinations within the Schizachyrium scoparium complex (Poaceae) are proposed. A study of the morphology and geography suggests that Schizachyrium scoparium var. divergens, var. littorale, and var. neomexicanum are best treated as subspecies of S. scoparium, and var. virile is best treated as forma of subspecies divergens. Neotypification for Andropogon divergens is proposed here.
41761514|A nomenclatural reassessment of Herissantia (Malvaceae) and its generic synonyms asserts that the generic names Beloere Shuttlew., Bogenhardia Rchb., Gayoides Small, and Pseudobastardia Hassler are illegitimate as each is typified by the type of Herissantia Medik., Sida crispa L.
41761617|A monographic revision of the neotropical genus Macrocarpaea (Gentianaceae: Helieae) has been initiated. The taxonomic and nomenclatural background is provided as an introduction in this first of several papers. These gentians are typically montane shrubs with large, funnelform, night-blooming, bat-pollinated flowers and have a high rate of species endemicity. It is also an excellent group from which to study neotropical montane biogeography, since they occur in all major neotropical montane habitats. Three new species are described and illustrated: Macrocarpaea angelliae (Ecuador) in discussion with M. stenophylla where a neotype is selected, M. ayangannae (Guyana), and M. luteynii (Colombia). New synonymy is reported for one published species [Macrocarpaea guttifera = Ravenia biramosa (Rutaceae)] and six "nomen herbariorum": "Axelsonia globiflora Dusn, ined." = M. rubra, "M. buchtienii Gilg, ined." = M. cinchoniifolia, "M. ekmanii Ewan, ined." = M. pinetorum, "M. gilgiana Rusby, ined." = M. cochabambensis, "M. peduncularis Rusby, ined." = M. bangiana, and "M. tabacifolia Ewan, ined." = M. cinchoniifolia.
41761313|The authorship of Euthamia, Gaura glabra, G. marginata, G. parviflora, Iris hookeri, and Lachnanthes tinctorum is addressed.
41761946|Barringtonia jebbiana is described from the Conservation International expedition to the previously unexplored Muller Range. The new tree is distinguished by its leptocaulous architecture, 1-2(-4)-flowered inflorescence, absence of staminodes, and a unique ecology. Distributional and taxonomic notes are also provided for the recently-described B. josephstaalensis, still poorly understood despite its unusual qualities.
41761935|Ardisia lammersiana (Myrsinaceae) and Psychotria leptothyrsa var. defretesiana (Rubiaceae) are described from the Conservation International Mamberamo River Expedition. The new plants are locally common understory shrubs from tributaries of the lower drainage, occurring primarily in seasonally flooded forest. Among the New Guinea species in subgen. Akosmos, Ardisia lammersiana is easily identified by its long peduncles (7.0-10.5 cm), long pedicels (13-20 mm), and white flowers. The second novelty (Psychotria leptothyrsa var. defretesiana) is distinguished by its architectural form, obtuse leaf-blades, erect panicles, and 3-4-ridged pyrenes.
41761926|During the preparation of a taxonomic revision of Neomarica, it was found that seven species required new combinations. Based on studies of morphological features from protologues, type specimens, additional herbarium specimens, and observations in the field and of cultivated plants, these seven new combinations are here presented.
41761582|A new and distinctive species oiMacaranga is described from submontane forest in Borneo. As with the majority of species in sect. Pachystemon, Macaranga velutiniflora has unistaminate flowers, trilocular anthers, 4-5 carpellate fruits, and fused styles that persist as a small crown at the apex of the fruit. The new species was also found to be inhabited by ants of the genus Crematogaster, for which the stipules and stems are especially modified, and to be pollinated by thrips.
41761925|A new species of Meliosma (Sabiaceae), M. longepedicellata, from southeastern Ecuador, in the Amotape-Huancabamba zone, is described and illustrated. The new species mainly differs from the Venezuelan M. tachirensis in having inflorescences with longer pedicels (3.0-6.0 vs. 0.5-3.0 mm), flower buds globose before anthesis (vs. flower buds oblong), shorter outer petals (2.0-2.5 vs. 3.0-3.5 mm), and staminodes of subsquare shape (vs. staminodes lanceolate). Relationships with other morphologically related species are also discussed. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Meliosma (Sabiaceae), Meliosma longepedicellata, del suroriente de Ecuador, en la zona Amotape-Huancabamba. La nueva especie es algo parecida pero diferente de la especie venezolana M. tachirensis por sus inflorescencias con pedicelos ms largos (3.0-6.0 vs. 0.5-3.0 mm), botones florales globosos (vs. botones florales oblongos), ptalos externos ms pequeos (2.0-2.5 vs. 3.0-3.5 mm), y estaminodios subcuadrados (vs. estaminodios lanceolados). Se discute sus relaciones con otras especies morfolgicamente parecidas.
41761792|Draba poluniniana, a new species from Nepal, is described. Its relationship to D. lasiophylla and D. tibetica is discussed.
41761853|Continuing studies of neotropical Goodyerinae has revealed that 11 transfers are required in the genera Aspidogyne (9) and Microchilus (2). Furthermore the descriptions of 31 new taxa are required in the genera Aspidogyne (3), Ligeophila (1), Microchilus (21 species, 2 subspecies, 2 varieties) and Platythelys (2). Extensions of distributional records are reported for 8 species. Ethnobotanical uses are recorded for 3 Ecuadorian species. Erythrodes cornejoi, E. serripetala and Ligeophila chinimensis are formally reduced to synonymy of Platythelys venustula, Aspidogyne bidentifera and Ligeophila juruenensis respectively. Illustrations are provided of 35 of the 54 taxa treated.
41761519|Six new species of Masdevallia are described from Colombia (M aguirrei and M. vittatula), Ecuador (M. josei), and Peru (M. bryophila, M. jarae, and M. titan). Masdevallia vittatula is a member of subgenus Amanda, while the remaining five are members of subgenus Masdevallia. Masdevallia jarae belongs to section Amaluzae, M. titan belongs to section Coriaceae subsection Durae, M. josei belongs to section Masdevallia, subsection Oscillantes, and M. aguirrei and M. bryophila belong to section Polyanthae subsection M. Alaticaules.
41761888|Cardamine tianqingiae (Brassicaceae), a new species from Gansu Province, China, is described and illustrated. Characters that distinguish it from the closely related C. caroides are discussed.
41761994|Suringar collected a fruiting specimen of Ipomea on St. Eustatius in 1884 which Urban described as I. sphenophylla in 1908. The type material cannot be located and only one addtional sterile specimen is known, collected by Boldingh in 1905-1906. An extant population of the species was located in flower in 1994. Based on this new material, an amended description of dimorphic flowers, a swollen root system, and cotyledons is supplied. A complete specimen is designated as neotype.
41761476|Draba cusickii var. pedicellata from Nevada and D. weberi from Colorado are described as new taxa, while D. sharsmithii and D. incrassata from east-central California are raised from varietal status to the rank of species. The latter three taxa are particularly narrow endemics, with D. weberi currently known from only a single small population in Summit County, Colorado.
41761657|The Passiflora lobbii group is re-evaluated using morphological and distributional data. The group as here circumscribed comprises a total of 10 taxa (8 species and 3 subspecies). Six of these taxa are new to science: Passiflora callacallensis, P. lobbii subsp. ayacuchoensis, P. podlechii, P. sagasteguii, P. sanchezii, and P. tesserula. The new status Passiflora lobbii subsp. obtusiloba is proposed. Nine of these 10 taxa occur in Peru, and 8 are endemic to that country. Taxon delimitation is based on floral and leaf morphology. There is also ecological differentiation between taxa, and most taxa are geographically isolated.
41755028|Croton glandulosus is one of the most common and widespread species of the genus. It is a morphologically variable species for which more than thirty varieties have been described. This work provides a critical evaluation of the varieties of C. glandulosus that have been applied to specimens from North America north of Mexico. Five natively occurring varieties are recognized in this region. Several varieties are reduced to synonymy, and the new combination C. glandulosus var. arenicola is made. Lectotypes are designated for those varieties lacking a designated holotype. Croton glandulosus es una de las especies ms comunes y ampliamente distribuidas del gnero. Es morfolgicamente variable y de ella se han descrito ms de treinta variedades. Este trabajo proporciona una evaluacin crtica de las variedades de C. glandulosus que se han aplicado a especmenes de Norte Amrica al norte de Mxico. Se reconocen cinco variedades que ocurren nativamente en esta regin. Varias variedades son reducidas a sinonimia, y se hace la nueva combinacin de C. glandulosus var. arenicola. Se designan lectotipos para aquellas variedades que carecen de un holotipo designado.
41761719|Additional collections and observations of living material shed new light on Salvia subg. Calosphace sect. Wrightiana, which comprises three species endemic to Cuba and Hispaniola. A new key and expanded descriptions are presented, a lectotype is designated for Salvia wunschmannii, which is a synonym of S. densiflora. One species, S. strobilanthoides, is known only from the type and has not been collected since 1860.
41761959|Limits of the monospecific genus Planodes are expanded to include an additional species previously placed in Arabis, Cardamine, or Sibara. The new combination P. mexicanum is proposed. The distinguishing characters separating Planodes from related genera are given, as well as a detailed generic description and a key to the two species of this genus.
41761758|Eight new rbcL DNA sequences and 15 new sequences from the 5' end of the chloroplast ndhF gene were obtained from representative Dipsacales and outgroup taxa. These were analyzed in combination with previously published sequences for both regions. In addition, sequence data from the entire ndhF gene, the trriL-F intergenic spacer region, the trnL intron, the matK region, and the rbcL-atpB intergenic spacer region were collected for 30 taxa within Dipsacales. Phylogenetic relationships were inferred using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood methods. Inferred tree topologies are in strong agreement with previous results from separate and combined analyses of rbcL and morphology, and confidence in most major clades is now very high. Concerning controversial issues, we conclude that Dipsacales in the traditional sense is a monophyletic group and that Triplostegia is more closely related to Dipsacaceae than it is to Valerianaceae. Heptacodium is only weakly supported as the sister group of the Caprifolieae (within which relationships remain largely unresolved), and the exact position of Diervilleae is uncertain. Within Morinaceae, Acanthocalyx is the sister group of Morina plus Cryptothladia. Dipsacales now provides excellent opportunities for comparative studies, but it will be important to check the congruence of chloroplast results with those based on data from other genomes.
41761965|In 1776, Rottb0ll published 12 species from Rolander's collection of plants of Suriname. Here, we update the taxonomic identity of those species, discussing, whenever pertinent, their nomenclatural status. Six of the 12 names and also two of their synonyms, one the name of a species described by Linn filius and another described by Kunth, are lectotypified. Type localities and dates are provided, whenever possible. Em 1776, Rottbll publicou 12 espcies das colees de plantas do Suriname de Rolander. Faz-se aqui a atualizao da identidade taxonmica dessas espcies, discutindo quando pertinente seu estado nomenclatural. Seis dos 12 nomes e tambm duas de suas sinonmias, urna espcie descrita por Linn filius e outra descrita por Kunth, so lectotipificados. As localidades-tipo e datas so informadas sempre que possvel.
41761686|A listing of all validly published names assigned to Polygonaceae Juss. subfamily Eriogonoideae Am. is presented with full bibliographic citations, indication of types, and the taxonomic fate of each. Lectotypes or neotypes are designed for Chorizanthe [unranked] Orthosperma Parry, Chorizanthe subsect. Perennes Goodman, C. dasyantha Phil., C. flavescens Phil., C. pauciflora Phil., C. rosea Phil., C. tenuis Phil., C. umbellata Phil., C. vaginata var. arida Rmy, Eriogonum abertianum Torr., E. annuum Nutt., E. annuum Raf., nom. Meg., E. arborescens Greene, E. baileyi S. Watson, E. biumbellatum Rydb., E. bloomeri Parish, E. brevicaule var. pumilum S. Stokes ex M. E. Jones, E. cernuum Nutt., E. cernuum var. umbraticum Eastw., E. clavellatum Small, E. compositum Douglas ex Benth., E. composition var. leianthum Hook., E. contortum Small ex Rydb., E. croceum Small, E. cyclosepalum Greene, E. dasyantheum Torr. & A. Gray, E. dasyanthum var. jepsonii Greene, E. deductum Greene, E. delicatulum S. Watson, E. depauperatum Small, E. dioecium Raf., E. douglasii Benth., E. dumosum Greene, E. fasciculatum Benth., E. foliosum S. Watson, E. grande Greene, E. hausknechtii Dammer, E. helianthemifolium Benth., E. heracleoides var. simplex S. Watson ex Piper, E. incanum Torr. & A. Gray, E. jamesii Benth., E. jamesii war. flavescens S. Watson, E. lachnogynum Torr, ex Benth., E. lateriflorum Raf., E. latum Small ex Rydb., E. lindheimerianum Scheele, E. lobbii Torr. & A. Gray, E. longifolium Nutt., E. longulum Greene, E. marifolium Torr. & A. Gray, E. mohavense S. Watson, E. montanum Howell, E. multiflorum Benth., E. nortonii Greene, E. nudum Benth., E. nudum var. pauciflorum S. Watson, E. nutans var. glabratum Reveal, E. oblongifolium var. minus Benth., E. ochrocephalum subsp. calcareum S. Stokes, E. orthocladon Torr., E. ovalifolium var. cerastoides Gand., E. ovalifolium var. cyclophyllum Gand., E. ovalifolium var. depressum Blank., E. palmen S. Watson, E. phlyarnaceoides Torr., E. pilosum S. Stokes, E. pinetorum Greene, E. piperi Greene, E. polifolium Benth., E. polyanthum Benth., E. porten Small, E. proliferum Torr. & A. Gray, E. pyrolifolium var. coryphaeum Torr. & A. Gray, E. racemosum Nutt., E. reclinatum Greene, E. roseiflorum Gand., E. rubescens Greene, E. saxatile S. Watson, E. tenellum var. ramosissimum Benth., E. texanum Scheele, E. umbellatum subsp. hypoleium Piper, E. umbellatum var. minus I. M. Johnst., E. undulatum Benth., E. ursinum S. Watson, E. vimineum var. caninum Greene, E. vineum Small, E. virgatum var. rubidum Jeps. ex H. L. Bauer, E. wasatchense M. E. Jones, E. wrightii Torr, ex Benth., E. wrightii var. floccosum Benth., E. wrightii var. mem branaceum S. Stokes ex Jeps., and E. wrightii var. subscaposum S. Watson. The following new combinations are proposed: Eriogonum arcuatum var. rupicola (Reveal) Reveal, E. arcuatum var. xanthum (Small) Reveal, E. brevicaule var. bannockense (S. Stokes) Reveal, E. lachnogynum var. sarahiae (N. D. Atwood & A. Clifford) Reveal, E. marifolium Torr. & A. Gray var. cupulatum (S. Stokes) Reveal, E. microthecum var. phoeniceum (L. M. Shultz) Reveal, E. multiflorum Benth. var. riograndis (G. L. Nesom) Reveal, E. rsense var. beatleyae (Reveal) Reveal, E. sphaerocephalum Douglas ex Benth. var. sublineare (S. Stokes) Reveal, E. umbellatum var. dumosum (Greene) Reveal, and E. wootonii (Reveal) Reveal. The genus Sidotheca Reveal is established as a new name for Oxytheca sect. Neoxytheca and Acanthoscyphus is accepted as distinct from Oxytheca. As a result the combinations Acanthoscyphus parishii var. abramsii (McGregor) Reveal, A. parishii var. cienegensis (Ertter) Reveal, A. parishii var. goodmaniana (Ertter) Reveal, Sidotheca caryophylloides (Parry) Reveal, S. emarginata (H. M. Hall) Reveal, and S. trilobata (A. Gray) Reveal are established. Eriogonum puberulum will shortly be established as the type of a new genus to be named for the late John Thomas Howell. The subtr. Chorizanthineae Reveal is established and validated by a reference to the Latin description associated with a Roberty & Vautier name, Cohort Chorizanthastreae.
41755023|Eriophyton sunhangii (Lamiaceae), from eastern Xizang (Tibet), China, is described as new. A key is provided to highlight features distinguishing it from the only other species in the genus, E. wallichii. Eriophyton sunhangii is so far known only from Zhuoga-la, west of the city of Changdu (Qamdo, or Chamdo).
41761492|An unpublished manuscript by Alexander Anderson, second director of the St. Vincent Botanical Garden, presents a list, a "hortus", of the plants cultivated there in 1790. Anderson was trained at the Physick Garden in Chelsea and had some education in botany. He later worked in a hospital in St. Lucia and had contact with physicians in the United States and England. His manuscript indicates those plants of medicinal value which were under cultivation, and the diseases or afflictions that may be treated with them. Anderson refers to the citation of medicinal plants in the publications of Sloane (1707-1725) and Hughes (1750), but Sloane employed European medicines and Hughes was not trained in medicine. William Wright, a practicing physician of Jamaica, published in 1787 on medicinal plants of Jamaica, but he mentioned fewer plants than did Anderson, and there is no evidence that Anderson knew of Wright's work. Anderson's manuscript offers the broadest survey of the diseases and possible useful medicines for the Caribbean Islands of that period.
41761708|The Dominican Republic moss flora stands out within the Caribbean countries because of the high species richness and number of disjuncts. The flora is comprised of 467 taxa in 207 genera, and 61 families. We report 62 new records and 82 disjuncts for this flora that shows affinity with other Greater Antilles and Central America. Within the context of the Caribbean and in terms of conservation, this flora is important because it represents both the highest reported moss species richness and 82 unique disjuncts within the West Indies.
41761928|The Economic Botany Collection at Harvard University contains economically and culturally important plants from around the world and is one of the largest collections of its kind. The collection houses a unique set of twenty-five pineapple fabrics (Ananas comosus) that reveal the historical and contemporary uses of this important fiber plant. An inventory of the raw and processed pineapple fibers was taken and each specimen was examined with regard to its corresponding collection data.
41761802|The genus Epigynum Wight from Southeast Asia is revised. Five species are recognized. A key to the species and descriptions are given.
41761698|The eight editions of Gray's Manual are overviewed, with special attention being given to the first six, the editions in which Asa Gray was sole author (editions one through five) or co-author (edition six). Changes to the editions are summarized and reviews, positive in the beginning and more critical later with the sixth edition, are discussed. While Gray himself admitted that he failed in his effort to make the Manual a vade mecum he did succeed in providing an excellent identification manual for the region in a single volume. This Manual would be used by almost all students of the flora's region, including those who would criticize later editions when it did not keep up with all of the botanical discoveries that were occurring in the Manual's range.
41761771|A preliminary checklist of the Orchidaceae from the Cuao-Sipapo massif, Amazonas state, Venezuela, is presented, based on published reports and specimens collected during three expeditions conducted by the authors. A new species, Octomeria tapiricataractae, collected in September 2001, is described and illustrated. Habitat, elevation, and voucher(s) are reported for each species. Illustrations are provided for the new species and two other orchids for which there are no detailed drawings currently available. A total 40 genera and 69 species of Orchidaceae are reported herein, including 14 genera and 34 species reported for the first time. A final version of this checklist, in preparation, will illustrate all the orchid species reported in the Cuao-Sipapo massif. Se presenta un catlogo preliminar de las orqudeas del macizo Cuao-Sipapo, estado Amazonas, Venezuela, basado en reportes publicados previamente y en muestras colectadas en el transcurso de tres expediciones en las que participaron los autores. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie colectada en septiembre del 2001, Octomeria tapiricataractae. Se reporta el ambiente donde se encontr cada especie, la altitud o rango de altitud donde fue colectada y los especmenes de referencia. Se ilustran una especie nueva y otras dos orqudeas para las que no se haban publicado dibujos detallados. Una versin final de este catlogo, en preparacin, ilustrar todas las especies de orqudeas reportadas para el macizo del Cuao-Sipapo.
41761933|Two new species of treelets/shrubs of the family Rutaceae, known only from the remnant wet forests of Province Los Ros in western Ecuador, are described and illustrated. Amyris centinelensis is characterized by the unifoliolate large leaves, long petioles, and large fruits, the largest among the South American unifoliolate species. Zanthoxylum bonifaziae is distinguished by the large paripinnate leaves, absence of spines, and mainly by the distinctive short, cauline inflorescences. Their relationships with closely related species are discussed. Se describen dos nuevas especies de arbolillos/arbustos de la familia Rutaceae, solamente conocidas de los remanentes de bosques muy hmedos de la Provincia Los Ros, en la regin occidental del Ecuador. Amyris centinelensis se caracteriza por presentar grandes hojas unifolioladas, largos pecolos y grandes frutos, los ms grandes entre las especies unifolioladas en Amrica del Sur. Zanthoxylum bonifaziae se distingue por ser inerme, poseer grandes hojas paripinnadas, y principalmente por sus muy distintivas y cortas inflorescencias caulinares. Se discuten sus relaciones con las especies ms cercanas.
41761912|Vaccinium obatapaquiniorum is described from karst habitats in Papua New Guinea's southern region. The new Vaccinium is distinguished from related species primarily by its unusually small flowers and dorsally spurred anthers.
41761525|Corallorhiza comprises 10 species of leafless, mycotrophic, temperate orchids that are restricted to North and Central America, except for a single circumboreal species (C. trifida). Color forms are common in Corallorhiza, meaning that color is often not a reliable character for distinguishing taxa. Three long-recognized species show patterns of infraspecific variation that allow approximate morphological groups to be defined. Some of these groups have been recognized as species, but they display sufficient character overlap that the groups are best recognized as infraspecific taxa. These include C. striata vars. vreelandii and involuta, C. odontorhiza var. pringlei, and C. maculata var. occidentals. No infra-specific taxa are recognized in C. trifida. Corallorhiza ekmanii, endemic to Hispaiola, is maintained as distinct from the closely related C. odontorhiza, as is C. williamsii, which has not been collected since the 1930's. Corallorhiza wisteriana, long confused with C. maculata, is distinct both morphologically and phenologically from the related C. odontorhiza. The endemic Mexican C. bulbosa, although named in 1845, had not been recognized subsequently as distinct from C. maculata until now. Corallorhiza macrantha is an infrequently collected Mexican species that has the largest flowers in the genus. Corallorhiza mertensiana, another member of the C. maculata group, is maintained as distinct from C. maculata, although some intergrades occur.
41761573|The study of the orchids for the forthcoming Flora of the Cruz Carrillo National Park (Estado Trujillo, Venezuela) has revealed several novelties herein proposed as new. These are Epidendrum pseudocernuum Carnevali & I. Ramrez, Malaxis licatiae Carnevali & I. Ramrez, Malaxis nidiae Carnevali & I. Ramrez, Pleurothallis stergiosii Carnevali & I. Ramrez, and Trichosalpinx deceptrix Carnevali & I. Ramrez. A list of the orchid genera currently known from the national park is presented with some comments on their diversity and endemism levels.
41761785|Glochidion daviesii (Euphorbiaceae) and Scaevola burnettii (Goodeniaceae) are newly described following their recent discovery in Papua Province. An expanded description is provided for Glochidion beehlerii.
41761556|Considerable confusion has been associated with the generic names Lisianthius, Lisianthus, and Lisyanthus among the neotropical gentians. The earliest name, Lisianthius, was published by Browne in 1756, and its ending was changed to Lisianthus by Linnaeus in 1767. However, the genus Lisyanthus, also in Gentianaceae and described by Aublet in 1775, should be considered a parahomonym, not a synonym, of Lisianthius. The neotropical genera Helia and Irlbachia, which are closely related to Lisyanthus, were described simultaneously by Martius in 1827. In 1891, Kuntze recognized the problem with Aublet's genus and combined Irlbachia and the Lisyanthus species described by Aublet (and subsequent authors) into Helia, thus explicitly giving the name Helia priority over Irlbachia. Subsequent authors have not accepted Aublet's Lisyanthus, but most retained Helia and Irlbachia as separate genera until 1985, when Maas again synonymized these two genera together with several more recent generic names (e.g., Chelonanthus and Calolisyanthus). However, Maas overlooked Kuntze's work and erroneously gave the name Irlbachia priority over Helia in a number of superfluous combinations. This mistake has been followed in several recent floristic works and is here clarified and discussed, as are the typification and nomenclatural problems associated with Aublet's Lisyanthus. The nomenclature of the subtribe Lisianthiinae is also discussed, and this name is lectotypified with Lisianthius P. Br. Additionally, the new combinations Chelonanthus longistylus, C. matogrossensis, and C. purpurascens are made.
41761992|Four species and two subspecies of Andreaea are recognized in China: A. morrisonensis Nog., A. mutabilis Hook. f. & Wils., A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. rupestris, A. rupestris ssp. fauriei (Besch.) Schultze-Motel and A. wangiana Chen. The following species are relegated to synonymy: A. likiangensis Chen is referred to A. rupestris ssp. rupestris; A. mamillosula Chen to A. rupestris ssp. fauriei; A. yiinnanensis Broth, to Didymodon nigrescens (Mitt.) Saito, and Andreaea kashyapii is referred to Didymodon subandreaeoides (Kindb.) Zander.
41761483|Studies on New World Ipomoea have resulted in the following changes in Ipomoea section Calonyction: the recognition of I, skutchii sp. nov., the exclusion of two species previously included in the section, I. tastensis and I. violcea., and the reinstatement of I. santillanii. Considerations on character weighting are presented.
41761971|Xyris bracteicaulis (Xyridaceae) is described as a new species known only from a single collection from Long Island, New York. The Coastal Plain pondshore habitat in New York supports dynamic plant communities with species rare for the state. The new species is described, illustrated, and compared to morphologically similar specimens.
41761869|Macaranga daviesii is described from the 2005 Kaijende Highlands Expedition. The new species is distinguished from other congeners in the Longistipulata complex primarily by its unusual leaves and by the solitary pistillate flowers.
41761826|A new species of Apocynaceae, Tabernaemontana ternifolia, from the Philippines is described. A key to the species of Tabernaemontana in the Philippines is presented.
41761847|Stelis bricenorum, a new species from the Municipality of Guaina, Amazonas state, Venezuela, is described and illustrated. It has been collected both in the Rio Negro (and therefore the Amazon, along the Yavita-Maroa road) and Orinoco river ("cao Chimita", affluent of the Atacavi river) basins. Stelis bricenorum is similar to S. santiagensis, from which it can be easily distinguished by its relatively smaller habit, the wider sepals, and the glabrous petals. Se describe y se ilustra Stelis bricenorum, una nueva especie del municipio Guaina, estado Amazonas, Venezuela. Esta especie ha sido colectada tanto en la cuenca del Ro Negro (y por lo tanto en la del ro Amazonas, a lo largo de la carretera Yavita-Maroa) como en la cuenca del Orinoco (en cao Chimita, un tributario del ro Atacavi). Stelis bricenorum es similar a S. santiagensis, de la cual se distingue fcilmente por su hbito relativamente ms pequeo, sus spalos ms anchos y sus ptalos glabros.
41761791|Three new species of Kefersteinia from Guatemala and Panama are described and illustrated. Kefersteinia alata is closely related to K. costaricensis but differs in the larger size of the plant, the narrow, elliptic sepals, the erect petals incurved along the column, the rounded apex of the lip, and the distinctly longer tooth under the column. Among the species of sect. Umbonatae, K. angustifolia may be recognized by its very narrow linear leaves, the proportionately small petals, and the peculiar spatulate-flabellate lip. Kefersteinia tinschertiana is a member of sect. Kefersteinia, differing from other species of the K. lactea group in the deeply bilobed apex of lip, the high laminar callus, and the peculiar ornamentation of the column. Kefersteinia elegans is first recorded and illustrated for the flora of Panama. A key is provided for the species of Kefersteinia in Mesoamerica.
41761839|Yanomamua araca is described as a new genus and species from Serra do Araa, an outlier of the Guayana Region in the state of Amazonas, Brazil. Yanomamua is unique in the Gentianaceae as an herb with sessile subcordate pandurate (fiddle-shaped) leaves, and inflorescences composed of oppositely paired solitary flowers situated in the axils of the upper three leaf pairs. Only limited material is available, and flower morphology is unknown. A phylogenetic approach was used to investigate possible relationships to other genera in Helieae, which yielded a likely relationship to several genera in the Symbolanthus-Chelonanthus clade but not a strong relationship to any particular genus. Instead it appears that this genus might represent a more internal, older branch within the tribe.
41761883|Pinus densata, universally considered a Tertiary hybrid species, was studied throughout its distribution range, together with all the related species that form the P. kesiya complex. The heterogeneously classified pine populations of this complex from the Tibetan region of the Brahmaputra catchment area are distinguished as a new subspecies, Pinus densata subsp. tibetica, characteristic of deep valley systems under 3000 m. In areas in N Yunnan and S Sichuan, where populations of P. densata and P. yunnanensis have been in recent contact, secondary introgressive hybridization was distinguished and a new hybrid, P.  naxiorum, is described. Biogeographic data for P. densata subsp. tibetica (including a distribution map for both subspecies) are given, along with data from a discovered eastern site of P. densata var. pygmaea. A key that partially revises the key from Flora of China and summarizes the taxa of the P. kesiya complex and other similar taxa is given. A hypothesis of the phylogeography of P. densata is formulated based on the compilation of available data.
41761490|We report a series of phylogenetic analyses of selected taxa from several presumably closely related groups of angiosperm families, i.e., Apocynaceae/Asclepiadaceae, Araliaceae/Apiaceae, Capparaceae/Brassicaceae, Caprifoliaceae/Dipsacaceae/Valerianaceae,Moraceae/Urticaceae, and Sapindaceae/Aceraceae/Hippocastanaceae. These studies lead to the conclusion that Apocynaceae, Araliaceae, Capparaceae, Caprifoliaceae, Moraceae, and Sapindaceae are paraphyletic, with the related families nested within them. Studies within Fabales, Papaverales, Lamiales, and several other groups of families, indicate a similar pattern. In most of these cases the paraphyletic group is best developed in the tropics, with groups that are more widespread in temperate regions evolving later. With a few exceptions, members of the paraphyletic group are mostly woody plants, while members of the derived temperate lines are mostly herbaceous. In general, it appears that the distinctive morphological specializations of the more temperate lines can be traced to related tropical plants. Traditional family circumscriptions are apparently the result of a temperate bias on the part of plant systematists. These do not reflect phylogenetic relationships accurately and will tend to impede progress in understanding the diversification of angiosperms. We recommend a series of taxonomic changes, most of which involve the union of traditionally recognized families, and we provide phylogenetic definitions of the newly circumscribed taxa. We hope that these taxonomic changes will draw attention to the morphological diversity among the tropical relatives of familiar temperate plants, and will help us understand the sequence of events leading to the origin and radiation of temperate groups.
41761875|The genus Sandbergia (Brassicaceae) is established, and detailed descriptions of the genus and its two species, as well as a key to species, are provided. The new combination S. perplexa is proposed. The characters distinguishing Sandbergia from other members of the tribe Boechereae are discussed.
41761931|Rhodamnia kamialiensis and Xanthomyrtus splendens are described from ultrabasic substrates in the Kamiali Wildlife Management Area, Papua New Guinea. The new species are known only from their type gatherings and are preliminarily assigned the IUCN status of "critically endangered." Rhodamnia kamialiensis has much larger leaves and more abruptly prolonged leaf apices than other species in its genus. The glossy upper leaf surface with flat or impressed midrib separates Xanthomyrtus splendens from its congeners.
41761667|Eria bhutanica, a new species from Bhutan, is described and illustrated.
41761764|This paper describes the folk taxonomy and utilization of Macaranga (Euphorbiaceae), a common and diverse genus of early successional trees in Borneo, by the Kedayan of Brunei. Two categories (folk generics) of Macaranga, Merakubong and Sedaman, are recognized by the Kedayan based on ecological and morphological characteristics. Merakubong is monotypic and refers to the morphologically distinctive species Macaranga gigantea. Sedaman is polytypic and refers to nine Macaranga species. Six of the nine Sedaman species are given vernacular (folk specific) epithets. The remaining three Macaranga species are collectively known as Sedaman Merakit. Both morphological salience and cultural significance are considered to be important in influencing the Kedayan recognition of the seven Sedaman folk-specific taxa. Thirteen uses for the low density wood of Sedaman are described.
41761827|Studies of Neotropical Orchidaceae in subtribe Goodyerinae has revealed the presence of 39 undescribed taxa belonging in five genera. The new entities are found in the genera Aspidogyne (1), Kreodanthus (3), Ligeophila (2), Microchips (31 species, 1 subspecies), and Stephanothelys (1). Micmchilus paleaceus (Schltr.) Ormerod is neotypified and illustrated.
41761574|During a collection program in and around the Bukit BakaBukit Raya National Park in Kalimantan, Indonesian Borneo, a number of specimens either representing new species or suggesting a reevaluation of the limits of currently accepted species were collected. This paper describes new species in Flacourtiaceae (Ryparosa porcata) and Violaceae (Rinorea crassa). Species limits in the Rinorea longiracemosa complex are reevaluated, and R. longiracemosa s. str. is found not to grow in the Flora Malesiana area, but only to the north. Malesian material identified as R. longiracemosa is to be assigned to R. macropyxis or R. cinerea comb, nov.; the latter is divided into two subspecies, R. cinerea ssp. cinerea and ssp. mahyari.
41761868|Arabis elgonensis (Brassicaceae), a new species from Mount Elgon, Uganda, is described and illustrated. Its distinguishing characters from the other species of Arabis are discussed.
41761757|To further clarify phylogenetic relationships within Dipsacales, we analyzed new and previously published rbcL sequences, alone and in combination with morphological data. We also examined relationships within Adoxaceae using rbcL and nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences. We conclude from these analyses that Dipsacales comprise two major lineages: Adoxaceae and Caprifoliaceae (sensu Judd et al., 1994), which both contain elements of traditional Caprifoliaceae. Within Adoxaceae, the following relationships are strongly supported: (Viburnum (Sambucus (Sinadoxa (Tetradoxa, Adoxa)))). Combined analyses of Caprifoliaceae yield the following: (Caprifolieae (Diervilleae (Linnaeeae (Morinaceae (Dipsacaceae (Triplostegia, Valerianaceae)))))). On the basis of these results we provide phylogenetic definitions for the names of several major clades. Within Adoxaceae, Adoxina refers to the clade including Sinadoxa, Tetradoxa, and Adoxa. This lineage is marked by herbaceous habit, reduction in the number of perianth parts, nectaries of multicellular hairs on the perianth, and bifid stamens. The clade including Morinaceae, Valerianaceae, Triplostegia, and Dipsacaceae is here named Valerina. Probable synapomorphies include herbaceousness, presence of an epicalyx (lost or modified in Valerianaceae), reduced endosperm, and distinctive chemistry, including production of monoterpenoids. The clade containing Valerina plus Linnaeeae we name Linnina. This lineage is distinguished by reduction to four (or fewer) stamens, by abortion of two of the three carpels, and possibly by supernumerary inflorescences bracts.
41761721|Outside of the principal distribution and major diversification of Macrocarpaea in the Andes, smaller groups of species are found in the Greater Antilles of the Caribbean, Mesoamerica, the Guayana Highlands, and montane Atlantic forests of Brazil. Here, a complete revision of the genus in the latter region is presented recognizing eight species that correspond to the entirety of Macrocarpaea sect. Tabacifoliae'. M atlantica J.R. Grant & V. Trunz, sp. nov., M. dolichophylla J.R. Grant & V. Trunz, sp. nov., M. glaziovii Gilg, M. illecebrosa J.R. Grant, M. inesiae J.R. Grant & V. Trunz, sp. nov., M. obtusifolia (Griseb.) Gilg, M. orbiculata J.R. Grant & V. Trunz, sp.nov., and M. rubra Malme. These species occur primarily in humid coastal montane rainforests (Mata Atlntica), and two species also occur in campos rupestre montane savannas.
41761824|Sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA were used to infer relationships of Cupressoideae. Fitzroya cupressoides, a genus in the Callitroideae, was used for rooting purposes. Thujopsis and Thuja form a clade, as do Fokienia and Chamaecyparis. Both Cupressus nootkatensis and C. funebris are more closely related to Cupressus than to Chamaecyparis. The Old World species of Cupressus form a clade that is sister to the clade containing Juniperus, Xanthocyparis, and the New World species of Cupressus. Juniperus and Xanthocyparis are each monophyletic and are probably derived from within Cupressus. We herein refer Xanthocyparis vietnamensis and X. nootkatensis to Cupressus.
41761778|Aphragmus bouffordii from Tibet is described and illustrated, and its relationship to the other members of the genus are discussed. A synopsis and key to all seven species of Aphragmus is presented.
41761782|Progress toward a taxonomic revision of Macrocarpaea (Gentianaceae: Helieae) has revealed numerous novelties in this morphologically diverse and unexpectedly species-rich genus. Eleven new species are here described and illustrated from Central and South America: Colombia (M. nicotianifolia and M. schultesii), Costa Rica (M. auriculata), Ecuador (M. subsessilis), Peru (M. gracilis, M. maguirei, M. wurdackii, and M. zophoflora), and Venezuela (M. ewaniana, M. papulosa, and M. weaveri). Macrocarpaea zophoflora is notable for being the first species to be described of Gentianaceae that is known, or recognized, to have free deciduous interpetiolar stipules. The family was previously defined as exstipulate without exception.
41761855|The new species, Seleria tropicalis M. T. Strong, is described and illustrated. Its classification is determined and its relationship to a closely related taxon discussed.
41761860|Eutrema bouffordii and Oraba yueii are described as new from Sichuan Province, China. The relationships and distinguishing characters from their nearest relatives, E. fontana and D. winterbottomii are discussed.
41761649|A discussion of the conservation status of Drosera (Droseraceae) in South America and the Caribbean is presented. Despite great horticultural interest in the family and evidence that wild species have been collected and used for commercial purposes, the major threat to their conservation continues to be the destruction of habitats. Currently we consider only two South American species of the genus to be threatened: D. cendeensis from the Venezuelan Andes and an undescribed species from the Peruvian Andes. However, the conservation status of species supposedly protected in national parks and other similar areas should be re-evaluated, especially in areas where this protection exists more in theory than in practice. Se prsenta una primera discusion sobre el estado de conservacin del gnero Drosera (Droseraceae) en Sudamrica y el Caribe. A pesar del gran inters horticultural de la familia y de evidencias que demuestran que plantas silvestres han sido extradas de la naturaleza con fines comerciales, el principal problema que enfrentan algunas de estas especies es la destruccin de sus ambientes naturales. Hasta la fecha y con la informacion disponible, slo dos especies son consideradas tentativamente eomo amenazadas. Sin embargo, se debe re-evaluar el estado de conservacion de aquellas especies supuestamente protegidas en Parques Nacionales u otras figuras similares, sobre todo en regiones donde esta proteccion pueda existir mas en la teoria que en la prctica.
41761316|Among collections in the herbarium of the Arnold Arboretum (A), I detected and here describe two new species of Salix (Salicaceae): S. cacuminis from North Korea and S. bouffordii from Yunnan.
41761618|Our phylogenetic analyses based on both morphological and molecular data support the monophyly of the Hamamelidoideae and also suggest some new intergeneric relationships in the subfamily. Taking both monophyly and morphological synapomorphies into account, in this paper we present a new suprageneric classification of the Hamamelidoideae, recognizing six tribes: Corylopsideae, Loropetaleae, Hamamelideae, Fothergilleae, Eustigmateae, and Dicorypheae.
41761700|At Harvard Asa Gray established academic instruction during the summer and in so doing he opened facilities to an audience that included not only Harvard College students but also teachers and professionals from across North America. The Summer School of Botany established in 1871 spawned the Summer Schools of Natural History, of Chemistry, and of Geology. His summer school and all subsequent offerings included women. This article places Gray's summer school in the context of his efforts to build botany at Harvard but also documents his influence on instruction and curriculum development.
41761683|Morphological characters and sequences of chloroplast gene matK and nrDNA ITS were used to examine the phylogenetics of Calycanthaceae. Our results support previous hypotheses concerning phylogenetic relationships of Calycanthaceae: Idiospermum is sister to the clade containing Chimonanthus, Sinocalycanthus, and species of Calycanthus. Two sequences are tentative recombinants of divergent paralogues at the 5.8S gene of the nrDNA ITS region in Calycanthus floridus. Two divergent paralogues (A and B) of the ITS region are recognized on the basis of sequence divergence and secondary structure stability. Sequences of paralogue A have low variation across species and genera, while those of paralogue B differ greatly within and among species. A few sequences of the B paralogue are putative pseudogenes, since they have low GC content and low stability of secondary structures, long indels (> 5bp), and base changes in the highly conserved motif. Parsimony analyses based on "A paralogue" sequences generate trees that are congruent with species relationships. Aleles of "B paralogue" coalesce in Idiospermum and Chimonanthus, but not in either Calycanthus or Sinocalycanthus. Idiospermaceae and Calycanthaceae are recognized, while Sinocalycanthus chinensis is considered a species of Calycanthus.
41761583|The Nasa triphylla complex is re-evaluated using morphological characters and distribution data. The complex as here defined comprises a total of 20 taxa in 8 species and 16 subspecies. Eleven of these taxa are new to science: N. dyeri subsp. australis, N. colanii, N. humboldtiana subsp. obliqua, N. humboldtiana subsp. tricolor, N. pteridophylla, N. pteridophylla subsp. geniculata, N. triphylla subsp. colonchensis, N. triphylla subsp. elegans, N. triphylla subsp. flavipes, N. triphylla subsp. loxensis, and N. triphylla subsp. lutescens. The new combination N. triphylla subsp. rudis is provided. Taxon delimitation is based on stem, trichome, and floral morphology. Most new taxa are from northern Peru, which is now the center of diversity for the N. triphylla complex. There is strong ecological differentiation among taxa, and ecologically similar taxa are allopatric.
41761538|In the genus Betula, the East Asian section Betulaster is small and clearly distinct from other groups of the genus. Still, from the very first descriptions of species pertaining to this section, there has existed considerable confusion as to the number of species and their delimitation. Based on a study of herbarium materials preserved at A, DD, GH, LE, MHA, NY, and W, and a limited amount of my own field experience, a taxonomic revision of the section is provided. In all, four species are recognized. The main point is the clarification of position and distinctive characters of Betula cylindrostachya as compared with B. alnoides and B. luminifera. Within the genus, the section occupies a rather isolated position. It certainly is not primitive; progressive traits are very pronounced, but they follow their own direction, divergent from the youngest and most progressive boreal section Betula (formerly called Albae).
41761560|The native gymnosperm flora of the Fiji islands comprises 10 species distributed among the Cycadophyta (Cycas seemannii), the Coniferophyta (Agathis macrophylla, Acmopyle sahniana, Dacrycarpus imbricatus var. patulus, Dacrydium nausoriense, D. nidulum, Podocarpus affinis, P. neriifolius, and Retrophyllwn vitiense), and the Gnetophyta (Gnetum gnemon). Among these, three conifer species (A. sahniana, D. nausoriense, and P. affinis) are endemic, with the remaining five conifers and a single cycad and gnetophyte variously distributed within the Malesian or Melanesian floristic region. All three endemic species (A. sahniana, P. affinis, and D. nausoriense) are narrow endemics, the first reported as being critically endangered and the latter two as endangered. The indigenous taxa C. seemannii and A. macrophylla are listed as vulnerable. Two previously recognized species (Podocarpus decipiens and P. degeneri) are reported as synonyms of P. neriifolius, thus reducing as synonyms of P. neriifolius, thus reducing the total number of previously reported endemic Fijian conifer taxa by two. Fiji's gymnosperm flora is rich for oceanic islands, and their origin is attributed to long-distance dispersal. A key and an annotated checklist for all recognized taxa are provided, the latter which includes information on distribution and conservation status.
41761731|This study presents a complete taxonomic revision of Anthurium sect. Semaeophyllium, which comprises species with trilobed leaf blades. Leaf lobes are always united at the base in these species, and they can be directed forward (i.e., falcate) or to the sides (i.e., spreading) but never toward the back. Under this circumscription, sect. Semaeophyllium comprises 23 species ranging from southern Nicaragua into Peru. Detailed morphological descriptions, diagnoses, representative photographs, distribution maps, and an identification key are provided.
41761844|On the basis of extensive molecular data and comparative morphological studies, the genera Ermania, Gorodkovia, Hedinia, Hediniopsis, Redowskia, Sinosophiopsis, and Sophiopsis, which form a monophyletic group with Smelowskia, are herein united with Smelowskia, a recently conserved generic name. Seven new combinations are proposed in Smelowskia: S. bartholomewii, S. czukotica, S. furcata, S. heishuiensis, S. jacutica, S. micrantha, and S. sophiifolia. A key to the 25 species of Smelowskia, as well as a detailed description of the expanded genus, major synonymies, and distributions are given.
41761830|Gastrodia fimbriata, a new species from the Tenasserim Range in upper peninsular Thailand, is described and illustrated.
41761770|The recently described monospecific genus Guanchezia, restricted to intermediate to high elevations (500-1800 m) in Amazonas state, Venezuela, and neighboring Brazil and Colombia, is characterized and illustrated. Guanchezia differs from Bifrenaria in its ovoid, non-angulate pseudobulbs, with cataphylls covering up to one fourth of the petiole, the terete petiole as long or longer than the leaf blade, the erect inflorescence, and the flowers lacking any ornamentation on the labellum. Se describe y se ilustra el gnero monoespecfico Guanchezia, recientemente descrito y distribuido a elevaciones intermedias y altas (500-1800 m) en el estado Amazonas de Venezuela y en localidades vecinas en Brazil y Colombia. Guanchezia es similar a Bifrenaria pero tiene pseudobulbos ovoides, no-angulados, con catafilos que cubren hasta la cuarta parte basal del pecolo, un pecolo terete tanto o ms largo que la lmina de la hoja, una inflorescencia erecta ms alta que las hojas y flores sin ornamentacin en el labelo.
41761615|A synoptic overview of the systematics of the genus Cryptocentrum (Orchidaceae) is presented. The following new taxa and combinations are proposed: Cryptocentrum subgen. Pseudobulbosa, C. caespitosum, C. dodsonii, Cryptocentrum escoban, C. longipetalum, C. peruvianum ssp. dactylinum, C. peruvianum ssp. minus, and C. silverstonei. A key to identify the recognized taxa is presented, and the new species are described, illustrated and their affinities are discussed. Se presenta una visin sinptica de la sistemtica del gnero Cryptocentrum (Orchidaceae). Se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones: Cryptocentrum subgen. Pseudobulbosa, C. caespitosum, C. dodsonii, Cryptocentrum escoban, C. longipetalum, C. peruvianum ssp. dactylinum, C. peruvianum ssp. minus, and C. silverstonei. Se presenta una clave para identificar los taxa reconocidos en el gnero, y los nuevos taxa se describen, ilustran y sus afinidades se discuten.
41761572|Studies toward a worldwide revision of Euonymus (Celastraceae), based on collections in several herbaria, revealed four new species from Asia, mainly from south central China. Euonymus vermcocarpa, E. pit tosporoides, E. tenuiserrata, and E. prismatomerioides are here described for the first time.
41761766|A revision of the Asian genus Triadica is presented, with three species accepted, T. cochinchinensis, T. sebifera, and T. rotundifolia. For the latter species a new combination is proposed. One new synonym is included, as well as a key to and complete synonymy of all taxa, and a note on the validity of the name Croton macrocarpus.
41761911|Fittingia paniculata is described from karst habitats in Papua New Guinea's Southern Fold Mts. The new species is distinguished by unusually large leaves profusely disposed in pseudowhorls (up to 21 leaves together), and by long staminate panicles.
41761681|In preparation for a monograph of Macrocarpaea (Gentianaceae: Helieae), 23 new species are here described and illustrated: 1 from Colombia (M. biremis), 3 from Ecuador (M. elix, M. gattaca, and M. pringleana), and 19 from Peru (M. canofolia, M. dillonii, M. ercii, M. fortisiana, M. innarrabilis, M. jalea, M. kayakifolia, M. kuelap, M. kuepferiana, M. luya, M. normae, M. obnubilata, M. ostentans, M. pajonalis, M. robin-fosteri, M. tabula-fluctivagifolia, M. tahuantinsuyuana, M. wallnoeferi, and M. weigendiorum). A list of all names originally described in, or transferred to, Macrocarpaea as of year 2002 is presented. Lectotypes are selected for 12 taxa as follows: Lisianthus obtusifolius var. constrictus Griseb., Macrocarpaea bangiana Gilg, M. bogotana Gilg, M. calophylla Gilg, M. chlorantha Gilg, M. cochabambensis Gilg-Ben., M. glaziovii Gilg, M. hartii Krug & Urb., M. micrantha Gilg, M. pachyphylla Gilg, M. polyantha Gilg, and M. rubra Malme. A neo type is selected for M. duquei Gilg-Ben., and M. weberbauen Gilg is excluded from use.
41761872|Luxemburgia mysteriosa, a new species from Alto Misterioso in the saxicolous forest on an inselberg of Esprito Santo, Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared with L. polyandra and L. glazioviana, similar species. According to the criteria of the IUCN Red List of Endangered Plant Species, this species is classified in the critically endangered category. Luxemburgia mysteriosa, uma nova espcie originria das matas saxcolas de um inselberg no Alto Misterioso, Espirito Santo, Brasil,  descrita, ilustrada e comparada corn L. polyandra e L. glazioviana, duas especies semelhantes. De acordo com os criterios da Lista Vermelha de Especies Ameaadas da IUCN, essa especie foi enquadrada na categoria criticamente em perigo.
41761469|The transformation of the tropical forest in the Amazon Basin has aroused a great deal of emotion. Proponents of development feel that it can lead to an increase in the wealth of the countries involved and their populations; detractors point out to the loss of species, the dangers of soil erosion, and nutrient loss, the damaging effect on fisheries and wildlife, as well as the potential for regional and global climatic changes, all of which can be much more harmful than any potential short term gain. In this paper I briefly review the history of development of the Amazon Basin, make a tentative asessment of the degree of change that has taken place, and try to ascertain the costs and benefits of present development. My thesis is that the issue is not whether the area should be developed but how. Development without conservation of natural resources is not sustainable, and preservation of flora and fauna without development is Utopian. I further point out that the basic knowledge for the sustainable development with conservation in the Amazon Basin already exists, and that the problem is one of communication, resource allocation, and political will.
41761605|A new species of Orchidaceae, Tetramicra malpighiarum, an endemic from eastern Cuba, is described. It is the only epiphyte species of Tetramicra in Cuba and it apparently grows exclusively on Malpighia shrubs.
41761840|The species of the Bomarea setacea complex (subgenus Bomarea, Multiflorae group) are examined. Their morphology, leaf anatomy and epicuticular wax is studied. The variability of the population, their ecology and habitat preference is examined in the field. 5 species are recognised: B. crassifolia, B. crocea, B. endotrachys, B. purpurea and B. setacea. The species are distributed from Colombia to southern Peru. They are all very similar to each other, but in several regions two species occur sympatrically.
41761714|The new species Englerocharis dentata and Eudema peruviana are described, illustrated, and their relationships to nearest relatives are discussed. The former is readily distinguished from its other congeners by it broadly spatulate, 7-9-dentate leaves (vs. narrower, entire leaves). Eudema peruviana is the smallest plant in the genus and is hardly 1 cm tall and with linear, glabrous leaves, unbranched caudex without leaf remains, persistent sepals, and broadly globose, angustiseptate fruits. Keys to species of Englerocharis and to the Peruvian species of Eudema are given.
41761297|Dr. Lyman Bradford Smith was the most important specialist of Bromeliaceae, and much of the current knowledge of Mexican Bromeliaceae is unquestionably indebted to him. We present a detailed list of the new taxa and new combinations proposed by Dr. Smith based on Mexican plants, and a list of his publications dealing with Mexican Bromeliaceae.
41761874|The new combinations Descurainia brevisiliqua and D. nelsonii (Brassicaceae) are proposed. Detailed descriptions and distributions are given, and the characters distinguishing them from their nearest relatives in previous classifications (D. obtusa and D. pinnata, respectively) are discussed.
41761603|Four new species of Orchidaceae from Venezuela's Amazonas state are described and illustrated: Catasetum maroanse, Coryanthes gomezii, Pleurothallis sandaliorum, and Sobralia grantica. Se describen y se ilustran cuatro especies nuevas de Orchidaceae del estado Amazonas de Venezuela: Catasetum maroanse, Coryanthes gomezii, Pleurothallis sandaliorum, and Sobralia grantica.
41761939|A new combination, Aconogonon cathayanum is proposed, based on Polygonum cathayanum (Polygonaceae).
41761663|A revision of Dendrobium section Pedilonum, comprising 47 species, three subspecies and four varieties, is presented. The section is widely distributed in South-East Asia, the western Pacific and northern Australia. An artificial key to the species is provided. Broad, poorly-defined concepts of Pedilonum of earlier authors are shown to encompass several discrete units. The limits of Pedilonum are defined, enabling several species formerly placed in Pedilonum to be reassigned to other sections particularly Calcarifera, Calyptwchilus and Platycaulon. Three new species, a new subspecies and four new varieties are described, and one new combination is made here.
41761595|Seven species of Taphrospermum are recognized, of which six grow in China. The new combinations T. himalaicum, T. fontanum, T. verticillatum, T. lowndesii, and T. tibeticum are proposed. The new subspecies T. fontanum subsp. microspermum is described. A key to species is presented, and the relationship and distinguishing characters of Taphrospermum are given. The genus Glaribraya is reduced to synonymy of Taphrospermum.
41761640|A new genus, Gilbertsonia is described and a new combination, G. angulipora is proposed. The new genus is characterized by a unique combination of characters in polypores: a dimitic hyphal system with clamped generative hyphae, binding hyphae with obtuse not tapering tips and brown rot of wood.
41761913|The discovery of Hypserpa calcicola is reported from limestone environments in Papua New Guinea's Southern Fold Mts. Though similar in some respects to H. laurina and H. ademae, the new vine can be easily recognized by its massive panicles, the largest known inflorescence in Malesian Hypserpa.
41761867|This study addresses one aspect of traditional environmental knowledge in Ireland: remembered and currently practiced folk medicine in the Gaeltacht region of County Kerry. Two aims were to research women's knowledge of medicinal plants there and to understand reasons for continuation or discontinuation of transmission of knowledge of those remedies. Forty-five Irish women collectively described a multi-faceted folk medical tradition. Knowledge of plants used as medicine varied in quantity and depth amongst the people who were interviewed. Forty-seven plant species were described as ingredients of "old-time cures." In the context of this study, knowledge of medicinal plants is linked to environmental and botanical knowledge because the majority of plant ingredients were described as obtained from the wild or from a local garden. Informants viewed their knowledge of medicinal plants as cultural or practical, rather than vital to their survival. This is due to a local improvement in the quality and accessibility of modern scientific medical treatment, also referred to as biomedicine. Change in the economy has influenced the content of participants' knowledge of plant remedies; that knowledge has shifted from traditional medicine sourced from the environment to over-the-counter and plantbased remedies purchased at a store. When the ability to recognize and select plants for medicine from the outdoors becomes nonessential, the corresponding environmental knowledge is endangered.
41761585|A number of new species (Cycnoches lusiae, Liparis aphylla, L. verticillata, and Zygosepalum revolution), sections and nomenclatorial transfers are presented, including keys to the sections of the genera Epigeneium and Liparis. The genus Exalaria, is described from the Andes as a close relative of Coiloglossum from New Caledonia. The latter is here tranferred from Cryptostylidinae to Cranichidinae. Comments on the typification of Gongora quinquinervis are provided.
41761703|When a young, enthusiastic Asa Gray came to Cambridge in 1842, he brought with him a small but significant collection of herbarium specimens. Some twenty years later, he bequeathed that collection, then numbering some 200,000, to Harvard University. The subsequent growth and direction of "Gray's Herbarium," and its transformations to the Gray Herbarium and the Harvard University Herbaria, are discussed with respect to five of its Curators and Directors: Sereno Watson, Benjamin L. Robinson, Charles A. Weatherby, Merritt L. Fernald, and Reed C. Rollins.
41761707|A taxonomic revision of Campylocentrum (Orchidaceae) in Costa Rica is presented. The taxonomic history of the genus and its phylogenetic position are discussed. Characters of vegetative and floral morphology are treated, and their taxonomic significance is discussed. The genus is treated as comprising nine species in the country, and a key to species is provided. Each taxon is described on the basis of Costa Rican material, illustrated in a composite plate, and its distribution within the country is assessed. Distribution maps for all the taxa are given. Overall distribution, derivation of name, notes on species ecology, and diagnostic features are presented for each taxon. The names C. parvulum Schltr. and C. multiflorum Schltr. are neotypified. A new species from Costa Rica, C. generalense, is described and illustrated. Se presenta una revisin taxonomica de Campylocentrum (Orchidaceae) en Costa Rica. Se discuten la historia taxonmica del gnero y su posicin filogenetica. Se tratan caracteres de morfologa floral y vegetativa, y se discute su significado taxonmico. El gnero comprende nueve especies en el pas, y se proporciona una clave de especies. Se describe cada taxon con base en material costarricense, se ilustra en una lmina, y se evala su distribucin en el pas. Se presentan mapas de distribucin para todos los taxa. Para cada taxon se presenta la distribucin, la derivation de nombre, notas sobre ecologa de especies y rasgos diagnsticos. Se neotipifican los nombres C. parvulum Schltr. y C. multiflorum Schltr. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Costa Rica, C. generalense.
41761481|Several newly recognized taxa are here described and several new coombinations are made so that these names may be validly published before the publication of The Jepson Manual: Higher Plants of California.
41761311|"Lisyanthus Aubl. 1775" is asserted to be an orthographic variant of Lisianthius P. Browne 1756. Struwe and Albert's (1998) suggestion of Lisyanthus as a later parahomonym of Lisianthius is disputed here. Their lectotypification of "Lisyanthus," tribe Lisianthieae Griseb. 1838 (cited as "Lisyantheae" by Griseb. and by Struwe and Albert), and subtribe Lisianthiinae G. Don 1838 are considered by us as nomenclaturally irrelevant.
41761863|The distribution pattern of the Alstroemeriaceae-Luzuriagaceae clade in the high-mountain regions of Central and South America is examined. This mountain region is divided into 23 geographic regions. The geographic regions are defined by geographic barriers, mostly stretches of lowland between mountains or deep valleys. The similarities of the species composition in the 23 geographic regions are analyzed using distance algorithm UPGMA. The geographic regions are treated like taxa, and the distributions of 143 species are treated as characters. The distribution pattern is compared with vegetation, climate, and geologic patterns. Several distribution boundaries are identified, some are ecological, others geographic. The two most important distribution boundaries are (1) between Brazilian coastal mountains and the Andes (geographic) and (2) between the Chilean/Argentinean Andes and the Andes north of Argentina (ecologicalthe axis of maximal dryness). The first two regions are dominated by Alstroemeria species, the last by Bomarea. In the Tepui region of Venezuela and Brazil almost no Alstroemeriaceae species occur. The center of species diversity for Bomarea is in southern Ecuador/northern Peru; a second small center of diversity is the cordilleras of Costa Rica and northern Panama. In the first region, the eastern mountains of Brazil and surrounding lowlands, around 39 Alstroemeria species and 1 Bomarea species occur. In the Chilean/Argentinean Andes, 37 Alstroemeria species can be found but only 2 Bomarea species. In the more northern Andes, around 115 Bomarea species occur, but only 3 Alstroemeria species. In the Andes, where six barriers can be identified, only two cannot be explained ecologicallyone is geographic and one remains unexplained.
41761991|Only one in three species of Macadamia known from Malesia is native: M. hildebrandii Steenis, a narrow endemic of Sulawesi. Macadamia ternifolia F. Muell. and M. tetraphylla L. A. S. Johnson are introductions from eastern Australia, the former producing the macadamia nut of commerce. Recent botanical explorations on ultramafic substrates in Southeast Sulawesi have uncovered populations of a new species, M. erecta, with close relations to Hildebrand's macadamia.
41761589|Previous phylogenetic analyses for Ebenales, Loasaceae, and their putative relatives suggested that Grubbiaceae and Hydrostachyaceae may be members of Comales. The present study conducted detailed phylogenetic analyses of rbcL sequences for Comales, with Grubbiaceae and Hydrostachyaceae included, to explore hypotheses concerning relationships of Grubbia and Hydrostachys within Comales. Phylogenies were constructed using both parsimony and maximum likelihood methods. A broad parsimony analysis including representatives of various lineages of Asteridae s. l, in addition to all comalean taxa, was first performed to define the comalean clade. This was followed by a detailed analysis on the comalean clade that focused specifically on determining relationships within Comales. The results supported the placements of Grubbia and Hydrostachys in the comalean clade. Furthermore, they suggested that Grubbia may be either the sister of Curtisia or the firstbranching lineage within Comales, and that Hydrostachys is most closely allied to Kirengeshoma and Deutzia within Hydrangeaceae. However, these relationships are not strongly supported by bootstrap and Bremer Support analyses. The results also suggested that the core comalean genera (Cornus, Alangium, Curtisia, Nyssa, Davidia, Camptotheca, Mastixia, and Diplopanax) may not be a monophyletic group; the nyssoids and mastixioids may be more closely related to Hydrangeaceae and Loasaceae than they are to Cornus-Alangium, a result in marked contrast to previous hypotheses. Additional characters, such as DNA sequences from other genes and from more species of Hydrostachys, are needed to further test these new relationships on the basis of the rbcL sequence data.
41761604|Bifrenaria verboonenii, a new species from the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
41761974|Two new genera and three new combinations are proposed herein for Neotropical Capparaceae: Caphexandra, a monospecific genus of shrubs or small trees from southern Mexico to Panama, distinguished by the branchlets with subterminal small cataphylls on the raceme axis, calyces with closed aestivation in bud with the outer pair of sepals enclosing the dimorphic inner pair, asymmetric corollas with large unguiculate petals, long (25 mm) narrowly-lanceolate floral nectaries, and six stamens arranged in one whorl, which at anthesis forms adaxially an hemiorbicular arc opposite to the gynophore. Caphexandra is represented only by the new combination C. heydeana, a species of horticultural interest herein transferred from Capparis, and Preslianthus, a genus of shrubs or trees from Nicaragua to Brazil, characterized by a stellate pubescence, and flowers with stamens conspicuously accrescent just before anthesis. Preslianthus comprises the following two species, herein proposed as new combinations, also transferred from Capparis: Preslianthus detonsus and Preslianthus pittieri. Capparis schunkei is synonymyzed under P. pittieri. The new genera are illustrated and their relationships discussed. Se proponen dos nuevos gneros y cuatro nuevas combinaciones para las Capparaceae Neotropicales: Caphexandra, un gnero monoespecfico de arbustos y rboles de baja estatura, distribuido desde el sur de Mxico hasta Panam, que se distingue por tener ramas con pequeos catfilos subterminales, flores con clices de aestivacin cerrada en prefloracin, cuyo par de spalos externos encierran a un dimrfico par de spalos internos, adems presenta corolas asimtricas con grandes ptalos unguiculados, nectarios florales angostamente lanceolados y relativamente largos (25 mm), y seis estambres dispuestos en un verticilo, stos desde la perspectiva adaxial en la antesis forman un arco hemiorbicular, que es opuesto al ginforo. Caphexandra est representada nicamente por la nueva combinacin C. heydeana, una especie de potencial horticultural la que es aqu transferida de Capparis, y Preslianthus, un gnero de rboles y arbustos que se encuentra distribuido desde Nicaragua hasta Brasil, y se caracteriza por presentar una pubescencia estrellada y flores con estambres cuyos filamentos son conspicuamente acrescentes antes de la antesis. Preslianthus comprende dos especies, las que aqu son transferidas de Capparis: Preslianthus detonsus, and Preslianthus pittieri. Se sinonimiza Capparis schunkei bajo P. pittieri. Los nuevos gneros son ilustrados y sus relaciones son aqu discutidas.
41761655|Two new orchid species and one subspecies are described and illustrated in the genus Lepanthes from Costa Rica: Lepanthes rafaeliana, L. spadarii, and L. johnsonii subsp. costaricensis. Ecological and taxonomic notes are provided for each taxon.
41761697|It is well known that Asa Gray's 1859 essay on the floristic connections between Japan and the United States were among the earliest applications of Charles Darwin's theory to be published before Origin of Species. Commonly known as the "Asa Gray disjunction thesis," Gray's diagnosis of that previously inexplicable pattern not only established his reputation as a philosophical naturalist and incited debate with Louis R. Agassiz, but also left rich issues for botanists to investigate. This paper examines the making of Gray's 1859 essay and its relation to Gray's intellectual development. The first section focuses on how Gray in the 1830s and 1850s accumulated and arranged those cases suggestive of the floristic relationship between North America and East Asia. The second section details the ways in which Gray in the late 1850s integrated those thoughtssuggested to him by Darwin, George Bentham, Joseph D. Hooker, and James D. Danain order to explain the cases he had amassed during the past decades. This paper concludes that though it is clear that Gray deliberately intended to deploy Darwin's theory against Agassiz's, his 1859 essay as a whole should not be regarded as or reduced to a mere application of Darwin's theory to botany. Gray did apply Darwin's theory, but applied it in a way Darwin unexpected.
41761571|The monotypic genus Konantzia is referred to the synonymy of Ionopsis on the basis of floral anatomy and the presence of nectar-producing horns on the lip. A new species of Ionopsis from Ecuador, I. papilosa, is described and illustrated.
41761671|Balanophora hongkongensis (Balanophoraceae) is described and illustrated. This species grows in the shade of a mixed forest on a hill at an elevation of 200 m, and flowers from late November through December, with the carpellate flowers lasting longer. The staminate and carpellate plants grow in close proximity to each other. The forest community where the new species was found consists of trees, shrubs and woody vines. Bauhinia championii was identified as the host.
41761625|The North American species belonging in the Dothioraceae (Dothideales) are reviewed and keys are presented to separate the genera and the species in several of the genera. Three new species are described: Dothiora amelanchieris, Plowrightia philadelphi, and Sydowia ceanothi. New combinations are proposed for Dothiora slippii, D. wolfii, Guignardia boltoniae, G. fagi, G. fulvida, G. miribelli, Physalospora euganea, Sphaeria taxicola, Sydowia dothideoides, S. lepargyrea, S. pruni, and S. versiformis.
41761755|Two new Bolivian species of Stenostephanus, S. spicatus and S tenellus and one new variety, S. crenulatus var. longiflorus are described and illustrated. In addition, we propose to place the genus Cylindrosolenium in synonymy, which necessitates the new combination S. sprucei. A key to all of the known species of Stenostephanus from Bolivia is also provided.
41761664|A complete listing of the vascular flora of the San Juan River watershed is given. In total, 2253 species, 12 hybrid species, 40 subspecies and 169 varieties (2477 unique biological entities) are known to occur in this 65,382 square kilometer area centered on the Four Corners of Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, and Utah. Two new nomenclatural combinations are proposed: Abies bifolia var. arizonica (Pinaceae) and Krascheninnikovia lanata var. ruinina (Amaranthaceae-Chenopodiaceae).
41761624|A heartwood decay and dieback of lemon has become a major production problem in the desert areas of Arizona and California. The disease is associated with a species of Coniophora and the Arizona isolates have been assigned to C. eremophila, although fruiting bodies on lemon have never been observed in either state. Results of the molecular analyses in this study based on restriction fragment length polymorphisms of a rDNA region demonstrated that the fungus associated with citrus dieback is the same in both states. In addition, fragment patterns also were identical to a Coniophora isolate obtained from decaying Carnegiea gigantea, indicating that the same fungus can be found on lemon and on desert plants. DNA-banding patterns from fruiting bodies of C. eremophila on Opuntia fulgida and Olneya tesota (type specimen of C. eremophila) shared 82% similarity with the lemon isolates. Thus, the species designation for the lemon isolates as C. eremophila cannot be confirmed. Either another species of Coniophora or a genetically distinct sub-population of C. eremophila may be involved. DNA extractions from fruiting bodies of other Coniophora species were not successful. Several additional species within the Coniophoraceae were included in the study. Serpula lacrimans and S. incrassata clustered most closely to the isolates of Coniophora from lemon and C. eremophila from desert plants, whereas Pseudomerulius aureus was more distantly related to the Coniophora and Serpula species evaluated in this study. Three lemon isolates of Antrodia sinuosa were distinct from two isolates from conifers. A high degree of genetic diversity among Coniophora isolates from lemon in Arizona and California was found in a random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis. The lack of a clonal population structure indicates that the fungal populations in both locations are outcrossing and that fruiting bodies, representing the sexual stage, must be present.
41761810|As determined by extensive molecular studies and critical evaluation of morphology, the genera Eutrema, Neomartinella, Platycraspedum, Taphrospermum, and Thellungiella form a monophyletic assemblage treated here as one genus under the oldest name, Eutrema. The present synopsis of Eutrema includes a listing of all 26 species presently assigned to the genus, including 14 new combinations (E. altaicum, E. botschantzevii, E. fontanum, E. fontanum subsp. microspermum, E. grandiflorum, E. halophilum, E. lowndesii, E. parvulum, E. platypetalum, E. salsugineum, E. verticillatum, E. violifolium, E. wuchengyii, and E. yungshunensis) and 3 new names (E. hookeri, E. schulzii, and E. sherriffii). It also includes a detailed description of the combined genus, distributions, and a key to all species.
41761509|The St. Vincent Botanical Garden was established in 1765. Alexander Anderson was appointed its second director in 1785 and served as The King's Botanist until his death in 1811. His administration was noteworthy for his active program of plant introduction, exploration, propagation and distribution. It was he who received the breadfruit and other plants from the voyage of the Providence, the expedition for that purpose after the ill-fated Bounty voyage. Anderson's unpublished manuscripts in the archives of the Linnean Society, London, include a Hortus St. Vincentii, ca. 1790-1800, which is a valuable record of the early introductions to tropical American horticulture.
41761898|A synopsis is presented for the Neotropical genus Cyrtopodium. Type data, taxonomic status, geographical distribution, and nomenclatural and taxonomic notes are presented for each species. A total of 116 names have been proposed in the genus, of which 50 are accepted here (47 species and three subspecific taxa). The identity of five species in the list is unclear. Forty names are synonyms in the genus, five are nomina nuda, and 21 belong in other genera including Eulophia, Koellensteinia, Otostylis, Eriopsis, Tetramicra, and Oncidium. Brazil, with 39 species, is the country with the highest number of species, followed by Bolivia and Venezuela, with nine species each. The main center of diversity of the genus is the cerrado vegetation of central Brazil, were 29 taxa are found. Field and taxonomic research on the genus in the last 15 years has led to the description of 19 new and accepted species, most from central Brazil. Eight lectotypifications and one new synonym are proposed. Cyrtopodium flavum is recognized as the accepted name for C. polyphyllum.  apresentada uma sinopse para o gnero Neotropical Cyrtopodium. So apresentados dados do tipo, status taxonmico, distribuio geogrfica e notas nomenclaturais e taxonmicas para cada espcie. Um total de 116 nomes foram propostos no gnero, dos quais 50 so aceitos aqui (47 espcies e trs txons subespecificos). A identidade de cinco espcies na lista ainda  incerta. Quarenta nomes so sinnimos no gnero, cinco so nomina nuda e 21 pertencem a outros gneros, incluindo Eulophia, Koellensteinia, Otostylis, Eriopsis, Tetramicra e Oncidium. O Brasil, com 39 espcies,  o pas com o maior nmero de espcies, seguido da Bolvia e Venezuela, com nove espcies cada. O principal centro de diversidade do gnero  o cerrado do Brasil central, onde so encontrados 29 txons. Estudos de campo e taxonmicos sobre o gnero nos ltimos 15 anos resultaram na descrio de 19 espcies novas e aceitas, a maioria delas do Brasil central. Oito lectotipificaes e um sinnimo novo so propostos. Cyrtopodium flavum  reconhecido como o nome aceito para C. polyphyllum. Se presenta una sinopsis del gnero neotropical Cyrtopodium. Cada especie va acompaada de datos sobre tipo, status taxonmico, distribucin geogrfica, as como de notas nomenclaturales y taxonmicas. Se han propuesto un total de 116 nombres en el gnero, de los cuales aceptamos 50 (47 especies y tres taxones a nivel infraespecfico). La identidad de cinco especies todava permanece incierta. Cuarenta nombres son sinnimos en el gnero, cinco son nomina nuda y 21 nombres pertenecen en otros gneros incluyendo Eulophia, Koellensteinia, Otostylis, Eriopsis, Tetramicra y Oncidium. Brasil, con 39 especies, es el pas con la mayor diversidad del gnero, seguido por Bolivia y Venezuela, que tienen nueve especies cada uno. El principal centro de diversidad del gnero es el cerrado del Brasil central, donde se encuentran 29 taxones. Estudios de campo y taxonmicos sobre el gnero en los ltimos 15 aos han resultado en la descripcin de 19 especies nuevas aceptadas, la mayora del centro de Brasil. Se proponen ocho lectotipificaciones y un nuevo sinnimo. Cyrtopodium flavum se reconoce como el nombre aceptado para lo que se conoca como C. polyphyllum.
41761685|The Asian genus Kopsia (Apocynaceae: Rauvolfioideae) is revised. Calpicarpum and Kentrochrosia are included in synonymy. Approximately 2000 herbarium specimens from 35 major herbaria have been studied. The genus is found from southern China and Burma to northern Australia and Vanuatu and is most diverse in Peninsular Malaysia and Borneo. Twenty-three species are recognized, two of which have two varieties each. Three new species are described: Kopsia grandifolia, Kopsia rosea, and Kopsia sumatrana. A key to the species is given, all taxa are described with notes on distribution and habitat, distribution maps are provided for all taxa, and all names and synonyms are typified.
41755022|Hispaniolanthus (Capparaceae), a new genus segregated from Capparis, is described and illustrated. It is characterized by short simple hairs, minute stipules, spiral phyllotaxy, juvenile individuals with linear leaf blades, mature individuals with their young leaves conduplicate, flowers axillary and subterminal, solitary and/or rarely paired, without peduncles and on remarkably long-pedicels. The calyx is decussate with closed aestivation, bearing sepals similar in size to that of the petals, four erect to divergent nectary scales, and ca. 30 to 45 stamens on short filaments, 1.5-2.0 cm long. Hispaniolanthus is a monospecific genus known only from dry forests of western Haiti, facing the Island of Gonaives. It is represented by the new combination herewith transferred from Capparis: Hispaniolanthus dolichopodus. Its putative relationships with the morphologically closer genera of Capparaceae are discussed. Describimos e ilustramos Hispaniolanthus (Capparaceae), un nuevo gnero segregado de Capparis. Este se caracteriza por presentar pelos simples cortos, estpulas pequeas, filotaxia en espiral, individuos juveniles con hojas lineares, individuos maduros con hojas jvenes conduplicadas, flores axilares y subterminales, solitarias y/o rara vez dispuestas en pares, con distintivos pedicelos muy largos y sin pednculos, clices de estivacin cerrada, con spalos decusados de tamao similar al de los ptalos, cuatro escamas nectarias erectas o divergentes y ca. 30 a 45 estambres con filamentos muy cortos, 1.5-2.0 cm. Hispaniolanthus es un gnero monoespecfico solamente conocido de los bosques secos del occidente de Hait, frente a la Isla de Gonaves. Est representado por la nueva combinacin, transferida de Capparis: Hispaniolanthus dolichopodus. Sus relaciones putativas con los gneros morfolgicamente ms cercanos son aqu discutidas.
41761897|Catasetum moorei was described in 1970 based on a plant collected near Iquitos, Peru. Here we provide a line drawing based on a flower from the holotype and photographs of a plant from Ecuador. Orchid growers and sellers have incorrectly assigned this name to plants of C. discolor, a species from the Guayana Shield (in Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela, and the Guianas) that apparently also occurs in Peru. Catasetum moorei fue descrito en 1970 basado en una planta colectada cerca de Iquitos, Per. Aqu proporcionamos una ilustracin basada en una flor tomada del holotipo y fotografas de una planta colectada en Ecuador. Cultivadores y vendedores de orqudeas han asignado este nombre incorrectamente a plantas de Catasetum discolor, una especie del Escudo Guayans (en Brasil, Colombia, Venezuela y las Guianas) que aparentemente tambin ocurre en Per.
41761807|A new species of Cyrtopodium from west-northwest Venezuela and from Departamento de Crdoba in Colombia is described and illustrated. It is related to and in the past was confused with Cyrtopodium punctatum, a species from Florida and the Greater Antilles, from which it is easily distinguished based on its much larger and wider bracts and sepals with slightly wavy margins. It differs from all other Venezuelan species of Cyrtopodium in its epiphytic habit and the presence of aerial roots like the ones observed in species of subtribe Catasetinae. Its large flowers and the different proportions of the floral segments distinguish it from Brazilian epiphytic Cyrtopodium species such as C. gigas and C. palmifrons. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Cyrtopodium del oeste-noroeste de Venezuela y del Departamento de Crdoba de Colombia. Esta nueva especie est relacionada con Cyrtopodium punctatum, una especie de Florida y las Antillas Mayores, con la que se haba confundido en el pasado pero de la cual se distingue fcilmente por tener brcteas, spalos y ptalos muchos ms grandes, anchos y slo ligeramente ondulados. Se diferencia de todas las otras especies venezolanas del gnero por su hbito epfito y por tener races areas como las que se pueden observar en especies de la subtribu Catasetinae. Por el tamao mayor de las flores y las diferentes proporciones de los segmentos florales se distingue de otras especies tambin epfitas de Brasil, entre las que se pueden mencionar C. gigas y C. palmifrons.
41761561|Salix hainanica (sect. Humboldtianae Pax, Salicaceae), apparently endemic to Hainan Island, China, is described on the basis of collections at A and LE dating back to 1934.
41761754|The taxonomy of two monophyletic sections of Macaranga from western Malesia is revised. Thirtythree species are recognized, 25 in sect. Pachystemon and 8 in sect. Pruinosae. Three species are newly described: Macaranga ashtonii, M. pentaloba, and M. rufescens. Detailed descriptions of the ecology and morphology of the species are given based on field and herbarium studies. The evolution of these traits is discussed based on a recent cladistic analysis of the two sections.
41761819|One old name, Circaea canadensis, is revived, and one new combination, C. canadensis subsp. quadrisulcata, is proposed for plants of Circaea in eastern North America and eastern Asia that have hitherto been considered to be subspecies of C. lutetiana. Accepting them as distinct from C. lutetiana requires that hybrids between C. canadensis and C. alpina no longer be given the name C.  intermedia, which applies only to hybrids between C. alpina and C. lutetiana sensu stricto. Consequently, the name Circaea  sterilis is proposed for them.
41761902|Recent evidence supports the recognition of Gonolobus (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae), a genus of 100-150 species of vines endemic to the New World, as distinct from Matelea. Synapomorphies of Gonolobus s. l. include two indels in LEAFY, as well as winged follicles. Laminar dorsal anther appendages are exclusive to the Gonolobus s. l. clade, though lacking or reduced in some species. Given this evidence and in light of past controversies regarding circumscription, this study presents a synopsis of the three species of Gonolobus recognized in the United States and its territories: G. arizonicus, G. stephanotrichus, and G. suberosus. Lachnostoma arizonicum is lectotypified.
41761803|The taxonomic status of Dichaea tenuifolia Schltr. is revised, the species is lectotypified and D. undulifolia Dodson from Ecuador is reduced in synonymy under the former taxon. Populations of Costa Rican Dichaea with thin-textured leaves and smooth ovary, previously included under D. tenuifolia, are recognized as a distinct species, hereafter described and illustrated as D. viridula Pupulin. Dichaea viridula may be distinguished from its closest relative, D. tenuifolia, by the shorter inflorescence, the flowers approximately half in size, the elliptic-lanceolate sepals (vs. narrowly oblong-ligulate), the petals only slightly narrowed at the base, the thick margins of the lip claw, the much shorter apical lobe of the lip, the green sepals and petals, and the white lip.
41761299|Tillandsia may-patii is proposed as a new species. The following species were previously unrecorded (or insufficiently documented) for the bromeliad flora of the Yucatn Peninsula: Aechmea bromeliifolia, Aechmea tillandsioides var. tillandsioides, Catopsis nutans, and Tillandsia juncea. Hechtia schottii is treated as an endemic to the flora of the peninsula. An updated checklist of the family Bromeliaceae for the Yucatn Peninsula is presented.
41761602|Interspecific relationships and molecular divergence within Hamamelis were studied on the basis of sequences of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nrDNA, trnL-trnF intergenic spacers and the matK gene of cpDNA, and the nuclear gene GBSSI (waxy). Phylogenies based on the four data sets were congruent, and the combined analysis produced a well-supported pattern of relationship among the species. The North American species, Hamamelis virginiana, H. mexicana, and H. vernalis, formed a robust clade with H. virginiana basal. This suggests that H. vernalis and H. mexicana are not relicts, as previously supposed. The Japanese species, H. japonica, is more closely related to the North American species than to the Chinese species, H. mollis, which is consistent with leaf morphological characters. This biogeographic pattern is congruent with that seen in several other plant groups and is consistent with a series of vicariance events possibly involving Beringian exchange between Asia and North America.
41755025|Aglaia pannelliana is described from limestone habitats in Papua New Guinea's Southern Fold Mts. The extraordinary novelty is easily distinguished by its exceptionally large fruits (to 14.0 x 8.5 cm, dimensions exceeded only by the capsules of A. mackiana), by flowers that are probably the largest in the genus, and by the unique presence of simple hairs on vegetative parts. Distributional notes are also provided for the rarely collected A. puberulanthera, newly documented for the Trans-Fly region.
41761524|Cryphaea leptopteris is described as new and illustrated. It is known from a single collection from NW Sichuan, China. It can be distinguished by the combination of small plants, ovate-lanceolate leaves often with acuminate, curved apices, and distinct papillae on the cell corners.
41761294|A summary of the diversity of Bromeliaceae in Mexico is presented. Twenty-three genera are recorded for the country, with 328 species and 27 varieties or subspecies, representing 12% of the world's total. The high number of endemic taxa is remarkable: 209 species are endemic to Mexico, representing 63.7% of the total number of Bromeliaceae species recorded for the country. The greatest bromeliad diversity is found in the mesophilous cloud forests, which, although covering only 0.5% to 1% of the country, contain 25.6% of the bromeliad taxa. A brief distributional analysis shows that some 210 species, representing 65% of the Mexican taxa, could be included in the Norma Oficial Mexicana NOM-ECOL-059-1994 categorized at least as Rare (R). Finally, proposals are made for the conservation of Mexican bromeliad diversity.
41761993|The family Hookeriaceae is revised for the Bryoflora of China Project. As a result, 8 genera (Actinodontium Schwaegr., Calliscotella (C. Muell.) Mitt., Calyptrochaeta Desv., Cyclodictyon Mitt., Daltonia Hook. & Tayl., Distichophyllum Dozy & Molk., Hookeria S. E. Smith, and Hookeriopsis (Besch.) Jaeg.), 22 species, 2 subspecies and 7 varieties are accepted for China, including Taiwan. Of these, Actinodontium is known only from Taiwan. We have excluded Chaetomitrium Dozy & Molk, and Chaetomitriopsis Fleisch, from the family treatment. Three new varieties were described (Distichophyllum collenchymatosum var. pseudosinense P.-J. Lin & Tan, D. oblongum var. fanjingensis P- J. Lin & Tan, and D. subnigricaule var. hainanensis P.-J. Lin & Tan) and several new provincial and Chinese records are reported. The two new Chinese records are Daltonia semitorta Mitt, and Distichophyllum subnigricaule Broth. Three combinations are proposed: Calyptrochaeta ramosa (Fleisch.) Tan & Robinson subsp. spinosa (Nog.) P.-J. Lin & Tan, Distichophyllum cirratum var. elmeri (Broth.) P.-J. Lin & Tan, and D. collenchymatosum var. brevirostratum (Ther.) P.-J. Lin & Tan. Five new synonyms are identified: Calyptrochaeta pocsii T. Ninh, Distichophyllum brevisrostratum Thr., D. cavaleriei Thr., D. duongii T. Ninh, and D. stillicidiorum Broth.
41761854|We lectotypify or neotypify 134 names (131 specific and 3 infraspecific ones) of Crataegus from the Missouri flora.
41761910|Spiranthes sunii (Orchidaceae), from southern Gansu, China, is described as new. A table is provided to highlight features distinguishing it from the only other species of Spiranthes in China, S. sinensis. Spiranthes sunii, named in recognition of Professor Sun Xuegang (), is known only from the vicinity of Fanba in Wen Xian, Gansu Province. A photo and an analytical drawing are provided.  Spiranthes sunii (Orchidaceae). S. sinensis  Spiranthes . .  (Spiranthes sunii) . 
41761781|In preparation for the Flora Neotropica monograph of Macrocarpaea (Gentianaceae: Helieae) and recent fieldwork in Ecuador, six new species have been identified and are here described from Parque Nacional Podocarpus and its surrounding areas in Loja and Zamora-Chinchipe provinces. These are Macrocarpaea appa rata, M. bubops, M. jensii, M. lenae, M. luna-gentiana, and M. noctiluca. For each new species, descriptions, illustrations, and ecological information are provided. The neotropical montane genus Macrocarpaea has among the highest biodiversity in Ecuador with over 30 species present. The name "moon-gentian" or "genciana de luna" is coined as the common name for the genus Macrocarpaea.
41761978|A new combination is provided for Asplenium joellaui as a nomenclatural correction for Asplenium laui (2011), the later being a later homonym of A. laui (1964).
41761930|Two annonaceous tree species, Xylopia kuchingensis and X. orestera, are described from Borneo. Xylopia kuchingensis occurs in low-elevation swamp forest in the vicinity of Kuching, Sarawak, East Malaysia, and resembles X. coriifolia in its thick leaves and swamp-forest habitat. It may be distinguished from X. malayana, which it resembles in its acuminate leaves, short flower pedicels, long petals, and broad monocarps, by the larger and thicker leaves that are glaucous beneath. Xylopia orestera was collected in central Sarawak, where it occurs in montane forest at 980-1200 m. This species has long flower pedicels, spreading sepals, and moniliform monocarps similar to those of both Xferruginea and X. coriifolia, but with much smaller leaves, shorter petals, and fewer seeds per monocarp. It also resembles X. pulchella of Borneo, but has longer flower pedicels and linear moniliform monocarps rather than the short oblong monocarps of that species.
41761777|A revision of Symbolanthus (Gentianaceae: Helieae) for Catlogo de las Plantas Vasculares de Bolivia resulted in the resurrection of Symbolanthus brittonianus and the description of the new species S. australis. Both species occur in the "Yungas" region of the Andes of Bolivia. Symbolanthus rusbyanus is treated as a synonym under S. brittonianus, and the problematic typification of this species is discussed. Symbolanthus calygonus has previously been reported from Bolivia but is endemic to Peru. A key to the only two species of Symbolanthus in Bolivia is provided.
41761850|Bomarea puracensis, a new species restricted to the Andean Colombian zone, is here described and its taxonomic relationships and geographical distribution discussed. Bomarea puracensis, una nueva especie restringida a la zona Andina Colombiana, es descrita aqu y se discuten sus relaciones taxonmicas y distribucin geogrfica.
41755020|Rhododendron minus var. chapmanii (Alph. Wood) Gandhi & Zarucchi is validated here as a new combination.
41761682|The Chihuahuan Desert Region gives refuge to the richest assemblage of Cactaceae in the world. We present a checklist of the cactus species reported for this region. The list contains species names, information on their geographical distribution at the state and country levels, and herbarium vouchers. A categorization of their conservation status is also provided. A total of 324 cactus species and five confirmed hybrids, distributed in 39 genera, are included in the list. Mammillaria (79 spp.), Opuntia s. str. (46 spp.), Coryphantha (36 spp.), and Echinocereus (30 spp.) are the best represented in terms of numbers of species. As far as species richness and endemism is concerned, the most important states are San Luis Potos, Coahuila, Nuevo Len, and Tamaulipas. With 17 cactus genera (43.6% of total) and 229 species (69.8% of total) geographically restricted to the Chihuahuan Desert Region, it is confirmed that the rate of endemism in this region is outstanding. La Regin del Desierto Chihuahuense da refugio al ms rico ensamblaje de especies de Cactaceae en el mundo. En esta contribucin presentamos un listado de las especies de cactus reportadas para esta regin. La lista contiene los nombres de las especies, informacin sobre su distribucin geogrfica a nivel de estados y pases, y ejemplares de referencia. Adems, se proporciona una categorizacin de su estado de conservacin. La lista incluye un total de 324 especies, ms cinco hbridos, distribuidos en 39 gneros. Los gneros mejor representados en trminos de su nmero de especies son Mammillaria (79 spp.), Opuntia s. str. (46 spp.), Coryphantha (36 spp.) y Echinocereus (30 spp.). Por otra parte, San Luis Potos, Coahuila, Nuevo Len y Tamaulipas son los estados ms importantes por su riqueza de especies y alto nivel de endemismo. Con 17 gneros (43.6% del total) y 229 especies de cactceas (69.8% del total) restringidos geogrficamente a la regin, se confirma que el Desierto Chihuahuense es notable por su alta tasa de endemismo.
41761838|One new species, one new variety, and one new combination at the rank of variety are proposed for three taxa of Chinese Syzygium: S. bubengense, S. buxifolium var. verticillatum, and S. jambos var. tripinnatum. The genus Pyrenocarpa is reduced to Decaspermum, with one new name proposed: D. teretis.
41761558|The genera Cochleariella and Hilliella are reduced to synonymy of Yinshania, a genus considered to be endemic to China. The following new combinations are proposed: Yinshania acutangula ssp. microcarpa, Y. acutangula ssp. wilsonii, Y. yixianensis, Y. rivulorum, Y. sinuata, Y. sinuata ssp. qianwuensis, Y. lichuanensis, Y. rupicola, Y. rupicola ssp. shuangpaiensis, and Y. hunanensis. Descriptions and distributions are provided, and keys to the species and subspecies are given.
41761727|A new species of Stenia from Ecuador, S. dodsoniana, is described and illustrated. Stenia dodsoniana is similar to S. stenioides, from which it mainly differs by the obscurely tri-lobed lip with the lateral lobes broadly truncate, the apical retrorse calli, the sub ventral anther and the almost absent lateral teeth of the rostellum. The identity of S. stenioides is discussed and the species is illustrated on the basis of an Ecuadorian specimen. The pollinarium morphology of Stenia is discussed.
41761815|A new species of the genus Encyclia, endemic to Cuba, is described and illustrated. Encyclia bocourtii is closely related to E. fucata, from which it is distinguished by the size of flower segments, almost double in lenght, and the lateral lobes shorter than the midlobe and not reflexed at apex. The new species also resembles the sympatric E. acutifolia, but it can be distinguished from it by the lateral lobes of the lip, shorter than the midlobe, and the non-replicate midlobe. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie del gnero Encyclia, endmica de Cuba. Encyclia bocourtii est estrechamente relacionada con E. fucata, de la cual se distingue por el tamao de los segmentos florales, casi el doble de largo, y los lbulos laterales del labelo ms cortos que el lbulo medio y no reflexos en el pice. La nueva especie asemeja tambin a E. acutifolia, pero puede distinguirse de ella por los lbulos laterales del labelo ms cortos que el lbulo medio, y este ltimo no replicado.
41761851|Four new species, Macrocarpaea dies-viridis (Ecuador), M. luctans (Ecuador, Peru), M. lucubrans (Panama), and M. opulenta (Ecuador), and two natural hybrids, M.  acuminata (Costa Rica) and M.  mattii (Ecuador), are described. Macrocarpaea  acuminata Weaver (pro sp.) is recognized as a natural hybrid between M. subcaudata and M. valerii, rather than as a distinct species, and M.  mattii is described here as a natural hybrid between M. noctiluca and M. subsessilis. The average number of seeds per capsule of M. dies-viridis is reported. With 10,400-11,000 seeds per capsule, the is first report in the genus.
41761730|Dimorphanthera dekockii, Diplycosia morobeensis, Rhododendron pachystigma , Vaccinium daphni phyllum, and V. stellae-montis are briefly discussed in relation to infraspecific variation and geographic distributions. A supplementary description is also presented for Rhododendron pachy stigma, previously known only from a flowering collection. Dimorphanthera dekockii var. pubiflora, Rhododendron pachy stigma, and Vaccinium daphniphyllum are depicted by color photographs.
41761945|Montane communities are described from the Foja expeditionary surveys of Papua Province. The floristic summary characterizes the principal habitats at two study sites near the 1000 m contour. Typing codes from the Papua New Guinea Forest Inventory Mapping System are used as a basis for the physiognomic descriptions. Community compositions, indicator taxa, floristic records, and conservation values are briefly discussed.
41761510|The creation and development of botanic gardens, in close relationship with the medical sciences, involving the observation and evaluation of indigenous practice, is discussed in the geographical and intellectual context of Renaissance discoveries. As a result of exploration and European expansion, interest in the study of tropical floras was stimulated, culminating in the preparation of such reference texts as van Reede's Hortus Indicus Malabaricus or Rumpfs Herbarium Amboinense. Meanwhile the gardens of Leiden and Amsterdam, supported by the one situated at the Cape of Good Hope, achieved a position of preeminence in the seventeenth and first half of the eighteenth centuries. By the latter half of the eighteenth century, England and France relying on the able management of their gardens at Kew and Paris were able to define ambitious policies of introduction and naturalisation for the development of their colonies. At the same time, Emperor Joseph II of Austria sent his naturalists and gardeners across the tropical world to collect for the Schnbrunn Gardens. The Garden of Pamplemousses at Isle de France in the Indian Ocean achieved international fame as the tropical base of experiment for the Paris Garden, whilst every encouragement was given to the rapid expansion of the Calcutta Gardens to provide plant material to the St. Vincent nurseries. Joseph Banks recommended the setting up, at strategic points, such as at St. Helena, of botanic gardens on the line of communication between Kew and Sydney on the Pacific front and the Caribbean. A chronological list of botanic gardens relevant to the discussion accompanies the text.
41761954|European scientists initiated lichenology in Puerto Rico in the 19th century. Activity of the discipline increased notably on the island during the first three decades of the 20th century, primarily by the field explorations and publications of the New York Botanical Garden scientists and associates (A. A. Heller, N. L. and E. G. Britton, L. W. Riddle), and by the work of Bruce Fink of Miami University in Ohio and collaborators (E. A. Vainio, A. Zahlbruckner). Another period of research activity began in the late 1950s and was initiated by Henry Imshaug of Michigan State University. By the last decades of the century, the first contributions of Puerto Rican lichenologists I. Landrn-Concepcin and J. Muiz-Ace vedo were made. Because of these efforts, Puerto Rico is among the best documented islands of the Caribbean in terms of its lichen biota. In spite of contributions spanning over a century, the development of knowledge and local expertise is today slow-paced. Training students and the development of new taxonomic and collecting activities are fundamental to addressing shortcomings of the discipline and in laying the foundation for future work in the field. To allow further development of lichen studies in Puerto Rico, we have constructed an electronic checklist of all previously reported taxa (available at http://lichensofpuertorico.herbario.upr.edu), and a current bibliography on Lichenology for the island.
41761586|Although many fossil pollen genera of the Fabaceae have been reported from Taiwan, only pollen of Caesalpinia is suitable for tracing the evolutionary history of the family because of its easily identifiable features. Pollen of Caesalpinia has been reported from the Miocene through the Holocene in Taiwan. The present distribution of Caesalpinia in Taiwan is restricted to the lowlands and nearshore coastal areas. The species disperse over short distances, as demonstrated by airborne pollen data. This knowledge is used in the paleoecological reconstruction of various fossil sites in Taiwan.
41761967|A new genus in the Zygopetalinae is proposed based on morphological, ecological, and molecular data. It differs from Zygosepalum in the cespitose habit, the erect inflorescences, the entire clinandrium, and the subtriangular stipe of the pollinarium. Species assigned to the new genus are generally found on sandstone mountains above 1000 m ("cerros" and "tepuis") of the Guayana Highlands. In contrast, plants of Zygosepalum s. s. bear arching inflorescences, the flowers have a fimbriate clinandrium, the stipe of the pollinarium is subquadrate, and they are epiphytes in humid tropical forests of the Guayana, generally below 500 m. Se propone un nuevo gnero de Zygopetalinae, Weidmannia, basado en datos morfolgicos, ecolgicos y moleculares. Se distingue de Zygosepalum por el hbito cespitoso, inflorescencias erectas, el clinandro entero, el estpite del polinario sub-triangular, y porque las dos especies asignadas al nuevo gnero se encuentran generalmente sobre la arenisca por encima de los 1000 m en montaas (cerros y tepuis) de la alta Guayana. En contraste, las plantas de Zygosepalum s. s. tienen un hbito rizomatoso, inflorescencias arqueadas, el clinandro fimbriado, el estpite del polinario sub-cuadrado y son epfitas en bosques tropicales hmedos de la Guayana por lo general a menos de 500 m.
41761515|Monerma P. Beauv. 1812 (Poaceae), reinstated recently by H. Scholz as a legitimate generic name in place of Hainardia Greuter 1967, is rejected.
41761646|Approximately 2,400 specimens of Hyphomycetes (conidial fungi, imperfect fungi) were collected from mostly decaying wood in northern hardwood and conifer forests in the northeastern United States and Canada. Identification of at least one third of the specimens is still in progress. This is a preliminary report of the hyphomycetes from New York.
41761958|Five new species of Syzygium are described from the island of New Guinea. On species, Syzygium neurophyllum, occurs in Papua Province, Indonesia. Four species, S. purpuricarpum, S. rambutyense, S. ridsdalei, and S. watutense occur in Papua New Guinea. Four of the five species are known only from the type gathering, but each is easily diagnosed from congeneric members of Syzygium occurring on New Guinea. The conservation status following IUCN guidelines is proposed for each new species, four of which are considered Vulnerable, and one of which is considered Endangered.
41761619|Species circumscription of tree lilacs has been controversial. To further our understanding of the taxonomy of tree lilacs, we analyzed their morphological variation quantitatively and qualitatively using both herbarium specimens and living collections. We also examined sequence differences of two nuclear loci (ribosomal ETS and ITS) and reconstructed phylogenetic relationships of tree lilacs using the molecular data and maximum parsimony algorithms. Observations of morphological variation are consistent with analyses of molecular data. We recognize two species (Syringa pekinensis and S. reticulata) and one variety (S. reticulata var. amurensis), which accords with McKelvey's taxonomic treatment of tree liales.
41761890|Three genera are separated here from the South American Capparis s.l. (Capparaceae): (1) Sarcotoxicum, a new monospecific genus restricted to Bolivia, Paraguay, and northern Argentina, composed of Sarcotoxicum salicifolium comb. nov.; (2) Neocalyptrocalyx is validated as a genus of seven species, with the following five species herewith transferred from Capparis s.l.: Neocalyptrocalyx eichleriana comb, nov., N. grandipetala comb, nov., N. leprieurii comb, nov., N. maroniensis comb, nov., and N. muco comb, nov.; and a sixth species, N. longifolium comb, nov., is transferred from Colicodendron; and, (3) Mesocapparis stat. nov., a scandent-shrubby monospecific genus endemic to Brazil, comprised of the new combination Mesocapparis lineata comb. nov. They are characterized by a variously stellate pubescence, 2-seriate sepals, 7 to 37 stamens, and pepos or amphisarca bearing many seeds with white-to cream-colored embryos and convolute cotyledons. Illustrations, descriptions, and a key to the discussed genera are herewith provided. Se reconocen tres gneros cercanos entre los miembros Sudamericanos de Capparis s.l. (Capparaceae): (1) Sarcotoxicum, un nuevo gnero monoespecfico distribuido en Bolivia, Paraguay, y el norte de Argentina, representado por Sarcotoxicum salicifolium comb, nov:, (2) se valida Neocalyptrocalyx, un gnero de siete especies, cinco de las cuales son aqu transferidas de Capparis s.l.: Neocalyptrocalyx eichleriana comb, nov., N. grandipetala comb, nov., N. leprieurii comb, nov., N. maroniensis comb, nov., y N. muco comb, nov.; y una sexta especie N. longifolium comb, nov., es transferida de Colicodendron; y, (3) Mesocapparis stat. nov., un gnero monoespecfico restringido a Brasil y representado por Mesocapparis lineata comb. nov. stos tres gneros se caracterizan por presentar varios tipos de pubescencia estrellada, spalos 2-seriados, 7 a 37 estambres y frutos pepos o amfisarcos que contienen muchas semillas con embriones de color blanco hasta crema y cotiledones convolutos. Se proveen ilustraciones, descripciones, y una clave para los gneros aqu tratados.
41761665|Recently, Sousa et al. (2001) published a checklist of leguminous trees and shrubs in Mexico that are reported to reach a height of at least 3 m. Here, we provide an alphabetically ordered index that includes synonyms and names that are not recognized by us, but have been used during the last 20 years. Furthermore, we eliminate three and add 15 species, increasing the total number of species to 623. Recientemente, Sousa et al. (2001) publicaron un listado de las leguminosas arbreas y arbustivas en Mxico ( 3 m). En esta publicacin se proporciona un ndice alfabtico que incluye sinnimos y nombres no reconocidos por nosotros, que se han empleado durante los ltimos 20 aos. Adems, se eliminaron tres especies y se agregaron 15 ms, de esta manera incrementando el nmero total de especies a 623.
41761562|The taxonomic and nomenclatural fate of Betula delavayi and B. fargesii have been unclear since these two species were first described in 1899. The differences between the two and their relationship to other Chinese birches have been treated variously by subsequent authors but never distinctly enough, nor with confidence. Specimens of Betula have been examined at A, GH, LE, MO, NY, and W, and I am confident that these species should be delimited. Betula delavayi and B. fargesii are not the closest relatives of each other; the closest relatives of the former are B. chinensis and B. globispica, and those of the latter are B. potaninii, B. cal cicola, and B. chichibuensis.
41761559|The native palm flora of Fiji is rich and diverse, especially for a group of relatively remote oceanic islands. A total of 30 described species (24 native and 6 naturalized) are now known to occur in the wild within Fiji. Among the native taxa, all 24 species are endemic, representing 100% endemism. A total of 12 species (50%) are confined to various single islands; half of all taxa are single-island endemics. The remaining six taxa (including Cocos nucfera) are regarded as human introductions. A brief review of this unique (and in some cases endangered) palm diversity is provided, as well as the species' phytogeographic affinities and island distributions within the archipelago. A revised checklist for all native and naturalized taxa is provided, which includes new changes in nomenclature. These changes include the synonymy and combination of Goniocladus petiolatus and Physokentia rosea to form Physokentia petiolatus, and the synonymy of Veitchia pickeringii under Veitchia vitiensis. A recently described species, Heterospathe phillipsii, is also included, as well as 4 additional undescribed provisional new species. Information on the distribution and current conservation status of all taxa occurring within the archipelago is also provided.
41761643|A synopsis of Auriscalpium is provided with descriptions of eight accepted species. Auriscalpium gilbertsonii from Costa Rica is described as new, while the combination Auriscalpium andinum is proposed.
41761876|The tribes Dontostemoneae and Malcolmieae (Brassicaceae) are proposed, and their component genera are listed. The tribe Buniadeae is re-established. Tribal limits for Anchonieae, Chorisporeae, and Euclidieae are revised. A key to all the tribes with multicellular glands is given.
41761837|Two new species of Pentagonia (Rubiaceae-Hippotideae), belonging to the group bearing entire leaves, with blades tapering and subsessile at the base and 5-lobed regular calyxes, are described herewith: Pentagonia bonifaziana, from the wet forests of the Mache-Chindul Reserve in northwestern Ecuador, and P. pachiteana, from the Amazonian lowlands of Pachitea, Peru. Se describen dos nuevas especies de Pentagonia (Rubiaceae-Hippotideae), pertenecientes al grupo con hojas enteras, subssiles con cliz regular 5-lobado: Pentagonia bonifaziana, de los bosques muy hmedos de la Reserva Ecolgica Mache-Chindul, localizada al noroccidente de Ecuador, y P. pachiteana, proveniente de Pachitea, en la Amazonia Peruana.
41761816|The Orchidaceae collected by Robert H. Schomburgk in northern South America and the Caribbean are listed in alphabetical order according to their names in current use. Each entry includes bibliography, synonymy, and type information for each name cited. Lectotypes are proposed for the following names: Epidendrum schomburgkii var. confluens, Pseudoeriopsis schomburgkii, Galeandra juncea, Zygopetalum burkei, and Sobralia sessilis. The Orchidaceae in Robert H. Schomburgk's "Drawings of Guiana Plants" at the Botany Library, The Natural History Museum are presented in an appendix. Las Orchidaceae colectadas por Robert H. Schomburgk se listan en orden alfabtico de acuerdo al nombre aceptado. Cada registro incluye bibliografa, sinonimia e informacin sobre el tipo de cada nombre citado. Se proponen lectotipos para los siguientes nombres: Epidendrum schomburgkii var. confluens, Pseudoeriopsis schomburgkii, Galeandra juncea, Zygopetalum burkei y Sobralia sessilis. Las Orchidaceae en los "Dibujos de Plantas de la Guayana" de Robert H. Schomburgk depositados en la biblioteca de Botnica del Museo de Historia Natural de Londres se presentan en un apndice.
41761732|The following nomenclatural adjustments are proposed for Boechera to make the names available for the forthcoming account of the Brassicaceae in the Flora of North America. Two new species of Boechera (B. quebecensis and B. tularensis) are described, and a new name (B. xylopoda) is proposed for the taxon currently known as Boechera pulchra var. gracilis. In addition, 10 new combinations (B. acutina, B. burkii, B. covillei, B. duchesnensis, B. gracilenta, B. grahamii, B. languida, B. pratncola, B. saximontana, and B. serotina) are validated. Notes on the delimitation, distribution, and/or typification of Arabis confinis, B. brachycarpa, B. divaricarpa, and B. inyoensis are presented, and A. codyi and A. holboellii var. derensis are reduced to synonymy under B. lemmonii and B. inyoensis, respectively. Two summary tables comparing our taxonomic treatment of Boechera with those of other recent authors are provided.
41761873|The following nomenclatural adjustments are proposed for Draba to make the names available for the forthcoming account of the Brassicaceae in the Flora of North America. Three new species of Draba (D. abajoensis, D. malpighiacea, and D. santaquinensis) are described, and two new combinations (D. bifurcata and D. serpentina) are validated. Notes on the delimitation, distribution, or typification of D. corrugata, D. cyclomorpha, D. demareei, D. helleriana, D. lemmonii, D. longisquamosa, D. novolympica, D. oreibata, D. paysonii, D. petrophila, D. saxosa, D. spectabilis, and D. viridis are presented. Draba helleriana var. blumeri, D. paysonii var. treleasii, and D. spectabilis var. glabrescens are reduced to synonymy under D. petrophila, D. novolympica, and D. abajoensis, respectively.
41761630|Type specimens for Cantharellus candidus Peck 1898 and C. olivaceus Schwein. 1832 have been studied and are described. The name C. candidus is a later synonym of Plicatura nivea (Fr.) P. Karst, and C. olivaceus is a later synonym of Gyrodon merulioides (Schwein.) Singer. Thus the generic name Plicaturella Murr. 1910 (type species = C. olivaceus) is a later synonym of Gyrodon Opat. 1836.
41761864|This paper supplements the treatment of the genus Potentilla in China beyond the Flora Reipublicae Popularis Sinicae (Y and Li, 1985) and the partly revised English edition Flora of China (Li et al., 2003). The present remarks concern taxonomic problems of rather difficult groups of species; generic delimitation; the names of sections, species, and varieties, and their descriptions and distributions; and identification keys. Y and Li (1985) dealt with 83 Chinese species of Potentilla. In the present paper, another 30 species growing in China are added. Most remarks and supplements here refer to the partly revised English edition by Li et al. (2003).
41761916|The new combination Boechera dentata is proposed to replace the most commonly used B. shortii or Arabis shortii (Brassicaceae) for a species widespread in eastern and central United States and rare in Ontario, Canada. The complex nomenclatural history of the species is presented.
41761298|Bromeliaceae is perhaps the most characteristic endemic family of the tropical-subtropical Americas. However, there is one singular exception: Pitcairnia feliciana (A. Chev.) Harms & Mildbr. in West Africa. Restricted together with other endemics to remote rocky slopes of sandstone outcrops of the highlands of the Fouta Djalon (Republic of Guinea) it was only discovered in 1937 by Henri Jacques-Flix. Originally it was described by A. Chevalier as an isolated member of Liliaceae forming a new monotypic genus (Willrussellia) and subtribe. Today its position within Pitcairnia (Bromeliaceae) is out of dispute. However, the plant is known very little and it is still in discussion whether it is introduced or truely indigenous. For the first time a detailed examination based on field studies and cultivated material is presented. It is shown, that P. feliciana is a truely endemic species very distinct in a number of characters (e.g. shape of stigma papillae, perforated testa cells) from neotropical Pitcairnia species indicating a considerable temporal isolation.
41761976|Five South-American species of the genus Ocotea from Bahia, Brazil, are described and illustrated. The new species are Ocotea adamantina, O. rohweri, O. sperata, O. thinicola, and O. vegrandis. Their relationships within the genus are discussed. Cinco espcies sulamericanas do gnero Ocotea, da Bahia, Brasil, so descritas e ilustradas. As espcies novas so Ocotea adamantina, O. rohweri, O. sperata, O. thinicola, e O. vegrandis. Suas relaes dentro do gnero so discutidas.
41761952|Croton has been lectotypified by various authors with two different species, C. aromaticus and C. tiglium. We discuss why C. tiglium has priority. The name for the largest section of Croton has long been accepted to be section Cascarilla, but the recognition of its type species, Croton cascarilla, as a synonym of C. eluteria, the type of section Eluteria, requires a change in the accepted name for the group. The correct basionym and type species of section Geiseleria, which is emerging as one of the three largest New World sections of the genus, is clarified. Lectotypes are designated for C. adenophyllus, C. affinis, C. buchtienii, C. campestris, C. chamaedrifolius, C. fergusonii, C. linearis, C. miquelensis, and C. trinitatis. Epitypes are designated for Clutia cascarilla, Croton chamaedrifolius, and C. linearis. Croton ha sido lectotipificado por varios autores con dos diferentes especies, C. aromaticus y C. tiglium. Discutimos porqu C. tiglium tiene prioridad. Seccin Cascarilla ha sido aceptado por mucho tiempo como el nombre de la seccin ms grande de Croton, pero reconociendo que su especie tipo, C. cascarilla, es un sinnimo de C. eluteria, la especie tipo de seccin Eluteria, requiere que el nombre aceptado para el grupo sea cambiado. Se aclara el basinimo y la especie tipo correcta de seccin Geiseleria, la cual est emergiendo como una de las tres secciones ms grandes del gnero en el Nuevo Mundo. Lectotipos son designados para C. adenophyllus, C. affinis, C. buchtienii, C. campestris, C. chamaedrifolius, C. fergusonii, C. linearis, C. miquelensis, y C. trinitatis. Se designan epitipos para Clutia cascarilla, Croton chamaedrifolius, y C. linearis.
41761947|Fittingia headsiana is described from previously unknown environments in Papua New Guinea's southern ranges. The new species is uniquely distinguished by its purple fruits disposed in large panicles, and is one of only two congeners capable of achieving arborescent statures. With the addition made here, Fittingia is now represented by nine species restricted to the New Guinea mainland, of which only five were known at the time of the last generic revision. A synoptical key to the modem species is included as an amendment to the existing treatment.
41761812|In a recent morphometric analysis of the Gonolobus complex (subgenus Gonolobus) in the southeastern United States, we found former specific concepts untenable as stated, as the diagnostic characters could not consistently assign individuals to one of two groups. However, our analysis showed a strong geographical component to the distribution of individuals delimited by uniformly and multicolored corollas, which we used as a basis for suggesting that two entities do appear to exist in the Southeast that may deserve recognition at some taxonomic rank. In the present study, we performed analysis of Inter-S imple Sequence Repeats (ISSR) to assess whether the two entities are genetically differentiated and, if so, to what level. We also conducted a cladistic analysis of morphological characters of the subgenus to determine whether the entities emerge as closest relatives. Our ISSR results showed substantial genetic differentiation at 18 locibetween the two entities, although no fixed differences between them were detected. At 7 loci, the frequencies of band presence are significantly higher in the multicolored corolla group (MCCG) than in the uniformly colored corolla group (UCCG). At 11 loci they are significantly higher in the UCCG. Nineteen bands are unique to the MCCG, although at various frequencies (3.5-39.0%), whereas only a single band is unique to the UCCG, suggesting that the latter possesses a subset of the MCCG gene pool and is likely a derivative of it. Analysis of 61 parsimony-informative characters using Neighbor-Joining (NJ) and Unweighted Pair-Group Method using Arithmetic means (UPGMA) did not resolve the two groups, consistent with the view of a single species. In a parsimony analysis of morphological characters of 14 species of the subgenus, the two groups consistently appear as closest relatives. This evidence indicates that the complex represents a single evolutionary lineage with two incompletely differentiated morphological subgroups. On the basis of these results, we propose to treat the MCCG and UCCG as two varieties of Gonolobus suberosus. Gonolobus granulatus Scheele is neotypified in association with the required new combination for the UCCG variety. A key to the infraspecific taxa is provided.
41761811|Abolboda (Xyridaceae) is a small genus confined to northern South America where it occurs in oligotrophic, wet habitats. Many taxa of Abolboda are endemic and appear to be ecologically specialized. A revised nomenclature is presented that recognizes 23 species and 11 varieties. Abolboda acicularis var. granularis is elevated to the rank of species (as A. granularis). Abolboda (Xyridaceae) es un gnero confinado a Sud Amrica donde se encuentra en ambientes hmedos y oligotrficos. Muchos taxones de Abolboda son endmicos y parecen ser especializados ecolgicamente. Se presenta una nomenclatura revisada que reconoce 23 especies y 11 variedades. Abolboda acicularis var. granularis se eleva al rango de especies (como A. granularis).
41761940|A new species of Ornithocephalus (Orchidaceae, Oncidiinae) from southern Venezuela is described and illustrated. It is similar to Ornithocephalus gladiatus from which it can be distinguished by the shape of the lip and the lip callus.
41761957|Recent advances in orchid DNA barcoding and molecular phylogeny have increased over the past few years. The need for rigorously delimited specific concepts and the development of an integrative taxonomic system intended to place molecular information within the context of morphological, ecological, and physiological knowledge are the main reasons for which traditional taxonomy should constitute the basis of future molecular works. This is the first in a series of manuscripts to focus on discrete groups of Neotropical orchid taxa, providing full and comparable species descriptions and illustrations for taxonomic discussion. Here, we revise the Lepanthes jimenezii group, in which Lepanthes caroli-lueri and Lepanthespulcherrima are described. Lepanthes jimenezii is lectotypified and a key to the species is provided based on morphological characters.
41761813|The genus Wrightia is revised for the Malesian region. Eight species are recognized, one of which has two subspecies. One new species, Wrightia palawanensis, is described, and one new combination, Wrightia novobritannica, is made. A key to the species is given, and the taxa are described. Lectotypes and neotypes are designated for a number of names.
41761892|A revision of the American species of the genus Crateva (Capparaceae) recognizes four species: (1) C. palmeri, a Central American species with short, stubby, pubescent inflorescences distinguished by the furfuraceous trichomes, leaflets sessile or with short petiolules to 4 mm, and short axis of infructescences, 1-6 cm. Unpublished isotypes, local names, and uses of C. palmen are cited herein; (2) the widespread and glabrous C. tapia, ranging form Mexico to Argentina and the Lesser Antilles. Its variable floral morphology is discussed, and local names and uses are also reported for this species. Among its synonyms, Cleome arbrea, Crataeva benthamii, and C. radiatiflora are lectotypified, and unpublished types are published for C. benthamii, C. benthamii var. leptopetala, C. radiatiflora, and C. glauca; (3) C. urbaniana, an endemic to Cuba and Dominican Republic, which is characterized by having flowers apetalous and (4-)6(-7) sepals. Unpublished isotypes are also published for C. urbaniana; and, (4) C. yarinacochaensis sp. nov., a local endemic of the Amazonian rainforests around Lago Yarinacocha, an old lake close to the Ro Ucayali ca. 4-6 km NW of Pucallpa, in the Department of Ucayali, eastern Peru. This new species is characterized by the elongate glabrous inflorescences on leafless or new-leaved branches, flowers with linear ovaries, and the fruits are highly distinctive narrowly-oblong or oblong-elliptic pepos with attenuate apex. A generic description and a key for the American species of Crateva is herewith provided. Cuatro especies se registran durante la revisin del gnero Crateva (Capparaceae) en Amrica: (1) C. palmeri, una especie decidua restringida a Amrica Central. Esta se diferencia por tener inflorescencias pubescentes con caractersticos tricomas furfurceos, folilos ssiles o con muy cortos pecilulos, hasta 4 mm e infructescencias de cortos ejes, 1-6 cm. C. palmen es aqu citada con istipos inditos, sus nombres locales y usos; (2) C. tapia, es una especie glabra, ampliamente distribuida desde Mjico hasta Argentina y las Antillas menores. Su variable morfologa floral es discutida, sus nombres locales y usos son aqu reportados. Entre sus sinnimos, se lectotipifican Cleome arborea, Crataeva benthamii, y C. radiatiflora y se citan tipos inditos de C. benthamii, C. benthamii var. leptopetala, C. radiatiflora y C. glauca; (3) Crateva urbaniana, es una endmica de Cuba y La Repblica Dominicana, que se caracteriza por sus flores aptalas y clices de (4-) 6(-7) spalos. Se reportan istipos inditos para esta especie; y, (4) Crateva yarinacochaensis, sp. nov., una nueva especie endmica de los bosques muy hmedos Amaznicos, localizada en el rea del Lago Yarinacocha, cerca al Ro Ucayali y ca. 4-6 km NW de Pucallpa, en el Departamento Ucayali, en el este de Per. sta se caracteriza por presentar inflorescencias alargadas y glabras en las ramas desfoliadas o con hojas nuevas, sus flores poseen ovarios lineares y sus frutos son pepos angosto-oblongos o elptico-oblongos de pices atenuados. Se provee de una descripcin genrica y una clave de identificacin de las especies Americanas de Crateva.
41761941|A new species of Habenana from southern Venezuela, H. lisenarum, is described and illustrated. Four additional species, also found in Venezuela, H. amambayensis, H. huberi, H. nabucoi, and H. schwackei, are discussed and/or illustrated. These four species do not appear in the iconography of Venezuelan orchids either as botanical line drawings or as color photographs, or were not correctly identified. In each of the four cases we present types, synonymy, and the citation of specimens collected in Venezuela. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Habenaria del sur de Venezuela, H. lisenarum. Tambin se discuten y/o se ilustran cuatro especies adicionales de Habenaria encontradas en Venezuela: H. amambayensis, H. huberi, H. nabucoi y H. schwackei. Estas cuatro especies no haban aparecido en la iconografa de las orqudeas venezolanas o en dibujos botnicos de plumilla y tinta o en fotografas a color, o haban aparecido mal identificadas. En cada uno de los cuatro casos presentamos datos sobre los tipos, sinonimia y citamos ejemplares colectados en Venezuela. Uma nova espcie de Habenaria do sul da Venezuela, H. lisenarum,  descrita e ilustrada. Outras quatro especies de Habenaria encontradas na Venezuela sao tambm ilustradas ou discutidas: H. amambayensis, H. huberi, H. nabucoi e H. schwackei. Essas quatro especies nao haviam aparecido na iconografa das orqudeas venezuelanas como ilustraes botnicas ou fotografias coloridas, ou no haviam sido identificadas corretamente. Para cada especie so citados o tipo, sinnimos e exemplares coletados na Venezuela.
41755026|Draba beltranii and D. werffii (Brassicaceae) are described from the Peruvian departments of Lima and Arequipa, respectively. Draba beltranii differs from the related D. cuzcoensis and D. soratensis by having more ovules per ovary (30-34 vs. 14-26) and longer fruits and pedicels, and from the former by the bracteate raceme and from the latter by the yellow instead of white flowers. Draba werffii differs from all South American species by a combination of small (2.5-3.0 x 0.7-1.0 mm), blue or purple flowers, scapose habit, and ebracteate racemes.
41761950|Uromyrtus allisoniana and Rhodomyrtus takeuchii (Myrtaceae: Myrteae) are described as new species from ultrabasic substrates in the Kamiali Wildlife Management Area, Papua New Guinea. Both species are known only from the type gatherings, and each is tentatively assigned the status of "vulnerable" following IUCN criteria. Uromyrtus allisoniana resembles U. novoguineensis from New Guinea, but differs by its indumentum type, leaf size and apex, and its flush adaxial secondary leaf veins. Rhodomyrtus takeuchii resembles R. psidioides from Australia, but differs by its solitary flowers. An updated key is provided for the genus Rhodomyrtus.
41761866|This paper includes a synopsis of the classification of North American Salix, distribution maps outlining their general range in North America north of Mexico, and two new combinations: Salix columbiana and S. famelica.
41761715|The current taxonomic status of all 140 Brassicaceae taxa (three genera, two varieties, and 135 species) described by Rodulfo A. Philippi are determined. One of his three genera (Onuris) is recognized, and Agallis and Heterocarpus were previously reduced to synonymy of Tropidocarpum and Cardamine, respectively. Of his 135 species, only 43 (or 31.9%) are currently accepted. Of these, 18 species remained in the genera to which they were originally assigned, 22 were transferred to other genera, and three received new names because they were later homonyms. The two Philippi varieties are no longer recognized. Fifty-one species (Cardamine andicola, C. andina, C. caespitosa, C. calbucana, C. flavescens, C. litoralis, C. macrostachya, C. marginata, C. micropetala, C. monticosa, C. ovata, C. palenae, C. petiolulata, C. reniformis, C. stricta, C. tridens, C. valdiviana, Draba andina, D. araucana, D. colchaguensis, D. davilae, D. depuis, D. intricatissima, D. leyboldii, D. patagonica, D. pusilla, D. rosulata, D. saffordii, Hexaptera pusilla, H. tridens, H. violacea, H. virens, Mathewsia auriculata, Menonvillea gayi, M. orbiculata, M. parviflora, M. parvula, Nasturtium coxii, N. siifolium, N. stenophyllum, Onuris graminifolia, Sisymbrium brachycarpum, S. consanguineum, S. depressum, S. dianthoides, S. floridum, S. hispidum, S. minutiflorum, S. polyphyllum, S. rubescens, and S. tenuissimum) are lectotypified. Furthermore, 23 species names (Cardamine andicola, C. ciliata, C. gongylodes, C. granulata, C. litoralis, C. magellanica, C. ovata, C. palenae, C. soehrensii, C. stricta, C. triphylla, Diplotaxis vernalis, Draba depilis, Nasturtium hastatum, N. patens, N. siifolium, Sisymbrium elegantulum, S. floridum, S. glaucescens, S. tenuissimum, S. umbelliferum, Thlaspi exile, and Turritis chilensis) are synonymized herein for the first time. Three of the four species described by his son Federico Philippi are currently recognized and listed below.
41761835|Phylogenetic analyses of molecular and morphological data have shown the genus Banisteriopsis to be polyphyletic and the genus Diplopterys to be nested within Banisteriopsis subg. Pleiopterys, which is not in the clade that contains the type of the name Banisteriopsis. Therefore, it is necessary to take up the name Diplopterys for the small genus formerly called that plus subg. Pleiopterys of Banisteriopsis . A description of the amplified genus Diplopterys is provided, two new species are described (D. bahiana and D. carvalhoi), and the following new combinations in Diplopterys are proposed, with all combinations by W. R. Anderson and C. Cav. Davis: D. amplectens, D. cachimbensis, D. caduciflora, D. cristata, D. erianthera, D. heterostyla, D. hypericifolia, D. krukoffii, D. leiocarpa, D. longialata, D. lucida, D. lutea, D. nigrescens, D. nutans, D. patula, D. peruviana, D. platyptera, D. populifolia, D. pubipetala, D. rondoniensis, D. schunkei, D. sepium, D. valvata, D. virgultosa, and D. woytkowskii. Illustrations are provided for D. bahiana, D. cabrerana, D. carvalhoi, D. pauciflora, D. pubipetala, and D. valvata.
41761548|New morphological and taxonomic information is presented for Acmopyle sahniana (Podocarpaceae), including the presence of root nodules, a description of mature female cones, a description of the bark, tree diameter, cone position, and pollen size. There is some evidence that A. sahniana is monoecious. A greater range in size is reported for leaves, cones, and tree height.
41761756|Epidendrum guatemalense has been considered the earliest name for two quite distinct species, E. belizense and E. dickinsonianum. Study of the protologue, including materials from the holotype now at Ames Orchid Herbarium, indicate that E. guatemalense is the correct name for E. dickinsonianum.
41761846|This publication is a precursor for the account of Trigonostemon (Euphorbiaceae) for the Flora of China, based on specimens at several herbaria in the U.S.A. (Harvard University, Missouri Botanical Garden, and the Smithsonian Institution) and major herbaria in China. The genus Trigonostemon (Euphorbiaceae: Crotonoideae, Trigonostemoneae) in China is revised. Twelve species and varieties are placed in synonymy, that is, Trigonostemon petelotii, T. kwangsiensis vars. kwangsiensis and viridulis, and T. Hi are combined with T. bonianus; T. harmandii, T. leucanthus var. hainanensis, and T. wui are combined with T. chinensis; T. gagnepainianus and Prosartema gaudichaudii are combined with T. howii; T. heterophyllus is combined with T. flavidus; and T. lutescens is combined with T. fragilis. Trigonostemon fragilis is reported as new to Myanmar. A key to the species of Trigonostemon in China is given.
41761975|Between 1881 and 1884, botanical collector Cyrus Guernsey Pringle made almost 2,700 collections of vascular plants in the western United States and Mexico. Of these, about 8%, representing 57 families, were considered new to science. This paper presents 230 taxa for which Pringle's fieldwork supplied nomenclatural types. Questions are identified and discussed regarding both Pringle's collections and the type status of these names. Fifteen lectotypes are designated herein. Entre 1881 y 1884, el colector Cyrus Guernsey Pringle hizo casi 2700 colecciones de plantas vasculares en los estados del oeste de Estados Unidos y Mxico. De stas, aproximadamente el 8%, que representan a 57 familias, fueron consideradas nuevas para la ciencia. Este ensayo presenta los 230 taxa para los que el trabajo de campo de Pringle suministr los tipos nomenclaturales. Se identifican y discuten cuestiones con respecto a las colecciones de Pringle y el status de tipificacin de estos nombres. Se designan aqu 15 lectotipos.
41761829|Confusion caused by the inclusion of two distinct elements in Malagasy species of Ochrocarpous Thouars, one to be included in Garcinia and the other in Mammea, has not been fully resolved. In addition, one species of Garcinia is also properly to be included in Mamea. The following combinations are made: M. mega phylla (was Paramammea), M. cauliflora (was Garcinia), and Mammea punctata (was Ochrocarpus). In addition, the combination M. eugenioides var. subsessilflora is made, and M. zeereae, a megaphyllous species, M. eugenioides var. crepitans, and M. punctata var. rubrifolia are described.
41761669|Ruiz and Pavn described four species of Lisianthus (Gentianaceae) that are now recognized in the genus Macrocarpaea: Lisianthus corymbosus, L. ovalis, L revolutus, and L. viscosus. These species were described from specimens collected in the province of Hunuco, Peru, and are here identified as relatively narrow endemics largely of that province. Their complicated taxonomic or nomenclatural history has required a careful review that revealed interesting details relevant to their circumscriptions. Lectotypes are selected for Lisianthus corymbosus, L. revolutus, L. viscosus, Macrocarpaea arborescens, M. pachystyla, and M. sodiroana. Lisianthus corymbosus is recognized as an illegitimate name, and is therefore reduced to synonymy under the next validly published name, Macrocarpaea pachystyla. Lisianthus ovalis does not have a type, and is therefore excluded from use. Macrocarpaea arborescens is identified here as a species of southern Ecuador, previously recognized as M. ovalis. The name "Macrocarpaea magnifica Ewan, ined" is a nomen herbariorum, here recognized as M. arborescens. The previously broadly circumscribed Macrocarpaea sodiroana is here recognized as restricted to the province of Pichincha, Ecuador. A new identification is reported where the anomalous specimen Dannouse s. n. (NY) previously identified as "Macrocarpaea sp." by Ewan (1948) is identified as Tabernaemontana eras sa (Apocynaceae).
41761599|Forty-six species representing 27 families and 41 genera are reported for the first time for the Mexican Yucatan Peninsula, here defined as consisting of the states of Campeche, Quintana Roo, and Yucatan. Among these reports, Droseraceae, Eriocaulaceae, Gesneriaceae, and Zingiberaceae are new family records for the flora; Allosidastrum, Codonanthe, Coussapoa, Drosera, Eriocaulon, Iseia, Kosteletzkya, Pharus, Renealmia, Sauvagesia, Schaefferia, and Thouinidium are new generic records for the area; and Achatocarpus and Terminalia are fully documented for the first time. Vouchers for all the new records are provided, as well as keys or commentaries to identify the novelties.
41761775|A new species of Vittariaceae, Antrophyum brassii, from eastern Papua New Guinea is described.
41761979|Myrciaria racemosa, a new species of Myrtaceae from Ecuador, is described and illustrated, with notes on distribution and phenology. Se describe y se ilustra Myrciaria racemosa, una nueva especie de Myrtaceae del Ecuador, con notas sobre su distribucin y fenologa.
41761776|The discovery of extant material of the "living fossil" Metasequoia glyptostroboides from China in the 1940s was one of the greatest botanical discoveries of the 20th century. However, for various reasons, the details about its discovery and introduction worldwide from seeds have varied considerably in accuracy. Furthermore, the details of the current state of this species in China is not well known outside of China because of the language barrier. On the basis of primary documents including letters, manuscripts, and original publications, plus personal experience, the major events, important publications, and main scientists related to this story are recorded chronologically for the first time 60 years after the species' discovery (1943-2003).
41761634|Pseudotomentella larsenii, a new species from Western Australia, is described in honour of Michael J. Larsen (1938-2000) the former student of R. L. Gilbertson. Abundance of sporocarps at several different sites show that P. larsenii is common and well adapted to drought and high soil temperature. Sequences of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) from a Eucalyptus root mycobiont show that this species is an ectomycorrhiza (EM) former. The ecology and distribution of P. larsenii are briefly discussed.
41761631|Tylopilus bulbosus is newly described and illustrated from oak-dominated forests in the Cordillera Talamanca of Costa Rica. While particularly common at one site, the taxon may occur in other under-explored oak forests of the montane Neotropics.
41761987|Recent botanical explorations in the mountains of East Kalimantan, Indonesia, have brought to light two undescribed species. Anisophyllea ismailii occurs as an occasional tree in humid fagaceous forest at 900 m, and Sonerila verticillata occurs abundantly in insular elfin forest at 2000 m.
41761878|The validity of Cypripedium francheii, as described by E. H. Wilson in 1912, and subsequent typification by P. Cribb in 1997 are discussed. We conclude that Wilson's description is valid, but that the material cited by Cribb was not part of the original material and, therefore, that his usage of the term holotype cannot be construed as an error for a lectotype or epitype. We therefore propose a lectotype based on the photographic illustration within the protologue, which is part of the original material, and an epitype based on a herbarium specimen collected by Wilson in 1907.
41761728|A systematic revision of the genus Dichaea (Orchidaceae) in Costa Rica is presented. The taxonomic history of the genus and its phylogenetic position are discussed, with emphasis on infrageneric grouping. Characters of vegetative and floral morphology are treated, and their taxonomic significance is discussed. Twenty-nine Dichaea taxa are recognized for the flora of Costa Rica, and a key to species is provided. Each taxon is described on the basis of Costa Rican material, illustrated in a composite plate, and its distribution in the country is assessed. Distribution maps for all the taxa are given. Overall distribution, derivation of name, notes on species ecology, and diagnostic features are presented for each taxon. Lectotypes are selected for D. acostae Schltr., D. acroblephara Schltr., D. amparoana Schltr., D. costaricensis Schltr., D. dammeriana Kraenzl., D. lycopodioides Rchb.f. ex Kraenzl., D. poicillantha Schltr., D. selaginella Schltr., D. tuerckheimii Schltr., Epidendrum echinocarpon Sw., and E. trichocarpon Sw. A new species, D. gomez-lauritoi, is described and illustrated from the wet Caribbean plains of central Costa Rica.
41761856|Acronychia richards-beehlerii is newly described from the Conservation International Kaijende Expedition. The novelty is closest to A. smithii, differing primarily in the conspicuous septicidal channels on ovaries and fruits. Distributional notes from the recent survey are also provided for the infrequently collected A. emarginata and A. foveata.
41761821|The types of 33 specific epithets in the Lythraceae are determined, primarily for species centered in the West Indies or cultivated there. Genera represented in the study are Ammannia, Antherylium, Cuphea, Diplusodon, Dodecas, Ginoria, Haitia, Lawsonia, Lythrum, and Nesaea. Lectotypes or neotypes are designated for 23 epithets. The special problems associated with typification of species described by A. Grisebach from the Cuban collections of Charles Wright are discussed, and the types for all species in the Lythraceae authored by Grisebach are supplied.
41755030|Kairoa endressiana is described from limestone environments in Papua New Guinea's (PNG) southern region. According to chloroplast and nuclear DNA sequences, the novelty is closely allied to Faika and Kairoa, two genera previously regarded as monotypic. In recognition of these molecular findings, Kairoa is redefined by one nomenclatural transfer and by the addition of AT. endressiana. A key to the three species is presented, together with updated maps of their geographic distributions. Color photographs are provided for all currently accepted taxa.
41761891|Nine South American species are transferred from Capparis s.l. to the genera Cynophalla and Calanthea: Cynophalla declinata comb, nov., C. ecuadorica comb, nov., C. guayaquilensis comb, nov., C. heterophylla comb, nov., C. mattogrossensis comb. nov., C. polyantha comb, nov., C. retusa comb, nov., C. tarapotensis comb, nov., and Calanthea stenosepala comb. nov. Nueve especies de Capparis s.l. del Amrica del Sur son transferidas a los gneros Cynophalla y Calanthea: Cynophalla declinata comb. nov., C. ecuadorica comb, nov., C. guayaquilensis comb, nov., C. heterophylla comb, nov., C. mattogrossensis comb, nov., C. polyantha comb, nov., C. retusa comb, nov., C. tarapotensis comb, nov., y Calanthea stenosepala comb. nov.
41761800|Eugenia churutensis X. Cornejo is a new tree species restricted to tropical dry forests of western Ecuador and is described and illustrated here. It is similar to E. argyrophylla B. Holst & M. L. Kawasaki from French Guiana but differs in having glabrous leaves, longer pedicels, and stamens with shorter filaments. Eugenia churutensis X. Cornejo, una nueva especie de rbol restringida al bosque seco tropical de la regin occidental del Ecuador, es descrita e ilustrada. Esta especie es similar a E. argyrophylla B. Holst & M. L. Kawasaki de la Guyana Francesa, pero se diferencia principalmente por tener hojas glabras, pedicelos ms largos, y filamentos de los estambres ms coitos.
41761699|Asa Gray never expanded his knowledge of floristic bryology to the extent he developed expertise in flowering plant taxonomy. Nevertheless, he became experienced in bryological floristics early in his botanical career, and Gray absorbed new bryological information, both floristic and conceptual, throughout his life from wherever it was generated. He had plans to advance bryology in the United States, including an exsiccata and publishing a volume devoted to cryptogams as part two of the second edition of his Manual, but both never happened. His respect for the bryological talent and energy of William S. Sullivant, whose achievements Gray consistently encouraged and fostered, allowed Sullivant, a non-academic in Columbus, Ohio, to become a highly regarded bryologist of international stature and the designated Father of American Bryology. The growth of bryofloristic knowledge in the United States is traced from the earliest colonial period to later workers, including Dillenius, Andre Michaux, Palisot de Beauvois, Henry Muhlenberg, Lewis Schweinitz, Lewis Beck, and John Torrey, to Asa Gray, and eventually to William Sullivant. The bryological work and accomplishments of each of them show that all participated in a sophisticated international network of information exchange by letter or other conveyance, thereby building important collections of bryophyte specimens and printed references. For some, this happened during the 1800s when improvements in compound light microscopy led to the resolution of morphology not before revealed with certainty in bryophytes and to conceptual advances in understanding the biology of these plants, which in turn allowed the discovery of the mesoscale structural uniqueness of them and continuing advancements in their systematics in the post-Sullivant era.
41761530|Morphological studies of pollen of twelve species in four genera of tribe Trichosporeae (Gesneriaceae) from China are reported in this paper. The pollen grains of tribe Trichosporeae are tricolporoidate or rarely tricolporate, suboblate or spheroidal in shape, circular or subangular in polar view and nearly round or round in equatorial view. Pollen varies in size, colpus characters and ornamentation between species and genera. There is a fragmentary reticular tectum on the colpus membrane of Loxostigma griffithii, and this type of tectum probably represents a comparatively primitive character. In Aeschynanthus, the pollen grains of sections Haplotrichum and Diplotrichum, in which the corolla usually has indistinct bilabiate limbs, are comparatively small; in sections Microtrichum, Xanthanos and Aeschynanthus, in which the corolla has distinct bilabiate limbs, the pollen grains are large. The delimitation of the two ends of the colpi in section Didymocarpoides, which is terrestrial and primitive in the genus Lysionotus, is indistinct, although it is distinct in section Lysionotus. Based on this study, and on information in relevant references, a key to the genera of tribe Trichosporeae is presented based on characteristics of the pollen grains.
41761801|A new species, Alstonia vietnamensis D. J. Middleton, from the Nghe An province of Vietnam is described.
41761932|Nine species of the neotropical genus Licaria from South America, Panama, and Costa Rica are described and illustrated. The new species are Licaria agglomerata, L. clarensis, L. cogolloi, L. colombiana, L comata, L. deltoidea, L. nitida, L. sclerophylla, and L. terminalis. Their relationships within the genus are discussed.
41761491|Fever is one of the most common symptoms of illness. In the northwestern Amazon basin malaria, with its accompanying fever, is wide-spread. We present here a list of northwest Amazonian plants which have been recorded as used by native people as febrifuges.
41761629|Three species of Volvariella are described from material collected in the Hawaiian Islands, and a key to aid in diagnosis is provided. Volvariella bombycina var. ciliatomarginata is described as a new variety, and V. earlei, a rarely collected species known previously only from Cuba and North Carolina, is redescribed. Mycena papyracea is described as new and a key to the worldwide members of Mycena sect. Radiatae is provided. Physalacria angustispora, Porpoloma bambusarum and Stropharia variicolor are described as new. All species are illustrated and compared with phenetically similar taxa.
41761654|A new species, Pottsia densiflora, found in northeastern Thailand and neighboring Lao PDR is described. A key to the species of Pottsia in Thailand and Lao PDR is presented.
41761937|Notes on the lecotypification of Nectandra sangunea, the type of Nectandra, are presented, complementing the prior one proposed by Luciano Bernardi. This is necessary in order to clarify the confusion that arose after his analysis whereby the sheet designated by him as "holotypus" was subsequently altered, and because he mixed elements of two different sheets in the photographic plate indicated as being a single sheet of the "holotypus." Corrections of authorship and the place and date of publication of the species name are also discussed, having been overlooked by most authors who were seemingly unaware of the existence of the original dissertation published by Rottbll in 1776. Apresentam-se notas sobre a lectotipificao de Nectandra sanguinea, o tipo de Nectandra, complementando a prvia proposta por Luciano Bernardi. Isto se faz necessrio para o esclarecimento da confuso surgida aps sua anlise, uma vez que a exsicata designada por ele como "holtipo" foi subsequentemente alterada, e porque ele misturou elementos de duas exsicatas diferentes na prancha fotogrfica indicada como sendo urna nica exsicata do "holtipo." Correes da autora e do local e data de publicao do nome da espcie tambm so discutidas, que foram negligenciadas pela maioria dos autores, que aparentemente desconheciam a existncia da dissertao original publicada por Rottbll em 1776.
41761651|Species of Taxus, particularly Taxus baccata, have long been cultivated as ornamentals in Europe and North America. Ten species of Taxus are generally recognized, but phylogenetic relationships among these species remain unclear. We used sequences of the nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS region to infer phylogenetic relationships. Three of the four New World species form a well-supported clade, within which the Pacific coastal species T. brevifolia is sister to a clade containing T. floridana and T. globosa of northwestern Florida and northern Mexico, respectively. Taxus canadensis, which is more widely distributed in eastern North America, appears to be more closely related to Old World taxa than to other New World species. This relationship, though weakly supported in our analysis, is consistent with leaf anatomical features. Taxus chinensis and T. mairei of southeast Asia form a clade, which is sister to a clade containing T. cuspidata of Japan and northeastern China, and T. baccata of Europe and North Africa. Our ITS phylogeny implies that intercontinental disjunctions in Taxus entailed at least two vicariance events: an initial split between the New World T. floridanaT. brevifoliaT. globosa clade and the rest, and a later split separating T. canadensis from the Old World species.
41761887|Continuing studies of Neotropical Goodyerinae have revealed that three transfers are required in the genus Aspidogyne. Furthermore, the descriptions of 38 new taxa are required in the genera Aspidogyne (3), Kreodanthus (4), Ligeophila (one species, one variety), and Microchilus (28 species, one subspecies). The genus Rhamphorhynchus is considered to be congeneric with Aspidogyne. Microchilus glanduliferus is considered to be conspecific with M. campanulatus. Extensions of distribution are reported for three species. Illustrations are provided for 40 of the 45 taxa treated.
41761956|Two new species of Calyptranthes (Myrtaceae) from Ecuador are described and illustrated: Calyptranthes aequatoriensis and C. ampliflora. Their relationships to closest relatives in the genus are discussed. Se describen y se ilustran dos especies nuevas de Calyptranthes (Myrtaceae) del Ecuador: Calyptranthes aequatoriensis y C. ampliflora. Se discuten sus relaciones con especies afines en el gnero.
41761475|Multilacunar nodal anatomy is confirmed in the monotypic, bistipulate genus Chunia (subfam. Exbucklandioideae), a trait shared with the related, unistipulate genus Mytilaria, but unknown elsewhere in the family. The number of gaps and traces observed ranged from five to nine. The vasculature of the petiole is unique in the family, consisting of two concentric cylinders that persist throughout the length of the petiole. At the top of the petiole the abaxial portion of the inner cylinder dissipates, and the adaxial portion fuses with an adaxial bundle derived from the outer cylinder.
41761679|Cardamine jonselliana, a new African species from Uganda, is described and illustrated. Its relationship to the closely related C. obliqua is given. The occurrence of bracteate racemes in Cardamine is discussed.
41761482|A new species is described, Ipomoea gloverae, and I. spectata is proposed as a new name and rank for I. hastigera var. jaliscana. Ipomoea decemcomuta is proposed as an aberrant associate of the complex to which the above species belong, Ipomoea section Mina (Cerv.) Griseb. Keys and descriptions are presented to complement the most recent revision of the group.
41761639|Radulodon is emended to include taxa with effuse or effused-reflexed basidiomes, well-developed spines, a dimitic hyphal system, cystidia, globose to subglobose basidiospores, and a thickening subhymenium. Out of eleven species placed in Radulodon by various taxonomists, five are accepted: R. americanus, R. calcareus, R. casearius, R. cirrhatinus, and R. erikssonii. The taxa are described and illustrated, and a key to the species is provided. A comparison of the genera Radulodon, Radulomyces, Pseudolagarobasidium, and Sarcodontia is presented. The term "microbinding hyphae" is introduced for the narrow (< 3 m diam), frequently branched binding-type hyphae found in the subiculum or substrate of corticioid fungi.
41761896|Selected Sellaphora species from rivers and springs of the southeastern United States were studied by light (LM) and scanning electron (SEM) microscopy. Three new species are described here and two new combinations are made. Besides the traditional morphological characters, additional morphometric data were used to delineate species. Sellaphora hohnii is known only from Silver Springs, Florida, and S. rugula only from a tributary of the Savannah River, Georgia, while S. wallacei and S. meridionalis have wider distributions, but are currently known only from the Southeastern U.S. S. rexii is apparently a globally distributed species. All five species usually have low relative abundances in river samples.
41761729|Three new species of Pleurothallidinae (Orchidaceae) from Costa Rica, Acianthera fecunda, A. hamata, and A. cabiriae, are described and illustrated. Acianthera hamata is closely related to A. cogniauxiana, from which it differs mainly in the shape of the leaves; the hooked rachis of the inflorescence; the smaller flower size; the entire petals, provided with a rounded lobe on the lower side; and the broadly flabellate keels of the lip. Acianthera fecunda is distinguished by its cleistogamous flowers, reduced habit size, and 2-flowered, short inflorescence. Acianthera cabiriae is closely related to A. fecunda, from which it differs in plant size, the elliptic leaves, and the 3- to 4-flowered inflorescences. Se describen y se ilustran tres especies nuevas de Pleurothallidinae (Orchidaceae) de Costa Rica, Acianthera fecunda, A. hamata, y A. cabiriae. Acianthera hamata est estrechamente relacionada con A. cogniauxiana, de la cual difiere principalmente por la forma de las hojas, el raquis de la inflorescencia uncinado, el menor tamao de las flores, los ptalos enteros con un lbulo redondo en la parte inferior, y las quillas del labelo ampliamente flabeladas. Acianthera fecunda se distingue por sus flores cleistgamas, el tamao reducido de la planta, y las inflorescencias cortas con dos flores. Acianthera cabiriae est estrechamente relacionada con A. fecunda de la cual difiere en tamao de planta, las hojas elpticas, y la inflorescencia con 3 o 4 flores.
41761569|The monotypic taxon Saccifolium bandeirae has been collected twice, on each of the highest peaks of Sierra de la Neblina, which lies on the Brazil-Venezuela border. Saccifolium was described into its own family because of its distinct characteristics. The genus has unique, saccate leaves, a shrubby habit, and Gentianaleslike flowers that have a peculiar nectary-like disk at the inside base of the calyx. Saccifolium has been hypothesized to be closely related to Gentianaceae, but no phylogenetic studies have been made until now. We have determined or accessed databased sequences of the irriL intron from Saccifolium as well as 105 Gentianaceae. These data were analyzed together with sequences from 45 outgroup taxa representing other families in Gentianales and Asteridae. In the resulting most-parsimonous and parsimony jackknife trees, Gentianaceae is divided into five well-supported clades: (A) Exacum plus Ornichia, Tachiadenus, and Sebaea, (B) Blackstonia plus Canscora, Centaurium, Chironia, Cicendia, Coutoubea, Deianira, Eustoma, Geniostemon, Hoppea, Ixanthus, Orphium, Sabana, Schinziella, Schultesia, Symphyllophyton, and Xestaea, (C) Calolisyanthus plus Chelonanthus, Irlbachia, Macrocarpaea, Neblinantha, Symbolanthus, Tachia, Tetrapollinia, and Wurdackanthus, (D) Anthocleista plus Djaloniella, Enicostema, Fagraea, Faroa, Lisianthius, Neurotheca, Potalia, Pychnosphaera, and Urogentias, and (E) Bartonia plus Chionogentias, Comastoma, Frasera, Gentiana, Gentianella, Gentianopsis, Halenia, Jaeschkea, Lomatogonium, Megacodon, Obolaria, Saccifolium, Swertia, and Veratrilla. Clade A is well supported as the most basal gentian lineage, followed by clade B and clades C, D, and E, which are individually well supported but poorly resolved with respect to one another. Saccifolium appears to be the sister group of Gentiana (which is present in the Andes) and has a basal position in clade E (subtribe Gentianinae Gilg pro parte), a derived clade comprising globally distributed temperate-alpine gentians. Saccifolium is the only member of this clade present on the Guayana or Brazilian Shields and is not closely related to any other genera of Gentianaceae from these areas. The resemblance of Saccifolium flowers to those of some North American Gentiana species and Obolaria suggests that Saccifolium may be a derived member of a northern clade and potentially a relic from a ca. 40-million-year-old boreotropical distribution of Gentianinae. Field studies are necessary to clarify morphological and ecological attributes of Saccifolium, including whether its pouched leaves could aid in nutrient uptake (e.g., via carnivory).
41761779|Two new species of Stellilabium are described and illustrated from Costa Rica. Among the species of Sect. Taeniorhachis, S. anacristinae may be recognized for the stiff trichomes of the lip, produced from low, black glands, and the very short setae of the column. Stellilabium tsipiriense is a close relative of S. minutiflorum (Kraenzl.) Garay, from which it differs for the widely elliptic petals, the midlobe of the lip with a glabrous apex, the very long setae of the column and the different shaped stipe of the pollinarium.
41761694|Asa Gray published two important works that dealt with South American plants. His monumental work of plants of the Wilkes expedition, largely from the South Pacific, enumerated 1,052 species in 557 genera of 83 families of dicots. It included 246 new species, 17 new genera, 48 new combinations, and 26 varieties. The second major work, in collaboration with Joseph Dalton Hooker, discussed disjunctions in general and provided 88 examples of North-South American disjunction. This amphitropical disjunction is briefly presented, with key references cited. Several new examples from the Brassicaceae are presented for the first time, and they demonstrate the three major North-South American amphitropical disjunctions proposed by Peter Raven in 1963.
41761547|Ophioparma lapponica is a species with simple to one-septate narrowly ellipsoidal spores less than 30 m long. It has been long confused with the KOH- chemotype of O. ventosa and usually shares the same chemical constituents, usnic and divaricatic acids. Occasionally depsidones or atranorin may be present. Both O. lapponica and the usnic-divaricatic chemotype of O. ventosa occur in North America, Asia, and Europe. Based on preliminary data, O. lapponica has a holarctic-subarctic distribution, except in Asia where it may also be alpine. The hypothamnolic chemotype of O. ventosa is newly reported from North America, Greenland, Mexico, Mongolia, and Japan. Zeorin is confirmed by TLC as an occasional constituent in two chemotypes of O. ventosa. Stictic acid, norstictic acid, salazinic acid, and atranorin are reported for the first time from O. ventosa. In North America psoromic acid is found with usnic and divaricatic acid only or plus hypothamnolic, stictic, or norstictic acids. Specimens with thamnolic acid (O. ventosa s. str.) are still not known from North America. A lectotype for Haematomma lapponicum is selected and the species is described in detail.
41761938|Stigmaphyllon lanceolatum, a new species of Malpighiaceae, is described from Esprito Santo, Brazil. It is distinctive in its abaxially sericeous, lanceolate laminas borne on relatively short petioles. The limb of the posterior petal bears a pair of basal, stout, gland-tipped fimbriae. The stamens are heteromorphic. All styles bear apical folioles. A brief discussion of Stigmaphyllon in Espirito Santo accompanies a key to the thirteen species recorded (and one expected) from that state.
41761763|A close study of the species of Euphorbia and Pedilanthus in the Guianas resulted in a list of accepted taxa, a key to the species, a new combination, some new synonyms and the description of a new variety. Descriptions, distribution and ecology of the new variety and a new combination are given, and keys to the Guianan subspecies of E. cotinifolia and E. heterophylla are provided.
41761893|McIllmurray and Oakeley (2004) demonstrated that the name Maxillaria ramosa has been misapplied to Ornithidium pendulum since 1967, and possibly corresponds to M. cassapensis. We refer Ornithidium ochraceum, O. loefgrenii, and Maxillaria spathulata to the synonymy of O. pendulum (in addition to the already recognized synonyms O. dichotomum and Scaphyglottis tafallae), and designate a lectotype for O. dichotomum. Anew species from Venezuela and the Guianas (Ornithidium elianae), previously confused with O. pendulum, is described. An updated description of O. pendulum is presented along with a review of its complicated taxonomic history and the first record of this species for Costa Rica. McIllmurray y Oakeley (2004) demostraron que el nombre Maxillaria ramosa ha sido mal aplicado a Ornithidium pendulum desde 1967, y posiblemente corresponde a M. cassapensis. Referimos los nombres Ornithidium ochraceum, O. loefgrenii y Maxillaria spathulata a la sinonimia de O. pendulum (adems de los sinnimos ya reconocidos O. dichotomum y Scaphyglottis tafallae), y designamos un lectotipo para O. dichotomum. Se describe una nueva especie de Venezuela y las Guyanas (O. elianae), la cual hasta ahora haba sido confundida con O. pendulum. Se presenta una descripcin actualizada de O. pendulum, una revisin de su complicada historia taxonmica, y el primer informe de esta especie para Costa Rica.
41761281|This is a catalogue of the publications of Lyman Bradford Smith (1904-1997), world authority on the taxonomy of the Bromeliaceae and a specialist of the Begoniaceae, Velloziaceae, and Xyridaceae. The list accounts for 519 publications, several of which were reprinted over the years and are therefore counted again.
41761581|Pleione autumnalis, a new species from Yunnan Province, China, is described and illustrated.
41761843|A critical comparison of the type collection of the Peruvian Sisymbrium lactucoides with members of that genus worldwide reveals that the species should be assigned to Dictyophragmus. The new combination D. lactucoides is proposed. A key to the three species of Dictyophragmus is presented.
41761799|Globba praecox Chokthaw., K. J. Williams, & Paisooks., a new species from western Thailand, is described and illustrated. A discussion of this species' morphological affinities and phylogenetic placement within Globba is presented.
41761666|A new species, Acosmium stirtonii, is described, illustrated and its relationship with allied species is discussed. It has morphological similarities with A. panamense. However, A. stirtonii differs from A. panamense in its leaflets 5-7, opposite, ovate to wide-ovate, appressed pubescence at the midrib on the lower surface, the inflorescence rachis, pedicels and calyx externally densely pubescent to sparsely pubescent when mature, ring of red glands clustered at the base of flower pedicels, flowers 2-3 mm long, and ovary hispid-pubescent.
41761695|Recent work on the rise of science in the nineteenth century has encouraged historians to look again at the role of correspondence. Naturalists relied extensively on this form of contact and correspondence was a major element in generating a community of experts who agreed on what comprised valid knowledge. As a leading figure in the development of North American botany, Asa Gray found that letters with botanists and collectors all over the world greatly expanded his areas of influence. Lasting friendships were made and the collections at Harvard were materially advanced. Letters also brought Gray into contact with Charles Darwin, who became a close friend. After publication of Darwin's Origin of Species in 1859, Gray defended Darwinism in the United States and corresponded with him about evolution. This article sets Gray's correspondence with Darwin in the context of the reception of Darwinism in the United States.
41755027|The correct name for plants of Aster albescens (Asteraceae) with glabrous leaves is discussed and a new combination, A. albescens var. glabratus, is proposed. Aster albescens, a highly variable species in China, extends from the western Himalaya to central China.
41761302|The type specimen of Tillandsia boryana was found in the herbarium of the Universit Claude Bernard in Lyon (LY) and this species is hereby referrred to the synonymy of T. fasciculata var. venosispica. A few additional types of Tillandsia from LY are also reported. Tillandsia smithiana from Cuba, currently treated as a synonym of T. fendleri, is reduced to the synonymy of T. deppeana, the latter now recognized to have a disjunct distribution in the gulf area of Central Mexico and Central Cuba.
41761884|A spectacular new species of Aldina Endl. (Fabaceae-Swartzeae-Aldiniineae) from the Guayana Highlands of Venezuela is described and illustrated. Aldina diplogyne resembles A. latifolia Spruce ex Benth. var. latifolia with its ovate, glabrous, nitid, generally coriaceous leaflets; the rather large, mature flower buds; and the showy flowers with a stout, exerted gynophore. However, it is distinguished from all other species of the genus by the much larger, showy flowers, which have a gynoecium of 2-4 functional carpels with the ovaries on longexerted, robust gynophores.
41761626|Glycine betaine is a compatible osmolyte synthesized by a diverse group of organisms under conditions of environmental stress. Although glycine betaine has been known from fungi, including basidiomycetes, other osmolytes have received more attention from fungal physiologists. In certain basidiomycetes, however, high concentrations of glycine betaine could function to increase water activity in the rapidly-developing basidiomata of polypores and agarics. In addition to new reports of glycine betaine, the preliminary results reported here suggest that the dextrinoid (red) precipitate of Melzer's solution (IKI) is not due to the presence of starch as has been suggested, but rather, to the presence of glycine betaine. The IKI solution is used routinely in the identification of higher fungi, particularly basidiomycetes, and it is important to understand the basis of the reaction.
41761637|Sporocarp production of epigeous ectomycorrhizal fungi was inventoried in northern Arizona in ponderosa pine forests that represented four different stand types: untreated, thinned, thinned and prescribed burned, and stands affected by a severe wildfire. After one season in 1999, 27 different species of probable ectomycorrhizal fungi were inventoried. The thinned stands were found to have the greatest number of ectomycorrhiza species and number of sporocarps when compared to other stands. The thinned and prescribed burned stands had fewer ectomycorrhiza species and number of sporocarps than either the untreated or thinned stands. No sporocarps were found in the stands affected by a severe wildfire in 1996. The data suggest that prescribed burning should not be used exclusively to achieve more vigorous and diverse ponderosa pine ecosystems in northern Arizona.
41761319|The taxonomy of Oberonia rufilabris (Orchidaceae) is discussed. Two new species of Oberonia closely related to O. rufilabris, O. nepalensis and O. pantlingiana are described and illustrated.
41761713|A synopsis of the genus Habenaria is presented for the New World species in two parts. The second part of the synopsis lists species in the range M-Z.  apresentada uma sinopse para o gnero Habenaria no Novo Mundo em duas partes. A segunda parte da sinopse lista as espcies no intervalo M-Z.
41761870|Descurainia kenheilii (Brassicaceae), a new species from the San Juan Mountains, Colorado, is described and illustrated. Its distinguishing characters from the remaining North American species of the Descurainia are discussed.
41761680|Bulbophyllum arianeae is described, illustrated, and compared with other species in sect. Xiphizusa. The new species is found in patches of vegetation on inselbergs in the state of Espirito Santo, southeastern Brazil, and is easily recognized by the short sepals; the labellum with a fleshy, conical, and verrucose ephichile; and the column with a ciliate basal adaxial surface. Bulbophyllum arianeae  descrito, ilustrado e comparado com outras especies da seo Xiphizusa. Esta nova espcie  encontrada em vegetao rupestre nos inselbergs do Estado do Esprito Santo, no Sudeste do Brasil, sendo facilmente reconhecida por apresentar spalas curtas, labelo delgado com um epiqulio cnico e verrucoso e coluna ciliada na base da superficie adaxial.
41761904|We propose here two new names, six new synonyms, and five lectotypifications for South American Miconia (Melastomataceae). We propose M. baumgratziana instead of M. angustifolia; and M. labiakiana instead of M. plumosa. Miconia elaeagnoides is an illegitimate name, but since it has a synonymM. dichrophyllathe former is now recognized as a synonym of the latter. Miconia eriantha is placed in the synonymy of M. racemifera; Miconia pohliana in the synonymy of M. leucocarpa; Miconia pseudopetroniana in the synonymy of M. petroniana; Miconia verticillata in the synonymy of M. elaeodendrum; and Miconia pauciflora in the synonymy of M. brasiliensis. We propose lectotypes for M. angustifolia, M. brasiliensis, M. elaeagnoides, M. petroniana, and M. pohliana. So apresentados aqui dois nomes novos, seis novos sinnimos e cinco lectotipificaes para Miconia sul-americanas. So propostas M. baumgratziana para o lugar de M. angustifolia. e M. labiakiana para o lugar de M. plumosa. Miconia elaeagnoides  um nome ilegtimo, mas como existe um sinnimoM. dichrophyllaa primeira  agora reconhecida como sinnimo da ltima. Miconia eriantha  sinonimizada sob M. racemifera; Miconia pohliana sob M. leucocarpa; Miconia pseudopetroniana sob M. petroniana; Miconia verticillata sob M. elaeodendrum; e Miconia pauciflora sob M. brasiliensis. So escolhidos lecttipos para M. angustifolia, M. brasiliensis, M. elaeagnoides, M. petroniana e M. pohliana.
41761568|Six previously undescribed species are here presented as a result of ongoing revisionary work with Gentianaceae of the Neotropics, and for Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana in particular: Macrocarpaea marahuacae, Potalia elegans, P. maguireorum, Rogersonanthus coccineus, Symbolanthus aureus, and S. rosmarinifolius. The two new Potalia species are distributed in lowland white-sand savannas and caatinga forests of the westernmost part of the Guayana Shield, i. e., the basins of upper Rio Orinoco and Rio Negro in Brazil and Venezuela, and of the Rio Apaporis and Ro Vaups in Colombia. Symbolanthus aureus is the first yellow-flowered Symbolanthus species known from the Guayana Shield and is endemic to Ilu-tepui in Bolivar, eastern Venezuela. Endemic to the summit of Cerro Coro-Coro in Amazonas (Venezuela) is S. rosmarinifolius, which has unique, extremely narrow, and strongly revolute leaves. Other narrow endemics of Amazonas, Venezuela, are Macrocarpaea marahuacae, restricted to Cerro Marahuaca and characterized by rugose leaves with attenuate bases, and Rogersonanthus coccineus, a red-flowered perennial herb with basal vegetative shoots from Sierra de la Neblina. The morphology, distribution, and possible phylogenetic relationships of these six new species are discussed.
41761614|Eight entities are proposed as new: Epidendrum martinezii is a new taxon in the E. polyanthum complex; Habenana leon-ibarrae is a new species related to H. novemfida and H. brownelliana; Lophiaris andrewsiae and L. teaboana are new species in the L. carthagenense complex, the latter probably a natural hybrid of L. andrewsii and L. lurida; Maxiilaria  yucatanensis is apparently a nothospecies resulting from the introgression of Maxillaria tenuifolia and Maxillaria variabilis vel sp. aff.; the new species Myrmecophila christinae is proposed to accommodate the common species of the genus in the Peninsula, which had previously been confused with Myrmecophila tibicinis, whereas the populations of this new species from the most humid sections of the Peninsula are recognized as var. ibarrae; and Myrmecophila  laguna-guerrerae, nothospecies nov., is the result of the introgression of Myrmecophila brysiana and M. christinae in SE Quintana Roo. Lophiaris oerstedii is a new combination. Campylocentrum dressiert is a new synonym of C. tyrridion, and Schomburgkia campechiana is a new synonym of Myrmecophila tibicinis. Encyclia dickinsoniana is a later homonym of Encyclia dickinsoniana. Beloglottis, Brassia, Cattleya, Cyclopogon, Eulophia, Jacquiniella, Liparis, Malaxis, Macradenia, Pelexia, Platythelis, Prescottia, Sobralia, and Tropidia are new generic records for the flora of the Mexican Yucatan Peninsula. Brassia caudata, B. maculata, Bulbophyllum oerstedii, Campylocentrum fasciola, Cyclopogon cranichoides, C. prasophyllum, Epidendrum diffusum, Habenaria pringlei, H. repens, Maxillaria uncata, Pelexia gutturosa, Pleurothallis brighamii, Prosthechea chacaoensis, Vanilla insignis, and V. odorata are new specific records for the orchid flora of the Mexican section of the Peninsula. Campylocentrum tyrridion, Encyclia amanda, Habenaria mesodactyla, Myrmecophila brysiana, and Sarcoglottis assurgens are all newly recorded for the Mexican flora. The distributions of several taxa within the Mexican Yucatan Peninsula are documented for the first time, these entities having been cited by previous authors without voucher and locality data. These include Epidendrum ciliare, E. isthmii, Lophiaris lurida, Oncidium ensatum, Prosthechea radiata, and several others. A total of 117 species in 59 genera are currently recognized for the Mexican section of the Peninsula. A nomenclatural update of the taxa of the area is provided. Keys to the species within each genera are proposed, as well as selected voucher citations, distributional notes, and comments where relevant. A checklist of the Orchidaceae for the entire Yucatan Peninsula Biotic Province is offered for the first time. This checklist accounts for 153 orchid species in 72 genera. Ocho entidades se proponen como nuevas: Epidendrum martinezii es un nuevo taxn en el complejo E. polyanthum; Habenaria leon-ibarrae es una nueva especie relacionada con H. novemfida y H. brownelliana; Lophiaris andrewsiae y L. teaboana son nuevas especies en el complejo L. carthagenense, el ltimo probablemente un hbrido natural de L. andrewsii y L. lurida; Maxillaria  yucatanensis es aparentemente el resultado de la introgresin de Maxillaria tenuifolia y Maxillaria variabilis vel sp. aff.; Myrmecophila christinae se propone para acomodar la especie local ms comn del gnero que haba sido previamente confundida con M. tibicinis, y las poblaciones de esta especie de las zonas ms hmedas de la Pennsula se reconocen como la variedad ibarrae; y Myrmecophila  laguna-guerrerae es el resultado de la introgresin de Myrmecophila brysiana y Myrmecophila christinae en el SE de Quintana Roo. Lophiaris oerstedii es una combinacin nueva; Campylocentrum dressiert es un sinnimo nuevo de C. tyrridion, mientras que Schomburgkia campechiana lo es de Myrmecophila tibicinis. Encyclia dickinsoniana es un homnimo posterior de Encyclia dickinsoniana. Beloglottis, Brassia, Cattleya, Cyclopogon, Eulophia, Jacquiniella, Liparis, Malaxis, Macradenia, Pelexia, Platythelis, Prescottia, Sobralia, y Tropidia son nuevos registros genricos para la flora de la Pennsula Yucatn Mexicana. Brassia caudata, B. maculala, Bulbophyllum oerstedii, Campylocentrum fasciola, Cyclopogon cranichoides, C. prasophyllum, Epidendrum dijfusum, Habenaria pringlei, H. repens, Maxillaria uncata, Pelexia gutturosa, Pleurothallis brighamii, Prosthechea chacaoensis, Vanilla insignis, y V. odorata son nuevos registros a nivel de especie para la orquideoflora de la seccin mexicana de la Pennsula. La distribucin dentro de la Pennsula Yucatn Mexicana se documenta por primera vez para los siguientes taxa: Epidendrum ciliare, E. isth mii, Lophiaris lurida, Oncidium ensatum, Prosthechea radiata y varias otras. Un total de 117 species en 59 gneros se reconocen en este estudio para la seccin mexicana de la Pennsula Yucatn. Se actualiza la nomenclatura para los taxa de Orchidaceae del rea. Se proveen claves para las especies en los gneros con ms de un taxn as como citas de especmenes selectos, comentarios, distribucin y comentarios. Se ofrece por primera vez un listado de las Orchidaceae para la Provincia Bitica Pennsula de Yucatn, la cual incluye 153 especies en 72 gneros.
41761650|In the course of the revision of Euphorbia for the Flora of Thailand, five new synonyms are established and eight taxa are lectotypified. A former lectotype of E. parviflora L. is rejected, and problems with the application of the name E. atoto G. Forst, are discussed.
41761825|A new species of Apocynaceae, Micrechites glabra, from Sabah in East Malaysia is described.
41761301|The recent generic subdivision of Pitcairnia L'Her., and recognition of an expanded segregate genus Pepinia Brong. in Andr by Varadarajan and Gilmartin is rejected. The stated difference between the genera was seed structure, alate or naked in Pepinia and bicaudate in typical Pitcairnia. Analysis of the seeds shows a more complex seed variation, varying from the amphigenus cortication of Pitcairnia aphelandriflora Lem. (subg. Pepinia) to the narrowly winged and bicaudate form of typical Pitcairnia and the broadly alate form of many South American species. Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) is employed to illustrate the gradation. Seed variation, by itself, proves unreliable for the proposed generic delimitation. Other characters against which the seed character is tested include the arrangements of chlorenchyma, and adaxial or abaxial water storage tissue adjacent to vascular bundles as seen in cross sections of Pitcairnia leaves. The latter anatomical structures are considered significant and unlikely to have evolved more than once in the broad concept of Pitcairnia. The different foliar modifications occur in both proposed subgenera based on seed type with little correlation to seed variation. As a result, the genus Pepinia is returned to the synonomy of Pitcairnia without distinction at the subgeneric level. Forty-two species that have been transferred to Pepinia are listed under their proper names in Pitcairnia with six new combinations and two required new names.
41761985|Eight species of Ptychomitrium are recognized in China. These are: P. dentatum (Mitt.) Jaeg., P. fauriei Besch., P. formosicum Broth, et Yas., P. linearifolium Reim., P. gardneri Lesq., P. sinense (Mitt.) Jaeg., P. tortula (Harv.) Jaeg. and P. wilsonii Sll, et Lesq. Brachysteleum mairei Thr. is synonymous within tortula. Lectotypifications of Glyphomitrium dentatum, G. sinense and Ptychomitrium formosicum are made. The two most common species of the genus in China, P. sinense and P. gardneri, have a disjunctive eastern Asianwestern North American distribution.
41761310|Four new Bolivian species of Stenostephanus, S. lyman-smithii, S. krukoffii, S. cochabambensis, and S. davidsonii, are described and illustrated. In addition, two new combinations, S. pyramidalis and S. crenulatus, are also necessary. A key to all of the known species of Stenostephanus from Bolivia is also provided.
41761927|Symplocos atlantica (Symplocaceae), a new species from the Atlantic Rain Forest of Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new species is morphologically similar to Symplocos glandulosomarginata and S. glaziovii, from which it can be distinguished by young leaves with an eglandular margin or rarely with 1-3 early caducous glands per cm, a pilose and dome-like to short-cylindrical disc in flower, and fertile ovules 0.2-0.5(-0.6) mm long.
41761673|The new name Lepidium uzbekistanicum is proposed to replace the later homonym L. seravschanicum. Lepidium karelinianum is reduced to synonymy of L. kirilowii. Three other species of Lepidium are lectotypified.
41761788|A new species of Adiantaceae, Adiantum phanomensis, from Peninsular Thailand is described.
41761648|The status of Schomburgkia tibicinis var. grandiflora (Orchidaceae) is clarified, and the taxon is raised to the species level and transferred to the genus Myrmecophila as M. grandiflora. Brief diagnostic and distributional notes on the species are provided as well as a key to the Mexican taxa of the genus. La situacin de Schomburgkia tibicinis var. grandiflora (Orchidaceae) es aclarada, y el taxon es elevado al rango de especie y transferido al gnero Myrmecophila como M. grandiflora. Breves notas diagnosticas y datos de distribution sobre la especie se proveen asi como una clave para los taxa mexicanos del gnero.
41761633|Considerable advances in the knowledge of the biodiversity of Hawaiian fungi were made in the 1990's. Robert L. Gilbertson produced several papers on wood-rotting fungi, Dennis Desjardin has studied agarics and other fleshy fungi, and Jack D. Rogers began a long term study on xylariaceous fungi, all in collaboration with Don Hemmes at the University of Hawai i at Hilo. Don Gardner became the authority on Hawaiian rust fungi while Richard Koske studied mycorrhizal fungi associated with native plants. Uno Eliason, John Landolt, George Wong, Fred Spiegel, and Andrew Swanson all contributed to the knowledge of various mycetozoans throughout the islands. Newly described species and continuing studies are discussed.
41761696|"... The news is just this, I am engaged to be married to a lady who I think is every way calculated to make me happy... I have not yet told you her name. It is Jane Loring. Her age I suppose to be 25 or 26, though this of course I do not know directly. I suppose she would not be called handsome, but she has a face beaming with good temper and full of intelligence. She is the perfect admiration of all her friends for her lovely and excellent qualities. She is I believe a truly pious girl, and is indeed a person in whom I have the utmost confidence and trust. She moves in the best, though seldom the most brilliant circles of Boston. Possesses all the usual accomplishments of persons in her station, but is most remarkable for a well-cultivated mind, and for her excellent practical powers."
41761282|This is a catalogue of the 1,785 new taxa of plants comprising 18 new genera, 1,561 new species, 189 new varieties, five new subspecies, eleven new forms, and one new nothogenus named by Lyman B. Smith (1904-1997). Additionally, there are 621 new combinations, bringing the total to 2,407 novelties. Smith published in 46 plant families, but the majority of the new taxa are in the Bromeliaceae, Begoniaceae, Velloziaceae, and Xyridaceae. Additionally, a list of the 48 taxa named in honor of Lyman B. Smith is provided, consisting of one genus, one hybrid, and 46 species.
41761557|Cardamine cheotaiyienii, a new species from Yunnan Province, is described and illustrated. The genus Loxostemon is reduced to synonymy of Cardamine. A new combination and two new synonyms are proposed.
41761767|Arabis kokonica is reported here for the first time from China. Chorispora tas hkorganica, previously known only from the holotype and paratype specimens, was collected from the type locality. A detailed description of the former is provided.
41761678|A new species, Geranium sagasteguii, from La Libertad in Peru is described and illustrated. A key to the species of Geranium sect. Neoandina is presented. Se describe y se ilustra el Geranium sagasteguii una nueva especie del Per y se incluye en la clave de la seccin Neoandina.
41761531|A new genus of Dilleniaceae, Neodillenia, is described based on a revision of the family's eleven known genera. The new genus is illustrated and three species are proposed, N. coussapoana, N. peruviana and N. venezuelana, from the Amazonian region of Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela, respectively. This new genus has morphological similarities with the genera Davilla, Dillenia, Doliocarpus and Pinzona. However, Neodillenia differs from Dillenia in its liana-like habit, well-developed stigmas, flat receptacle, 1-5 carpels, and only 1-2 basal ovules per carpel. From Davilla, Doliocarpus and Pinzona it differs in its linear anthers, the stamens forming a ring around the carpels and orthotropous ovules. Keys to differentiate the genera of the Dilleniaceae and the three new species of Neodillenia are also provided.
41761820|Thirty-five species and two varieties are reported for the first time for the Mexican portion of the Yucatan Peninsula. Among these reports, Balanophoraceae, Caryophyllaceae, and Hypoxidaceae are new family records for the flora, and Calathea, Cardamine, Centaurium, Curculigo, Dentella, Drymaria, Geophila, Hedyotis, Helosis, Murdannia, Stellaria, and Tripogon are new generic records for the area. Vouchers for all the new records are provided, as well as keys and commentaries to identify the novelties. Also, miscellaneous notes about 22 additional species are included. Son reportadas por primera vez para la porcin mexicana de la Pennsula de Yucatn 35 especies y 2 variedades. De stas, Balanophoraceae, Caryophyllaceae e Hypoxidaceae son los primeros reportes de familia para la flora, y Calathea, Cardamine, Centaurium, Curculigo, Dentella, Drymaria, Geophila, Hedyotis, Helosis, Murdannia, Stellaria y Tripogon son nuevos reportes de gneros. Son citados ejemplares de herbario para todos los reportes as como tambin se incluyen comentarios y claves para la identificacin de estas novedades. Adems, se presentan notas miscelneas sobre otras 22 especies adicionales.
41761857|The genus Pomatocalpa (Orchidaceae) is revised. The genus is found from India through Malesia and the Cape York Peninsula of northeastern Australia to Fiji, north to northeastern Himalaya and Taiwan, with its center of diversity in Thailand and Peninsular Malaysia. Thirteen species are recognized, three of which have two subspecies. Two new combinations are proposed. A key to the species is given, and all taxa are described with notes on distribution and ecology. Distribution maps and illustrations are provided for all taxa. The overall distribution patterns suggest that the genus originated in a wet tropical area in the western part of Malesia or southern mainland Asia more than 15 million years ago, and that the present occurrences in Taiwan, the Lesser Sunda Islands and areas east of Lydekker's line are derived from later migrations. Partly on the basis of results of a nonparametric test for extinction, Pomatocalpa kunstleri subsp. linearipetalum and P. tonkinense are considered extinct in the wild.
41761632|Pachyella babingtonii (Pezizales, Pezizaceae) produces both hyaline, thin-walled, 1-, 2- or 3- celled conidia and pale brown, thick-walled chlamydospores in axenic culture. The blastic conidia are produced on short denticles either directly on the assimilative hyphae or on short, erect, slightly swollen branches. The conidia and their mode of production are similar to those reported for some other members of the Pezizaceae but this is the first report of an anamorph for a species of the genus Pachyella. Chlamydospores have been found near apothecia of P. babingtonii in field-collected material; conidia have not been observed in nature.
41761909|Two new species, Macrocarpaea claireae and M. quizhpei (Gentianaceae: Helieae), are described from the Huancabamba region of southern Ecuador. Macrocarpaea claireae occurs around Valladolid, adjacent to P.N. Podocarpus, and M. quizhpei occurs in the Nangaritza watershed. M. claireae is closely related to M. pringleana and M. sodiroana, yet differs notably in its glaucous-green, campanulate-urceolate calyx. Macrocarpaea quizhpei has affinities to M. dies-viridis, but differs in having a large, diffusely branched, open thyrse to 1.3 m high.
41761789|Chorioactis geaster (Pezizales, Ascomycota) exhibits an unusual geographical disjunction, with populations known only from Texas, USA and Kyushu, Japan. To better understand the phylogenetic and biogeographic history of this fungus, we used maximum likelihood to estimate phylogenies based upon molecular sequence data from the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and large subunit (28S) regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA). Our data suggest distinct American and Japanese lineages and support our hypothesis that a dematiaceous hyphomycete, Conoplea aff. elegantula, is an anamorph of Ch. geaster. In an effort to date the divergence between the two lineages, we employed a molecular clock that was calibrated with fossil data. Because no fossils are known from Chorioactis, nor from any Pezizales, we estimated the date of origin of the pezizalean lineage that immediately includes Chorioactis by using: 1) published small subunit (18S) nrDNA sequences from fungal representatives, 2) the fungal fossil record, and 3) non-parametric rate smoothing. We then applied this estimated date to calibrate our 28S phylogeny. According to these data, the divergence between the two Ch. geaster lineages occurred at least 19 MYA. Despite the pronounced temporal, geographical, and molecular disjunction, the two Ch. geaster lineages exhibit a remarkable degree of morphological stasis.
41761949|Four new species of Isidro galvia (Tofieldiaceae) from sandstone massifs on the Guiana Shield are described, illustrated, and their morphology compared to other species. Isidrogalvia sipapoensis and I. penduliflora are unusual in the genus in having pendant flowers. Isidrogalvia penduliflora, I. neblinae, and I. paniculata are relatively robust species endemic to Cerro de la Neblina. The last is unique in Tofieldiaceae in having a compound inflorescence. A bilingual key (English-Spanish) to the six species of Isidrogalvia occurring in the Guayana Highlands is provided. The morphology and familial placement of Isidrogalvia are discussed. Se describen y se ilustran cuatro nuevas especies de Isidrogalvia (Tofieldiaceae) de la arenisca de macizos montaosos del Escudo de Guayana, y se discute su morfologa en comparacin con otras especies. Isidrogalvia sipapoensis e I. penduliflora son inusuales en el gnero en que tiene flores colgantes. Isidrogalvia penduliflora, I. neblinae e I. paniculata son especies relativamente robustas endmicas de Cerro de la Neblina. Esta ltima especie es la nica en Tofieldiaceae en tener una inflorescencia compuesta. Se incluye una clave bilinge (ingls-espaol) para las seis especies de Isidrogalvia que ocurren en las tierras altas de Guayana, y se discute la morfolga y la colocacin familiar del gnero.
41761628|Cultural characters of 22 species of Basidiomycetes occurring in Costa Rica are studied from their growth characters and microscopic features, which are described and illustrated. The species studied are: Abortiporus biennis, Antrodiella liebmannii, Bjerkandera adusta, Cerrena unicolor, Coriolopsis floccosa, Coriolopsis polyzona, Daedalea quercina, Fomitopsis cupreo-rosea, Ganoderma lucidum, Hexagonia tenuis, Lopharia papyrina, Peniophora versiformis, Polyporus tenuiculus, Polyporus tricholoma, Pseudofavolus cucullatus, Pycnoporus sanguineus, Schizophyllum commune, Trametes cubensis, Trametes elegans, Trametes hirsuta, Trametes versicolor, and Trametes villosa. Most of the fungi were isolated from decayed wood.
41761797|Hesperidanthus is re-established as a distinct genus consisting of five species, including those previously assigned to Schoenocrambe (minus its type) and the monotypic Caulostramina and Glaucocarpum. A detailed description of the combined genus, a key to the species, and complete synonymies are given. The new combinations H. argillaceus, H. barnebyi, H. jaegeri, and H. suffrutescens are proposed. Four of the five species assigned herein to Hesperidanthus are of considerable conservation concern, of which one (H. jaegeri) is endemic to California (Inyo County), and three (H. argillaceus, H. barnebyi, H. suffrutescens) are endemic to Utah (Duchesne, Emery, Uintah, Wayne counties). The fifth (H. linearifolius) is widespread in the southwestern United States (Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, Texas) and adjacent northern Mexico. On the basis of molecular, cytological, and morphological data, the type of Schoenocrambe, S. linifolia, clearly belongs to Sisymbrium and, therefore, Schoenocrambe has to be united with this genus.
41761716|The gasteroid genus Richoniella and the cyphelloid genus Rhodocybella (Entolomataceae) are poorly known fungal genera that have yet to be evaluated in depth in a molecular phylogenetic context. Here, we report a recent find, including detailed descriptions and photographs, of the rarely collected gasteroid species Richoniella asterospora from southeast North America. Phylogenetic placement of this species within a multi-gene treatment of the Entolomataceae supports the polyphyly of Richoniella. Richoniella asterospora shares an alliance with agaricoid and secotioid species within the diverse, heteromorphic genus Entoloma. Also rarely encountered is the cyphelloid genus Rhodocybella, known only from southeast North America. Molecular annotation and phylogenetic analysis of the holotype suggest an affiliation with two lignicolous European pileate-stipitate species of Entoloma, E. pluteisimilis and E. zuccherellii. Results from molecular annotation of three additional species of Entolomataceae are also reported. In addition, we propose recognition of the following robust monophyletic groups: the Pouzarella clade within the genus Entoloma; and the genera Rhodocybe and Clitopilopsis and the Rhodophana clade, apart from the genus Clitopilus, within which they have been recently subsumed. Both Richoniella asterospora and Rhodocybella rhododendri are transferred to the genus Entoloma to maintain its monophyly.
41761304|A selected bibliography of articles published up to the year 1992, concerning Brazilian botanical and environmental subjects including ethnobotany, vegetation, deforestation, conservation and development, is presented.
41761652|Torreya, composed of five to seven species, is distributed disjunctly in eastern Asia and the eastern and western United States. In this study, interspecific relationships of Torreya were examined on the basis of sequences of the nrDNA ITS region. Torreya taxifolia and T. californica of the New World form a clade, as do the Old World species. This result suggests that the previous division of Torreya into two sections does not reflect phylogenetic relationships and that the diagnostic character for the two sections, namely, rumination of albumen, is homoplastic. It is possible that the present distribution of species of Torreya resulted from a single vicariance event separating the Old World and New World. However, the modern species are apparently young in age, and it will be necessary to integrate older fossils to ascertain the deeper biogeographic history of the genus.
41761845|Acer is one of the most diverse woody genera in the Northern Hemisphere. Recent phylogenetic studies support the placement of Acer and Dipteroniasole members of the traditional Aceraceaein the Sapindaceae. However, the monophyly of Acer and its sections remain to be tested. In this study, sequences of two chloroplast non-coding regions, psbM-trnD and trnD-trnT, are used to elucidate phylogenetic relationships of Acer and Dipteronia. Our results support the monophyly of Acer and sects. Arguta, Ginnala, Integrifolia, Lithocarpa, Macrantha, Plmala, Platanoidea, and Trifoliata. In contrast, sects. Acer, Goniocarpa, Parviflora, Saccharodendron, and Spicata are not monophyletic. Acer trautvetteri and A. opalus of sect. Acer are more closely related to A. monspessulanum of sect. Goniocarpa and A. saccharum of sect. Saccharina than to A. caesium and A. pseudoplatanus of sect. Acer. Acer distylium of sect. Parviflora is more closely related to sect. Platanoidea than to A. nipponicum of sect. Parviflora. Morphological species pairs between eastern Asia and North America are not sister species, including A. pycnanthum A. rubrum and A. caudatum A. spicatum. Acer ukurunduense is a distinct species from A. caudatum. Acer glabrum is most closely related to A. pseudoplatanus, whereas A. spicatum may be more closely related to A. carpinifolium than to A. caudatum. Section Hyptiocarpa is most closely related to sect. Rubra, and the two North American species of sect. Rubra (A. rubrum and A. saccharinum) are more closely related to each other than they are to the Japanese species (A. pycnanthum). Sections Integrifolia and Trifoliata are closely related, and so are Cissifolia and Arguta. Nevertheless, more data are needed to fully resolve intersectional relationships of Acer.
41761905|We resurrect Capparidastrum (Capparaceae), a neotropical genus traditionally included in Capparis s.l., that comprises three subgenera: Subgen. Capparidastrum (two spp.), Pulviniglans subgen. nov. (11 spp.), and Pachycarpum subgen. nov. (two spp.). We transfer the following species from Capparis s.l. to subgen. Capparidastrum: C. frondosum comb, nov., adding it to C. solum previously transferred by us; to subgen. Pulviniglans we place three of the four Capparidastrum species of Hutchinson that we accept (C. macrophyllum, C. petiolare, C. sprucei), plus the following eight species of Capparis s.l: Capparidastrum bonifazianum comb, nov., C. coimbranum comb, nov., C. cuatrecasanum comb, nov., C. discolor comb, nov., C. humile comb, nov., C. mollicellum comb, nov., C. osmanthum comb, nov., and C. quiriguense comb. nov. Finally, we place in subgen. Pachycarpum the following taxa: C. quinum comb, nov., C. pachaca subsp. oxysepalum comb. nov. and C. pachaca, the latter previously transferred by Hutchinson. The relationships of Capparidastrum and closely related genera are discussed, and a key to the genera of Capparaceae for the neotropics with simple leaves and simple pubescence or glabrous, is provided. Resucitamos Capparidastrum (Capparaceae), un gnero neotropical tradicionalmente incluido en Capparis s.l., que comprende tres subgneros: subgn. Capparidastrum (dos spp.), Pulviniglans subgen. nov. (11 spp.), y Pachycarpum subgen. nov. (dos spp.). Transferimos las siguientes especies de Capparis s.l. al subgn. Capparidastrum: C. frondosum comb, nov., adicionndola a C solum, anteriormente transferida por nosotros; en el subgn. Pulviniglans ponemos tres de las cuatro especies de Capparidastrum de Hutchinson que son aceptadas por nosotros (C. macrophyllum, C. petiolare, C. sprucei), ms las siguientes ocho especies aqu transferidas de Capparis s.l: Capparidastrum bonifazianum comb, nov., C. coimbranum comb, nov., C. cuatrecasanum comb, nov., C. discolor comb, nov., C. humile comb, nov., C. mollicellum comb, nov., C. osmanthum comb, nov., y C. quiriguense comb. nov. Finalmente, colocamos en el subgn. Pachycarpum a los siguientes taxa: C. quinum comb, nov., C. pachaca subsp. oxysepalum comb. nov. y C. pachaca, esta ltima especie ha sido previamente transferida por Hutchinson. Se discuten las relaciones de Capparidastrum con sus gneros afnes y se provee de una clave de identificacin para los gneros neotropicales de Capparaceae con hojas simples y pubescencias simples o glabros.
41761706|Pinalia shiuyingiana, a new species from Myanmar, is described and illustrated. A related taxon from India, Eria connata Joseph et al., is transferred to Pinalia.
41761549|Aripuana cullmaniorum (Gentianaceae) is described as a distinct new genus and species of Gentianaceae, differing prominently from previously known taxa by its unique, partially valvate corolla aestivation, stamen attachment at the corolla lobe sinuses, and pollen tetrads with evenly thick, coarsely reticulate exine. A morphological description is provided in addition to accounts of flower and fruit anatomy, seed morphology, palynology, and leaf surface morphology. Aripuana cullmaniorum is most similar to neotropical gentians from tribe Helieae and subtribe Tachiineae sensu Gilg (1895), and to the genera Chelonanthus, Irlbachia, Macrocarpaea, and Symbolanthus in particular. Cladistic analyses of morphological and molecular characters confirm this placement. Aripuana is distributed in white-sand areas in southeastern Amazonas, Brazil, close to Rio Aripuan and the Rondnia, Mato Grosso, and Par borders. Aripuana cullmaniorum is the only gentian of its clade that is endemic to the southern Amazon Basin.
41761783|The lectotype of Salix waghornei, which combines the characters of Salix rctica and S. glauca subsp. callicarpaea, is a putative hybrid between these two taxa. Syntypes cited by Rydberg also include specimens of S. arctica, S. glauca subsp. callicarpaea and S. arctophila.
41761704|A second species of the Chilean endemic Ivania, I. juncalensis, is described and illustrated. It is readily distinguished from the generic type I. cremnophila, which is also known only from the type collection, by its pinnatifid and oblong to lanceolate (vs. entire or dentate and cordate to subreniform) basal leaves, smaller flowers (ovate sepals 2.5-3 mm long and spatulate petals 6-7.5  2.5-3 mm vs. oblong sepals 5-6 mm long and broadly obovate petals 11-13  5-6 mm), and strongly 2-lobed (vs. entire) stigma.
41761822|A brief survey of seed morphology and palynology in Macrocarpaea is discussed and illustrated by Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) photographs. An infrageneric classification is presented where four sections are recognized: sect. Tabacifoliae, sect. Macrocarpaea, sect. Magnolifoliae, and sect. Choriophylla. Another 23 new species, largely from Colombia, are here described and illustrated: Brazil (1): M. illecebrosa; Colombia (14): M. betancuriana, M. callejasii, M. gaudialis, M. gondoloides, M. gravabais, M. gulosa, M. hilarula, M. jocularis, M. lacrossiformis, M. laudabilis, M. maryae, M. silverstonei, M. umerulus, and M. ypsilocaule; Ecuador (4): M. berryi, M. jactans, M. neillii, and M. voluptuosa; and Peru (4): M. chthonotropa, M. granpajatena, M. quechua, and M. xerantifulva.
41761636|Fifteen collections identified as Aleurodiscus cerrusatus and five collections identified as Aleurodiscus lapponicus were examined microscopically. Basidiospores and acanthophyses were measured for each specimen; dimensions of the two species were compared by ANOVA and t-test. Comparisons were also made by substrate and collection locale. Lectotypes of the two species were examined and compared to the nontype collections. While boreal North American collections of either species had significantly larger basidiospores than non-boreal collections, other comparisons showed no significant differences between the two putative species. It is proposed that A. lapponicus is synonymous with A. cerrusatus.
41761314|Nineteen new species of orchidsBulbophyllum blepharochilum, B. cryptophoranthoides, B. hapalanthos, B. mayombense, B. nasseri, B. papulosum, B. pleurothallidanthum, B. recurvilabre, B. saronae, B. schmidii, B. siederi, Cirrhopetalum annamense, C. pseudopicturatum, Galeandra biloba, G. levyae, Paphinia levyae, P. zamorae, Rhytionanthos strigosum, and Spathoglottis umbraticolaand two new varieties, Cirrhopetalum curtisii var. lutescens and Paphinia levyae var. angustisegmenta, are described and illustrated. Two nomenclatural transfers as well as notes on three rare species of orchids that recently flowered in cultivation are presented.
41761960|Sibara includes 12 species exhibiting amphitropical disjunction. Six of these grow in California and Baja California, and six in northern Chile and Argentinean Mendoza and Patagonia. The new species S. davidsonii and S. dilloniorum are described from Baja California and Chile, respectively. The genera Pterygiosperma and Werdermannia are reduced to synonymy of Sibara, and the new combinations S. anethifolia, S. macrostachya, S. mendocina, S. pinnata, and S. tehuelches are proposed. Four species described by Philippi in Nastrutium and Sisymbrium are lectotypified.
41761774|A new species, Carruthersia glabra, from the island of Samar in the Philippines is described and illustrated. A key to the species of Carruthersia is presented.
41761936|Elatostema tenuinerve, a new species from Guangxi province China is described and illustrated. Elatostema tenuinerve most closely resembles E. pseudobrachyodontum, but differs in the following characters: margin of the leaves crenate, teeth obtuse; cystoliths 0.15 mm long or less; stipules 1.5-2.0 mm long, subulate, glabrous; pistillate receptacle with cystoliths, bracts in 2 whorls, ca. 13, 0.2-0.5 mm long, apex shortly acuminate, not corniculate; achenes with 7 longitudinal ridges. In the Flora of China, E. tenuinerve would be placed in sect. Elatostema ser. Nanchuanensia.
41761576|The phylogeny of core Mlvales (the traditional families Bombacaceae, Malvaceae, Sterculiaceae, and Tiliaceae) has been greatly clarified by recent molecular systematic studies. In this paper we explore the options available for incorporating this phylogenetic information into a classification for the group. We first discuss a range of options within the traditional system of nomenclature with the added constraint of only recognizing monophyletic groups. These schemes differ in the ranks applied and in the degree to which currently used names continue to apply to familiar groups. We then propose an alternative set of unranked names within the framework of phylogenetic nomenclature. The taxon names we propose are very similar to those used in a forthcoming classification scheme using the traditional nomenclatural system. However, in the phylogenetic system these names refer to unranked taxa with explicit phylogenetic definitions. Each of these phylogenetic names is distinguishable from traditional, ranked names by a "clademark." We note some advantages of phylogenetic nomenclature: monophyly of taxa can be assumed, a greater number of nested clades can be named with less difficulty, and classifications are stable so long as phylogenetic knowledge does not change. Furthermore, it will be easy to establish useful, Web-based data sources of phylogenetic names. The traditional and phylogenetic classifications of the core Mlvales are almost identical, given current knowledge of phylogeny. Therefore, this group provides a controlled experiment with which to see how the two nomenclatural codes perform in practice as phylogenetic knowledge increases.
41761990|Orthotrichum hallii Sull. & Lesq. is reported new to the Altai Mountains in the Xinjiang Province of China, a locality widely disjunctive from its previously known distribution in western North America. This is its first report from the Asian continent. The Chinese populations differ in having more strongly colored teeth, papillose endostome segments and slightly larger spores. The role of the Altai Mountains as a moss refugium is also discussed.
41761859|Caradmine holmgrenii, a new species from the Blue Mountains of Oregon is described. It relationship to and distinguishing characters from the related C. bellidifolia are discussed.
41761964|Three new species of Pabstiella from Brazilian Atlantic Forest in the State of Espirito Santo are described and illustrated. Comments on their ecology and distribution are also provided. The new species, Pabstiella lueriana, P. villosisepala, and P. muricatifolia, are most similar to P. pellifeloides and P. hypnicola. According to the criteria of the IUCN Red List of endangered plant species, P. muricatifolia is included in the Data Deficient category, while the other two species were included in the Vulnerable category. So descritas e ilustradas trs novas espcies de Pabstiella da Floresta Atlntica brasileira no Esprito Santo. As novas espcies Pabstiella lueriana, P. villosisepala e P. muricatifolia, so comparadas com P. pellifeloides e P. hypnicola. So ainda fornecidas informaes sobre ecologia e distribuio geogrfica das espcies. De acordo com os critrios da IUCN, P. muricatifolia foi includa na categora Dados Deficientes e as demais na categoria Vulnervel.
41761769|The genus Solenophora is revised on the basis of herbarium studies and field studies in Guatemala. A total of 18 taxa (16 species and three subspecies) are recognized, three of which are new to science: S. glomerata and S. modesta from southern Mexico and S. schleehaufii from northern Guatemala. Solenophora australis is reduced to infraspecific rank under S. calycosa, and S. calycosa subsp. purpurascens is described as an additional new subspecies under this species. Calyx and leaf morphology and indument are considered as the most reliable systematic characters in this group and are primarily used in delimiting taxa. With the new taxa here proposed it becomes clear that the centre of diversity for this genus lies in southern Mexico and northern Guatemala.
41761977|The long-petaled slipper orchid of Central American has a complex nomenclatural history. Since the first publication of the name Cypripedium humboldtii, this plant has been treated under a number of different synonyms. Here we reconsider the oldest name, suggesting that Warszewicz validly published it, and that the name Phragmipedium humboldtii must be used for this taxon. La orqudea-zapatilla de ptalos largos de Amrica Central tiene una historia nomenclatorial compleja. Desde la primera publicacin del nombre Cypripedium humboldtii, esta planta ha sido tratada bajo un gran nmero de sinnimos diferentes. Aqu reconsideramos el nombre ms viejo, sugiriendo que Warszewicz lo public vlidamente y que para este taxon debe usarse el nombre Phragmipedium humboldtii.
41761484|Selections of lectotypes or comments on otherwise problematic typifications are provided for certain species of Castilleja named by Asa Gray and occurring primarily in Mexico: C. laxa, C. lanata, C. minor and C. tomentosa. Key Words: Castilleja, Mexico, typification
41755021|Two new species of Calyptranthes (Myrtaceae) are described and illustrated: Calyptranthes carinata from Peru and C. nervata from Ecuador. Se describen y se ilustran dos especies nuevas de Calyptranthes (Myrtaceae): Calyptranthes carinata del Peru y C. nervata del Ecuador.
41761641|Postia minuta is described as a new polypore growing on the bamboo Chusquea culeou, Diostea juncea and Drymis winteri in humid areas of the sub-Antarctic forest of southern Argentina. It is characterized by very small basidiocarps, cylindric to suballantoid spores, generative hyphae that are dextrinoid 'en masse' and swell in KOH solution, and is associated with a brown rot in the substrate.
41761852|The distribution, nomenclature, and taxonomy of Rubus cuneifolius Pursh are briefly reviewed. Since there is no known original material for the name R. cuneifolius, a neotype is chosen using recently collected material from southern New Jersey, an area where Frederick T. Pursh most likely observed the species. The misapplication of the name R. parvifolius L. by Thomas Walter in his Flora Caroliniana is also reviewed.
41761760|The recently described monospecific genus Hylaeorchis, restricted to low and intermediate elevations in southern Venezuela and the Amazon basin of Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru, is characterized and illustrated. Hylaeorchis differs from Bifrenaria in its successively 1-flowered, seemingly perennial inflorescence, its pyriform, non-angulate pseudobulbs, and its horseshoe-shaped, Maxillaria-like stipe and viscidium.
41761831|The previously unknown flowers of Psychotria stevensiana are described from newly recorded montane populations. Psychotria osiana is reduced to a synonym of P. leleanoides.
41761627|The taxonomy of genus Laetiporus in North America is discussed in terms of the species recognized to date. Morphological and ecological characteristics are provided that support the delimitation of three new species, L. conifericola, L. huroniensis, and L. gilbertsonii, and one variety, L. gilbertsonii var. pallidus that were suggested by molecular and incompatibility data in earlier studies of the genus. A key to the North American species is provided.
41761587|Four species of Cyrtopodium, C. andersonii, C. cristatum, C. fowliei, and C. parviflorum, are illustrated and discussed within the context of the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana project. A new species, C. graniticum, endemic to the granite outcrops of Venezuela's Amazonas state and most likely neighboring Colombia, is described and illustrated. Cyrtopodium glutiniferum, and C. polyphyllum are also illustrated and discussed and excluded from the Flora area. A key to the species of Cyrtopodium from the Venezuelan Guayana is provided.
41761765|Pleurisanthes howardii, the seventh species of a lianoid genus of Icacinaceae, is described from southern Venezuela. It differs from the related P. flava in its more coriaceous leaves; strigose pubescence on the abaxial leaf surface; and larger, oblongoid, fulvous-hirsute fruits.
41761308|A new species of Velloziaceae, Barbacenia lymansmithii, endemic to Serra da Canastra National Park, state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described. The new species is distinct in its habit, its phyllotaxis and leaf indument which are typical of the B. markgrafii group, and its flowers which resemble those of the B. purpurea group. Morphological and anatomical descriptions and illustrations of the species are presented, as well as comments on its distribution and putative taxonomic relationships.
41761303|The four species of the genus Greigia Regel (Bromeliaceae) in Chile (G. berteroi, G. landbeckii, G. pearcei, G. sphacelata) are revised with discussion of their morphology, distribution, and nomenclature.
41761955|Colicodendron martianum (Capparaceae), a new species of shrub known only from the state of Bahia, in northeastern Brazil, is described and illustrated. A comparison with its closest relative, C. bahianum, is included. Colicodendron martianum (Capparaceae), urna nova espcie de arbusto, s conhecida para o estado da Bahia, no nordeste do Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. Urna camparao com seu parente mais prximo C. bahianum est includa.
41761798|Bomarea patinii (Alstroemeriaceae) is a species widely distributed in the Andes. It is easily recognized by its voluminous inflorescences. A new subspecies, B. patinii ssp. umbellata, here reported from Colombia and Ecuador, and possibly Venezuela, is described and illustrated. Bomarea patinii (Alstroemeriaceae) es una especie con amplia distribucin en Los Andes, fcilmente reconocida por sus voluminosas inflorescencias. Una nueva subespecie perteneciente a este taxn, aqu reportada de Colombia y Ecuador y posiblemente Venezuela, es descrita e ilustrada.
41761293|Three new bromeliad species are described from Puerto Rico; Hohenbergia tetaensis, Tillandsia borinquensis, and Werauhia proctorii.
41761894|The rediscovery of Trichospermum pseudojavanicum and Glochidion rugulosum is discussed in a series of short notes from the Conservation International 2007 Mamberamo Expedition. Diagnostic and characteristic structures, many previously unseen, are depicted with a comprehensive selection of in situ color photographs.
41761929|Continuing studies of Neotropical Goodyerinae have revealed that the descriptions of 15 new taxa are required in the genera Aspidogyne (2) and Microchilus (12 species, 1 subspecies). Microchilus peytonorum (including ssp. juxtasilvae), M. rojasii, Physurus peterianus, and P. roseus var. angustifolius, are respectively considered to be new synonyms of Microchilus ovatus, M. pedrojuanensis, Ligeophila clavigera var. rhodostachys, and L. rosea. The synonymies of Aspidogyne foliosa and Ligeophila rosea are elaborated upon. Aspidogyne fimbrillaris is neotypified.
41761877|For the Antilles, around 50 species of the genus Ilex have been described. Recently, comments regarding the unclear status of some taxa have come to light. In addition, some species considered endemics to specific islands, have been reported on other islands. The aim of the present work is to contribute to solving such problems through a comparative study of the species that inhabit the islands of the region, taking into account the macromorphological aspects, especially of the sexual structures, such as inflorescences, flowers, fruits, and seeds. More than 1500 specimens belonging to about 20 herbaria of Europe and America were critically studied. For the Antilles a total of 32 species, 6 varieties, and 2 subspecies (without counting the typical ones) of Ilex are recognized. Some taxa are revalidated, and new synonyms are proposed. For Cuba, 16 species (9 endemics) are recorded; for Hispaniola, 15 species (7 endemics); for Jamaica, 8 species (4 endemics); for Puerto Rico, 8 species (1 endemic); for the Bahamas, 3 species; and for the Lesser Antilles, 4 species. Data concerning phenology, ecology, and the distribution of each species, as well as comments about specific taxonomic problems, are offered. Para Las Antillas han sido descritas alrededor de 50 especies del gnero Ilex. Con el paso del tiempo han sido expuestos comentarios sobre el status dudoso de algunos taxa. Por otro lado algunas especies, consideradas endmicas para algunas islas, han sido reportadas para otras. El principal objetivo del presente trabajo fue contribuir a solucionar estos problemas taxonmicos a travs de un estudio comparativo de las especies que existen en cada una de las islas de la regin teniendo en cuenta los aspectos macromorfolgicos, fundamentalmente de las estructuras sexuales: inflorescencias, flores, frutos y semillas. Fueron estudiados crticamente ms de 1500 especmenes pertenecientes a ms de 20 herbarios de Amrica y Europa. Para esta regin se reportan en este documento un total de 32 especies, 6 variedades y 2 subespcies de Ilex. Se proponen nuevos sinnimos y algunos taxa son revalidados. Se reportan 16 especies (9 endmicas) para Cuba; 15 especies (7 endmicas) para La Espaola; 8 especies (4 endmicas) para Jamaica; 8 especies (1 endmica) para Puerto Rico; y para Las Bahamas y Las Antillas Menores se reportan 3 y 4 especies, respectivamente. En el presente documento se ofrecen datos relacionados con la fenologa, la ecologa y la distribucin altitudinal de cada especie, as como comentarios acerca de problemticas taxonmicas especficas.
41761806|A new species of Nyctaginaceae, Pisonia taina, is one of the rarest trees known from Puerto Rico. It has seldom been collected during the past four decades and had been, incorrectly, referred to several species names. It is readily distinguishable from the other five Pisonia of Puerto Rico by the venation on the under side of the leaf blade, which is raised through to the finest ramifications. The low number of individuals known and its confirmed existence in only two areas of Puerto Rico serve here to support its designation as a legally protected species. Una nueva especie de Nyctaginaceae, Pisonia taina, es uno de los rboles ms raros de Puerto Rico. Fue colectada raramente en las ltimas cuatro dcadas y confundida con diferentes especies. Se distingue fcilmente de las otras cinco Pisonia de Puerto Rico por la venacin del envs de las hojas, la cual es conspicuamente levantada hasta las ramificaciones ms finas. El bajo nmero de individuos documentados y su presencia confirmada en slo dos reas de Puerto Rico son premisas para apoyar su designacin como especie protegida legalmente.
41761903|A new species of Trichocentrum (Orchidaceae: Oncidiinae) from southeastern Ecuador, T. loyolicum, is described and illustrated. Trichocentrum loyolicum is compared with T. pulchrum, from which it mainly differs by the smaller flowers, the shorter spur, the basal keels curved and convergent at the apex, and the reduced column wings. The generic circumscription of Trichocentrum is discussed.
41755024|Macaranga tessellata var. glabrescens is described from calcareous habitats in Papua New Guinea's southern region. The new variety is distinguished from the nominate form by its narrowly elliptic leaves, solitary female flowers, and glabrous calyces. Distributional records are also reported for Acronychia cartilaginea, Glochidion beehleri, and Psychotria matambuaii, formerly known only from their type localities.
41761961|In this contribution a new species of Tachigali is described from Panama, Sclerolobium costaricense is transferred to Tachigali, a key to the three species from Central America is presented, and the differences between the three species are discussed.
41761972|Sobralia rhizophorae, from the mangroves of Reserva Ecolgica Manglares Cayapas-Mataje (REMACAM) in northwestern Ecuador, is described and illustrated. The new species is characterized by stems with a terminal, cone-like inflorescence bearing white flowers, produced singly in succession, and the obovate labellum with five parallel longitudinal keels, a yellowish-brown spot within, and a heavily undulate margin at the distal third. Se describe y se ilustra Sobralia rhizophorae, encontrada en los manglares de la Reserva Ecolgica Manglares Cayapas-Mataje (REMACAM), en el noroccidente de Ecuador. Esta nueva especie se caracteriza por poseer una inflorescencia terminal a manera de un cono que produce flores blancas, solitarias en sucesin. Las flores tienen un labelo obovado con cinco quillas paralelas dispuestas en sentido longitudinal, una mancha cafamarillenta hacia la porcin apical y un margen fuertemente ondulado en el tercio distal.
41761944|During recent ecological studies, five new species of functionally dicious Ficus were identified from the lowland rainforests of northern Papua New Guinea. One species from subgen. Sycidium, sect. Sycidium (Ficus sangumae), three from subgen. Sycomorus, sect. Adenosperma (F. rubrijuvenis, F. rubrivestimenta, F. wamanguana), and one from subgen. Sycomorus, sect. Sycocarpus (F. aurantiacafolia) are described.
41761315|The protologues of Crataegus scabrida, C. asperifolia, C. cyclophylla, C. egglestonii, and C. jonesae, all described by Sargent, cite three or more syntypes. I comment on the proper identity of these syntypes and then lectotypify each species.
41761915|The name Arabis sect. Dendroarabis is raised to the generic rank, and a detailed generic description is given. The new combination D. fruticulosa is proposed. The generic boundaries of Arabis and the distinguishing characters separating it from Dendroarabis and Rhammatophyllum are discussed in connection with molecular data.
41761597|Four species of Lignariella are recognized, of which two, Lignariella hinkuensis and L ohbana, are described as new. The new combination, L serpens, is proposed. The generic limits and relatives of Lignariella are discussed, and a key to related genera is provided.
41761584|There are four distinctive groups within Stellilabium, here treated as sections: Stellilabium and Dipterostele in the Andes, and Rhamphostele and Taeniorhachis in Central America. The features of these groups are discussed, but the relationships between them are yet unclear. The identity of Stellilabium minutiflorum is discussed, and four new species are described: S. aciculare Dressier, S. butcheri Dressier, and S. morii Dressier in Sect. Taeniorhachis, and S. fortunae in Sect. Rhamphostele.
41761598|In the first 20 years of the 20th century, Charles Sargent described 732 new species of Crataegus (Rosaceae) from North America. Understanding his delimitation of species is difficult because of his idiosyncratic and often careless way of citing type and other specimens and the unique type-specimen concept he developed during that time. Some examples of Sargent's citations provide evidence of the way he viewed types and the association of the name with a living "type tree." Ultimately, however, he more or less conformed to the international movement toward designation of a single type specimen.
41761718|In preparation for a series of publications on the pleurothallid genera of Brazil, twenty-four new species have been discovered. They are described and illustrated here. Two new species, Acianthera klingelfusii and Anathallis johnsonii, are described for Argentina, the former also occurring in Brazil. The other 22 species are exclusively Brazilian in distribution. They are listed here in generic alphabetical order: Anathallis crassapex, A. dantasii, A. gutfreundii A. paula, A. pilipetala, A. seidelii, A. velvetina, Pabstiella acrogenia, P. analoga, P. capijumensis, P. decurva, P. discors, P. freyi, P. gossameri, P. lacerticeps, P. melior, P. nymphalis, P. osculator, P. quasi, P. sansonii, P. savioi, and Specklinia erecta. Eleven new combinations are proposed in the Brazilian Pleurothallidinae: Pabstiella bicolor, P. colorata, P. diffusiflora, P. dracula, P. ochracea, P. pantherina, P. punctata, P. purpurea, P. seriata, P. viridula, and Specklinia barbosae.
41761722|Chionanthus parviflora (Oleaceae), a new species of tree known from the moist forests of Bahia and Espirito Santo States, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Chionanthus parviflora (Oleaceae), urna nova espcie arbrea ocorrente nas florestas midas dos estados da Bahia e do Espirito Santo, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada.
41761823|The genus Bomarea (Alstroemeriaceae) was last revised by Baker in 1888. Since then the number of valid published names has increased from 108 to (recently) 280. The genus is divided into four subgenera (Baccata, Bomarea s. str., Sphaerine, and Wichuraea) (Hofreiter and Tillich, 2002). In the present study, the Bomarea species of Bolivia and southern South America (southern Brazil, Argentina, and Chile) are revised. Twelve species of subgenus Bomarea s. str., three species of subgenus Sphaerine, and five of subgenus Wichuraea occur in the study area. Ravenna (2000) included Leontochir in Bomarea. This view is supported herein. Only one species occurs south of Bolivia (B. salsilla in Chile) that is not found in Bolivia. Bomarea macrocephala has its center of distribution in Argentina and is found in Bolivia only near the Argentinean border. Bomarea ovallei occurs in a single valley west of Bolivia in the Atacama Desert in Chile. The subgenus Baccata does not occur in the area of this study. No Bomarea species is known from Paraguay and Uruguay. Bomarea salsilla, the southernmost-distributed Bomarea species, is found up to 40S. The species are much easier to identify than many species in the distribution center of Bomarea in northern Peru and southern Ecuador. A key to identify the species treated herein is given in English and Spanish. For each species, the typical growth forms and their variability, habitat preferences, and general distribution are discussed.
41761951|Spiranthes spiralis is newly recorded from the Nepal Himalaya. A detailed description and illustration is provided.
41761580|A review of herbarium material for the federally endangered plant species Solidago shortii (Asteraceae) revealed considerable nomenclatural confusion. Fourteen sheets from five herbaria exhibited six type annotations. In addition, a typification of the species had not been published. The complex nature of the species protologue necessitated a consideration of the author's species concept and nomenclatural practices along with the regulations outlined in the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature. These considerations are outlined, along with the subsequent recognition of the lectotype and four syntypes.
41761970|A synopsis of the genus Habenaria is presented for the New World species in two parts. The taxonomic status, typification, geographical distribution and taxonomic notes are presented for each species. A total of 672 names have been proposed for New World Habenaria, 298 of which are presently accepted. 235 are synonyms in Habenaria and 133 belong in other genera, mostly Platanthera. At least 22 of the accepted species are obscure or poorly understood. 107 lectotypifications, one new combination and 44 new synonyms are proposed. Brazil, with 167 taxa, has most species, followed by Mexico, with 72 species, and Venezuela with 44 species. Brazil (105 spp.) and Mexico (53 spp.) also have the greatest number of endemic species. Other apparent centers of endemism are Bolivia and Costa Rica. 205 species are restricted to a single country, but narrow endemics are few. None of the New World species occurs in other continents. The first part of the synopsis lists species in the range AL.  apresentada uma sinopse para o gnero Habenaria no Novo Mundo em duas partes. So apresentados o status taxonmico, dados do tipo, distribuio geogrfica e comentrios taxonmicos para cada espcie. Um total de 672 nomes foram usados para o gnero no Novo Mundo, dos quais 298 so aceitos. 235 nomes so sinonimos no gnero enquanto 133 pertencem a outros gneros, principalmente Platanthera. Ao menos 22 das espcies aceitas so pouco conhecidas ou obscuras. So propostas 107 lectotipificaes, uma nova combinao e 44 novos sinnimos. O Brasil, com 167 txons, tem o maior nmero de espcies, seguido do Mxico, com 72 espcies e da Venezuela com 44. Brasil (105 spp.) e Mxico (53 spp.) tambm tem o maior nmero de espcies endmicas. Outros possveis centros de endemismos so a Bolvia e Costa Rica. 205 espcies so restritas a um nico pais, mas endmicas restritas so poucas. Nenhuma espcie do Novo Mundo ocorre em outro continente. A primeira parte da sinopse listas as espcies no intervalo AL.
41761645|The genus Carbomyces was erected by Gilkey to accommodate two species of North American desert truffles, C. emergens and C. longii. These differ from other hypogeous Ascomycetes in having nonamyloid, brown asci and a gleba of large, thin-walled hyphae, both of which dry in the desiccating desert conditions and disintegrate at maturity to form a powdery spore mass. At maturity the ascomata emerge and are blown about, the spore powder being released as the dried peridium abrades away or breaks. Younger ascomata are eaten by rodents. Because these novel features do not otherwise occur in the Pezizaceae, Trappe erected the monotypic family Carbomycetaceae. Weber discovered that a species assigned to the Gasteromycete genus Abstoma by Zeller, A. longii, was in fact an Ascomycete. In this paper A. longii is transferred to Carbomyces, but as the epithet longii is already in use in the genus, we assign a new epithet to it, C. gilbertsonii, in honor of Dr. Robert Gilbertson, who has devoted much of his mycological interest to fungi of the southwestern deserts.
41761470|Sisymbrium pectinifolium, a new species from southern Peru, and Mancoa venturii, a new species from northern Argentina, are described and illustrated. The status of the genus Pennellia in South America is assessed. The new combinations P. boliviensis and S. vestitum are proposed.
41761836|For the forthcoming treatment of Capparaceae s. str. for the Flora of Ecuador, three new combinations are proposed herewith: Cynophalla didymobotrys, C. sclerophylla, and Capparidastrum sola. Se presentan tres nuevas combinaciones de Capparaceae s. str., necesarias para el tratamiento de esta familia en la Flora de Ecuador. Cynophalla didymobotrys, C. sclerophylla, y Capparidastrum sola.
41761790|Tapeinosperma magnifica and Discocalyx kaoyae (Myrsinaceae) are newly described and illustrated following their recent discovery in the Morobe Province of Papua New Guinea. The new plants are restricted endemics at high risk of future extinction from habitat destruction.
41761717|Fifty-eight new species from regions north and west of Brazil are described and illustrated in miscellaneous genera of the Pleurothallidinae. A new combination in Crocodeilanthe, C. bracteosa, is proposed, as well as the new generic name Lalexia to replace the invalid name Loddigesia. A new combination in Lalexia, L. quadrifida is also proposed. Pleurothallis ringens is transferred to Talpinaria and recognized as distinct from Pleurothallis hitchcockii (= Talpinaria hitchcockii). These two species are discussed and described, and the treatment of Talpinaria hitchcockii in Icones Pleurothallidinarum XVI is revised. Porroglossum miguelangelii, originally described for Ecuador, is placed in synonymy with Porroglossum tokachii, a species heretofore known only from Amazonian Peru. In alphabetical order, the new species proposed herein are: Acianthera cornejoi, A. fernandezii, Axanyae; Acronia miniatura, A. niesseniae, A. rinkei, A. werneri, Alaticaulia amsleri, A. cracens, Ancipitia dubbeldamii, Arenieana, Crocodeilanthe franciscensis, C. juxta, C. mendietae, C. speciosa, C. werneri, Dracula gerhardii, Effusiella werneri, Kraenzlinella rinkei, Lepanthes anemica, Lbarclaya, L. brevipedicellata, L. carrilloi, L. choconsis, L. ericae, L. eucerca, L. heteroloba, L. juan-felipei, L. lacera, L. macdougalii, L. maria-victoriae, L. medinae, L. pictoris, L. reburra; Luzama dejonghei; Masdevallia odnalorii, M. sentinella; Octomeria werneri; Porroglossum adrianae, P. apoloae, P. dejonghei, P. ecuagenerense, P. myosurotum; Regalia antonii; Restrepia peetersii; Rodrigoa ruthiana; Scaphosepalum rinkei; Stelis compre s sicauls, S. conduplicata, S. discrepans, S. franciscensis, S. malvina, S. modica, S. pilulosa, S. regia, S. rudolphiana, S. thelephora, and S. tyria.
41761986|A revision of Ipomoea section Leptocallis is presented. The group is comprised of xerophytic herbs with pedatisect laminas, and originates from arid regions of tropical North America. Two species, I. capillacea and I. plummerae, extend into South America. Species boundaries are interpreted conservatively, resulting in the recognition of eight species and eight varieties. One new variety is described, I. plummerae var. cupulata, and two new combinations are proposed: I. ternifolia var. leptotoma and I. ternifolia var. valida.
41755031|The new species Draba heilii from the alpine tundra of northern New Mexico, and D. mulliganii from limestone and serpentine outcrops in Alaska, are described. From the related D. standleyi, D. heilii is distinguished by the smaller leaves undifferentiated (vs. strongly differentiated) into blade and petiole, thickened midvein (vs. not thickened), setose (vs. non-setose) leaf margin, and lanceolate (vs. linear-elliptic to elliptic) fruits. Draba mulliganii differs from the related D. porsildii by the broadly obovate petals 3.2-4.0 mm long (vs. spatulate petals 1.5-2.2 mm long), non-appressed fruits with styles 0.4-1.0 mm long (vs. appressed fruits with styles 0.05-0.10 mm long), and abaxial leaf surface with 8-12-rayed stellate trichomes often without spurred rays (vs. 3-5-rayed trichomes often with some rays 1-spurred).
41761668|Collections of Cyrtandra from Mount Kerinci, Jambi province, Sumatra are reviewed. Thirteen species are known, three of which are new and described here: C. aureotincta, C. patentiserrata, and C. stenoptera. Two species are apparently endemic to Mount Kerinci, four to Kerinci and the immediate surrounding area and four extend to West Sumatra. An additional two species occur also in West Sumatra and apparently also in Java. Only one species, C. anisophylla, appears to be widespread in Sumatra.
41761953|Two new species of Syzygium are described from Madagascar: S. ludovicii and S. rakotovaoanum. They differ from other Malagasy members of the genus by virtue of their short (< 20 mm long) leaves and prominently winged branchlets. The species can be distinguished from one another based on morphological characters of the leaf and inflorescence. Each species is known only from the type collection. Following IUCN standards, a recommendation of Least Concern is given for S. rakotovaoanum, whereas S. ludovicii is recommended as Vulnerable.
41755029|Croton section Crotonopsis is very distinctive within the genus. It is one of the few groups of the genus that are endemic to the United States. Although the precise phylogenetic relationships of section Crotonopsis have not been established in molecular studies, it is clearly nested within Croton. We hypothesize that it may form a clade with some of the other sections found in North America that have lepidote trichomes and multifid styles. The two species that have been recognized in the section are very similar morphologically; we therefore propose that these two taxa should be included as varieties of a single species and formalize the varietal names, which are Croton michauxii var. michauxii and the new combination C. michauxii var. elliptica. A key to distinguish the two varieties is presented. Croton seccin Crotonopsis es muy distintiva dentro del gnero. Es uno de los pocos grupos del gnero que son endmicos a los Estados Unidos. Aunque las relaciones filogenticas de seccin Crotonopsis an no se han establecido precisamente en los estudios moleculares, est claramente ubicada dentro de Croton. Hipotetizamos que puede formar un clado con algunas de las otras secciones que se encuentran en Norte Amrica y que tienen tricomas lepidotos y estilos multfidos. Las dos especies que han sido reconocidas en la seccin son muy similares morfolgicamente; por lo tanto proponemos que sean incluidas como variedades de una sola especie y formalizamos sus nombres, a saber Croton michauxii var. michauxii y la nueva combinacin C. michauxii var. elliptica. Se presenta una clave para distinguir las dos variedades.
41761906|Cyperus alvesii is described as a new species. Known from two states in northeastern Brazil, it is unusual in having papillate culms and leaves. Its nearest relative, based on morphology, is C. appendiculatus.
41761889|Four new species of Meliosma (Sabiaceae) are herein described and illustrated. Three are from Ecuador: M. condorensis, M. gracilis, and M. palaciosii; and the fourth is from Bolivia, M. caballeroensis. Cuatro nuevas especies de Meliosma (Sabiaceae) son aqu descritas e ilustradas. Tres provienen de Ecuador: M. condorensis, M. gracilis, and M. palaciosii. La cuarta es de Bolivia, M. caballeroensis.
41761684|Chang and Miau (1978) segregated Excentrodendron from Burretiodendron s.l. on the basis of several morphological characters, including persistent, 3-basinerved entire leaves, foliar glands in vein axil, jointed pedicel, and estipitate ovary. However, this taxonomic treatment has not been widely accepted. In this study we used sequences of the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA to evaluate the systematics of Burretiodendron s.l. Both maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of the sequence data recognize sister clades of Excentrodendron and Burretiodendron. The separation of these two genera is consistent with palynological data; species of Excentrodendron have coarsely reticulate pollens, while those of Burretiodendron have spiny pollens as in some of the remaining Malvales. Excentrodendron and Burretiodendron are also ecologically differentiated; the former is endemic to limestone mountains, while the latter has not been seen in such habitats. Excentrodendron, a genus of two species (E. hsienmu and E. obconicum), is mainly distributed in southwestern China, with extension to northern Vietnam. Burretiodendron, a genus of four species, occur in southwestern China (B. esquirolii, B. kydiifolium), northern Vietnam (B. brilletii), and northern peninsular Thailand and Mergui Archipelago of Myanmar (B. siamense).
41761804|The taxonomy of several species of Trichopilia sect. Trichopilia with small, mostly white flowers is discussed. Two new species, T. endresiana and T. tubella, are described and illustrated. Both new species are closely allied to T. turrialbae, but can be distinguished by the smaller flowers and the lateral keels of the lip subequally branched to clasp the small osmophores in acute angles, and by the lip distinctly longer than the sepals and the smooth area of the osmophores, respectively.
41761895|The tribes Aphragmeae and Conringieae are proposed as new, and the tribes Biscutelleae, Calepineae, and Erysimeae (Brassicaceae; Cruciferae) are re-established. The unigeneric Aphragmeae, Biscutelleae, and Erysimeae include the genera Aphragmus, Biscutella, and Erysimum, respectively. The Conringieae comprises Conringia and Zuvanda, whereas the Calepineae includes Calepina, Goldbachia, and Spirorrhynchus. The prior tribal assignments of these genera, total number of species, and geographic distribution of all five tribes are listed.
41761659|A new species of Macaranga from the mountains of northern Borneo is described. As with other species of sect. Javanicae, M. spathicalyx has entire leaves, large disk-shaped nectaries on the adaxial leaf surface near the base, one to usually several pistillate flowers arising from each bracteole axil, small bilocular fruits with narrow well-spaced processes, the pedicel and calyx persisting on the inflorescence after fruit fall, and the staminate bracts with disk-shaped glands. Macaranga spathicalyx differs from the other species in the group in its highly distinctive pistillate calyx and elongate styles, and large asymmetrical stipules.
41761616|A synopsis of Basiphyllaea is presented. A new species from Cuba, Basiphyllaea hoffinannii, is described and illustrated, and a new combination, B. carabiaiana, is proposed.
41761306|Begonia sinofloribunda is proposed as a new name for B. floribunda, a later homonym of B. floribunda.
41761596|Staintoniella nepalensis, the generic type, is transferred to Aphragmus. A synopsis and a key to the five species of Aphragmus are presented. The generic limits of Aphragmus and related genera are discussed.
41761983|Traditional healers in the South Pacific Island Kingdom of Tonga continue to provide primary health care for many Tongans in addition to care provided by government-sponsored clinics and hospitals. Tongan traditional healers were interviewed in order to identify, quantify, and collect plants used in traditional medicine. A pharmacopoeia of 108 medicinal species from 52 families was compiled from interviews. Fifty percent of the pharmacopoeia is composed of species indigenous to Tonga, 30% are species introduced by Polynesian settlers, and 20% are species of post-European introduction. The most commonly used plants in Tongan medicine are multipurpose plants, plants used to treat several type of illnesses, whereas other species are more commonly used to treat a single illness class. Although the use of post-European introductions in medicine indicates a flexible and evolving medicinal tradition, differences in the frequency and pattern of plant use between native and introduced species support a pre-European origin for the use of plants in Tongan medicine.
41761474|An updated checklist of all Philippine moss taxa reported in literature up to the end of 1990 is presented. All accepted species are provided with full Philippine synonymy and locality information within the country. Dubious names and controversial records are annotated. A total of 700 species in 228 genera and 55 families are currently recorded for the archipelago. Four new synonyms are proposed: Acroporium falcifolium (Fleisch.) Fleisch, var. philippinense Broth, ex Fleisch., Calyptothecium distichophyllum Nog. & Tan, Hampeella leptodictyon Broth, and Heterophyllium bipinnatum Bartr. In addition, Ectropotheciella decrescens (Lac.) Fleisch, is reported for the first time from the country. A brief history of Philippine muscology and a conspectus of Philippine moss families and genera are also outlined.
41761471|The nomenclature and classification of the genus Ceratodon has been dominated, historically, by the notoriously polymorphic and cosmopolitan species C. purpureus, under which some 39 infraspecific taxa currently exist. An account is given of a quantitative analysis of morphological and geographical patterns of variation within the genus, leading to a reduction in the number of currently recognised species from 24-25 to form. Included in this is a proposal to raise to specific rank C. purpureus ssp. conicus and C. purpureus f. heterophyllus. No morphological distinction was apparent between the fourth species, C. antarcticus and specimens from the Arctic presently referred to C purpureus ssp. arcticus. Under C. purpureus, three subspecies are newly defined: ssp. purpureus, ssp. stenocarpus and ssp. convolutus (comb. nov.). Lectotypes are chosen for C. purpureus, C. purpureus var. rotundifolius, C. purpureus ssp. stenocarpus, C. purpureus ssp. convolutus and C. conicus.
41761962|Three new species of Capparidastrum (subgen. pulviniglans) are here described and illustrated: Capparidastrum grandiflorum, from the wet forests of Dept. Antioquia, Colombia; C. huberi, known only from the cuenca del Rio Manapiare in the Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela; and, C. megalospermum, restricted to the lowland wet forests of northwestern Ecuador. Tres nuevas especies de Capparidastrum (subgen. pulviniglans) son descritas e ilustradas: Capparidastrum grandiflorum, de los bosques muy hmedos del Dept. Antioquia, Colombia; C. huberi, solamente conocida de la cuenca del Ro Manapiare en el Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela; y, C. megalospermum, una especie restringida a los bosques muy hmedos en las tierras bajas del noroccidente de Ecuador.
41761656|We summarize here a series of reports by George Bentham entitled "Enumeration of Plants collected by Mr. Schomburgk [Robert Hermann Schomburgk], British Guiana" and subsequent reports based on plant specimens collected by Robert Hermann Schomburgk. A brief biography and bibliography are also provided.
41761536|Several Linnaean names, as well as additional obscure species, which were published during the initial, cradle age of systematics, are clarified, and the genus Maxillaria Ruiz & Pav. of 1794 is lectotypified in harmony with its complete protologue.
41761858|The following nomenclatural adjustments are proposed for the apomictic, hybrid species of Boechera to make the names available for the forthcoming account of the Brassicaceae in the Flora of North America. Two new species of Boechera (B. elkoensis and B. peirsonii) are described, and a new name (B. cascadensis) is proposed for the taxon currently known as Arabis microphylla var. thompsonii. In addition, 13 new combinations (B. calderi, B. californica, B. consanguinea, B. depauperata, B. drepanoloba, B. harrisonii, B. horizontalis, B. macounii, B. paddoensis, B. pauciflora, B. pinetorum, B. porphyrea, B. rubicundula) are validated. Notes on the delimitation and/or distribution of B. calderi, B. falcatoria, and B. goodrichii are presented. Boechera calderi is reported for the first time from California, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming, and B. goodrichii is reported for the first time from Nevada.
41761832|Didymostigma trichanthera (Gesneriaceae), an epipetric plant from southeastern China with showy white or sometimes pink flowers, is described and illustrated.
41761479|Henry Hurd Rusby helped to forge links among several disciplines of science, particularly pharmacy, ethnobotany, taxonomic botany, and phytochemistry. As a faculty member of pharmacognosy and Dean of the College of Pharmacy, Columbia University, Rusby worked untiringly to raise the standards in pharmacy education. As a plant explorer, taxonomist, and one of the founders of the New York Botanical Garden, he played a prominent role in taxonomic discussions. Presented herein is a synopsis of his career accompanied by a bibliography reflecting his diverse interests and publications.
41761612|A checklist of the lichens of Xinjiang, China, is based on the extensive collections and research by the senior author during the past 15 years. About 6000 specimens were collected from 40 sites in the Altay, Tianshan, and Kunlun Mountains. A total of 85 genera, 268 species, two subspecies, 16 varieties, and 15 forms have been reported. Of the total species, 34 are endemic to China, and only one variety, Rhizoplaca peltata var. regalis, is endemic to Xinjiang. Thirty-eight species are reported for the first time from China and 169 species for the first time from Xinjiang.
41761305|Taxa of Begonia sects. Casparya and Lepsia (Begoniaceae) occurring in the Venezuelan Andes are critically examined. In Begonia sect. Casparya, the fruit of B. brevipetala is described. Begonia brevipetala var. luteynorum is argued to be a variety of B. lipolepis and the appropriate new combination is proposed. The geographic ranges of Begonia formosissima, B. trispathulata, and B. vareschii are expanded; the geographic range of B. lipolepis is restricted. The date of valid publication of B. trapa var. pilosa is clarified. In Begonia sect. Lepsia, relationships of the five taxa occurring in Venezuela and Colombia are discussed; a key to the section is provided; and two new combinations, B. foliosa var. major and B. foliosa var. microphylla, are proposed.
41761885|Roraimaea (Gentianaceae: Helieae) is a new angiosperm genus from northern Brazil and southern Venezuela. This genus differs prominently from other taxa of the Gentianaceae tribe Helieae by its long-tubular, orange to red corollas, and deeply cleft styles with filiform lobes. Traditionally, pollen characters have been used as important traits to distinguish genera in the tribe Helieae. The pollen of Roraimaea is shed as tetrads and has an evenly thick, coarsely reticulate exine, which is similar to pollen occurring in Helia and Aripuana. Some similarities are also found with Aripuana cullmaniorum in the presence of dichasial inflorescences, erect flowers, and non-differentiated reticulate pollen tetrads. Phylogenetic studies have shown the distinctiveness of this taxon, as well as the need to move Rogersonanthus coccineus into this new genus. Roraimaea includes two species, Roraimaea coccnea comb. nov. from Serra de Neblina on the Brazil-Venezuelan border, and Roraimaea aurantiaca sp. nov. from lowland, white-sand campinas areas of Roraima State, Brazil. Roraimaea (Gentianaceae: Helieae)  um novo gnero de Angiosperma do norte do Brasil e sul da Venezuela. Esse gnero difere evidentemente de outras txons da tribo Helieae de Gentianaceae por sua corola longamente tubulosa, de cor vermelha a alaranjada e estilete profundamente dividido com lobos filiformes. Tradicionalmente, caracteres polnicos tm sido utilizados e considerados importantes para distinguir gneros na tribo Helieae. O plen de Roraimaea  liberado em ttrades e tem exina uniformementemente espessa e macro-reticulada, sendo semelhante ao plen de Helia e Aripuana. H outras semelhanas compartilhadas com Aripuana cullmaniorium, como a presena de inflorescencias dicasiais, flores eretas e plen liberado em ttrades reticuladas no-diferenciadas. Estudos filogenticos sustentam a hiptese de que este txon  de fato distinto, assim como a necessidade de mover Rogersonanthus coccinea para esse novo gnero. Roraimaea inclui duas espcies, Roraimaea coccinea comb, nov., da Serra da Neblina na fronteira entre Brasil e Venezuela, e Roraimaea aurantiaca sp. nov., de reas de baixa altitude e areias brancas do estado de Roraima, Brasil.
41761480|Ethnobotanical knowledge among native peoples of the Amazon is rapidly disappearing with the intrusion of civilization. We here present notes taken from information recorded by collectors in the hope that these data may direct the attention of investigators to species which have not been studied from the viewpoint of their biodynamic uses.
41761914|Hedyotis shiuyingiae is published as a new species from Hong Kong. The new species replaces what has been hitherto known as Hedyotis yangchunensis, a misapplied name.
41761672|Ceriscoides sensu Robbrecht and Puff (1986) is a small genus of the subtribe Gardeniinae of the tribe Gardenieae of the family Rubiaceae. The species are distributed widely throughout Southeast Asia, in Continental Asia (India, Myanmar and Indo-China), including the outlying Asiatic islands (Andaman Islands and Sri Lanka) and also in Malesia (Peninsular Malaysia, Borneo, Luzon, Sulawesi and Java). As trees or shrubs of the everwet to deciduous tropical forests, the genus is distinctive for it possesses formidable stout spines, moderately showy unisexual flowers and large, typically Gardenieae-type fruit. The species of Ceriscoides are also known to people from a number of rural communities (e. g., in India, Indo-China and Borneo) as the fruits and roots are said to possess medicinal and other uses. In the taxonomic revision eleven species are recognised; four of them are new to science. The novel species, C. parvifolia, C. kerrii, C. imbakensis, and C. celebica. are described and illustrated. An identification key to all taxa is given, based largely on the male and female floral characteristics. Species descriptions incorporate full synonymy and data on habitat and ecology. General notes are added to highlight important characteristics of the species and/or to point out differences with other taxa. A list of specimens examined is also included.
41761638|Species of Hebeloma were collected in high elevation areas above timber line in Colorado. They were associated with four species of Salix. Three species of Hebeloma including H. bruchetii, H. kuhneri, and H. pusillum were present in various combinations in four alpine tundra plant communities. All three species are distributed in Arctic tundra in Europe and North America and their distribution and mycorrhizal relationships are discussed.
41761590|This taxonomic revision recognizes eight species distributed in Vanuatu, Fiji, and Tonga. Full synonymy, species descriptions, distribution maps, and notes on habitat are given for each species. A key to the species is also provided. Four endemic species are reported from Vanuatu: Veitchia arecina, V. metiti, V. spiralis, and V. winin. Prior to this revision, V. metiti was known only from the type collection made in 1908. Four species are also recognized from Fiji: Vfilifera, V joannis, V. simulans, and V. vitiensis. All are endemic, except for V. joannis, which is also recorded from Tonga.
41761635|Nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences are used to infer the relationship of the resupinate polypore Poria mucida to other homobasidiomycetes. In cladistic analyses Poria mucida emerges as a sister group to Trechispora and does not support a close relationship with Ceriporiopsis. All species in Trechispora have ampullate septa. Homologous structures are now detected for the first time in mycelial cords of P. mucida. It is recommended that the proper name of this fungus is Porpomyces mucidus.
41761871|New information is presented for the rarely collected Schradera ledermannii, S. novoguineensis, and S. schlechteri, including previously unknown details of their morphology, distribution, and ecology. Two of the species are depicted by color photographs.
41761973|Field and herbarium studies for a taxonomic revision of Cambessedesia have led to the discovery of two new species, Cambessedesia angelana and C. uncinata. Each of these new species has a restricted distribution in campo rupestre, rocky field habitats above 1200m, of Minas Gerais and Bahia states respectively. These new species are described, illustrated, and compared with their presumed closest relatives.
41761934|Ardisia hymenandroides (Myrsinaceae) is described from the Foja Mountains of Papua Province. The new species is distinguished by its resemblance to Hymenandra, monoaxial habit, apiculate anthers, and longpeduncled racemes.
41761907|Maxillaria bomboizensis is synonymized under Camaridium carinatum. Two previously published combinations based on Maxillaria bomboizensis (Camaridium bomboizense and Sauvetrea bomboizensis) are invalid. A complete synonymy is provided for Camaridium carinatum, and lectotypes are designated for its basionym Maxillaria carinata and its synonym Maxillaria imbricata. The name Maxillaria jenischiana has been misapplied to Camaridium carinatum since 1959. Maxillaria bomboizensis es puesta en la sinonimia de Camaridium carinatum. Dos combinaciones previamente publicadas, basadas en Maxillaria bomboizensis (Camaridium bomboizense y Sauvetrea bomboizensis) son invlidas. Se provee una sinonimia completa para Camaridium carinatum, y se designan lectotipos para su basnimo Maxillaria carinata y su sinnimo Maxillaria imbricata. El nombre Maxillaria jenischiana ha sido mal aplicado a Camaridium carinatum desde 1959.
