10.2307/1467001|Snakes have unique qualifications as experimental subjects, and the use of these animals in behavioral research has gradually increased. They have been models for comparative studies of innate prey preferences and for studies on sensory signals involved in reproductive behavior. Examples from these studies indicate the importance of keeping in mind both statistical methods and the natural behavior of the particular species when designing experiments on snakes. Randomized designs are the most powerful but require larger sample sizes, and so repeated or blocked designs have more often been used in snake studies. How replication affects the inferences drawn is rarely discussed. Nor have most authors evaluated the role of factors that may increase variation in the behavior of snakes, i.e., temperature, stress, feeding condition, shedding cycle, and general health and temperament of the individual subject. Future research on snakes will supply increased understanding of the behavioral ecology of this interesting group, but more care in the design of experiments will be important.
10.2307/1467070|We constructed minimum convex polygon (MCP) home ranges for free-ranging desert tortoises from a natural population adjacent to the Desert Tortoise Conservation Center, near Las Vegas, NV. Home range area estimates were not significantly different from those estimated for other desert tortoises in the Mojave and Sonoran deserts. Male tortoises had significantly larger and more variable home ranges in a combined statistical analysis of this study with those of Burge (1977) and Barrett (1990). Bootstrap analysis of the MCP polygon areas suggested substantial autocorrelation of the tortoise sightings despite a mean interval between recaptures of 3.2 days, violating an assumption of nearly all home range estimation techniques and predisposing to underestimation of the true home range area. Extending the interval between recaptures would severely limit the number of points that could be obtained on an individual tortoise in a single activity season. We also created "by eye" minimum polygons to compare with MCP's for the same tortoises. This comparison suggests that MCP's for desert tortoises include, as substantial fractions of their total area (12-56%, mean = 35%), areas with no evidence that tortoises use them. Movements between resightings vary with the sex of the animal (male > female) and interval since previous sighting. The distance of movements was approximately exponentially distributed, with short movements more common than longer movements, predisposing home range estimates for desert tortoises to be autocorrelated. We urge the consideration of home range as an indicator of size of the areas traversed by a tortoise and the patterns of movement in different individuals, sexes, and/or populations with less emphasis on the biological interpretation of area as a resource or characteristic of the animal.
41058255|We review the taxonomic status of Philippine bent-toed geckos previously referred to Cyrtodactylus agusanensis. We delineate four evolutionary lineages within the C. agusanensis complex from the southeastern islands of the archipelago and describe three of these lineages as new species. The new species and true C. agusanensis are identified by numerous, nonoverlapping morphological characters and by allopatric ranges on separate islands. Our morphology-based taxonomic conclusions are bolstered by biogeographic evidence and marked interspecific divergence between monophyletic groups defined by mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequences. To compliment these descriptions and enable future taxonomic work on Philippine Cyrtodactylus, we rediagnose and redescribe C. agusanensis. Because the holotype of C. agusanensis was destroyed in World War II, we designate a neotype for this species and restrict its geographic range to north central Mindanao Island. Our phylogenetic estimate suggests that the C. agusanensis complex originated in Mindanao and spread progressively north, diversifying incrementally with colonization of successive islands in a south-to-north pattern of biogeographic expansion and allopatric speciation.
40929491|Aspects of the reproductive biology of male and female Agkistrodon piscivorus are described using histological techniques, reviewed, and compared with historical data on A. piscivorus. These include anatomical description at the macro and microscopic levels, and correlation of the male and female urogenital cycles to the reproductive life history of A. piscivorus. New anatomical descriptions and discussion of the efferent ducts, including the ductuli efferentes, proximal and distal ductuli epididymides, ductus deferens, and ampulla ductus deferens, are also presented here at the light and electron microscopy levels. Morphology of all distinct regions of the male and female urogenital systems are discussed and compared with historical investigations on other squamates. In comparison to other snakes, A. piscivorus possesses some unique reproductive characters, whereas others are more conserved. In terms of the reproductive cycle, the ability of males and females to store sperm allows the dissociation of reproductive event timing between the sexes. Thus, the only event that must be coordinated between the sexes is copulation, which is proposed to occur in the fall and the spring in A. piscivorus. In females, the atrophy and activity of the reproductive organs (e.g., secretory activity) varies concurrently with vitellogenesis and the mating seasons. In males, spermatogenesis peaks in the summer, independent of the mating season, except in Louisiana where a spring and fall peak of spermatogenesis occur, and where the spring and fall mating seasons overlap. Renal sexual segment hypertrophy in males peaks in the fall and spring in more southern populations (Alabama and Louisiana) concurrent with fall and spring mating seasons. In Georgia, only a fall peak is observed. Secretory activity of the male excurrent ducts also peaks during times of mating activity in one population studied (Louisiana).
43284046|We review the taxonomic status of the snakes belonging to the genus Atractus from the Pantepui region on the basis of morphological characters (meristic, morphometric, color pattern, and hemipenis). We redescribe and illustrate the holotype of A. insipidus, correcting the elevation of the type locality and providing its exact coordinates. We report the third known specimen of A. riveroi on the basis of an individual collected in the Sierra Parima close to the Venezuela/Brazil border. We report the geographical variation of A. steyermarki, expanding its known distribution on the basis of specimens collected in Guyanese tepuis, and consider the species a senior synonym of A. guerreroi. We also report the geographical variation in meristic, morphometric, color pattern, and hemipenial characters of A. tamessari on the basis of the discovery of new specimens. Finally, we provide a key to the Atractus of the Guiana Shield and discuss on the evolution of some particular features of hemipenial morphology in the genus. Se revis el estado taxonmico de las serpientes pertenecientes al gnero Atractus del Pantepui, a travs de caracteres morfolgicos (mersticos, morfomtricos, patrn de coloracin y hemipene). Se redescribe e ilustra el holotipo de A. insipidus y se detalla la ubicacin y altitud de la localidad tipo. Se registra el tercer ejemplar conocido de Atractus riveroi a travs de un individuo proveniente de la Sierra de Parima, cerca a la frontera Venezuela/Brasil. Atractus steyermarki se considera un sinnimo senior de A. guerreroi. Se ampla la distribucin y variacin geogrfica de esta especie, a travs de ejemplares capturados en tepuis de Guyana. Se describe tambin la variacin geogrfica en los caracteres mersticos, morfometricos, patrn de coloracin y hemipene de A. tamessari, basado en el hallazgo de nuevos individuos. Por ltimo, se presenta una clave para los Atractus del Escudo de Guayana y se discute la evolucin de algunas caractersticas particulares de la morfologa del hemipene en el gnero.
10.2307/1467009|We provide a detailed description of and a staging table that portrays the ontogeny of the Great Basin spadefoot (Scaphiopus intermontanus Cope) from the just-hatched larva through the adult. We concentrate on the development of external morphological characters as observed in individuals raised under controlled laboratory conditions. We suggest that our staging table, besides providing greater detail, is more appropriate than a generalized staging table for describing the ontogeny of species within Scaphiopus. Also, unlike other staging tables, we delineate stage boundaries. We recommend the use of stage boundary criteria for the construction of all future staging tables. Our findings indicate that some aspects of Scaphiopus ontogeny may be unique. Unlike other anuran larvae with sinistral spiracles, the operculum in S. intermontanus does not pass through a stage in which there are two separate openings. Other features, such as mouthpart characteristics, may be useful for intrageneric larval identification; however, we show that at least the labial tooth-row formula variation is affected by both rearing temperature and geographic origin of the specimen sample. Finally, rearing conditions possibly affect the timing of certain developmental events in S. intermontanus. Specifically, the timing of hindlimb differentiation seems to be labile relative to when differentiation occurs in other morphological features.
10.2307/1467059|Anoles have evolved independently on each island in the Greater Antilles, producing a suite of morphologically-distinct species that utilize different microhabitats. Comparisons among islands indicate that the same set of "ecomorphs"--distantly related species that are similar in morphology, ecology, and behavior--has evolved on each island. Despite considerable work on anoles over the past three decades, much remains to be learned about evolution of the ecomorphs. In particular, previous studies have focused on external measurements of gross limb proportions, tail length, mass, and number of lamellae. Using a variety of techniques, we examined these characters in greater detail and investigated a wide variety of other characters. We found that the ecomorph classes represent distinct entities in morphological space when morphological characters are examined in greater detail (e.g., each limb element was treated separately). In addition, we found that the ecomorphs differ in a variety of characters not previously examined, including toe pad area, pectoral and pelvic girdle dimensions, head dimensions, and tail shape. These differences were apparent regardless of how we defined body size, although comparisons of particular characters were affected by which body size variable was used. This finding indicates that convergence in ecomorph evolution extends beyond traits directly linked to habitat use and locomotion. We also examined a number of other taxa that have not traditionally been considered to be members of any ecomorph class. We found that many descendants of ecomorphs living on small islands near the Greater Antilles no longer belong to the ecomorph class of their ancestor. Many Lesser Antillean anoles appear to be trunk-crown anoles, whereas others do not belong to any ecomorph class. Montane anoles of the Greater Antilles and Chamaelinorops also do not belong to any ecomorph class, but Chamaeleolis, and possibly Phenacosaurus, are twig anoles.
40205465|In this paper I review the contributions of analytic and experimental research on intraguild predation and interspecific competition to our understanding of population regulation in plethodontid salamanders. Henry Wilbur's model of population regulation in amphibians serves as a framework for the arguments. Much of the discussion is based on studies of eastern North American plethodontids that have been the focus of most of the research. Ensembles of plethodontids in this region include species with complex life cycles (i. e., larval development) and simple life cycles (i. e., direct development). Interactions between members of these two life-history categories appear to be weaker than those within categories. Whereas there is no definitive evidence of factors that regulate populations of plethodontid salamanders, interspecific competition and intraguild predation do appear to contribute in some ensembles. Food and space have been identified as limiting resources in interspecific competition. Although predation of larger on smaller salamanders may be relatively rare in nature, the threat of predation appears to promote behavioral responses in members of the smaller species that reduce risks but may lower fitness through other effects. The role of extralimital predators and competitors in regulation of these salamanders is largely untested. Ideally, future research should involve manipulative experiments on unenclosed field plots that examine effects of resources, intraguild competitors and predators, and extralimital predators on populations of key species of plethodontids.
4093029|Experimental studies of complex life cycles in plethodontid salamanders are reviewed and evaluated in the context of seven theoretical life-history models that focus on amphibians having biphasic life cycles. Such life cycles are found in the single species of the subfamily Hemidactylinae and in some members of the subfamily Spelerpinae and genus Desmognathus. In general, data on plethodontids provide only limited support for the predictions of the models. Given that the models have been formulated mainly for pond-breeding amphibians, several investigators have suggested that ancestral adaptation to streams in biphasic plethodontids have prescribed different evolutionary trajectories in the metamorphic response of these salamanders, in comparison with pond-breeding frogs and salamanders. Larval and metamorphic characters tabulated for biphasic plethodontids show that there is considerable inter- and intraspecific variation in larval periods and sizes at metamorphosis. In all lineages, in most species, metamorphosis is concentrated in the late spring and summer. However, spelerpines and desmognathans differ markedly in the phenology of oviposition-nesting. Among spelerpine species, oviposition may occur in any season, whereas in desmognathans oviposition is usually restricted to late spring and summer. This represents another instance of life-history symmetry in desmognathans, and may reflect an effect of genetic and developmental constraints in this lineage.
10.2307/1467039|The widely distributed Common Gartersnake (Thamnophis sirtalis) thrives in a variety of environments and preys upon a diversity of species. Phenotypic plasticity (including learning), as well as genetic diversity, may underlie the success of this species. We examined how different types of feeding experience influence the ontogeny of foraging behavior in garter snakes from two populations with different adult diets (earthworm or amphibian/worm/mammal diets) living on Beaver Island in Lake Michigan. Times to approach, capture, handle, and swallow prey were recorded in controlled laboratory settings. In Experiment I, neonatal snakes reared on fish, earthworms, or a mixed diet were tested for feeding skills at their first feeding, and at 5 subsequent intervals after feeding experience and diet-switching over a period of nearly 8 months. Snakes in all three groups decreased their latencies to consume prey after feeding experience and there were some litter, but no site or sex, differences. Snakes fed initially on worms were slow at consuming fish upon diet switching, whereas snakes that initially fed on fish rapidly consumed worms upon their first feeding. Feeding skills for initial prey were retained following the diet-switching phase. Experiment II determined the effects of long-term feeding experience on the abilities of field-caught adult snakes to detect, capture, and consume frogs, fish, and worms. Most foraging measures differed for all three prey, but there were few site differences and no sex differences. The effects of prior feeding experience appear to be less evident for adults than for neonates, which may be due to the effects of changing predator-prey body size relationships, changes in prey availability, or to constraints of the captive testing environment. Although populations on the island eat different prey, there is little evidence for genetic differentiation in foraging behavior during the several thousand years that the island has existed.
10.2307/1467062|The New World coralsnake genus Micrurus has been taxonomically problematic due to extreme variation in color pattern and highly conserved morphological variation. These problems are exemplified in the Micrurus frontalis "group", and we present a monographic revision based on an analysis of over 2100 specimens (including all available types). We recognize the following seven species on the basis of unambiguous combinations of characters: M. altirostris, M. baliocoryphus, M. brasiliensis, M. diana, M. frontalis, M. pyrrhocryptus, and M. tricolor. A complete synonymy is given for each taxon, as well as a re-description of the holotypes. We also characterize morphological variation for each, and provide distribution maps and a key to the species.
23325739|We studied scutellation and morphometrics in the gymnophthalmid lizards of the genus Alopoglossus. Six species are recognized: Alopoglossus angulatus, A. atriventris, A. buckleyi, A. copii, A. festae, and A. lehmanni. We place the nominal species Alopoglossus andeanus Ruibal in the synonymy of A. angulatus. We provide detailed descriptions and head scalation illustrations of each species, an identification key, and a distribution map. Se estudia la folidosis y morfometra de las lagartijas gymnophthalmidas del gnero Alopoglossus. Se reconocen un total de seis especies: Alopoglossus angulatus, A. atriventris, A. buckleyi, A. copii, A. festae y A. lehmanni. La especie nominal Alopoglossus andeanus Ruibal es considerada como sinnimo de A. angulatus. Se provee ilustraciones de la escamacin de las cabezas, claves de identificacin y un mapa de distribucin.
10.2307/1466966|Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) in the slider turtle, Trachemys scripta, is pronounced; females attain larger body sizes than males in all populations for which data are available. The degree of this difference varies due to sampling biases, growth patterns, predatory pressures, population sex ratios and the size at which each sex reaches maturity. Some evidence of geographic variation is apparent. The direction and magnitude of SSD vary widely among turtle species regardless of phylogenetic relationships, but there is an overall trend toward larger females. Previously proposed relationships between SSD and mean body size were not supported; however, a relationship does appear to exist between SSD and turtle shell shape. We conclude that the size when each sex attains maturity is the underlying cause of SSD in turtles and is the critical life history trait upon which natural and sexual selection operate to determine the ultimate SSD observed, with the smaller sex maturing at a smaller size and younger age than the larger sex.
10.2307/1467037|The eastern ratsnake, Elaphe obsoleta currently includes seven highly variable and taxonomically confusing subspecies. Recently, maximum likelihood and maximum parsimony phylogenetic analyses of two mitochondrial gene sequences suggested that the complex of E. obsoleta (including E. bairdi) is composed of four distinct evolutionary lineages found in four geographical areas: 1) an eastern clade located east of the Apalachicola River and the Appalachian Mountains, 2) a central clade located west of the Apalachicola River and the Appalachian Mountains and east of the Mississippi River, 3) a western clade located west of the Mississippi River, and 4) E. bairdi is located in southwest Texas and northeastern Mexico. With respect to this phylogeographic hypothesis, the former seven subspecies of E. obsoleta do not represent distinct evolutionary lineages. In this paper, the morphology of Elaphe obsoleta and E. bairdi is compared to the results of the previous molecular study. Univariate and multivariate analyses of 67 morphological characters scored from 1006 specimens provided statistical support for the recognition of the same four evolutionary lineages identified in the phylogeographic study. Specimens can be classified morphologically by using canonical discriminant function analysis into the four molecular clades more accurately than they can be grouped into subspecific categories. Moreover, the identification of these subspecies proved difficult when using the traditional characters ascribed to them. In light of the corroborating molecular and morphological evidence, it is suggested that the recognition of the subspecies of E. obsoleta be discontinued. Instead, the four molecular clades should be recognized as four species: 1) eastern clade = E. alleghaniensis, 2) central clade = E. spiloides, 3) western clade = E. obsoleta, and 4) E. bairdi = E. bairdi.
10.2307/1466993|The social behavior of tuatara, Sphenodon punctatus, was studied in a natural population on Stephens Island, New Zealand, from January to March, 1987-1989. Study sites were located in both wooded (bush) and open (paddock) habitats. Nocturnal observations were enhanced by using night-vision equipment and elevated viewing platforms. Individuals were identified by idiosyncratic differences in crest morphology. At the peak of courtship activity (late January to the end of February), the behaviors of territorial males were observed and their responses to visual stimuli were tested in the field. Visual stimuli were found to be of significance. A radio-controlled, life-sized tuatara model revealed the importance of nuchal and dorsal crests and female head-nodding in the initiation of male courtship and mating behaviors and territorial defense.
10.2307/1467083|In most plethodontids, the cloaca is divided into an anterior cylindrical cloacal tube and a posterior cloacal chamber dorsal to the vent. A cloacal tube is absent in females of some species in the Desmognathinae, Hemidactyliini and Bolitoglossini. In female Phaeognathus hubrichti and in females from some species in each of the tribes of the Plethodontinae, a cloacal recess occurs, consisting of a blind pouch from the dorsal roof of the cloacal chamber that extends anteriorly over the posterior end of the cloacal tube. The lack of a cloacal tube and presence of a cloacal recess are derived states that are convergent at the subfamilial and tribal levels but may have phyletic importance concerning inter- and intrageneric relationships within a tribe. For example, all female Bolitoglossa examined lack a cloacal tube, and in Plethodon, presence of a cloacal recess may be a synapomorphy for the eastern species. The presence of three types of cloacal glands in females is the ancestral condition for female plethodontids. All species posses sperm storage organs, spermathecae, connected by a common tube to the dorsal roof of the cloaca. In addition, anterior ventral glands and dorsal glands occur in females of some species in each subfamily and tribe, and the presence of these glands is symplesiomorphic for female plethodontids. Anterior ventral glands are best developed and occur in all species of the Hemidactyliini. In other groups, ventral glands are absent in most species and poorly developed in those species that possess them. Dorsal glands are rudimentary in all plethodontids in which they occur. Dorsal glands occur in all hemidactyliines, except for neotenic species, and are found in a few species in other groups. The cloacal tube is present in all male plethodontids except Bolitoglossa franklini, Leurognathus marmoratus, and Pseudotriton ruber. Males of eastern large Plethodon posses a middorsal fold that evaginates from the roof of the cloacal chamber, and some of these species in addition possess the derived condition for the number of rugae (> 10 pairs). Male Chiropterotriton and most male Desmognathus possess dorsolateral recesses in the cloacal chamber, a convergent character in the two genera. The ancestral male condition is possession of six pairs of glands involved in spermatophore production (dorsal pelvic, lateral pelvic, caudal pelvic, Kingsbury's, anterior ventral, and posterior ventral) and the vent glands involved in pheromone production. Spermatophore-producing glands show little variation, except that the lateral pelvic gland is absent in Phaeognathus hubrichti, Pseudotriton and Typhlomolge rathbuni, and the posterior ventral gland is lost in Pseudotriton montanus and T. rathbuni. Vent glands are absent in neotenic hemidactyliines and generally comprise a small group of tubules in other plethodontids. The vent gland cluster is extensive, however, in Aneides lugubris, P. montanus, and in various bolitoglossines (Bolitoglossa, Chiropterotriton, Hydromantes italicus, H. shastae, Pseudoeurycea goebeli, and P. rex).
23325735|We studied growth in snoutvent length (SVL) and body mass of Dusky Pygmy Rattlesnakes (Sistrurus miliarius barbouri) in Volusia County, Florida, with the use of markrecapture techniques. Between February 1992 and December 2000, we PIT-tagged (Passive Integrated Transponder) 665 individuals of approximately 1 yr of age or greater that were subsequently recaptured at least once. Because snakes can be definitively aged at 1 yr, this resulted in a large sample of snakes of known age that were followed for up to 7 yr. Seventy-five of these individuals PIT tagged at 1 yr were identified from photographs of neonates born in captivity, allowing us to relate adult growth to neonate traits. Our data suggest that Pygmy Rattlesnakes in central Florida exhibit highly variable patterns of growth that are related to a mild climate that allows feeding and growth throughout the year, and to a fluctuating prey base that results in irregular growth patterns often unlike those predicted by typical growth equations such as the von Bertalanffy model. Snakes in our populations were surface-active throughout the year, and snakes with detectable prey in the gut were found in all months. Growth is most rapid in the first year, but growth rates did not differ markedly from other viperids occurring in more temperate areas. In their first year, Pygmy Rattlesnakes in Florida increased their mass over birth on average more than fourfold, and increased SVL 1.8-fold. Growth in both mass and SVL continued throughout life, with no clear indication of an asymptote in size. Multiple regressions of SVL and body mass against age showed a slight but significant effect of sex on both SVL and mass, though these differences were not apparent until snakes were approximately 4 yr. Males and females showed no difference in SVL growth rates or patterns of change in growth rate with age, but females grew faster in body mass than males. Body-mass growth rates did not decline with age in either sex. Rates of increase in SVL in the first year of life differed significantly among years, though these differences were not correlated with estimates of prey (frog) abundance. However, neither body size at birth or first-year growth rates was significantly related to size at 1 yr of age or with growth rates later in life. Inspection of individual growth records and characterization of records into categories defined here showed great variability in patterns of growth, with episodic growth occurring in most individuals, including larger adults. A year-round activity season may decouple feeding and growth in these snakes from the temporal constraints imposed on more northern snakes, resulting in greater variability in individual growth trajectories. Prolonged feeding opportunities may allow snakes with below-average feeding conditions in their first year to compensate for slower initial growth by opportunistic feeding and rapid bouts of growth at any time later in life.
4540124|Skinks of Mabuya genus exhibit the most specialized allantoplacenta among squamates (type IV), and the greatest degree of placentotrophy known in Reptilia. They ovulate microlecithal eggs (1-2 mm) that lack fatty yolk platelets; thus, it is suggested that virtually all of the nutrients for embryonic development are obtained by placental means. To test this inference, the net uptake of nutrients during gestation in an Andean population of Mabuya was quantified and compared with other oviparous and viviparous lizards, matrotrophic skinks, and eutherian mammals. Ionic, protein and lipid contents of recently ovulated eggs and neonates were measured. A significant net uptake of water, ions (calcium, potassium, sodium, magnesium), lipids, nitrogen (an index of protein), and dry matter was observed during development. Thus, in Mabuya the drastic reduction of egg size is related to the great reduction in the contribution of lecitotrophic nutrients to the embryo, an obligatory placentotrophy from early developmental stages, and the highest placental complexity known in Reptilia. All of these features converge with similar features found in eutherian mammals. Both clades evolved similar reproductive patterns and morphological features in their complex chorioallantoic placentae, which supplies all the nutrients for embryonic and fetal development.
10.2307/1467007|Relationships within the phrynosomatid lizard genus Sceloporus are estimated using parsimony analysis of molecular and morphological data. The data include DNA sequences from the mitochondrial 12S and 16S ribosomal RNA genes (262 informative characters) obtained for 64 ingroup taxa, and morphological characters (202 informative characters describing variation in osteology, squamation, coloration, karyology, and life history) scored for 109 ingroup taxa. The molecular data set includes representatives of all of Smith's species groups as well as the genus Sator, and the morphological data set includes Sator and nearly all the recognized species and distinctive subspecies of Sceloporus. The data sets are analyzed separately and in combination, and the single, fully resolved tree from the simultaneous analysis of all the taxa and characters is taken as the best estimate of phylogeny and the basis for a revised classification. The genus Sator is nested inside Sceloporus (as the sister taxon of the utiformis and siniferus species groups), and is classified within Sceloporus as the angustus species group. The traditional division of Sceloporus into large-scaled and small-scaled radiations is not supported; the small-scaled species form a graded series of lineages leading up to a clade of mostly large-scaled species, and this clade contains the putatively small-scaled scalaris species group. Most of the species groups recognized in Hobart Smith's 1939 monograph are upheld by this study (with or without minor modifications), but the polyphyletic "spinosus" zspecies group is dismantled into six monophyletic groups. A general pattern of strong character support for the monophyly of species groups but weak support for the relationships between them occurs in the trees from the molecular, morphological, and combined data sets; this congruent pattern is most likely the result of rapid speciation.
10.2307/1467068|We tested the effect of water stress on behavior of desert tortoises in semi-natural enclosures. Populations of adult and immature desert tortoises were established at relatively high density in 4.1 ha pens at the Desert Tortoise Conservation Center near Las Vegas, Nevada. Pairs of pens received different levels of food (sod and forb patches) and water supplementation. We postulated that the relatively high densities of tortoises and the different levels of resources created different levels of environmental stress on the populations. Behavior was systematically observed during June-August 1991 and April-September 1992 for differences due to treatment (food and water supplementation versus no food and water supplementation). Behavioral observations were collected during 30 minute focal periods and periodic scan censuses of pens. Animals in the unsupplemented treatments, particularly males, moved further during focal periods than animals with supplemented diets. Movement varied significantly among months. There were no differences in feeding rates among treatments, although monthly effects were important in both treatments. Some differences between years in feeding rates appear related to rainfall patterns and presumably changes in resource availability. Interactions among animals were highest in May and September and were more frequent in unsupplemented pens. Length of morning activity period was shorter in unsupplemented pens for all months. Within treatments, supplemented females were more visible and were seen for longer periods of time during a morning activity period. Home ranges were not significantly different between treatments but showed significant sex effects. Males have larger home ranges than females, and both have larger home ranges than immature animals. When stressed by lack of water and food resources, tortoises reduced the length of above-ground activity time but attempted to compensate for this decreased time by increasing amounts of movement and feeding while active.
1467033|The phylogenetic relationships among anoles have been much studied and difficult to unravel. Most work has focused on the Caribbean anoles, leaving the phylogenetic relationships among mainland anoles and the majority of Norops (beta Anolis) species virtually uninvestigated. A classification of series, subseries, and species groups within Norops was previously proposed and many workers in the field use this classification, despite a lack of understanding of the phylogenetic relationships within Norops. This paper reviews the taxonomic history and current status of Norops taxonomy. The focus of the study was to evaluate the monophyletic status of five previously described groups of Norops: the auratus, fuscoauratus, grahami, petersi, and sagrei series. Additional subgroupings below these levels were also investigated. The existing classification was tested by examining the relationships among Norops species using nuclear ITS-1 (internal transcribed spacer) DNA sequences. These data resulted in nine most parsimonious trees and supported only the monophyly of the sagrei series; the other four series do not appear monophyletic in these trees. However, in both maximum likelihood and Bayesian analyses the sagrei and grahami series were monophyletic, while the remaining three series (auratus, fuscoauratus, and petersi series) were not monophyletic. The monophyly of the grahami series could not be statistically rejected, but the remaining three series (auratus, fuscoauratus, and petersi series) were statistically rejected. In addition, the monophyly of two subseries and four species groups was statistically rejected, while the monophyly of one species group could not be rejected, and one subseries and three species groups were of ambiguous monophyletic status. The lack of support for these previously described series is not surprising given that the groups were erected largely on phenetic bases and are not observed when these data are analyzed cladistically. I propose continued recognition of the sagrei series, grahami series, and laeviventris species group, but I caution future workers to refrain from assigning species to other previously described groups until support for them is found, or a well supported alternative classification is proposed.
4540114|We surveyed anuran calls nightly at eight ponds in eastern Texas from 1 January 2001 through 31 December 2002. Air temperatures and daily rainfall also were recorded for each of the sites. Eastern Texas contains a diverse temperate anuran fauna and a climate that provides a range of conditions for anuran reproduction. During our study, we measured air temperatures that fluctuated seasonally with extremes from 0 to 29 C at 2100 h. We found rainfall to be generally abundant with occasional flooding events, however, prolonged periods of no precipitation were also observed. Given the level of anuran diversity and the amount of seasonal variation in temperature and rainfall in our temperate climate we expected to find a variety of breeding strategies. Results from our analyses did indeed suggest five basic breeding strategies based on anuran calling: (1) breeding within a predictable season (summer) independent of local weather patterns; (2) breeding opportunistically within a predictable season (summer) dependent on local rainfall; (3) breeding opportunistically within a predictable season (winter) dependent on local temperature; (4) breeding opportunistically dependent on local flood level rainfall events; (5) breeding opportunistically year round dependent on local temperature in the winter and local rainfall in the summer.
10.2307/1467081| The cranial morphometry of New Guinea crocodiles (Crocodylus novaeguineae) was investigated to quantify ontogenetic variation in relative growth of the skull to provide possible demographic insights into commercially harvested populations. Growth attributes were, in general, linear, and univariate statistics provided estimates of size from untransformed values. Curvilinear size (total length) to age transformations were attempted through applications of three growth models: a reparameterized Richards curve, the von Bertalannfy model, and a Brody curve. Satisfactory performance was attained only through the Brody model, with reliable age estimates restricted to smaller (2 m) individuals. The utility of relative growth ratios to correctly predict the sex of known gender animals was assessed by both parametric (multivariate discriminant analysis--DISCRIM) and nonparametric (binary tree classification analysis--CART) methods. Crossvalidation data sets were created to reduce model biases and to evaluate the correctness of classification rates. CART models consistently showed greater congruence of apparent error rates with true error rates than did DISCRIM models, while the 'best fit' models of each method closely paralleled one another in providing conservative overall ability to correctly discriminate gender from measured attributes. Skull growth occurs in three distinctive stages that mimic a saltatory ontogenetic response and are hypothesized to be related to functional foraging responses. 
23325737|Patterns of burrow size, tortoise size, home range size and overlap, movement distances, and mating rates were compared among six sites that differed in density of Gopher Tortoises. Burrow sizes differed among sites because tortoise size distributions differed among sites, but this was due principally to the unusually small size of animals on the Conecuh National Forest. A linear relationship between tortoise density and burrow density was documented from the six sites, suggesting that tortoises, on average, created 2.5 burrows per site or that the burrow-to-tortoise conversion factor for our sites was 0.40. The average distance from a burrow to its nearest three neighbors was greater for low-density sites than for high-density sites, indicating that animals probably were more isolated from each other on sites with low tortoise densities. Tortoise home ranges were larger in males than females, a feature documented in other studies of tortoise movements. Home range sizes were greatest for densities of approximately 0.4 tortoises/ha and decreased in size above and below this density. This suggests that animals moved to visit close neighbors in areas of high density, expanded movements to maintain contact with neighbors that became more widely dispersed as density decreased, and then restricted movements to a few close neighbors as density reached extremely low levels. Home range overlap increased linearly with increasing density, suggesting that opportunities for social interactions decreased with decreasing density. When tortoises moved between burrows, males moved longer distances than females and tortoises of both sexes moved shorter distances on high-density sites than did tortoises on low-density sites, suggesting greater movement costs for males than females and for tortoises on low-density sites. Males traveled up to 500 m to visit female burrows, but most movements were < 80 m. Median movement distances of males to visit females were negatively correlated with burrow density, suggesting that cost of male movements to find mates increased as population density decreased. Based upon patterns of 95% confidence limits, rates of mountings of female tortoises approached zero when females occupied burrows approximately 200 m from neighboring burrows. If burrows were uniformly distributed 200 m apart, then reproductive failure would be a statistically supportable outcome at a density of 0.3 burrows/ha (0.12 tortoises/ha). These values are similar to the values of 0.4 tortoises/ha (1.0 burrows/ha) that our data suggest is the density at which social structure associated with movements within home ranges are altered.
10.2307/1467053| I investigated the relationship between lizard body size and prey size, particularly as it relates to challenges faced by neonatal lizards in the Neotropics. Within the large-bodied teiid lizard Ameiva ameiva, juveniles feed on smaller prey than adults, but adults continue to feed on prey eaten by juveniles. Adults eat invertebrates and vertebrates, including other lizards, and these likely have a much higher payoff in terms of energy gained per unit risk. Prey types and sizes vary among lizard species in an Amazonian rain forest near the Rio Curu-Una. Larger lizard species feed on larger prey, and smaller lizards, by virtue of their small body sizes, cannot feed on many prey taken by large lizards. Large lizards continue to take small prey. The larger non-vertebrate prey taken by lizards in this assemblage are mostly spiders and centipedes, many of which are larger than smaller lizard species and individuals. A combined data set from numerous Neotropical sites shows that the trend observed at the Curu-Una is a general one even though the smallest clade of lizards eat prey smaller than predicted based on body size alone. I suggest that small lizards, neonates in particular, are at great risk in diverse lizard assemblages because of their body size relative to other organisms. They likely compete with adults of their own and other species for food, they are eaten by larger lizards and other vertebrates, and they are likely prey for numerous highly abundant predaceous arthropods, especially spiders and centipedes. 
10.2307/1466980| The phylogenetic relationships within the iguanian lizard family Phrynosomatidae are inferred from diverse types of data (i.e., mitochondrial rDNA, osteology, coloration, scalation, karyology, and behavior). All 10 currently recognized genera (Callisaurus, Cophosaurus, Holbrookia, Petrosaurus, Phrynosoma, Sator, Sceloporus, Uma, Urosaurus, and Uta) are included in the phylogenetic analyses. The phylogenies inferred from the separate analyses of the DNA sequence data (779 bp; 162 informative characters; 40 species) and non-DNA data (155 informative characters; 59 species) share 26% (10) of their respective clades. Four of the congruent clades (i.e., sand lizards + Phrynosoma, Petrosaurus, Urosaurus, Uta) are strongly supported ( 70% bootstrap) in both of the separate analyses while five others are strongly supported in only one, but not both, of the separate analyses. All conflicting hypotheses leading to the taxonomic incongruence (e.g., Sceloporus group interrelationships) are weakly supported (<70% bootstrap) in one or both of the separate analyses. Combining the DNA and non-DNA data for phylogenetic analysis results in a single shortest tree. Overall, the phylogeny from the combined analysis shares more clades in common with the hypotheses inferred from the separate DNA analysis (74%) than with the separate analysis of the non-DNA data (53%). The intergeneric relationships inferred from the combined analysis are more similar to recently published hypotheses based on morphological data, except the Sceloporus group is paraphyletic. Although phrynosomatid intergeneric relationships are well resolved by the combined analysis of the DNA and non-DNA data, the relationships among most genera are nevertheless weakly supported by the separate and combined analyses. This weak support is most likely the result of rapid speciation. The monophyly of the speciose genus Sceloporus (exclusive of Sator) is supported by the separate non-DNA and combined analyses. The inclusion of numerous incomplete taxa (19 species lacking DNA data) in the combined analysis did not decrease resolution among the complete taxa (40 species with DNA and non-DNA data), but the addition of the incomplete taxa did affect the relationships among the complete taxa. Overall, the DNA data are more homoplastic than the non-DNA data, but the degree of character incongruence exhibited within the different partitions and/or sources of the DNA and non-DNA data sets varies greatly. 
4540122|We compared the uterine component of the placentae of each placental region of two species of lizards, Eulamprus tympanum and Pseudemoia entrecasteauxii, to identify potential routes and mechanisms of nutrient transport. We focused on the uterine epithelium because nutrients must pass though it to reach the embryo. At this point, we have only been able to study two species in detail, but each has a placenta of different complexity and quantitatively different placentotrophy. The uterine epithelium of the chorioallantoic placenta has a different morphology from the omphaloplacenta, and the chorioallantoic placenta of P. entrecasteauxii, the most placentotrophic of the two species, is further differentiated in placentomal and paraplacentomal regions. The chorioallantoic region of E. tympanum, and the paraplacentomal region of P. entrecasteauxii have morphologies indicative of gas exchange epithelia. The blood-uterine lumen distance in P. entrecasteauxii, however, is about one tenth that in E. tympanum, suggesting a greater diffusive capacity for gases in P. entrecasteauxii. The omphaloplacenta of both species has a similar structure, with hypertrophied cells, electron-dense granules in the apical cytoplasm and vesicles budding off into the uterine lumen. This result is particularly interesting because E. tympanum exhibits little net nutrient transfer to the embryo during pregnancy. Nutrient provision across the omphaloplacenta in both species occurs by histotrophy. The placentome of P. entrecasteauxii also has a morphology suggestive of nutrient provision, but by some non-histotrophic mechanism and may be very important in the evolution of substantial placentotrophy.
23325734|The Black-tailed Rattlesnake (Crotalus molossus Baird and Girard, 1853) is a wide-ranging species complex with representatives from the southwestern United States through the highlands of central and southern Mexico. The systematics of this group has received little attention and in the past six decades only two taxonomic changes have been proposed (the transfer of C. basiliscus oaxacus to C. molossus and the elevation of C. m. estebanensis to full species). However, a recent revision of the Neotropical Rattlesnakes (C. durissus and C. simus) recovered a polyphyletic C. molossus. We sequenced data from three mitochondrial genes (ATPases 8 and 6, cyt b, and ND4) and three nuclear genes (c-mos, EXPH5, and RAG1) to examine phylogenetic relationships among C. molossus lineages and the closely related species C. basiliscus and C. totonacus. Results recovered strong support for two deeply divergent northern C. molossus lineages that are morphologically distinct. Biogeographical patterns and divergence dates inferred from mitochondrial data suggest the diversification of C. molossus is the result of a Neogene vicariance event associated with uplift of the Sierra Madre Occidental. Population-level analyses suggest that major lineages of C. molossus have been stable since their initial divergence. On the basis of morphological and molecular evidence we resurrect the name Crotalus ornatus Hallowell, 1854 for Black-tailed Rattlesnake populations in the Chihuahuan Desert and central Texas, USA.
10.2307/1466961| Seasonal distributions and abundances of loggerhead (Caretta caretta) and leatherback (Dermochelys coriacea) sea turtles in continental shelf waters off the coast of the northeastern United States were derived from more than three years of aerial and shipboard surveys. There were 3460 sea turtle sightings, including 2841 loggerheads, 128 leatherbacks, and 491 unidentified. Relative abundance patterns, corrected for uneven distribution of survey effort, demonstrated an extensive area of loggerhead distribution from near Long Island, New York, along the mid-shelf to near Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. Areas of high relative abundance of leatherbacks were more scattered, with clusters south of Long Island and in the central and eastern Gulf of Maine. Loggerheads occurred significantly farther south (x = 3820 N) than leatherbacks (x = 4005 N), and in significantly warmer waters (mean surface temperatures of 22.2 C and 20.4 C, respectively). The two species did not differ significantly in water depth or bottom slope at sighting; the modal depth interval for both was 21-40 m. Patterns of distribution and concentration of sea turtles differed greatly from nearly all species of marine mammals, suggesting little overlap in resource utilization. Both relative and absolute density estimates were much higher for loggerheads. Overall mean relative densities were 21.6 loggerheads per 1000 km of survey track, and 6.85 leatherbacks per 1000 km. Absolute density estimates, derived from 454 special aerial surveys, ranged from 1.64  10<sup>-3</sup> to 5.10  10<sup>-1</sup> loggerheads km<sup>-2</sup> and 2.09  10<sup>-3</sup> to 2.16  10<sup>-2</sup> leatherbacks km<sup>-2</sup>. The maximum densities for both species were higher than values reported for the Gulf of Mexico and off the eastern Florida shore. Total study area populations during the summer were estimated at 2200-11,000 loggerheads and 100-900 leatherbacks. These estimates are minimal because they are based on observations of turtles at the surface, and may represent much greater abundances. The patterns of relative abundance derived from this analysis could be used as a basis for the designation of critical sea turtle habitat off the northeastern U.S. 
10.2307/1467048|We analyze the various populations of frogs of the Eleutherodactylus rugulosus group. This group ranges from Mexico to Panama and most species occur in riparian habitats, although in diverse kinds of forests at elevations ranging from sea level to above 2000 m. In most regions of Middle America, one to several species of these frogs comprise a conspicuous component of the herpetofauna. We recognize 33 species in the E. rugulosus group; in this paper 10 new species are described and six names are removed from synonymy and considered to represent valid species. For each species, we trace the taxonomic history in synonymy, provide a diagnosis and definition, address variation, and summarize the distribution, habits, and habitat. Particularly problematical, E. rugulosus previously was thought to range from Mexico to Panama. As we conceive it, this species is restricted to the Pacific versant of Mexico. We allocate other, more southern populations of frogs previously ascribed to this species to species other than E. rugulosus.
10.2307/1467003|Bushmasters (Lachesis muta) at Dallas Zoo demonstrated strike-induced chemosensory searching (SICS) and trail-following when feeding on relatively large prey (>25% of snake body mass). Smaller prey were usually held following predatory strikes. Facultative use of the strike-and-release pattern based on prey size has not previously been documented for any rodent-feeding viper. Experiment I documented the relationship between prey mass and post-strike holding or releasing. Experiment II showed that SICS occurred after large prey were released. Experiment III revealed that bushmasters followed chemical trails after releasing large prey, indicating that trailing behavior is a facultative component of predation in these snakes.
10.2307/1467041|The state of ossification of the skeleton at hatching or birth and shortly thereafter is described and compared for 21 squamate species. The presence in the neonate of metapodial ossification centers and epiphyseal secondary centers varies among species, whereas the appearance of apophyseal ossifications and endochondral calcifications and the ossification of sesamoid precursors are predominantly postnatal phenomena. The data suggest a possible causal relationship between viviparity and skeletally immature neonates, whereas state of ossification at hatching or birth is probably attributable to phylogeny overall. Of the clades represented in this investigation, phrynosomatids, teiioids, and amphisbaenians exhibit the most skeletally mature neonates, whereas the reverse is true of gekkotans, xantusiids, and anguids.
10.2307/1467021|Skull characters were examined and combined with posteranial osteological, external, allozyme, DNA sequence, and chromosome data from the literature to estimate the phylogenetic relationships of the Hispaniolan dwarf twig Anolis (A. sheplani, A. insolitus, and A. placidus). A survey of most species of Anolis species for which skeletons are available found two osteological character states unique to these species, a convex parietal roof and crenulated parietal edges, thus suggesting that the Hispaniolan twig dwarfs form a monophyletic group. To assess this hypothesis of monophyly and to estimate the phyletic placement of these species in the genus Anolis, parsimony analyses were undertaken including all proposed close relatives of the Hispaniolan twig dwarfs and a taxonomically and geographically diverse sample of congeners. Diagnostic synapomorphies found in this analysis were surveyed more widely in Anolis. Characterization difficulties of the skull data were addressed by using three coding methods to differentially code intraspecific and continuous variation. Confidence in the Hispaniolan twig dwarf relationships was assessed with the bootstrap, the test of Templeton, and the agreement between results from the three coding methods. The monophyly of the Hispaniolan twig dwarfs was strongly supported. The nearest relatives of the Hispaniolan twig dwarfs appear to be twig species from Hispaniola (A. darlingtoni), Puerto Rico (A. occultus), and South America (tigrinus group, i.e., A. solitarius), and Phenacosaurus. Wider taxonomic and character sampling is needed to assess the robustness of these clades, but present evidence suggests an invasion of Hispaniola or Puerto Rico from South America and, counter to the usual opinions of ecomorph occurrence by intra-island adaptive radiation, a clade of twig species on three different land masses.
43284045|Although adult crocodilians have few predators (mostly humans and other crocodilians), hatchlings and eggs are killed and consumed by a diverse array of invertebrates, fishes, anurans, reptiles, birds, and mammals. We review published literature to evaluate the incidence of predation in crocodilian populations, and the implications of that mortality for crocodilian life-history evolution. Presumably because predation is size-dependent, small-bodied crocodilian taxa appear to be more vulnerable to predation (across a range of life stages) than are larger-bodied species. Several features of crocodilian biology likely reflect adaptations to reducing vulnerability to predation. For example, the threat of predation may have influenced the evolution of traits such as nest-site selection, maternal care of eggs and hatchlings, crche behavior in hatchlings, and cryptic coloration and patterning. Even for such large and superficially invulnerable taxa such as crocodilians, the avoidance of predation appears to have been a significant selective force on behavior, morphology, and ecology.
4540115|The Lake Erie watersnake, Nerodia sipedon insularum, occurs only in the island region of western Lake Erie, an area less than 40 km in diameter. Restricted geographic distribution and declining population size resulted in this snake's classification as Threatened in the U.S. and Endangered in Ontario and Ohio. A combination of mark-recapture methods, capture rate information, and interpolation were used to estimate the current U.S. population size of Lake Erie watersnakes. A total of 121 point estimates were generated using both 'closed' population (Lincoln-Petersen, Schumacher's) and 'open' population (JollySeber, Bailey's triple-catch) methods to analyze data collected from 1980-2004. Paired t-tests, comparing estimates obtained using alternative methods, were consistently non-significant. Although standard errors and confidence intervals of individual estimates were often large, standard errors of mean estimates, obtained by averaging across methods and sets of consecutive years, were markedly smaller, averaging 14% (range = 525%). These analyses demonstrate the utility of mark-recapture methods even in cases where sample size and recapture rates are low, as may often be true for threatened and endangered species. Another 60 estimates were obtained by applying the Lincoln-Petersen method to samples collected in consecutive years. As expected if recruitment occurs between samples, these estimates were significantly larger than those obtained using other methods. By comparing these recruitment-biased estimates to unbiased estimates, annual adult recruitment (and by extension, adult survivorship) was estimated to be 0.63. At 11 study sites for which recent (2000-2004) mark-recapture estimates were available, population density (adults/km) was highly correlated with capture rate. The regression relationship between density and capture rate was thus used to estimate watersnake population size at 19 additional sites for which only capture rate was known. Interpolations of watersnake population size were made at another 29 sites, thus encompassing the entire U.S. range of the Lake Erie watersnake. Interpolations were based on habitat suitability, land-use practices, the observed presence of watersnakes, and density at sites for which mark-recapture or capture rate estimates were available. Lake Erie watersnake densities exceeded those of many other snakes. At 30 sites for which recent estimates were available, median density = 141 adults/km of shoreline (range = 11-1107 adults/km). Mark-recapture estimates encompassing 15.8 km and capture rate estimates encompassing 19.6 km of shoreline on the U.S. islands totaled more than 6500 adult watersnakes. Including interpolated numbers at 28.3 km of uncensused shoreline to encompass the entire U.S. distribution of the Lake Erie watersnake brought this total to nearly 7700 adults. This exceeds 5555 adults, the number specified in the Population Persistence criterion of the Lake Erie Watersnake Recovery Plan. Estimates also exceeded island-specific criteria for Kelleys, South Bass, and Middle Bass Island. On North Bass Island, estimated population size (385 adults) fell short of the islandspecific recovery criterion (410 adults) unless interpolated numbers at uncensused sites were included (total = 443 adults). Other criteria for delisting the Lake Erie watersnake include Habitat Protection and Management and Reduction of Human-induced Mortality. Recent land acquisitions, development of watersnake-friendly land management plans, and outreach efforts seeking to foster public appreciation and minimize watersnakehuman conflicts have contributed to achievement of these goals. These actions, together with this snake's capacity for rapid population growth, make recovery and eventual delisting of the Lake Erie watersnake a real possibility.
40929493|We describe two new whiptail lizard species, previously assigned to Cnemidophorus lemniscatus, from islands of the state of Nueva Esparta and Los Frailes Archipelago, off the northeastern coast of Venezuela. The two new species differ from C. lemniscatus in color, pattern, and squamation. The species from the islands of Margarita and Cubagua can be distinguished from the one of Los Frailes Archipelago in having the circumorbital semicircles extending further anteriorly, more scales between supraocular and supraciliaries, and a larger number of scales of a smaller size between the preanal shield and anal spurs. The two new species also differ conspicuously in color and pattern of both sexes and all age classes. Additionally, we comment on the status of the population of Cnemidophorus of Los Testigos Archipelago, discuss the morphological and color variation observed in C. lemniscatus from northern Venezuela and restrict the distribution of the latter species in the country to the mainland. Dos poblaciones de Cnemidophorus asignadas anteriormente a la especie C. lemniscatus, son descritas de dos islas del estado Nueva Esparta y para el archipilago de Los Frailes al noreste de la costa caribe de Venezuela. Las dos nuevas especies se diferencian de C. lemniscatus por su patrn de coloracin y por la combinacin de varias caractersticas morfolgicas. La especie de las islas de Margarita y Cubagua (Nueva Esparta) difiere de la de Los Frailes, entre otros caracteres, por presentar las escamas circumorbitales mas extendidas hacia la parte anterior de la cabeza, un mayor nmero de escamas entre las supraoculares y las supraciliares y por poseer un mayor nmero de escamas entre las placas preanales y los espolones. Ambas especies tambin se diferencian entre ellas muy fcilmente por la coloracin que presentan, ambos sexos, en todas las etapas de crecimiento. Tambin se comenta sobre el estado taxonmico de la poblacin presente en el archipilago de Los Testigos, as como discutimos sobre la variacin que presenta C. lemniscatus al norte de Venezuela, restringiendo en dicho pas la distribucin geogrfica de esta ltima especie en tierra firme.
10.2307/1467073|A behavioral inventory of the desert tortoise was compiled from observations on confined tortoises in experimental pens and free-ranging tortoises within semi-natural enclosures. We describe 80 actions. Much of a tortoise's active time outside burrows is spent in feeding behavior. Display sequences have both visual and olfactory components. Aggressive and courtship sequences have similar beginnings but proceed differently as animals respond to each other. Aggressive behavior involves much headbobbing, sniffing, biting and ramming. A pushing match enables tortoises to assess body mass and determine dominance. Courtship behavior may involve trailing, circling of the female by the male, and biting and sniffing sequences before mounting. There is no rejection display by females of courting males. Comparisons between Gopherus species and related tortoise groups suggest a very conservative evolution of behavior within the Gopherus group.
41058259|We studied the population biology of Sonora mud turtles (Kinosternon sonoriense) for 10 yr in an extremely hot and dry desert stream habitat in central Arizona. Adults made up 34.4% of the population. Modeling with Program MARK indicated that both age class (adult vs. juvenile-hatchling) and season contributed significantly to the probability of capture. The presence of exotic crayfish (Orconectes virilis) and age class were significant contributors to turtle survival, supporting the hypothesis that exotic crayfish are important predators on hatchlings. Population density estimates indicated low density over the range of water availability. Both adults and juveniles made long-distance movements along the dry stream bed between pools of water. Males and females were both likely to make long-distance movements and were sometimes absent from the study site for years at a time. In addition to terrestrial estivation in foresummer drought, turtles apparently hibernated on land in winter when standing water was available. Growth fit a von Bertalanfiy model very well. We make the first report of growth rates for hatchling K sonoriense. Growth rates estimated from shell annuli were consistent with similar estimates for older turtles in other studies. Measured growth rates, however, were much higher than annuli-based estimates. In contrast to other populations, we determined that hatchlings and juveniles in our study added 1-3 plastron annuli each year, making age estimation from annuli difficult. Understanding relationships between habitat use, invasive predators, and demographics is essential for effective management of low-density populations.
1467016|Squamate reptiles generally have been ignored in the search for a unified theory for the evolution of sociality due to the perception that they exhibit little social behavior beyond territoriality and dominance hierarchies and display polygynous mating systems. However a growing body of research has revealed unsuspected levels of social complexity and diversity in mating systems within the squamate lineage, particularly among the members of the Australian Scincid genus Egernia. Several species of Egernia are amongst the most highly social of all squamate reptiles, exhibiting stable social aggregations and high levels of long-term social and genetic monogamy. Social complexity is widespread within the Egernia genus, with reports of social aggregations in 23 of the 30 described species. The purpose of this review was to examine the potential for the Egernia genus as a model system for study of the evolution of sociality and monogamy within squamate reptiles. Current evidence indicates there is substantial variability in social complexity both within and between species, with social organization covering the spectrum from solitary to highly social. Four highly social Egernia species are known to live in stable social aggregations consisting of closely related individuals (adults, subadults, juveniles; i.e., 'family' groups) that appear to utilize chemical cues to recognize group members (kin recognition). Enhanced vigilance against predators is one presumed benefit of group membership. Additionally, juveniles within social groupings appear to receive low levels of indirect parental care. Several Egernia species create scat piles that mark group territories. Three Egernia species exhibit long-term social and genetic monogamy and several inbreeding avoidance strategies have been documented. However, it is currently unknown whether monogamy is widespread within Egernia. Egernia species occupy a broad range of habitats, although most are terrestrial, saxicolous or semi-arboreal. Several species display an attachment to a permanent home site, generally a rock crevice, burrow or tree hollow. Egernia species take 2-5 years to mature, live for 5-25 years, and are viviparous with litter size positively correlated with body size. Several Egernia species are herbivorous, with the degree of herbivory increasing with body size and during ontogeny in larger species. Most smaller species are either insectivorous or omnivorous. Species of Egernia have a wide range of reptilian, avian, and mammalian predators. Several larger species possess several behavioral and morphological features to prevent their extraction from rock crevices, including highly modified keeled scales and numerous defensive behaviors. Color pattern polymorphism is present in five Egernia species. Potential ecological correlates of sociality and monogamy are discussed. The life-history hypothesis predicts long-lived, late-maturing species should evolve complex sociality. The habitat availability hypothesis relies on the assumption that refugia may be limited in some ecological settings, and group formation is a consequence of co-habitation of available refugia. These hypotheses are not mutually exclusive, and testable predictions are formulated and discussed. Specific future research directions are outlined to take advantage of Egernia as a model system for comparative research on a lineage that represents an independent origin of social organization comparable to that found in birds and mammals.
4093027|We studied the ecology of four species of closely related leaf litter geckos, Coleodactylus amazonicus, C. septentrionalis, Lepidoblepharis xanthostigma, and Pseudogonatodes guianensis in tropical rainforests of Brazil and Nicaragua. All are found in leaf litter of undisturbed tropical forest where mean hourly surface temperatures vary from 23.5-29.1 C. Surface temperatures, where individual C. amazonicus were found, averaged 27.4 C and air averaged 29.9 C. Coleodactylus amazonicus was the smallest species and L. xanthostigma was the largest. The latter was the most different morphologically as well. Tail loss rates varied from 45.5-81.8% among species. All four species ate very small prey items, largely springtails, homopterans, termites, small insect larvae, and spiders. Nevertheless, considerable differences existed among species. Some variation existed among populations of C. amazonicus. Prey size was correlated with lizard SVL within and among species. All four species are typically the smallest species in their respective lizard assemblages. Small body size may have consequences for predation. Partially due to small body size, these lizards are vulnerable to extirpation resulting from effects of tree removal on thermal attributes of their leaf litter environment.
4540118|For over a century, research has been conducted on squamates in order to reveal how viviparity has evolved in mammals and other vertebrates. The recent proliferation of studies has yielded much information on anatomical, physiological, ecological, and evolutionary aspects, allowing a reassessment of squamates as model organisms for the study of viviparity. Strong support for the "squamate model" comes from phylogenetic analyses that have shown that squamates have evolved viviparity with great frequency (> 108 origins), at low taxonomic levels, and in geologically recent times. However, available data also indicate that viviparity has evolved by different chronologies and mechanisms in squamates, fishes, and mammals. Further, generalizations about squamates are difficult to make, given the diverse mechanisms by which they achieve viviparity. Thus, similarities between squamates must be demonstrated empirically, and generalizations should be based on quantitative, phylogenetic analyses of multiple lineages. Explanations for similarities between squamate clades can invoke such concepts as evolutionary constraints, exaptations, and selection pressures, and should distinguish between adaptations, correlated attributes, and features that predate viviparity. However, homocentric assumptions of an orthogenetic transformation towards the eutherian condition should be abandoned, along with untested assumptions that viviparity squamates and mammals is similar. The value of the squamate model ultimately may lie in insights it provides into physiological problems rather than in universality of specific mechanisms that have evolved to meet those problems.
10.2307/1466985| An electron microscopical and cytochemical investigation of the developing gonads of the Pacific Ridley Lepidochelys olivacea (Eschscholtz) reveals that extragonadal primordial germ cells of this sea turtle follow a migratory pathway similar to that of primordial germ cells in mammalian embryos, i.e., through the yolk sac and hind gut mesentery to the gonadal ridge. The undifferentiated gonad is formed by proliferation of mesothelial and mesenchymal cells, organized into epithelial medullary cords. Embryonic gonads incubated at the highest temperature (32 C) differentiated first. However, even 84 days after hatching, oogonia have not entered the prophase of the first meiotic division and no follicles are formed. Gonads of embryos incubated at 26-27.5 C were structurally similar to undifferentiated gonads; conspicuous medullary cords are connected to the surface epithelium containing most of the germ cells. Histochemical detection of steroidogenic tissue was positive in the adrenal glands, but negative in the gonads of both sexes. Finally, in all individuals, the Mullerian ducts are complete at hatching. In Lepidochelys olivacea, sexual differentiation of the gonad is barely initiated at hatching, therefore, sex-reversal after hatching is a possibility in this species. 
4093028| Four new species of scincid lizards in the genus Lobulia are described from high elevations (2350 m) in New Guinea. Some of the features that may permit these skinks to live at high elevation are: dark color pattern, "tinted" lower eyelids and live-bearing reproductive mode. All of the species may be threatened by global climate warming. The generic concept of Lobulia is discussed and a key to the species provided. 
10.2307/1467082|Evaluation of 305 museum specimens of Ptychoglossus reveals that 10 of the 11 taxa previously associated with the genus represent valid species, including P. nicefori (Loveridge), removed from synonymy with P. brevifrontalis Boulenger, and the type species, P. bilineatus Boulenger, removed from synonymy with Leposoma picticeps Cope which is reasoned to be a junior synonym of Arthrosaura reticulata (O'Shaughnessy). Modern descriptions, including information on hemipenial morphology of all but two species, are provided for these, plus the five new species: P. danieli, P. gorgonae, P. myersi, P. romaleos, and P. vallensis. Intraspecific variation is assessed for all but three of the 15 species; those three are still known only from single specimens. Within a species, females tend to attain slightly longer bodies than males. Judging from comparisons of limb lengths to body lengths, this is due to elongation of the female trunk. An identification key to the 15 recognized species is included.
40929490|We studied the spatial and reproductive ecology of a population of Copperheads (Agkistrodon contortrix), a North American pitviper, in a basalt trap-rock ecosystem in the central Connecticut River Valley, a region that constitutes the northeastern extreme of this species' geographic range. Adult males (n = 20) and females (n = 15) were surgically implanted with radio-transmitters and tracked every 48 h during the active season (April through October) for three consecutive years (2001 to 2003). From late autumn to early spring (November through March), when snakes were hibernating and thus inactive, tracking was reduced to once per week. We generated data on movement and other spatial parameters for each subject using GPS coordinates. There were significant sex differences in activity range size and multiple movement parameters. Throughout the active season males had greater activity range sizes and showed greater movement than females. This trend was pronounced during the mating season, which was restricted to late summer and early fall (late July through September). In contrast to most populations of a. contortrix from more southern and western localities, we did not observe any sexual activity (e.g., courtship, coitus, and male-male fighting) in the spring. Individuals of both sexes showed annual fidelity to: (i) activity range location, (ii) activity range size, (iii) movement distances, (iv) particular features of their activity ranges (e.g., refuge sites), and (v) hibernation sites. Males and females showed no difference in preferred seasonal habitats. In both sexes, shifts in habitat associations during the active season included migrations from over-wintering sites within basalt trap rockslides to upper-elevation, open deciduous forest during the summer foraging and reproductive season. Parturition in the field was recorded in eight instances and was always close to one of the two hibernacula used by the individuals in the study area.
10.2307/1466984|The phylogeny of the Gymnophiona is poorly understood and until recently received little attention. Within the past three years, four separate classifications of caecilians were published. Two of these classifications, those of Wake (1985, 1986) and Duellman and Trueb (1986), are conservative and do not differ substantially from the classification of Taylor (1968, 1969a) as modified by Nussbaum (1977, 1979). However, the classifications of Laurent (1986) and Lescure et al. (1986) differ radically from the others and from each other. Laurent's classification is biased by a priori biogeographical considerations and is otherwise difficult to evaluate, because he did not clarify his methodology or justify his dendrogram by explaining his characters and their transformations. Lescure et al. claimed that their analysis of caecilian phylogeny and their classification are based on strict cladistic principles; however, like Laurent, they did not explain their procedures and used distributional data in deriving their phylogeny. There is no logical basis for using non-inherited characters such as geographic distribution to estimate phylogenies, and we disagree with this practice. Lescure et al. relied heavily on their scheme of annular development in determining their cladogram. We demonstrate that their interpretation of the ontogeny and phylogeny of caecilian annuli is wrong. We reject the cladogram of Lescure et al., because (1) many of the characters upon which it is based are poorly defined and incorrectly coded (83% of the transformations are either changes in annulation or geographic distribution) and (2) it is not supported by rigorous cladistic analyses of their own data. The classification of Lescure et al. is based on their seriously flawed cladogram and incorporates dubious classification procedures. Present knowledge does not allow establishment of a robust, phylogenetic classification of caecilians. We present an interim classification of caecilians with diagnoses to the generic level, recognizing six families (Rhinatrematidae, Ichthyophiidae, Uraeotyphlidae, Scolecomorphidae, Caeciliaidae, Typhlonectidae) and 34 genera. The first four families are likely to survive cladistic analysis, but the Caeciliaidae is a paraphyletic subgroup of a monophyletic clade that includes the caeciliaid and typhlonectid genera. Various attempts to subdivide the Caeciliaidae are either clearly wrong or unconvincing and, in all cases, are based on inadequate data and procedures. We recognize no categories of Gymnophiona other than family, genus, and species.
4093026|The Laticauda colubrina complex previously consisted of three species, Laticauda saintgironsi from New Caledonia and the Loyalty Islands, Laticauda frontalis from Vanuatu, and Laticauda colubrina, a widespread species ranging from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the Myanmar-Thai-Malaysian peninsula, through the Indonesian archipelago to New Guinea, north to Palau, the Philippines, Taiwan and the Ryukyu Islands, and southeastward along the island-chain of the Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, Fiji and Tonga. Their geographic variation, based on 1515 specimens involving 33 characters of coloration and scutellation, was analyzed in two different ways: (1) an hierarchical analysis and (2) an analysis of principal components and discriminant function. Sexual dimorphism occurred in many characters and for those, females and males were analyzed separately. The results confirmed the distinctiveness of the three original species. Within L. colubrina different characters displayed slightly different geographic patterns of variation, but overall five general groupings of populations could be discerned: (1) a north-south axis from Sabah, north through the Philippines to Taiwan and the Ryukyus, (2) an east-west axis encompassing localities from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands in the west through New Guinea and the Solomon Islands in the east, (3) the eastern islands of Vanuatu, Fiji, and Tonga, (4) a partially isolated population in Palau, and finally (5) an isolate in southern Papua. Despite significant differences among these regions, different characters showed slightly different patterns of geographic variation across their boundaries; similarly, within each axis the pattern of variation among islands differed for different characters. Divergence was deemed sufficiently consistent to warrant taxonomic distinction only in the case of the population in southern Papua that was accorded recognition as a new species, Laticauda guineai. In some characters, widely peripheral populations were more similar morphologically to each other than to more central ones, and alternative hypotheses accounting for this are discussed. The observed distribution and the geographic patterns of variation are attributable to a combination of present and past ecological restrictions, directions of sea currents, and paleogeography.
10.2307/1467008| A population of rough green snakes (Opheodrys aestivus) was studied by mark-recapture at Ransom Lake (RL) in north-central Arkansas over 7 yr (1986-1992). Results are compared to those obtained previously from a population in similar habitat located 12 km distant (Bald Knob Lake, BKL). Over 2700 captures made along the RL shoreline were nonrandomly distributed within areas of dense vegetation. Green snakes lived within home ranges averaging 67 m in shoreline length and differing in location between years by about 50 m. Individuals were recaptured on average every 19 days, in which time they had moved linearly along the shoreline about 28 m. About 3% of all movements were over water. Each of these spatial parameters at RL was very similar to those obtained at BKL. Growth rates of individual snakes decreased linearly with snout-vent length (SVL) and were similar to those characterizing snakes at BKL. However, greater variance in growth rates at RL resulted in a weaker relationship between body size and age. Females grew to be larger than males. Body size of females was slightly larger at RL than at BKL. Younger age groups were proportionally larger at RL than at BKL. Sex ratio was 1:1 both in adults and in all snakes combined. In 1987 and 1988 when about 60% of the population consisted of adult snakes, sex and age structure of the population were similar between years. Maximum population density was about 800 snakes/ha. Catchability of individual snakes in monthly samples was equal in 1987 but equivocal in 1988. Survivorship was measured directly by age-specific recapture proportions. Adult survivorship (males 28%, females 41%) was less at RL than at BKL. Calculated overall first-year survivorship (21.5%) was similar to that at BKL and was slightly greater than hatchling survivorship measured directly by recapture (15-19%). Survivorship for ages 0 in both sexes showed a linear logarithmic decline with age (type II survivorship curve). As at BKL, overall clutch size at RL averaged 6 eggs. Unlike at BKL, clutch size at RL differed among years concordant with body condition (weight-length ratio) of snakes. As at BKL, the net reproductive rate at RL (R<sub>0</sub>=0.60) was insufficient for sustaining the population over the long term. Estimated population size varied fivefold over 7 yr and decreased from approximately 350-500 snakes in the first 3 yr (1986-1988) to 100-200 in the last 4 yr (1989-1992). The rapid population decline apparently was due to unusually high mortality among adults, and the increased mortality, in turn, was correlated with unusually hot and dry weather leading to a decrease in the body condition of snakes. Predation by snakes and birds may have contributed to the decline. Although snake populations are often regarded as being relatively stable, this study demonstrates that populations of a small insectivorous species are not immune to environmental vagaries and may respond by decreasing density as do other vertebrates. 
41406830|We studied the spatial ecology of Common Side-blotched Lizards (Uta stansburiana) in the northern Great Basin desert of eastern Oregon. Over 3 yr (2007-2009) we collected 3675 coordinates from 51 males and 60 females during the breeding season (mid-May to early July). We found significant variation among years and between the sexes in home-range size, but contrasting evidence for a relationship between body size and home-range size. Lizard home ranges overlapped those of other lizards extensively and the number of overlapping home ranges within and between the sexes as well as the percentage of unique home range varied among study years. However, we found no evidence that lizards are minimizing their overlaps with the same sex and maximizing their overlaps with the opposite sex. By studying home ranges over multiple years we found that lizards exhibit strong year-to-year fidelity in home-range location, which may be a consequence of relatively high interannual survival. We also present long-term data on the home ranges of Common Side-blotched Lizards from a population in central California that were studied for 8 (females) or 10 (males) consecutive yr as well as new analyses of Tinkle's (1967a, b) 6-yr dataset from west Texas. We found that winter rainfall, population density, and lizard sex were significant predictors of home-range size across years within both sites, though the effects of density and sex appear to be more robust than rainfall. By combining data on home-range ecology from nine study populations of Uta stansburiana, we tested for the effects of latitude of origin, rainfall, population density, and lizard sex on home-range size across the geographic distribution of this species. Similar to our results within sites, rainfall, density, and sex have significant effects on home-range size when comparing sites, but again the effects of density and sex appear to be more robust than rainfall. Latitude of origin also appears to explain variation in home-range size independent of ecosystem productivity (i. e., rainfall, density). Thus, we conclude that ecosystem productivity is an important determinant of density and spatial ecology of lizard populations and that even modest fluctuations in productivity may influence population density and home-range ecology, but that latitude of origin remains important independent of these factors.
10.2307/1466954| The relationships among the major lineages of frogs are summarized and an unranked, phylogenetic taxonomy of Anura is proposed. The names of taxa are defined according to phylogenetic principles. Several currently recognized taxa, such as "Archaeobatrachia", "Discoglossoidea", "Leiopelmatidae", and "Discoglossidae" are paraphyletic, and the names are abandoned or redefined such that the associated taxa are monophyletic. Node-based names are proposed for several unnamed but previously recognized taxa: Leiopelmatanura, Bombinanura, Discoglossanura, and Pipanura. Pipanura is the node-based name for Mesobatrachia and Neobatrachia. Mesobatrachia comprises Pelobatoidea and Pipoidea. Pelodytidae is defined as a stem-based name to accommodate certain fossil pelobatoid taxa. Rhinophrynus, Rhinophrynidae, and Pipimorpha are defined as stem-based names that accommodate fossils within Pipoidea. Eopelobatinae* is a metataxon. Relationships within Neobatrachia are largely unresolved. There is no evidence for the monophyly of "Myobatrachidae", but Limnodynastinae and Myobatrachinae are each monophyletic. Sooglossidae appears most closely related to Myobatrachinae. "Leptodactylidae" and "Ranidae" are nonmonophyletic groups. Scaphiophryninae* and Arthroleptidae* are metataxa. The name Scoptanura is used for the subclade of Microhylidae that excludes scaphiophrynines. Dendrobatidae, a taxon of controversial status, is placed within Ranoidea. 
10.2307/1466967|The life history and ecology of three populations of the gecko Gehyra variegata were studied from September 1985 to May 1987 in two riverine woodland habitats and on the huts of the Kinchega National Park station. The dynamics and life histories of the three populations were remarkably similar. All three populations showed low mortalities throughout the year. Yearly mortality (including emigration) ranged from 0.43-0.47. The yearly emigration rate was 0.0-0.07. Size- and body-condition-dependent mortality was demonstrated for the population living at the station. Average springtime densities ranged from 25-32 individuals per hut and from 1.9-4.0 geckos per tree. Groups of geckos shared the same trees or parts of huts. Food availability accounted for 73% of the variance in the number of geckos in each principal group at the station. Size and shape of trees and the number of trunks were the most important variables determining the number of geckos per tree. Gehyra variegata females laid one egg and usually produced two clutches per year. Relative clutch mass (11.4%) and egg size were not significantly correlated with female snout-vent length. Individuals for all three populations reached sexual maturity on average in 25-27 months and usually reproduced for the first time in their third year. Gehyra variegata is an arthropod generalist. All three populations were active from September to May in temperatures ranging from 7.5-45.0 C. The data suggest that low numbers of predators, low adult mortality, and strong size- and body-condition-dependent survival are major factors for the dynamics of G. variegata and its life history evolution.
1467014|Many desert organisms cope with extreme and variable conditions by retreating to sub-surface refugia, yet little is known of the patterns of refuge use by most desert inhabitants. We investigated shelter use by the Gila Monster, Heloderma suspectum, an ectotherm closely tied to sub-surface refugia in a strongly seasonal desert environment. We addressed hypotheses that ectotherms may use habitats based on availability of shelters, select shelters based on particular cues, respond to seasonal variation in refuge characteristics, and show fidelity to specific retreats. Using radiotelemetry, we monitored microhabitat use by eight to ten Gila Monsters for six years, recording timing, frequency, and duration of visitation to over 250 specific shelters. We used transects to assess shelter availability, recorded structural features of all shelters, and used dataloggers to monitor seasonal changes in microenvironments within subsets of shelters for periods up to two years. Shelters, and the habitats where they occurred, were not chosen by Gila Monsters at random. Heloderma spent more time in areas where a higher density of potential shelters was available, and selected shelters based on rockiness, slope and entrance aspect, depth, humidity, and temperature. Gila Monsters showed longer residence times and greater fidelity to shelters used during extreme periods (e.g., winter) and these patterns were paralleled by seasonal changes in the characteristics of shelters chosen. Winter shelters tended to be south-facing, rockier, deeper, and warmer than those used in other seasons, whereas dry-summer shelters were more soil-like in composition, cooler, and more humid. Gila Monsters showed strong fidelity to specific shelters, some of which were used by two or more lizards, sometimes concurrently. Seasonal variation in use of "social" shelters coincided with annual cycles of intraspecific behaviors and reproduction. Our results underscore the importance of sub-surface refugia in the ecology of a sedentary desert ectotherm. Because many other ectotherms also spend significant periods sequestered in below-ground retreats, it is surprising that ecologists have not more extensively investigated this phenomenon. An understanding of the cues used by desert ectotherms to choose refuge-sites, the spatial and temporal variability in refuge characteristics, and the fidelity shown to particular retreats, may help better explain patterns of habitat selection, behavior, distribution, and abundance.
10.2307/1466999|Prerequisite to the evolution of social behavior is a context in which individuals can interact. Animal aggregations near preferred habitat features can provide such a context. Near times of gestation, oviposition, and parturition, habitat features that facilitate these processes may be specialized and of paramount importance to the fitness of gravid individuals. Additionally, spatial proximity to conspecifics may enhance individual fitness through antipredator, thermoregulatory, or osmoregulatory effects. Such effects could result in selection for attraction to conspecifics, as well as localized habitat features, and more complex mutualistic and manipulative social interactions. Furthermore, philopatry and the proximity of littermates, parents, and offspring at the time of parturition or hatching would enhance inclusive fitness effects of mutualistic interactions. Mutual attraction to preferred habitat features as exhibited by gravid squamates may provide a useful model of early stages in the evolution of more complex social systems. Literature concerning aggregation of gravid squamates, communal nesting and birth, and interactions among neonates and postparturient females is reviewed.
43284044|Paramesotriton hongkongensis has a highly restricted distribution in southern China, and a comprehensive study of the species' basic ecology in aquatic and terrestrial habitats has not been previously undertaken. Using mark-recapture methods, we assessed seasonal patterns of breeding populations in four streams in Hong Kong every 3 wk over 18 mo (2007-2009). We examined diet and body condition of newts in the four focal and six additional streams. We surveyed transects radiating outward from breeding pools to determine the extent of terrestrial habitats used. In the four focal streams, we made 3436 captures of adult newts, comprising 1312 unique individuals. Breeding occurred primarily during the dry, cool season and extended over 8 mo. Individuals remained in breeding pools for an average of 45 days, suggesting that populations in pools were changing throughout the breeding season and that most individuals had a 10-mo terrestrial phase. Sex ratio changed across the breeding season, with males making up larger proportions of populations earlier in the season. Breeding site fidelity averaged 24% and was density-dependent. Among the 47 identified prey types identified in the diet of 406 newts, the most important prey were Brotia snails, Caridina shrimp, newt eggs, baetid mayflies, and calamoceratid caddisflies, in composite making up 63% of total prey volume and 82% of total prey abundance. Cannibalism of eggs and larvae, primarily by females, largely explained differences in diet between sexes. We documented no systematic difference in adult body condition (size-weight relationship) among streams. Fifteen individuals were found in forested habitats within 100 m of the nearest stream, except a single individual located 228 m away. Our work demonstrates that P. hongkongensis occurs at relatively high densities in stream pools during a protracted breeding season, in which individuals show site fidelity but probably do not breed every year. The species appears to be a generalist predator in most aquatic habitats. Although individuals spend most of the year on land, we still have little understanding of the spatial extent of terrestrial habitat use by the species. Future investigations should focus on the species' ecology in terrestrial habitats and on determining the amount of forest cover around breeding sites necessary to protect P. hongkongensis populations in Hong Kong.
40205460|Members of the Eleutherodactylus fraudator species group occur in Bolivia and Peru. This group has not been reviewed since its proposal and description. Its putative monophyly has not been tested and its phylogenetic relationships are still unresolved. It was included in the Central American genus Craugastor based on a putative morphological synapomorphy, but this hypothesis of relationship is doubtful. Its alpha-diversity is unknown and some putative members have still not been studied in detail. To assess the taxonomic status and phylogenetic relationships of this species group, we applied a taxonomic integrative approach based on comparisons of morphological characters (external and internal), bioacoustics (based on advertisement calls) and phylogenetic analyses of partial 16S mitochondrial gene (560 bp). We redescribe Eleutherodactylus bisignatus (Werner, 1899) and include it together with E. mercedesae in the group. Molecular, bioacoustical and morphological characters support the taxonomic status of all the species. Maximum parsimony, Bayesian and neighbor-joining phylogenetic analyses of the partial mitochondrial gene as well as the presence of a new condition of the mandibular ramus of the trigeminal nerve and two bioacoustical characters, support the monophyly of this group. Moreover, our data suggest the nonmonophyly of the subgenus Eleutherodactylus and the monophyly of die genus Craugastor when the C. bufoniformis species group is excluded. We redescribe the crown clade formed by members of the E. fraudator group and name it as the subgenus Yunganastes, which contains Eleutherodactylus ashkapara Khler, 2000, E. bisignatus (Werner, 1899), E. fraudator Lynch and McDiarmid, 1987, E. mercedesae Lynch and McDiarmid, 1987 and E. pluvicanorus De la Riva and Lynch, 1997. We describe the advertisement call of E. bisignatus for the first time and compare it with available calls of E. ashkapara and E. pluvicanorus. We suggest the common structure of the advertisement calls and the aggressive calls of the species belonging to Yunganastes (single melodic whistles with frequency modulation and no pulses) as synapomorphic for the new subgenus. We exclude members of Yunganastes from the Middle American genus Craugastor, to which it was previously tied by the presence of the putative synapomorphic "E" condition of the trigeminal nerve of the mandibular ramus of the abductor muscle. We describe a new condition of the trigeminal nerve and consider it synapomorphic for Yunganastes. Members of this subgenus are endemic to the cloud forests and humid montane forests of the Cordillera Oriental of the Andes in Bolivia and southern Peru.
10.2307/1467052|Do young reptiles avoid paying the metabolic costs of rapid growth? Growing mammals and birds must spend extra energy, beyond the metabolic costs they have when not growing, to pay the cost of synthesizing new tissues. This synthesis cost is in addition to the other costs that growing animals pay to forage for, consume, digest and allocate the extra food they need to produce new body substance. Thus, it is reasonable to hypothesize that free-living neonate and juvenile terrestrial vertebrates in general will have basal (standard) and field metabolic rates and feeding rates that are higher than expected for (non-growing) adults of the same body mass. Suckling mammals and neonate precocial birds do have relatively high basal metabolic rates. Among reptiles however, currently available data on standard metabolic rates (SMR) of neonates indicates no significant increment over adult SMR. In the field, metabolic increments due to the additional growth-associated costs should be relatively large and hence readily detectable in neonate reptiles. To date, the field metabolic rates (FMR's) of neonates and juveniles have been measured in ten species of reptiles: three phrynosomatid lizards, three lacertid lizards, two iguanid lizards, one agamid lizard, and one chelonian. The neonate lizards all had metabolic rates that were similar to those measured simultaneously in free-living adults, after correction for body mass differences (using mass<sup>0.80</sup>). The chelonian (Gopherus agassizii) juveniles also showed no obvious increment in energy expenditure over adults. More careful measurements of SMR in neonate reptiles should be done to determine if reptiles are free of the large energetic "tax" on growth that is paid by neonate mammals and precocial birds. Studies of neonate altricial birds, which are ectothermic for some time after hatching and have low SMR's, also may be instructive in this regard. Field studies of neonate reptile time-activity budgets are needed to determine how they achieve such low field metabolic rates while simultaneously growing rapidly. Do neonates have lower body temperatures on average during their activity period? Do neonates spend less time active each day than adults? Do neonates use microhabitat resources in ways that reduce intraspecific competition with adults, but allow for rapid growth anyway? Are the thermal dependencies of digestion, metabolism and growth different in neonates, thereby allowing them to function well and grow rapidly at lower daily integrated body temperatures?
4093023|The anuran genus Eleutherodactylus occurs in Central and South America, as well as the West Indies, and comprises nearly 700 recognized species. The diversity of Eleutherodactylus makes it difficult to study the genus as a whole; as a consequence, several authors have divided the genus in phenetic species groups. This division is based on similarity and is not necessarily congruent with monophyletic groups within the genus. Nevertheless, species groups can be considered as hypotheses of natural (monophyletic) groups. I focus on the E. orcesi Group, which contains eight species distributed in the paramo and montane forests (3000-4150 m) of Colombia and Ecuador. The main objectives in the present study are to: (1) describe the osteology and osteological variation of the species within the E. orcesi Group, (2) diagnose the group based on osteological characters, and (3) search for homologies that might support the monophyly of the group. Osteological descriptions for the eight species were made from cleared-and-double-stained specimens. To minimize effects of heterochrony and sexual dimorphism, only adult females were examined. To determine the validity of potential synapomorphies of the E. orcesi Group, I examined cleared-and-stained specimens of 135 species of Eleutherodactylus and used published information for another 29 species. The skulls of all the species of the Eleutherodactylus orcesi Group have a large portion of the frontoparietal fontanelle exposed anteromedially. I hypothesize that the presence of an exposed frontoparietal fontanelle is homologous in the E. orcesi Group and supports the monophyly of the group. I discuss the presence of this character in species outside the E. orcesi Group and hypothesize that in those species the exposed fontanelle was acquired independently. I provide a list of diagnostic characters for the E. orcesi Group and discuss the variation of some of these characters in relation to the general pattern of morphology found in the genus Eleutherodactylus and other anurans. Finally, I discuss intraspecific variation in several osteological characters of the cranium and postcranium of species of the E. orcesi Group, especially E. racemus.
4540119|The evolution of viviparity in squamates has involved intermediate stages of egg retention. Reduction in the thickness of the eggshell, in relative clutch mass (RCM), and in clutch frequency would have facilitated the transition from oviparity to viviparity, while low temperatures are likely the ultimate selective force that promoted this evolutionary shift. We tested these ideas using the Sceloporus spinosus group. Because it is the sister clade of the viviparous Sceloporus formosus group, we predicted that members of the S. spinosus group would exhibit extended egg retention and other features associated with the evolution of viviparity. To test this idea, we examined the ability to retain eggs past the time of normal oviposition in the Sceloporus spinosus group and evaluated the association between egg retention and physiological and environmental factors in a historical context. Gravid females were collected from seven localities at a wide range of altitudes. We estimated the normal stage of embryos at oviposition and the stage at oviposition when females were induced to retain eggs under captive conditions. Stages of embryos varied within clutches; less developed embryos were usually dead and the most advanced embryos were usually alive. The maximum stage observed was therefore used as an index of egg retention for each clutch. The maximum embryonic stage at oviposition was contrasted with RCM, egg membrane thickness, and several climatic variables (temperature and precipitation) in a phylogenetic framework. Females exhibited the ability to retain eggs as predicted. Maximum stage at oviposition varied within same clutch, same locality, and among localities. Variation observed in the maximum stage at oviposition was not related to egg membrane thickness, RCM, or clutch frequency or to environmental temperature and precipitation. Instead, mapping the maximum stage at oviposition on a phylogeny of the S. spinosus group suggested that the invasion of high elevations was associated with an enhanced potential for longer periods of egg retention.
10.2307/1467046|Ten species of Draco are recognized in the Philippines including one described as new. For each species, a diagnosis, description of squamation and color pattern, and summaries of distribution and natural history are provided. Keys to the Draco of the Philippines are also provided. The geographic distributions of Philippine Draco species are largely concordant with aggregate island complexes formed when sea levels were lower in the late Pleistocene. The biogeography of Palawan Island is considered in the context of Draco and found to be inconsistent with the standard model treating Palawan as an extension of the Greater Sunda Shelf.
10.2307/1467026| A multiple mark-recapture technique was used to study the population ecology and life histories of syntopic populations of Chrysemys picta and Sternotherus odoratus in an urban lake in central Virginia, U.S.A. Laurel Lake is a shallow, polymictic reservoir located in a former golf course. The most unbiased estimate of population size was provided by the Bailey triple-catch method; the C. picta population was estimated to contain 517  17 individuals in 1980 and the S. odoratus population 534  45 individuals. Chrysemys picta biomass (28.3 kg/ha) was more than twice that of S. odoratus biomass (13.6 kg/ha). Sex ratios for both species did not differ significantly from unity. Differences between estimates of recruitment (immigration and natality) and losses (emigration and deaths) indicated growing populations at rates of 7.2% for C. picta and 3.2% for S. odoratus. Males in both populations averaged younger than females. Annual survivorship was high for all age and sex groups in C. picta (94-96%), except for juveniles (46%). Survivorship in S. odoratus was 84-86% for all age and sex groups. These populations exhibited a Type II (ecological) survivorship curve. Mortality resulted from unnatural agents (vehicles, grass mowers, removal) and natural predators. Body sizes of C. picta and S. odoratus averaged less than those in other central Virginia populations. Comparisons of environments among lakes suggest that body size variation may be due to the presence or lack of submerged aquatic vegetation which in turn indicates high to low resource availability and quality. Reproductive cycles are generally synchronous with other central Virginia populations. Clutch size is not significantly correlated with body size in Laurel Lake C. picta but is in S. odoratus. Clutch size in C. picta from Laurel Lake (x=4.1) was nearly identical to that in a nearby population; S. odoratus exhibited a smaller clutch size (x=2.7). Some individuals of both species produce multiple clutches. Hatchling C. picta overwintered in the nest and emerged in March and April; hatchling S. odoratus emerged in the year of egg deposition. The life history of Chrysemys picta in Laurel Lake is best described by the bet-hedging model with high and unpredictable juvenile mortality and exhibits late maturity, small reproductive effort, and long life. The life history of S. odoratus fits the bet-hedging model with low and predictable juvenile mortality and exhibits earlier maturity, larger reproductive effort, and shorter life. 
1467030|In the majority of temperate zone snakes, the mating season is temporally dissociated from the time of fertilization. Similarly, in males, the mating season is often temporally dissociated from spermatogenesis. In temperate zone pitvipers of North America, estrus, the time when females signal that they are receptive to males, occurs at some time during vitellogenesis. In these pitvipers, vitellogenesis is initiated in the late summer or fall. The vitellogenic follicles overwinter at an intermediate size, resume development in the spring, and culminate with ovulation in the spring. The seasonal patterns of estrus (late summer/fall or spring or both seasons) vary among species and rarely among populations within a species. In our model, we assume (i) that females determine the mating season, (ii) that there are significant costs to females during estrus, and (iii) that males adapt their mating season to the combined time when females enter estrus. We propose that the vitellogenic cycle of temperate zone pitvipers is simply a modification of the vitellogenic cycle seen in tropical pitvipers. The major difference being the interruption of vitellogenesis in temperate species by cold temperatures. In tropical pitvipers the vitellogenic cycle is continuous (no winter pause) and the mating season occurs at some time during vitellogenesis. As populations of pitvipers evolved into temperate climates, due to range expansion into temperate regions or climate change in existing ranges, the seasonal vitellogenic cycle was interrupted by winter. Since the mating season occurs during vitellogenesis, having a summer/fall and spring mating season is consistent with the tropical pattern. The different mating patterns we see today reflect a loss of either the summer/fall or the spring mating season. The reason for the loss may be due to the success of one mating season (all the females being fertilized) and the costs associated with having a redundant mating season. Since males also have significant costs associated with being prepared to mate, the loss of the female mating season would result in a corresponding loss of that season in males.
23325736|A taxonomic study on the South American dwarf boas of the genus Tropidophis revealed the existence of two new species in the Atlantic Forest biome. As a result, we recognize five mainland species, three in the Atlantic Forest and two in northwestern South America. Based on general distribution and morphological orientation, the type locality of T. paucisquamis is restricted to Estao Biolgica de Boracia (EBB), municipality of Salespolis, state of So Paulo, Brazil; furthermore, a lectotype for T. taczanowskyi is designated. We provide data on the hemipenial morphology of two South American Tropidophis, showing that the quadrifurcate condition described for West Indian taxa also occurs in mainland congeners. The distributions of the three Atlantic Forest species are congruent with patterns of diversification of other vertebrate taxa associated with cold climates prevalent at high elevations. Refugial isolation and riverine barriers may account for such speciation events.
10.2307/1467040|Lecithotrophic (yolk based) nutrition is a well-documented condition for the embryos of oviparous reptiles. However, the continuation of this nutritional state following hatching, here formally defined as postnatal lecithotrophy, has rarely been considered in reptile life history studies or in reptile nutritional strategies. Approximately 50% of the caloric value of yolk lipids may be conserved as a post hatching reserve for both growth and mobility in neonate North American tortoises. A preliminary experiment was designed to study if the metabolic dependence on residual yolk may be quantified and the duration of that dependence delimited. Baseline data from tortoise egg yolk established the lipid components available in the yolk prior to hatching. Analysis of blood plasma identified those lipid components present in adult tortoises, and finally, circulating blood from neonate tortoises was drawn at intervals to monitor the extent to which lipid components abundant in yolk continue to be utilized. Neonate tortoises subsisting on residual yolk had significantly higher plasma lipids than neonate tortoises that had been fed. All of the lipid fractions including total lipid, triacyl glycerol, phospholipid, cholesterol and cholesterol esters were significantly higher in fasted than in fed tortoises. Also there were significant differences in some of the individual fatty acids between fed and fasted neonates. Prior observations and inferences suggest that this nutritional stage may continue through the first six months following hatching. It may also be attenuated by a secondary conversion of yolk invested energy into fat. Field observations indicate that lack of rainfall and associated deficits in available forage may make newly emergent neonates in the western and central Mojave Desert almost entirely dependent on such reserves for their first half year of life. Post natal lecithotroph tortoises may be able to emerge into a dry September Mojave Desert landscape, disperse rapidly to first shelter, inoculate themselves with fermenting anaerobes through coprophagy, grow, burrow, and hibernate without ever feeding on any conventional nutritional forage.
41406828|In this paper, I present a model of community assembly in the salamander genus Desmognathus based on a survey of assemblage composition throughout the range of the genus. The 21 species of Desmognathus can be sorted into three life-history categories, namely, stream, streamside, and forest, based on duration of the larval phase and a suite of other life-history and morphological traits that are correlated with habitat use of the several life-history stages. In most assemblages having all three life-history categories, stream species are larger than streamside species, and the latter species are larger than forest species. An evaluation of the literature on interspecific competition and predation (i.e., intraguild predation) in Desmognathus indicates that these processes are important in structuring assemblages of these salamanders. Thus, niche assembly, as opposed to dispersal assembly (i.e., neutral model), seems to be a valid model of community assembly in Desmognathus. Only streamside species occur throughout the range of the genus, and these forms alone are found around the periphery of the range. One to three streamside species form the base of extant assemblages of Desmognathus, with stream and forest species contributing to the more diverse assemblages of the southern Appalachian region. The maximum numbers are two or three streamside species, two or three stream species, and two forest species, although assemblages of more than six species are undocumented. I suggest that the rapid evolutionary diversification in body size and life history in Desmognathus that has generated the complex assemblages of this genus in the Appalachians has been facilitated by a high level of life-history symmetry in these salamanders.
10.2307/1466968|Analysis of allozyme variation at 17 loci reveals that the endemic New Zealand skink Leiolopisma nigriplantare (sensu Hardy, 1977) consists of a group of at least four cryptic species. One species, redefined as L. nigriplantare, occurs widely in the southern half of the North Island, most of the South Island, and small islands within the Chatham Island group. Leiolopisma maccanni and L. inconspicuum occur in the southern half of the South Island, and L. notosaurus on Stewart Island. A fifth species, L. microlepis, superficially resembles some members of this group and is known from only two small populations in the central North Island. Leiolopisma maccanni and L. microlepis can be identified morphologically, but the other species overlap considerably in morphology and color, explaining the historical problems of resolving this complex of species. The extensive genetic divergence among the species in this complex and also L. zelandicum, whose taxonomic history has been confused with the L. nigriplantare complex, and the high species diversity and endemism of the New Zealand Leiolopisma suggest that Leiolopisma is an ancient New Zealand lineage and has undergone extensive evolution in situ.
10.2307/1467079|Reproductive characteristics and lipid cycles of two tropical populations of the insectivorous lizard Sceloporus variabilis inhabiting different elevations were compared. Compared to phylogenetically related temperate zone species, S. variabilis demonstrates reproductive characteristics predicted in the literature for lizards inhabiting relatively aseasonal environments: small clutch size (4.3-4.6) relative to body size (60-61 mm SVL), highest clutch frequency (4.5-6), earliest age at maturity (4-7 months), longest reproductive season (8-9.5 months) and smaller relative clutch mass (0.203-0.212). Most of these trends are also found in the comparison of lizards from the high elevation population (1000 m above sea level), where seasonality is more conspicuous, with lizards from the low elevation population (45 m above sea level) where the environment is more equable. At low elevation, the reproductive season is longer, permitting reproductive potential to be higher. In addition, incubation time of eggs is shorter at low elevation and thus, some females are able to reproduce at the end of the same reproductive season in which they were born. Seasonal shifts in egg size in the high elevation population are analyzed regarding the bet-hedging and the parental investment models. Lizards at both elevations store lipids in fat bodies and in body tissues that are used at the beginning of the reproductive season. Higher and more suitable ambient temperature and abundant food later in the reproductive season allow lizards to get the energy necessary for reproduction directly from the environment, until the "nortes" (northern storms) season restricts lizard activity. Juveniles use all energy from food for growth and do not store lipids until shortly before reaching maturity.
10.2307/1466949|Relationships among the three extant orders of the Class Amphibia were examined using new DNA sequence data from the mitochondrial 12S ribosomal RNA gene. A total of 33 families of amphibians was compared, including representatives of nine of the 10 salamander families, four of the six caecilian families, and 20 of the 22 frog families. Approximately 380 nucleotides were sequenced in each taxon. Of the 333 sites that were aligned and compared for all taxa, 227 were variable. Phylogenetic analyses of these data support the monophyly of the Lissamphibia and the monophyly of each of the three orders, with the Caudata and the Gymnophiona as sister groups. Within the Anura, these molecular data also support the monophyly of the two suborders Archaeobatrachia and Neobatrachia. Although this study represents the broadest sampling of amphibian families at the molecular level, statistical confidence in the relationships must await additional sequence data.
1467031|We conducted a nine-year mark-recapture study of a population of Crotalus viridis oreganus at a hibernaculum in north central Idaho from 1982 to 1990. Snakes were captured by hand and drift fence traps and individually marked. We made 627 recaptures from 319 marked snakes (176 males, 143 females). The primary sex ratio did not differ significantly from 1:1. Males were not significantly different in length or mass from females at birth. Estimated average individual growth rates in length beginning at birth (18.2 and 20.5 cm/yr for females and males, respectively) were not significantly different between sexes. However, males grew to a significantly longer estimated average asymptotic length (88.8 cm) than females (69.2 cm). The average annual growth rate in mass did not differ significantly between males and females (49 and 43 g/yr, respectively). The maximum snout-vent lengths of males and females in this study were 96.0 and 79.5 cm, respectively. Snakes underwent ecdysis two to three times during their first year and most shed two more times during their second year of growth. Most known-aged females reached sexual maturity in their fourth summer, but some males matured during their second summer. Clutch size varied from 3 to 8 young per female (mean = 4.8). The predominant female reproductive cycle was biennial. Three females showed an annual cycle, the first documentation of this in a temperate zone pitviper, but only for two successive years. Only one female had a confirmed triennial cycle, but we suspect that this was underestimated. The proportion of females in reproductive condition was significantly related to prey density of the prior year. Survival was highest for adults followed by immatures and newborn, and survival decreased for all age groups over the period of the study (from 82 percent to 55 percent for adults). The decrease in survival may be related to a handling or study effect.
10.2307/1467045|Genetic variation and phylogenetic relationships of central Texas nontransforming spring and cave salamanders, genera Eurycea and Typhlomolge (Plethodontidae: Plethodontinae: Hemidactyliini), were examined using 25 allozyme loci and DNA sequence data for a maximum of 356 bp of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene. Monophyly of the central Texas hemidactyliines is well supported. High levels of divergence occur among many populations and groups of populations, and there clearly are many more species in the group than previously recognized. Many have extremely restricted distributions in isolated islands of aquatic habitat. Several major monophyletic groups were identified that correspond to geographically circumscribed areas of the Edwards Plateau region. The deepest phylogenetic split in the group occurs between populations northeast versus southwest of the Colorado River. Species that have been assigned to the genus Typhlomolge are phylogenetically nested within the central Texas Eurycea; therefore, the genus Typhlomolge is placed in the synonymy of Eurycea. Continued recognition of the species E. latitans, E. nana, E. neotenes, E. pterophila, E. sosorum, E. tridentifera, and E. troglodytes is recommended, but E. neotenes appears to be restricted in range to a small geographic area, and is not widespread in the region as previously thought. The E. latitans and E. troglodytes species complexes are recognized; each consists of spring and cave populations that include those at the type localities of the latter two species, plus other populations to which they appear most closely related. Three new species from northeast of the Colorado River are described.
40205459|The Draco lineatus group is a monophyletic assemblage confined to islands within Wallacea. Nine species are recognized, including two described as new. For each species, a synonymy, diagnosis, description of squamation and color pattern, and summaries of distribution and natural history are provided. We resolve several long-standing taxonomic misconceptions including (1) proper allocation of the name Draco lineatus, (2) exclusion of D. bimaculatus and D. modigliani from the D. lineatus group, and (3) proper allocation of the names D. beccarii and D. walkeri. Unlike all previous studies, we recognize three morphologically distinct taxa (here recognized as species) on the island of Sulawesi.
23325738|Species diversity in skinks in the genus Brachymeles recently has undergone a state of flux, with numerous taxonomic discoveries over the past few years. Newly available, robust data sets from morphological data and molecular sequences have revealed that taxonomic diversity within this unique group of lizards is substantially underestimated. In this third recent monographic revision of a major Brachymeles clade, we review the medium-sized, pentadactyl species of the Brachymeles gracilis Complex (now known to include B. pathfinderi) and describe three new species in this unique clade of endemic Philippine lizards. For more than three decades B. gracilis has been recognized as a single polytypic, "widespread" species. The species' wide geographic range has persisted as a result of weak sampling, morphologically similar body sizes, scale pigmentation, and patterns of scalation among populations. However, previous authors have noted morphological variation between populations on different islands, as well as in geographically different subregions across the large southern island of Mindanao in the Philippines. Our new data build on these observations and extend them to inference of species boundaries. We evaluate both morphological and genetic data to define species limits in B. gracilis and its close relatives, and our data indicate that the "widespread" species B. gracilis is actually a complex of at least six distinct lineages. In order to clarify the status of B. suluensis (a species collected only once, in 1918) we redescribe this enigmatic taxon. Phylogenetic analyses of available B. gracilis sampling reveal that some of these lineages are not each others' closest relatives, but are all genetically distinct. All but two of the taxa we define possess allopatric geographic ranges and differ from their congeners by numerous diagnostic characters of external morphology, and therefore should be recognized as full species in accordance with any lineage-based species concept. Over the past 3 yr, the species diversity of the genus Brachymeles has increased by 125%.
40205464|The Epicrates cenchria complex is endemic to the Neotropical region, occurring in mainland portions of Central and South America. The taxonomic status of the nine currently recognized subspecies (E. c. alvarezi, E. c. assisi, E. c. barbouri, E. c. cenchria, E. c. crassus, E. c. gaigei, E. c. hygrophilus, E. c. maurus, and E. c. polylepis), were evaluated based on external morphology, osteology, and hemipenis characters. Results obtained through quantitative and qualitative analyses support the recognition of E. alvarezi, E. assisi, E. cenchria, E. crassus, and E. maurus as distinct species based on statistically robust delimitation of species boundaries.
1467015|Radio tracking of 40 free-ranging eastern brownsnakes (Pseudonaja textilis) in an agricultural landscape in southeastern Australia clarified the spatial ecology of these highly venomous animals. Most snakes over-wintered in burrows within a small area on the bank of an irrigation canal, dispersing into agricultural land during the warmer months. The snakes sheltered overnight in burrows or soil cracks, reusing the same retreat on successive nights and moving about to forage during the day. Successive shelter-sites averaged 152 m apart, and the snakes moved between them on average every six days. Home ranges of adult snakes were small (average MCP = 5.8 ha), and did not differ significantly between years with varying prey abundance. Movement patterns depended upon the snakes' sex, reproductive condition and body size. Adult males moved earlier in spring than did the (smaller) adult females, moved further and more often, and had larger home ranges. Home range size increased with body size in males, but not in females. Shelter-site selection was influenced by the location of potential prey (House Mice, Mus domesticus) and the location of other snakes. When radio-tracked snakes moved, they generally traveled from areas of lower to higher prey abundance (as determined by mammal-trapping). Throughout most of the year, adult male snakes were avoided by females and by other males. Adult males rarely cohabited with other snakes, and their arrival at an occupied burrow generally induced the resident snake to depart. Our study thus provides the first strong evidence that agonistic interactions can influence the spatial ecology of snakes.
10.2307/1467060|The Palau islands of western Micronesia comprise one of the most physiographically varied archipelagos in the Pacific. There are some 350 islands of volcanic and coralline origin that range from Babeldaob at 333 km<sup>2</sup> (about 80% of Palau's total land area) to others, unnamed, that are less than one hectare. A barrier reef encircles most of the archipelago creating a lagoon up to 20 km wide. The majority of the islands are uninhabited, accessible with difficulty only by boat at high tide, and are densely vegetated over steep, rocky terrain. Because of their proximity to the Philippines, New Guinea, the Moluccas, and Borneo, the Palau islands host a significantly richer herpetofauna with more unique taxa than is found on other Pacific islands to the east. As with most other Pacific island groups, however, the herpetofauna has been poorly documented. Since the earliest investigations that began in the nineteen century, Palau's herpetofauna has been uncovered piecemeal. No sustained field effort had been conducted until we began a systematic survey of the islands in 1992. Since then we have collected in Palau every month of the year at least once. This checklist of 46 species of reptiles and amphibians includes almost twice as many taxa as were known from Palau (Owen, 1977) at the beginning of our study. Among these are new species or Palauan records of Gehyra, Hemiphyllodactylus, Lepidodactylus, Nactus, Perochirus, Emoia and Sphenomorphus. Because of the difficulties in surveying so many islands we believe that additional taxa and distributional records await discovery; even the smallest island in Palau can turn up surprises. Nonetheless, it is appropriate to consolidate what is now known about this intriguing fauna and environment. We provide an historical summary of previous collecting efforts, an overview of the islands' geology and habitats, and for each species account we include distributional information, taxonomic and systematic discussion, natural history observations, and a comprehensive bibliography.
10.2307/1467056|Viviparous squamates offer opportunities for exploring the importance of past maternal resources (yolk) and current resources (placentotrophy) to support embryonic growth during gestation, and to optimize offspring fitness. Both thermal and nutritional environment of the mother during gestation may be expected to be important in determining offspring fitness. Using a two-way factorial design, we have investigated possible interactions between food intake and thermal environment during gestation in the viviparous skink Niveoscincus metallicus. Among the females given restricted basking opportunities, fewer females gave birth, there was a significant increase in gestation length, and relative clutch mass was reduced due to smaller neonatal size; none of these parameters were influenced by nutritional status. Neonates from mothers given restricted basking opportunities were lighter, had shorter snout-vent lengths (SVL), and smaller fat bodies than neonates from mothers given optimal basking opportunities; their postnatal growth rate (over eight weeks) was also significantly lower and they showed a reduced incidence of basking behavior. There were interaction effects between thermal regime and food supply for neonate SVL and neonatal fat body weight. Sprint speed within 24 hours of birth was significantly increased in neonates from mothers given restricted thermal opportunities; however, for weeks 1-8 postnatally, there were no differences in sprint speed in offspring from any of the treatments. These results suggest that, contrary to our initial hypothesis, females maintained in nutritionally favorable conditions are unable to compensate for the gestational effects of a thermally poor environment. We now suggest that in Niveoscincus metallicus facultative placentotrophy may allow mothers to improve offspring fitness by increasing neonatal fat body size.
10.2307/1466955|Phylogenetic analysis of 1656 aligned sites in the 28S ribosomal RNA gene of frogs supports some of the recently recognized higher groups of anurans but provides counter-support for others. The 28S rDNA data support the monophyly of the recently recognized Pipanura (mesobatrachians plus neobatrachians), which in turn indicates paraphyly of archaeobatrachians. Mesobatrachians (pelobatoids plus pipoids), which are either considered paraphyletic or weakly supported as monophyletic in morphological analyses, also receive support as a monophyletic group from the 28S rDNA data. Hyloidea (= Bufonoidea), which is widely recognized but lacks morphological support, receives some molecular support as being monophyletic. However, Ranoidea, which is supported by morphology, is counter-supported by ribosomal DNA. In particular, dendrobatids do not group with ranids (but sometimes group with hyloids). A combined analysis of the molecular data with the morphological data of Duellman and Trueb (1986:Biology of Amphibians) supports Pipanura, Mesobatrachia, Neobatrachia, and Hyloidea, but shows the ranoids as paraphyletic (with Dendrobatidae related to Hyloidea). The agreement between molecular and morphological data in several regions of the anuran tree indicates an approaching stabilization of traditionally labile higher frog classification.
10.2307/1467069|We monitored meteorological variables, daily and seasonal patterns of body temperature, corresponding operative temperatures, and microhabitat utilization by desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) during the 1991 and 1992 activity seasons of tortoises in the eastern Mojave desert. We studied tortoises in enclosures of natural habitat at the Desert Tortoise Conservation Center (DTCC) near Las Vegas, Nevada and a population of free-ranging tortoises in a field site adjacent to the DTCC. Air, ground and operative temperatures coincided with daily and monthly patterns of incident solar radiation. Variation in body temperature was primarily a consequence of microhabitat selection, principally use of burrows. During July-October, in the morning, body temperatures of tortoises in burrows were cooler than those of individuals on the surface. During midday, tortoises remained in burrows where body temperatures were cooler than extreme surface operative temperatures. While tortoises remained in burrows during much of the day, tortoises typically did not sleep in burrows at night. Microhabitat utilization was dictated by avoidance of extreme temperatures during midday, and microhabitat selection corresponded qualitatively to maintenance of energy and water balances. Effective conservation efforts to preserve habitat of desert tortoises will focus upon managing variables associated with integrity of burrows.
43284047|Numerous factors have contributed to declines in populations of the federally threatened Agassiz's Desert Tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) and continue to limit recovery. In 2010, we surveyed a lowdensity population on a military test facility in the northwestern Mojave Desert of California, USA, to evaluate population status and identify potential factors contributing to distribution and low densities. Estimated densities of live tortoises ranged spatially from 1.2/km to 15.1/km. Although only one death of a breeding-age tortoise was recorded for the 4-yr period prior to the survey, remains of 16 juvenile and immature tortoises were found, and most showed signs of predation by Common Ravens (Corvus corax) and mammals. Predation may have limited recruitment of young tortoises into the adult size classes. To evaluate the relative importance of different types of impacts to tortoises, we developed predictive models for spatially explicit densities of tortoise sign and live tortoises using topography (i.e., slope), predators (Common Raven, signs of mammalian predators), and anthropogenic impacts (distances from paved road and denuded areas, density of ordnance fragments) as covariates. Models suggest that densities of tortoise sign increased with slope and signs of mammalian predators and decreased with Common Ravens, while also varying based on interaction effects involving these predictors as well as distances from paved roads, denuded areas, and ordnance. Similarly, densities of live tortoises varied by interaction effects among distances to denuded areas and paved roads, density of ordnance fragments, and slope. Thus multiple factors predict the densities and distribution of this population.
10.2307/1466951|The endemic amphibian fauna of the Seychelles Archipelago may have originated through a vicariance event in the early Cenozoic when the microcontinent that formed this group of islands rifted away from India. Albumin evolution in the three endemic genera of caecilians (Caeciliaidae: Grandisonia, Hypogeophis, and Praslinia) was examined using the quantitative immunological technique of micro-complement fixation (MC'F). The data obtained and additional DNA sequence data from mitochondrial genes provide further evidence for the monophyly of this group and suggest a time frame for divergences within the group. Praslinia apparently diverged first, approximately 30 million years before the present (mybp), while the separation of Hypogeophis and Grandisonia, as well as speciation within Grandisonia, has occurred within the last 14 million years. Albumins of Seychellean caecilians average 106 units of immunological distance (ID) to the other members of the Caeciliaidae that were examined. Based upon the standard calibration of the albumin clock, this is consistent with the timing of the rifting of the Seychelles from India and suggests that this vicariance event may have been responsible for the isolation of these taxa. Three other members of the Caeciliaidae and one member of the Typhlonectidae were available for this study. Dermophis and Schistometopum cluster (mean ID = 59), and form the sister taxon of the Seychellean genera, while Caecilia and Typhlonectes cluster at a mean ID of 78. Albumin from representatives of two other families examined (Ichthyophiidae and Rhinatrematidae) were so different that measurements were outside the quantitative limits of MC'F; these taxa appear to be distantly related to the Caeciliaidae and Typhlonectidae, as well as to each other.
40205458|South American Stenocercus lizards occur mostly in the Andes and adjacent lowland areas from northern Colombia and Venezuela to central Argentina at elevations of 0-4000 m. In this paper, 61 species of Stenocercus are recognized, including one resurrected as S. angulifer. Morphologically, S. angulifer more closely resembles S. aculeatus. For each species, a diagnosis, description, and summary of distribution are provided based on examination of 2001 specimens and data from the literature. Notes on color in life and natural history are included for most species. Additionally, a dichotomous key to assist in the identification of specimens is provided.
4540120|Viviparity (live-bearing) has evolved from oviparity (egg-laying) more than 100 times within snakes and lizards, and thermal factors are thought to have driven this shift. However, other major features of reptilian reproduction may reflect selective pressures related to hydric rather than thermal exchanges between the egg and its incubation environment. Notably, why are intermediate stages of prolonged egg retention so rarely seen? Embryonic stages at oviposition in squamates are largely dichotomous: most oviparous species lay eggs with embryos about one-third developed, whereas viviparous taxa retain the eggs until development is complete. Why don't more species oviposit with embryos at either earlier or later stages? We suggest that the scarcity of squamates that lay eggs soon after ovulation (and thus, with very early-stage embryos) may reflect the need to delay oviposition until embryos have developed sufficient physiological control over water influx and efflux to survive in the challenging hydric environment of the nest. The scarcity of retention to later stages (intermediate between typical oviparity and viviparity), and the apparent lack of reversals from viviparity back to oviparity, may be due to a conflict between adaptations for water versus gas exchange; retention of larger embryos in utero requires eggshell thinning to allow gas exchange, but a thinner shell precludes effective hydric control after oviposition. Thus, although the transition from oviparity to viviparity in squamates has been driven largely by thermal advantages, the clustering of species at two main positions along the oviparity-viviparity continuum may be due to challenges of controlling embryonic water balance.
4093021| To determine the evolutionary relationships within the Anolis cristatellus series, we employed phylogenetic analyses of previously published karyotype and allozyme data as well as newly collected morphological data and mitochondrial DNA sequences (fragments of the 12S RNA and cytochrome b genes). The relationships inferred from continuous maximum likelihood reanalyses of allozyme data were largely poorly supported. A similar analysis of the morphological data gave strong to moderate support for sister relationships of the two included distichoid species, the two trunk-crown species, the grass-bush species A. poncensis and A. pulchellus, and a clade of trunk-ground and grass-bush species. The results of maximum likelihood and Bayesian analyses of the 12S, cyt b, and combined mtDNA data sets were largely congruent, but nonetheless exhibit some differences both with one another and with those based on the morphological data. We therefore took advantage of the additive properties of likelihoods to compare alternative phylogenetic trees and determined that the tree inferred from the combined 12S and cyt b data is also the best estimate of the phylogeny for the morphological and mtDNA data sets considered together. We also performed mixed-model Bayesian analyses of the combined morphology and mtDNA data; the resultant tree was topologically identical to the combined mtDNA tree with generally high nodal support. This phylogenetic hypothesis has a basal dichotomy between the Hispaolan distichoids and the bimaculatus series, on the one hand, and the cristatellus series inhabiting the Puerto Rican Island Bank, its satellite islands, the Bahamas, and St. Croix, on the other. The trunk-crown species form a clade, while the trunk-ground and grass-bush species do not as A. gundlachi, a trunk-ground species, is nested within a clade of grass-bush species. The patterns of relationships among the trunk-ground and grass-bush species suggest that one of these ecomorphs may have been ancestral to the other and that one or both evolved convergently. In the context of our preferred phylogeny and divergence dates estimated by NPRS analyses, we propose several biogeographical hypotheses that explain the current distribution of the cristatellus series. The presence of endemic species on the islands of the Bahamas, Desecheo, Mona, Monita, and St. Croix are likely due to over-water dispersal. Vicariance resulting from Pliocene or Pleistocene changes in sea levels likely explains the occurrence of A. cristatellus (including A. ernestwilliamsi), A. pulchellus, and A. stratulus on different islands of the Puerto Rican Bank. 
10.2307/1467019|A number of species of the South American lizard genus Liolaemus bury under the sand at the end of their diurnal activities. Within this genus, almost all species of the boulengeri group exhibit this behavior. It is known not to occur in some other species of the montanus group, a more inclusive clade of which the boulengeri group is a member, but data are unavailable for the remaining species. A comparative study of burying behavior patterns among these related species was attempted in order to provide insight into their evolutionary history. The sequence of actions employed during burying was studied in 23 species of the montanus group, of which 19 species belonged to the boulengeri group. Variability within species was determined to be minimal. A phylogenetic analysis of the boulengeri group based on 12 polymorphic behavioral characters revealed the presence of three distinct modes of burying, differing primarily in the movements of the head and tail. Results generally agreed with an indented classification of the group based on morphological characters, showing, in addition, finer resolution among species. Burying modes in the boulengeri group were also compared to modes reported in other lizard families. Similarities across taxa in the use of the head, limbs and tail in sand burying may indicate instances of adaptive convergence where similar solutions were applied to similar problems. Conversely, differences in burying styles in similar conditions may reflect the effect of lineage constraints in the history of the species.
10.2307/1467054|We conducted two laboratory experiments in order to examine the predatory behavior of neonatal water snakes, Nerodia rhombifer. The first experiment determined habitat use and predatory behavior in three litters of prey- and habitat-naive neonates in small, naturalistic enclosures. The second experiment tested one litter of snakes at three ages from birth to one year in the same enclosures in order to determine ontogenetic changes in habitat use and predatory behavior. The neonates were highly aquatic, foraging only while in water. While negatively buoyant, they focused their activity at the surface of the water. Neonatal snakes were very successful at attacking live fish, capturing most by the head or repositioning them rapidly to a head-first position. The open-mouthed (OM) foraging behavior typical of adults was only rudimentarily developed. Ontogenetic changes in habitat use included a shift to less dense cover and increased use of open water. Ontogenetic changes in behavior included increased underwater activity and decreased surface activity, a higher rate of attacking, and shorter handling times, although snakes captured fewer fish by the head. OM foraging behavior developed, but was still abbreviated as compared to adults at the end of the year. Field studies corroborate the results of these studies.
10.2307/1467077|Knowledge of burrow use and movement patterns, and how they are influenced by social interactions in desert tortoises, is critical to understanding habitat use in this threatened species. I examined sex differences and seasonal variation in burrow use by desert tortoises. Twenty-eight free-ranging tortoises were fitted with radio transmitters and were regularly located from June-October 1992. Location and behavior of radio-tagged tortoises were recorded and occupied shelters were marked. Patterns of burrow use and co-occupancy differed between the sexes and corresponded to the reproductive cycle. Most observations were of tortoises inhabiting shelters singly. During the nesting season in June, female tortoises moved among shelters than did males. During the mating season in August and September, males changed shelters more frequently than did females, and male-female co-occupancy was commonly observed. Consideration of burrow use patterns and associated social behavior may improve population density estimates, success of relocation management, and understanding of the epidemiology of upper respiratory tract disease.
4540121|Various hypotheses suggest that the benefit of viviparity lays in the acquisition of an appropriate range of temperatures during incubation, as this phenomenon has evolved from egg laying in many lineages of lizards and snakes, apparently in response to extreme climates. I examined the effects of reproductive condition on thermoregulation in the Argentina boa constrictor (Boa constrictor occidentalis) to offer an insight into the selective forces acting on the critical phase of its life history. Thermal ecology and activity during the mating season were investigated using radiotelemetry. A differential thermoregulatory behavior was manifested. Body temperatures of reproductive females were significantly higher than those of both reproductive males and non reproductive females. Regression analysis showed that reproductive females had a lower slope and a higher Y-intercept than reproductive males and non reproductive females, suggesting that the reproductive females are better thermoregulators.
4093020|I present a phylogenetic analysis of the lizard genus Anolis using new morphological data in combination with diverse data from the literature. Ninety-one characters of osteology and external anatomy were completely or partially scored for 174 Anolis species and seven outgroups. These data were combined with data from chromosomes, DNA sequences, allozymes, and immunology and analyzed with parsimony to produce an estimate of Anolis relationships. The genus Anolis was supported as monophyletic. Anolis occultus is sister to the rest of the genus. A South American and Southern Lesser Antillean clade is sister to the Greater Antillean and Northern Lesser Antillean Anolis and a clade of mainland species. Successive clades of Caribbean Alpha Anolis are sister to the Beta. Anolis (Norops) clade. Within the Betas, the Jamaican Betas are sister to the remaining Betas, and the Cuban Betas are sister to the monophyletic mainland forms. Other higher-level groupings of previous authors were not supported, but members of some previously-recognized lower-level groups formed clades: roquet series, "Phenacosaurus", cybotes series, cristatellus species group, bimaculatus series/species group, hendersoni species group, chlorocyanus series, equestris series, grahami series, sagrei series, crassulus species group, gadovii species group, laeviventris species group, nebulosus species group.
40929492|We investigated the thermoregulatory abilities and behavior of Pseudocordylus melanotus melanotus (Drakensberg crag lizard) in terms of the relationship between the operative temperature (T e ), selected temperature (T sel ), set-point range (T set ) and field active body temperature (field T sel ), exposure to low temperature, body posture and activity. The T e range for P. m. melanotus was about 58 (-3.20 in winter to 54.94 in summer). In a laboratory thermal gradient, in a setting that is independent of ecological costs or thermal constraints, lizards maintained T set (defined as the interquartile range of T sel , after Hertz et al., 1993) between 29.00  0.36 C and 31.78  0.16 C in winter and 29.61  0.28 C and 32.47  0.18 C in summer. The mean T sel was 30.08  0.14 C in winter and 30.99  0.11 C in summer. In the field, however, lizards achieved significantly lower T b which suggests that the thermal environment limited T b the that lizards were able to achieve. Lizards were active for significantly longer and selected significantly higher in summer than in winter. During winter, lizards spent a significant amount of time at T b below their lower critical limiting temperature (defined by loss of righting). The most frequently assumed body postures in summer were those where the head or body were raised, whereas, in winter, lizards usually lay with head and body flat on the rock substrate. We suggest that these differences reflect the physiological requirements of the lizards: Head-up postures in sit-and-wait foragers are consistent with scanning for prey while head-down postures are likely motivated by thermoregulatory needs. It is clear that P. m. melanotus can thermoregulate efficiently, but the maintained may be constrained by the range of T e available to the lizards in their natural environment. Pseudocordylus m. melanotus currently appears to be geographically constrained by low environmental temperatures at the edge of its range. Should global warming become a reality in southern Africa, this species could inadvertently benefit by occupying new habitat that was previously unavailable because of thermal constraints.
10.2307/1467072|The development of non-lethal techniques for sexing hatchling and immature desert tortoises is critical to population and ecological studies. Two methods for sexing desert tortoises were evaluated with respect to accuracy, efficiency, and suitability to field application. Laparoscopy was found to be 100% accurate and could be used on hatchlings as small as 28 grams total body mass. Plasma testosterone was 98% accurate for juvenile and immature tortoises ranging from 69-190 mm straight carapace length. Plasma testosterone is the most suitable methodology for field studies in that only a small blood sample is required for sexing purposes. Laparoscopy is 100% accurate; however, it may require holding the animal for an extended period of time.
1467034|Previous systematic studies of the Bufo peltocephalus Group based on morphology and one on molecular data support the monophyly of this lineage of West Indian toads. Herein, additional phylogenetic evidence supporting the monophyly of the group is presented. Osteological, external morphological, and DNA sequence data were examined and combined to estimate the phylogenetic relationships of the West Indian B. peltocephalus Group (B. cataulaciceps, B. empusus, B. fluviaticus, B. peltocephalus, B. fustiger, B. guentheri, B. gundlachi, B. longinasus, B. lemur, and B. taladai). To assess the hypothesis of monophyly and estimate the placement of these species within Bufo, parsimony analyses including proposed close relatives and a taxonomically diverse sample of congeners were conducted. The nearest relatives of the West Indian toads appear to be the Bufo granulosus Group from South America.
10.2307/1466994|Although intrasexual competition among males is known to be an important determinant of male mating success in lizards, less is known about what role the mate choice component of sexual selection may play in determining male and female mating success. The purpose of this review was to consider the evidence for mate choice in lizards. The issue of whether females in territorial species choose where to reside, and thus mating partners, based on the availability of resources or on male phenotypic traits is largely unresolved in most species. There is, however, good empirical evidence for at least one territorial species that the availability of resources is a more important factor than male phenotypic traits in determining where females reside, and thus their mating partners. Although male body size is known to be a key factor determining male mating success in lizards, only one study of female mate choice has found a significant relationship between female mating preferences and male body size. The best evidence for the importance of male phenotypic traits in female mate choice comes from studies of Anolis lizards that demonstrate that female mating preferences are affected by male display behavior. Findings from studies of female mate choice in lizards support Halliday's causal model of female mate choice and Ryan's sensory exploitation hypothesis, but not the Hamilton and Zuk hypothesis. Finally, a male mating preference for unfamiliar females has been reported in two highly territorial species.
10.2307/1466997|In animals with asymptotic growth after maturity, a variety of factors can lead to inter- and intraspecific variation in sexual size dimorphism (SSD). Growth-based models tailored for a particular taxon provide a useful framework for analyzing questions about the proximate bases, adaptive significance, and evolution of SSD. This paper shows how growth-based models designed for Anolis lizards have been used to study the effects of male territorial and competitive behavior on SSD and adult size distributions. In a comparative study of different species of anoles, indices of SSD based on male and female asymptotic snout-vent length (SVL) have been used to confirm a prediction from territorial theory that SSD should be related to inter-female distance. Within populations of Anolis sagrei and Anolis limifrons, adult size distributions were sometimes skewed in favor of larger males than predicted by null growth-based models, as a result of the underrepresentation of small, young males in samples containing females of the same age. A relative shortage of newly mature males in adult size distributions is consistent with behavioral studies suggesting that young, small males may bear the brunt of aggression from larger territorial males. Hence, growth-based models can be used to suggest and test behavioral and other hypotheses about the factors affecting SSD.
4540125| Calcium is a major requirement for developing embryos, but an insufficient amount is present in egg-yolk to sustain embryonic developm in most reptiles. Consequly, the eggshell acts as an extra-lectithal source of calcium in oviparous amniote vertebrates, including squamates. A number of anatomical and physiological changes must accompany the evolutionary transitions from oviparity to viviparity, including the reduction or elimination of the eggshell. In our quest to understand the evolution of viviparity, we have used indirect immunofluorescence to characterize CaATPase pumps in the uterus of a targeted range of species of Eugongylus group skinks and bird species at various stages of the reproductive cycle, including pregnancy. During egg-shelling, apical localisation of CaATPase pumps occurs in the glandular epithelium of the uterus in the oviparous lizard Lampropholis guichenoti and the King quail Coturnix chinensis, presumably to allow movement of calcium against its electrochemical gradient into the lumen of the glandular duct and ultimately to the uterine lumen and developing embryo. Interestingly, structurally similar shell glands containing CaATPase pumps occur in the uterine lamina propria (stroma) of viviparous species, although we have so far seen them only in early vitellogenic N. ocellatus and non-pregnant female Pseudenmoia spenceri. Our findings suggest that the down regulation of CaATPase in the shell glands may be an important contributor to the evolution of viviparity through the loss of an eggshell. 
4540113|The timber rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus) occurs in discontinuous populations across the eastern and central United States. The species exhibits high levels of polymorphism in morphological traits, especially in coloration and pattern. Previous studies recognized either distinct northern and southern subspecies or three regional morphs (northern, southern, and western), but the conflicting data sets and limited geographic sampling of previous studies have left the relationships among those regional variants unclear. In this study, univariate and multivariate statistics, analyzed in conjunction with a geographic information system, were used to examine geographic variation in 36 morphological characters recorded from 2420 specimens of C. horridus across its range. Univariate analyses detected substantial geographic variation in all meristic characters. Scutellation exhibited a general north-south pattern of variation, and most scale counts averaged higher in southern regions. Pattern characters differentiated the northeastern, central-eastern, and north-central regions from the southern and western regions. Coloration displayed a pattern of strong clinal variation among three broad areas consisting of the combined northeastern, central-eastern, and southern Appalachian regions, the northwestern regions, and the southern regions. Morphometric characters exhibited a general north-south pattern of geographic variation, with larger head and body sizes in southern regions. Sexual dimorphism was strong in ventral and subcaudal scales, and weak to moderate in band length and band spacing. Principal component analysis indicated that band length was the most important variable for characterizing geographic variation. The northeastern regions remained moderately distinct in all multivariate cluster analyses. The northwestern regions appeared very distinct in most cluster analyses for females. However, the clusters in all models showed extensive geographic overlap. Maps of the clusters revealed two north-south patterns of clinal variation across the northeastern, northwestern, and southern regions. The discordant patterns of variation among individual characters, overlapping patterns of coloration, and extensive overlap among the multivariate clusters collectively indicate that the putative zones of intergradation among recognized subpopulations of C. horridus are much broader than previously thought. Furthermore, because the general patterns of geographic variation are strongly clinal, our results support the conclusion that C. horridus is a single widespread species with variation too extensive and complex to be reflected by formal subspecific designations.
10.2307/1467080|Gerrhonotus liocephalus is demonstrated to consist of at least three species rather than the single polytypic species currently recognized. Of the seven currently recognized subspecies, G. l. aguayoi, G. l. infernalis and G. l. taylori become G. infernalis; G. l. ophiurus and G. l. loweryi become G. ophiurus; and G. l. austrinus and G. l. liocephalus retain the name G. liocephalus. No subspecies are recognized within any of these three species. Certain populations from western Mexico (Durango, Sinaloa, Jalisco, and Colima) remain of uncertain identity, but are tentatively referred to as G. cf. liocephalus. Evidence for these conclusions is derived from an analysis of scalation, coloration, and morphometric variation. The taxonomic history in Gerrhonotus also is discussed.
10.2307/1466986|Multivariate analyses of variation in 30 scale characters for specimens of Lepidophyma from 63 Central American localities identify five morphological groups. Univariate comparisons of the groups diagnose four morphospecies. Two of these, L. smithii and L. mayae, appear to be bisexual. The all-female populations on the Pacific versant of Costa Rica are morphologically distinct and comprise L. reticulatum, which is sympatric with members of the L. flavimaculatum complex near Tilaran, Guanacaste Province. The all-female populations found in Panama and most of Caribbean Costa Rica are not distinguishable from northern populations that contain males, and these are retained together in the L. flavimaculatum complex. Within this complex, the available data on morphology, karyotypes, and allozymes suggest that the all-female populations may be of non-hybrid ("spontaneous") origin.
23325733|We conducted a 13-yr study of Crotalus pricei in Arizona's Chiricahua Mountains, capturing 306 individual snakes and recapturing snakes on 155 occasions. Juveniles shed and fed more frequently and grew more quickly than adults. Spiny lizard (Sceloporus) scales were found in 78% of fecal samples, making Sceloporus the most common prey item for both juveniles and adults. Males became larger than females at 5 yr of age, a year or two after females reached reproductive size. Although 45% of adult females were gravid, reproduction was not typically biennial and larger snakes were more likely to be gravid than smaller adult snakes. Survival rate (mean  SE) at our most-studied site was 0.707  0.0334 and detectability was 0.309  0.0386; detectability was positively correlated with number of search hours and negatively correlated with dry weather. Mean population size at this site was 67 snakes, and there was no evidence of a population decline over the course of the study. However, age class structure was skewed toward younger snakes at the site, probably due to illegal collection of snakes for the pet trade.
4540123| We hypothesize that facultative placentrotrophy evolved in viviparous squamates as a means of supplementing embryonic fat reserves. In this study, we aimed to demonstrate a capacity for placental transfer of lipid in three species of the genus Niveoscincus that differ in degree of placental complexity and in their ability to defer parturition after embryonic development is complete. In Niveoscincus metallicus, we injected gravid females at different stages of gestation with H- oleic acid and studied transfer of the radio-label into maternal and embryonic lipid compartments over time. In a comparative study of N. ocellatus and N. microlepidotus, we measured transfer of H- oleic acid after 240 min in females with embryos at stages 39-40 only. For N. metallicus, the time course experiment showed that transfer into the embryos tends to increase with time, and that the transfer ratio is greatest in late-stage embryos. Our results demonstrate that H- oleic acid is transferred into embryos, and into embryonic fat bodies, of all three species, but that the magnitude of transfer does not appear to be correlated with placental complexity. 
10.2307/1466948|Recent theories of relationship between the living and Paleozoic amphibians are discussed. The clade Amphibia, incorporating the crown-group Lissamphibia, also includes the Nectridea, Colosteidae, Microsauria and the temnospondyls. The Nectridea and Colosteidae may form the sister clade to the clade comprising the Microsauria, the temnospondyls and the Lissamphibia. The Nectridea are a distinct clade of Permo-Pennsylvanian dwarf amphibians and are not of polyphyletic origin from within the temnospondyls, nor are they closely related to lissamphibians. The balance of evidence favors a monophyletic origin of all lissamphibians from within the temnospondyls but the number of character states involved is not so great that this theory can be considered robust. The alternative possibility that gymnophionans are microsaur derivatives is less well supported but remains open. If the Microsauria formed the stem-group to the Gymnophiona, this would not violate the monophyly of the living amphibians or of lissamphibian soft-anatomy characters, although to extend the Lissamphibia to include temnospondyls and microsaurs would be unacceptable. Within the temnospondyl grade of evolution, the only two families that are plausible lissamphibian relatives are the Amphibamidae and the Branchiosauridae. Each shares a few different character states with the Lissamphibia but the Amphibamidae share more character states and also show nesting of derived character states towards the lissamphibian condition. While the Branchiosauridae were perceived as completely neotenous, they were less likely to be the stem-group of the Lissamphibia than the Amphibamidae, but the recent discovery of metamorphosed branchiosaurids will undoubtedly alter this viewpoint.
10.2307/1466995|The behavior of 10 free-ranging male Anolis carolinensis was videotaped in a riparian habitat for 41 h during May-July of the breeding season; 8 of the original 10 males plus 1 substitute were videotaped for an additional 22 h during August-September of the post-breeding season. Comparisons of breeding versus non-breeding seasons showed dramatic shifts in the percentage of time spent in the following behavioral modes: (1) "stationary," 51.1% versus 85.6% (with respective display rates of 46/h versus 2/h); (2) "travel," 26.7% versus 2.6% (with respective distance rates of 73 m/h versus 106 m/h and display rates of 209/h versus 78/h); (3) "creep," <1% versus 14.1% (with post-breeding distance rate of 17 m/h and display rate of 15/h); (4) "courtship," 4.2% versus 0% (occurring 1/40 min with a display rate of 233/h); (5) "copulation," 6.1% versus 0% (occurring 1/7 h, each averaging 15 min); (6) "male dispute," 9.2% versus 0% (occurring 1/h, with a display rate of 73/h); (7) "foraging," 1.0% versus 1.5% (occurring 1.2/h versus 3.6/h); and (8) "predator avoidance," "drinking," "defecation," and "shedding," total 1.5% versus 0.2%. Over all contexts, the respective breeding versus post-breeding season rates for distance moved and displaying were 26 m/h versus 8 m/h and 100 displays/h versus 6 displays/h. Breeding males were polygynous and defended exclusive, closely monitored home ranges (x=174 m<sup>3</sup>) that overlapped an average of 2.8 resident females. Males used all available microhabitats and were considered perch generalists. Males spent two-thirds of their time between 0 and 2 m above the ground on perches 1-8 cm in diameter during the breeding season, but more often frequented higher and thinner perches in the post-breeding season, during which time much creeping and foraging occurred. Males exhibited a wide range of foraging behavior, reflecting a generalist's mode of prey capture. Feeding was initiated when stationary (sit-and-wait), traveling (eat-on-the-run), and creeping (active search); more feeding events were initiated from a stationary mode, but traveling (breeding season) and creeping (post-breeding season) produced more feeding attempts per unit of time. Males were bright green 75% (breeding season) and 87% (post-breeding season) of the time. Shifts between four categories of body colors (bright green to chocolate brown) averaged 4.7 (breeding season) and 1.0 changes/h (post-breeding season), with a bright green state maintained for significantly shorter durations during the breeding period than after the breeding period (x=27.1) and 89.6 min, respectively). There was no evidence that change in body color was matching substrate color; however, green-to-brown shifts in body color were usually associated with the initiation of social interactions. Behaviors possibly associated with pheromone reception or deposition were infrequent (<8 times/h), occurring most often in the post-breeding season when no social behavior was observed. Based on our results, the influence of captivity on lizard behavior is discussed.
10.2307/1466947|Amphibia and its major groups are defined according to principles of phylogenetic taxonomy, and the implications of the definitions for amphibian systematics are discussed. The results of phylogenetic analyses of Amphibia, Anura, Caudata, and Gymnophiona from morphological and molecular studies are compared, based on papers published in the symposium "Amphibian relationships: Phylogenetic analysis of morphology and molecules" at the 1990 meetings of the American Society of Zoologists in San Antonio, Texas. Several issues related to the use of morphological and molecular data sets are discussed briefly: quality and quantity of data, homology assessment, nonindependence of characters, sampling of taxa, and resolution of trees derived from different data sets.
40205456|The first part of this synthesis summarizes the morphology of the jelly layers surrounding an amphibian ovum. We propose a standard terminology and discuss the evolution of jelly layers. The second part reviews the morphological diversity and arrangement of deposited eggs--the ovipositional mode; we recognize 5 morphological classes including 14 modes. We discuss some of the oviductal, ovipositional, and postovipositional events that contribute to these morphologies. We have incorporated data from taxa from throughout the world but recognize that other types will be discovered that may modify understanding of these modes. Finally, we discuss the evolutionary context of the diversity of clutch structure and present a first estimate of its evolution.
41058257|Cnemidophorus nigricolor consists of at least three species rather than a single taxon distributed throughout the Venezuelan Caribbean islands. We describe two new species, one from Isla La Blanquilla and another from Isla La Tortuga. Both species were previously confused with C. nigricolor. The species from Isla La Tortuga is critically threatened by recent plans to develop the island for tourism. We comment on similarities among the two new species, C. nigricolor, and other insular Cnemidophorus. The whiptails from the southern Caribbean are revised and diagnoses are given for species inhabiting Aruba, Curacao, Bonaire, and the Los Roques Archipelago. Additionally, Cnemidophorus ruthveni (formerly C. murinus ruthveni) is recognized as a full species. Se demuestra que la especie Cnemidophorus nigricolor, considerada anteriormente como monotpica, esta compuesta por al menos tres especies distribuidas por varias de las islas del Caribe Venezolano. Describimos dos especies nuevas, una de la Isla La Blanquilla y una de la Isla La Tortuga. Ambos taxones fueron anteriormente referidos a la especie C. nigricolor, cuya distribucin restringimos al Archipilago de Los Roques en el presente trabajo. La especie de la Isla La Tortuga podra estar en peligro critico debido a planes recientes para desarrollar la isla con fines tursticos. El estado taxonmico de las poblaciones de el Archipilago de Las Aves y de la Isla La Orchila, anteriormente referidas a C. nigricolor, y tentativamente aqui llamadas C. cf. nigricolor, permanece incierto hasta que se pueda examinar un mayor nmero de ejemplares. Tambien comentamos en el estudio las similitudes entre las dos especies nuevas, C. nigricolor y otras especies de Cnemidophorus presentes en las islas al sur del mar Caribe. Revisamos las especies de Cnemidophorus que habitan Aruba, Curaao, Bonaire y el archipilago de Los Roques, adems de proporcionar una diagnosis para cada taxn. Adicionalmente sugerimos elevar la subespecie C. murinus ruthveni de Bonaire a especie plena.
10.2307/1466956|Study of allozyme variation, external morphology, and osteology reveals that there are more species of moss salamanders (genus Nototriton) in Costa Rica than the two currently recognized. The three species for which names are available are valid, and new diagnoses are presented for them; three additional species are described. The phylogenetic relationships and biogeography of the six species are investigated. The radiation of Nototriton in present-day Costa Rica has involved miniaturization accompanied by both morphological and ecological specialization. Costa Rican species inhabit moss-mats and leaf-litter; most of the remaining species in the genus are bromeliad-dwellers. The revised genus Nototriton includes two Mexican, one Guatemalan (another, detected in the present study, remains undescribed), two Honduran, and six Costa Rican species. The six Costa Rican species appear to form a monophyletic group, but the phylogenetic relationships of the two northern species groups to each other and to the southern group remain uncertain.
10.2307/1466976|Chromosomal phenotypes were scored from 786 individuals of the Sceloporus grammicus complex collected from 55 localities in central Mexico, bringing the total to 1383 individuals from 93 localities. Variable chromosomal pairs were coded as Mendelian genotypes and statistically summarized by several clustering and population-genetic algorithms. UPGMA dendrograms were used to group all samples from pairwise genetic distance or similarity matrices, and consistently identified seven discrete groups. These findings confirm and extend results of an earlier population cytogenetics study and provide data necessary to complete distributional maps for some cytotypes. The fine resolution collecting and mapping efforts revealed several additional zones of parapatric hybridization between different cytotypes and brings the total number of hybrid zones identified from chromosomal markers to seven. Several other populations are highly polymorphic for chromosomal rearrangements and occur at or near the edges of ranges of particular cytotypes; this suggests that they may represent additional hybrid zones. These populations also contain high frequencies of apparent fusion rearrangements, which are very rare or absent elsewhere, and we suggest that these mutations may be manifestations of the dysgenic effects of hybridization. Population-genetic structures were estimated for all cytotypes on the basis of the distributions and frequencies of chromosomal rearrangements. A hierarchical F statistics analysis showed that most of the overall chromosomal variation could be partitioned into the within-cytotype component (67%) relative to that between cytotypes (33%). Inbreeding coefficients show that most samples do not deviate significantly from random-mating proportions, and in the few cases where they do, the direction is always toward heterozygote excess. Some cytotypes show significant between-sample heterogeneity in chromosomal rearrangement frequencies, and spatial autocorrelation analyses produced correlograms suggesting an isolation-by-distance structure for some cytotypes, and a random pattern in others in which drift was probably the overriding force. Patterns of chromosomal variation and inferred population structure are discussed with respect to implications for several hypotheses of chromosomal evolution and speciation.
10.2307/1467025|Desmognathus santeetlah and D. fuscus hybridize extensively along the north-western escarpment of the Great Smoky Mountains. Patterns of clinal variation in electromorph frequencies differ between two loci and between different areas along the Great Smokies escarpment. Electromorphic variation is not always concordant with variation in color pattern. Gene exchange seems to diminish toward the southwest. These patterns may reflect historical variation in levels of gene flow. The two species are electrophoretically more similar than most plethodontid species and gene exchange between them may be restricted solely by geographic isolation. Nevertheless, D. santeetlah is a relatively distinctive, homogeneous form. Retention of its current taxonomic status is recommended until reproductive isolation between it and D. fuscus has been more thoroughly studied.
41406832|The common, terrestrial teiid lizards of the Ameiva ameiva complex have a broad Neotropical distribution from Costa Rica and Panama to Paraguay and northern Argentina. These lizards have also been reported from the Lesser Antilles, Trinidad, Tobago, Providencia, and the Swan Islands. The group has a complicated taxonomie history and has not been comprehensively reviewed. With the use of external morphology, we reviewed this complex in Venezuela. We conclude that A. ameiva (sensu lato) in Venezuela comprises at least four evolutionary species and recommend elevating A. ameiva (sensu stricto), A. atrigularis, and A. praesignis to species. On the other hand, we synonymize A. ameiva fischen, A. a. ornata, and A. a. vogli, with A. praesignis; we synonymize A. a. laeta and A. a. petersii with A. ameiva; and we synonymize A. a. melanocephala with A. atrigularis. We designate a lectotype of A. atrigularis. Populations from savannahs of southern Monagas represent a new species described in this work. Both A. ameiva and A. praesignis exist as apparently viable breeding populations in southern Florida, USA. El lagarto teiido Ameiva ameiva, es una especie comn con una distribucin muy amplia por el neotrpico, desde Costa Rica y Panam hasta Paraguay y el norte de Argentina. La especie tambin esta presente en las antillas menores, Trinidad, Tobago, Providencia y la Islas del Cisne. La historia taxonmica de A. ameiva ha sido controvertida, catica y no ha sido revisada recientemente. En el presente trabajo, revisamos esta especie en Venezuela y examinamos la morfologa externa y coloracin de varias poblaciones correspondientes con las varias subespecies sealadas para el pas. Se concluye que Ameiva ameiva (sensu lato) esta conformada por al menos cuatro especies evolucionaras y recomendamos elevar A. ameiva (sensu stricto), A. atrigularis y A. praesignis a especies. Consideramos a A. ameiva fischen, A. a. ornata y A. a. vogli como sinnimos de A. praesignis; tambin consideramos A. a. laeta y A. a. petersii sinnimos de A. ameiva y A. a. melanocephala sinnimo de A. atrigularis. Designamos un lectotipo de A. atrigilaris. Las poblaciones de las sabanas del sur del estado Monagas resultaron ser una especie nueva la cual describimos en este trabajo. Adicionalmente, aclaramos la identidad taxonmica de las poblaciones de Ameiva introducidas en los Estados Unidos de Norte Amrica. Reportamos varias poblaciones introducidas de A. ameiva y una de A. praesignis en el sureste del estado de la Florida.
41406829|The Mexican Plestiodon brevirostris species group (Squamata: Scincidae) is composed of seven nominal species. The wide-ranging P. brevirostris is a polytypic species composed of five subspecies: P. b. brevirostris, P. b. bilineatus, P. b. dicei, P. b. indubitus, and P. b. pineus. A tree-based approach for species delimitation with mtDNA data was used to test the traditional species-level taxonomy of P. brevirostris preliminarily. A haplotype phylogeny for all of the species and subspecies in the P. brevirostris group, except P. colimensis, was inferred. The mtDNA data consisted of sequences encompassing the genes encoding 16S rRNA (part), ND1, and associated tRNAs (1355 base pairs), which were analyzed with Bayesian methods. Then, a search for diagnostic morphological characters for the putative species delimited by this approach was performed. The results indicate that the P. brevirostris group is paraphyletic with respect to P. lynxe, and that P. brevirostris actually is composed of at least five distinct lineages disguised by traditional taxonomy: P. b. brevirostris, P. b. bilineatus, P. b. dicei, and the eastern populations of P. b indubitus (from Morelos, Guerrero, and Mxico) represent distinct species, whereas the western populations of P. b. indubitus (from Colima and Jalisco) represent an undescribed species. The data cannot resolve whether P. b. pineus is conspecific with P. b. dicei or P. b. dicei is a paraphyletic (= nonexclusive) species relative to an exclusive P. b. pineus. Thus, the status of P. b. pineus remains uncertain. The haplotype phylogeny also suggests that P. b. brevirostris may represent more than one species. El grupo mexicano de especies Plestiodon brevirostris (Squamata: Scincidae) est compuesto por siete especies nominales. La especie politpica P. brevirostris, de amplia distribucin geogrfica, est compuesta por cinco subespecies: P. b. brevirostris, P. b. bilineatus, P. b. dicei, P. b. indubitus, and P. b. pineus. Se utiliz una aproximacin a la delimitacin de especies basada en rboles construidos a partir de secuencias de DNAmt para probar, de manera preliminar, la taxonoma tradicional a nivel de especie de P. brevirostris. Se infiri una filogenia de haplotipos para todas las especies y subespecies en el grupo F. brevirostris, excepto F. colimensis. Los datos de DNAmt consistieron de secuencias que abarcaron los genes que codifican 16S rRNA (parte), ND1, y los tRNAs asociados (1355 bp), las cuales fueron analizadas con mtodos Bayesianos. Despus se realiz una bsqueda para encontrar caracteres morfolgicos diagnsticos para las especies putativas delimitadas usando esta aproximacin. Los resultados indican que el grupo F. brevirostris es parafiltico con respecto a F. lynxe, y que F. brevirostris est compuesta en realidad por al menos cinco linajes distintos encubiertos por la taxonoma tradicional: F. b. brevirostris, F. b. bilineatus, P. b. dicei, y las poblaciones orientales de F b indubitus (de Morelos, Guerrero, y Mxico) representan especies distintas, mientras que las poblaciones occidentales de F. b. indubitus (de Colima y Jalisco) representan una especie no descrita. Los datos no pueden resolver si F. b. pineus es conespecfica con F. b. dicei  P. b. dicei es una especie parafiltica (= no exclusiva) con respecto a una F. b. pineus exclusiva. Por lo tanto, el estado taxonmico de F b. pineus permanece incierto. La filogenia de haplotipos tambin sugiere que F. b. brevirostris puede representar ms de una especie.
10.2307/1466960| The effects of body size, latitude, diet, habitat, age at maturity, and annual clutch frequency on individual and total annual clutch mass (clutch mass  clutch frequency) were examined based on data from 51 populations of turtles representing 35 species and eight families. Because body mass was correlated with all of these traits and with egg mass and clutch size, its effects on reproductive output were removed by ANCOVA, ANOVA, or partial correlation analysis. Individual clutch mass, adjusted for body size, was correlated most strongly (positively) with latitude, although diet also had a weak effect (higher in carnivorous species). Body size-adjusted total annual clutch mass was correlated most strongly with a decrease in average age at maturity. Age at maturity adjusted for body size was not correlated with latitude. Annual clutch frequency was correlated negatively with age at maturity, latitude, and size-adjusted clutch mass, and positively with size-adjusted annual clutch mass. Habitat (i.e., marine, freshwater, or terrestrial) had no detectable effect on size-adjusted clutch mass or size-adjusted annual clutch mass. These results suggest a model that explains the trade-offs among individual clutch mass, clutch frequency, and annual clutch mass in turtles. Species of turtles in high latitudes have shorter nesting seasons, and therefore lower clutch frequencies, and higher size-adjusted individual clutch mass. However, latitude has no effect on size-adjusted annual clutch mass or its negative correlate, age at maturity. Because age at maturity is generally correlated with longevity (i.e., survivorship), variation in the latter may be the primary evolutionary determinant of variation in annual reproductive output in turtles. On the other hand, annual reproductive output may simply be related to the rate at which a turtle acquires its resources, with slow rates resulting in slow growth, delayed maturity, and reduced energy available for annual reproductive output. 
1467012| Amphisbaenians are a poorly known group of squamate reptiles with over 150 extant species in 23 genera. They live almost exclusively under loose or sandy soil in tropical to temperate areas around the world, and their anatomy is modified in many ways related to this lifestyle. Most recent studies recognize four families within Amphisbaenia-Bipedidae, Amphisbaenidae, Trogonophidae, and Rhineuridae. Only the Rhineuridae are well represented in the fossil record. Two exclusively fossil families, Hyporhinidae and Crythiosauridae, have also been recognized in some studies. In this paper, a phylogenetic study of the Amphisbaenia is presented based on morphological characters investigated in living and fossil forms. Amphisbaenian monophyly is supported, but the recent identification of the late Cretaceous Sineoamphisbaena hextabularis as a primitive amphisbaenian is not supported. The monophyly of two of the four families of extant amphisbaenians is upheld, with one family being more inclusive than previously thought. Amphisbaenidae is substantially revised, with several taxa previously included in the family being more closely related to rhineurids, and with Blanus representing a basal amphisbaenian. Rhineuridae is also revised to include the previously recognized fossil family Hyporhinidae. Trogonophidae is the sister-group to the remaining amphisbaenids, and together they form the sister-group to the expanded rhineurid clade. Bipes is the most basal amphisbaenian and Blanus is the sister-group to all remaining amphisbaenians. Crythiosauridae is removed from the Amphisbaenia because no support was found for its inclusion. The deep nesting of rhineurids within Amphisbaenia found here contrasts with their extensive fossil record beginning in the late Paleocene. This hypothesis implies significant gaps in the fossil record of all other amphisbaenian taxa, and the reacquisition of some seemingly primitive features in some fossil rhineurids. However, the condition of the limbs in extinct rhineurids is uncertain and, if they are found to be present, the related characters could place them in a more basal position, which would then alter interpretations of character evolution. The basal positions of Bipes and Blanus imply that a round-headed cranial shape is the primitive condition for Amphisbaenia in contrast to some previous hypotheses. In this analysis, amphisbaenians are nested within Squamata, in contrast to a hypothesized relationship as the sister-group to the remainder of squamates (alone, with snakes, or with another group of limbless burrowing lizards, Dibamidae). Weak support was found for a relationship between amphisbaenians and Dibamidae as previously suggested by some other analyses, but this is based mainly on reduction and absence features and the sister-group to Amphisbaenia is considered here to be inconclusive. Sineoamphisbaena is found to be related to macrocephalosaurs, an extinct group previously placed with Teiidae, but placed basally among squamates by this analysis. Morphological analyses of squamates in this study include numerous features associated with reduced or absent limbs and limb girdles, as well as other specializations presumed to be related to a burrowing lifestyle. These characters are often hypothesized to have been convergently acquired among limbless squamate clades and have been excluded or downweighted in some previous analyses. This approach is difficult to implement here because further anatomical investigations of these structures revealed useful variation for resolving relationships within amphisbaenians. Future studies will require new approaches that can address the convergence problem in a manner that does not involve the added problem of removing characters informative at other levels. They should also include the addition of novel data sets. 
4093019|The nesting ecology of the Allen Cays rock iguana was studied on Leaf Cay and Southwest Allen's Cay (= U Cay) in the northern Exuma Islands, Bahamas, during 2001 and 2002. Mating occured in mid-May, and females migrated 30-173 m to potential nest sites in mid to late June. Females often abandoned initial attempts at digging nest burrows, and average time from initiation of the final burrow to completion of a covered nest was six days. At least some females completely buried themselves within the burrow during the final stages of burrow construction and oviposition. Females defended the burrow site during the entire time of construction, and most continued that defense for at least three to four weeks after nest completion. Nests were completed between mid-June and mid-July, but for unknown reasons timing was seven days earlier on U Cay than on Leaf Cay. Nest burrows averaged 149 cm in length and terminal nest chambers usually angled off the main burrow. Depth to the bottom of the egg chamber averaged 28 cm, and was inversely correlated with shadiness of the site, suggesting that females may select depths with preferred temperatures (mean, 31.4 C in this study). Overall, only about one in three females nested each year, although nesting frequency increased with female size such that the largest females usually nest annually. Nest fidelity was common, despite the potential for observer effects; seven of 13 two-year nesters placed nests within 0.7 m of that constructed the previous year. Nesting females averaged 32 cm snout-vent length (SVL) and 1336 g body mass, and larger, older females nested earlier than smaller, younger ones. Sexual maturity is reached at 26-27 cm SVL, about 750 g body mass, and twelve years of age (nearly twice as old as any previously studied lizard). Longevity of females apparently exceeds 40 years. Clutch size ranged from 1-10 eggs (mean 4.6) and was correlated with female body size and age. Eggs averaged 66 mm in length, 35 mm in width, and 49 g in mass. Egg mass was not correlated with female body size, although egg length was negatively correlated, and egg width was positively correlated with female size. The production of elongate eggs in the smaller females allowed them to invest the same total mass in each egg as a larger female, while being constrained by the limits of the pelvic opening. No trade-off existed between standardized clutch size versus egg size. Relative clutch mass (clutch mass/gravid female body mass x 100) averaged 16.5 and did not vary with female size or age. Hatching apparently occurs in late September and early October after about 80-85 days incubation, with emergence within just a few days. Hatchlings averaged 9.5 cm SVL and 33 g body mass. Survivorship to emergence was 78.9%, and was inversely correlated with soil moisture. The reproductive ecology of other iguanids (sensu strictu) is reviewed for comparison with that of the Allen Cays rock iguana. Comparisons of these data with those available for other rock iguanas of the genus Cyclura suggest that colonization of smaller islands has produced reductions in adult female body size, clutch size, clutch mass, and relative clutch mass, but no change in egg or hatchling mass. Because this pattern is also demonstrated by a population of Cuban iguanas introduced to a small island only 40 years ago, it may primarily be a proximal response to decreased resource availability and/or physiological processability on small islands rather than an evolved response to reduced predation rates or other factors affecting survivorship.
10.2307/1467042|We examined evaporative water loss of neonate (<1 yr old) tortoises in laboratory experiments designed to evaluate the dependence of evaporation on humidity, and of juvenile (1-4 yr old) tortoises in field experiments designed to reveal the influence of burrow microclimate on water gain and loss. In controlled laboratory conditions, rates of body mass loss which reflect net evaporative water losses, were independent of the difference in vapor density between the animal and its environment. Changes in skin permeability and respiratory parameters may account for this. Sleeping tortoises lost body mass half as fast as did active tortoises and hibernating individuals lost body mass 1/20th as quickly as active animals. Juveniles confined to short (20 cm) or long (70 cm) burrows in the field lost body mass faster in the drier and warmer short burrows. Doubly labeled water was used in tortoises residing in different burrow types to measure total (unidirectional) rates of evaporation, vapor influx and metabolic water production, to partition net water loss (as reflected in body mass loss) into its parts. Total evaporation rate was independent of burrow conditions, but tortoises in the longer, more humid burrows had higher rates of water vapor input and total water input than did those in shorter burrows. Thus, tortoises in long burrows lost body mass more slowly in response to a higher humidity, in contrast to neonates under laboratory conditions. Rates of body mass loss due to evaporation from neonates were relatively high in the laboratory (0.4 to 0.8% of body mass per day) and the field (0.7 to 1.1%/d) compared to those of adults in the laboratory (0.17%/d) or the field (0.1%/d). Thus, young tortoises apparently are obliged to rely on behavioral means (drinking pooled rain, withdrawing into their shell, seeking long, deep burrows) to avoid lethal dehydration in relatively hot, dry seasons.
41058256|The endangered iguana Cyclura cornuta stejnegeri is endemic to Mona Island, Puerto Rico. Factors accounting for its protected status include low adult densities and relatively low abundance of juveniles. We studied the spatial ecology, territoriality, and philopatric behavior along a gradient of humandisturbed areas to increase our understanding of its unusual demography. We used the minimum convex polygon (MCP) method to estimate the home range of radiomarked iguanas, the degree of inter-and intrasex home-range overlap, and the temporal patterns of space use by 42 iguanas (19 males and 23 females, including 4 juvenile individuals) during the nonbreeding (October-November) and mating season (June) at three Mona Island localities with different levels of human disturbance. Juvenile iguanas had larger home ranges and move across the home ranges of several adults. Adult males had larger home ranges than females and no significant temporal differences in size or pattern of usage (Cole index) were detected between the study periods. Females, despite reducing their home-range size during the mating season, changed the usage patterns, resulting in increased interactions with neighboring males. Home-range overlap was minimal between males, followed by female-female overlap and maximal between males and females. Our results suggest that Mona Island iguanas are highly territorial throughout the year; particularly males in the mid-and undisturbed areas where almost all home-range areas appear to be equivalent to the defended territory. In the most disturbed area, where supplemental feeding by humans exists, home ranges are smaller and there is larger intersex home-range overlap. Previously, the low density of the population was attributed to lack of recruitment into adult stages due to predation of juveniles by nonnative mammals. However, the high levels of territoriality documented in this study may be an additional factor explaining the low densities exhibited by this population. Our data suggest that the three study sites may be at or close to carrying capacities for males, because there appear to be no vacant areas for additional males. Furthermore, the large and highly overlapping home ranges exhibited by four juvenile iguanas suggest that they are or will become floaters in search of unoccupied space.
40205461|This paper contains a synopsis of the genus Phrynopus in Bolivia, including the description of twelve new species. With seventeen species currently known, the genus has a much higher diversity in Bolivia than previously expected. Whereas intraspecifc variation is evident only in color pattern, interspecific variation is noticeable in size, robustness, shape of head, relative lengths of extremities and digits, and skin texture. However, some species are quite similar in appearance and would be difficult to identify in the field were it not for their extremely restricted distributions. The genus Phrynopus has an amazing radiation and its species diversity has been severely underestimated.
10.2307/1467049|The wiegmannii group of Liolaemus includes L. lutzae, L. occipitalis, L. multimaculatus, L. rabinoi, L. riojanus, L. salinicola, L. scapularis, and L. wiegmannii; the status of L. cranwelli is uncertain, but is here considered a synonym of L. wiegmannii. The morphological characteristics of the wiegmannii group as a whole are described, and a taxonomic review, together with descriptions, distributions, and natural histories are presented for each species. This study then investigates the sequence of morphological changes that accompanied the evolution of the wiegmannii group. Seven of these, referred to here as the "sand-lizards" are confined to a substrate of loose, aeolean sand with extensive open dunes or sand flats. All of these species are members of a more inclusive clade, the boulengeri group. A phylogenetic analysis of the boulengeri group, based on 39 morphological and one behavioral character, produced a single most parsimonious tree that included the wiegmannii group as a fully resolved clade. This clade has a pectinate topology, with the following relationships: wiegmannii (lutzae (salinicola (scapularis (occipitalis (multimaculatus (riojanus + rabinoi)))))), with sand lizards represented by the last seven species, i.e., L. wiegmannii is the sister taxon to the sand lizards. Many of the morphological and behavioral transformations that occur at the origin of, and subsequently within the sand lizards, facilitate life on and under the surface of loose, wind-blown sand. Rapid diving and burial under the sand may be facilitated by a wedge-shaped snout with numerous small scales on the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the head, a sharp keel formed by the scales of the lower jaw, and a serrate margin on the shoulders and edges of the tail. Breathing under sand by vertical movement of the sternum may be facilitated by a wider sternum, with the fontanel reduced or absent, and a short median interclavicle process. A small ear opening, projecting ciliary scales, and a partly countersunk lower jaw should help to exclude sand from body openings. Fringes of projecting scales on the toes, and smooth, non-imbricate scales on the palms and soles should facilitate surface locomotion on sand. Reduction in dorsal sexual dicromatism, and close substrate color and pattern matching render them cryptic on the sand. Burial as a means of nocturnal retreat occurs in the sand lizards and most other species of the boulengeri group, but rapid diurnal burial as a means of escape occurs only in L. wiegmannii and the sand lizards.
40205467|On the basis of new material from Colombia, we describe external morphology, the hemipenis, osteology, musculature, and visceral morphology of Tropidodipsas perijanensis, a species previously known from the unique holotype and long assigned to Dipsas. Tropidodipsas perijanensis may be the sister species of all other Dipsadini or the sister species of a clade formed by Dipsas and Sibynomorphus. This distinctive South American species cannot be assigned to Tropidodipsas or to any other genus, and we erect a new genus for it. Our study of cephalic musculature identified a previously unreported division of the m. levator anguli oris and new insertion of the m. intermandibularis posterior superficialis. New characteristics of dipsadine hemipenes were visualized by Alizarin staining. Some osteological characters of Dipsadini support synonymization of Sibon and most species of Tropidodipsas, whereas visceral characters and published molecular data suggest that Dipsas, Sibon, and Sibynomorphus form a clade. /// Con base en nuevos ejemplares de Colombia, se describe la morfologa externa y visceral, hemipenes, musculatura y osteologa de Tropidodipsas perijanensis. Esta especie conocida previamente solo por el holotipo fue por mucho tiempo asignada al gnero Dipsas. Posee caracteres especiales que la diferencian de todos los gneros descritos, por lo que se describe uno nuevo para la ubicacin de esta especie. El estudio sobre su musculatura ceflica identific una divisin del m. levator anguli oris y una nueva insercin del m. intermandibularis posterior superficiales, no indicados previamente para la familia Colubridae. Nuevas caractersticas de los hemipenes de Dipsadini fueron visualizadas por medio de tincin con Alizarina. Algunos caracteres osteolgicos soportan la sinonimia de Sibon y la mayora de las especies de Tropidodipsas, mientras que los caracteres de la morfologia visceral y datos moleculares ya publicados sugieren que Dipsas, Sibon y Sibynomorphus forman un clado.
10.2307/1466962| Three new arboreal species of Eleutherodactylus are described from upland regions of eastern Cuba. Eleutherodactylus guantanamera is relatively widespread in Guantnamo Province and also occurs in Santiago de Cuba Province, E. mariposa is known only from the type-locality on the Meseta del Guaso (Guantnamo Province), and E. melacara is known only from Pico Turquino in Santiago de Cuba Province. Two of these species, E. guantanamera and E. melacara represent the first bromeliad specialists known from Cuba, and they possess a head shape and eye orientation found in other bromeliad-dwelling species. Call and chromosome variation are discussed for all 10 members of this arboreal subgenus in Cuba. 
10.2307/1466998| Two populations of tree lizards (Urosaurus ornatus) that differ in morphological and social traits were used in a comparative study examining the relative influence of several variable characteristics on dominance relations. Adult males from the Aguirre Spring (AS) population exhibit monomorphic throat coloration, whereas Doa Ana (DA) males are polymorphic. AS males are, in certain respects, more aggressive than DA males. Pairwise dominance contests were staged to assess relative contributions of size, social experience, and throat coloration in determining dominance outcome. Although the relative size of individuals has usually been regarded as a primary predictor of dominance, recent studies have shown that a disparity in color or experience can serve to override size differences between contestants. Data for size, recent dominance experience, and throat coloration were entered into logistic regression programs to generate models that were both predictive and explanatory. These models indicated effects of size, experience, and coloration in both populations. Throat coloration was a relatively stronger predictor of dominance outcome in males from the polymorphic (DA) population, whereas previous dominance experience was more important in AS males. 
10.2307/1467002|Charles C. Carpenter greatly influenced over 40 years of research on the behavior and ecology of Thamnophis. This influence derives from his seminal study of three species found sympatrically in Michigan. We studied neonates from two of these species, Thamnophis butleri and Thamnophis sirtalis, born to wild-caught gravid females from areas of sympatry in Michigan. Snakes from two litters of each species were reared on fish or earthworm diets. Over their first 8 mo of life the snakes were periodically measured and underwent a series of chemical prey preference and site choice tests. The results show that diet, litter, and sex can influence measures of chemical prey preference, growth, and choice of sites marked with conspecific feces produced after fish or worm diets. Contrary to expectations, the specialist, T. butleri, was more affected by the experimental manipulations than the generalist, T. sirtalis. However, litter differences, including apparent interactions with dietary experience, were found more often in the latter. Possible phylogenetic, ecological, and competitive factors underlying the results are discussed.
1467013|We attempted to identify salamanders from the Cumberland Plateau of Tennessee that have been referred by previous investigators to Desmognathus ochrophaeus. We compared variation at 22 allozyme loci in 10 populations to allozymic variation in other desmognathines. Multidimensional scaling, cluster, and parsimony analyses indicate that populations from our southernmost localities in the plateau are referable to D. ocoee, whereas the northernmost populations are D. ochrophaeus. In contrast, animals sampled from the middle of the plateau are genetically very distinct from all members of the complex and represent a new species described herein as Desmognathus abditus. D. abditus exhibits very limited gene exchange with D. ocoee and D. ochrophaeus where it contacts those forms. A population from the Eastern Highland Rim that has previously been referred to D. ochrophaeus may represent yet another undescribed species. The southern Cumberland Plateau clearly represents an area of substantial desmognathine diversity.
10.2307/1466974|Cladograms of kinosternine turtles were generated based on a phylogenetic analysis of the distribution of character states within 27 morphological characters. These cladograms were compared to those of Seidel et al. (1986), which were based on binary coding of 34 protein electromorph products, those based on multistate coding of the presumptive loci responsible for those products, and those based on the combined protein and morphology data sets. The analyses resolve the relationships of most kinosternine taxa very well, with taxa with small plastrons generally being the most primitive, and those with large plastrons being the most derived. However, the morphologic data set may be biased because of character redundance, in this case due to high correlation of at least 16 of the characters with relative plastron size. The two remaining controversies concern the monophyly of the genus Sternotherus (here considered a subgenus of Kinosternon) and the determination of the nearest relatives of K. leucostomum.
4540126|How the uterus evolves to allow a blastula to implant is a topic of intense scientific interest. Recent results show that, in mice, the developmental gene HoxA10 plays an important role in regulating uterine receptivity. The HoxA10 protein regulates the development of the uterus in the embryo of many species, but in mice, HoxA10 evolved a secondary role of regulating the development of dome shaped extensions of uterine epithelia called uterodomes. Uterodomes are necessary for uterine receptivity to implantation in the mouse. The presence of HoxA10 in the adult uterus does not guarantee the expression of uterodomes, however, as HoxA10 protein has been found by Western blot in the oviparous lizard Lampropholis guichenoti that does not display uterodomes as well as the viviparous lizard Eulanprus tymnpanumn that does display uterodomes. Studies using antisense oligonucleotides that bind and inhibit the start of translation site of HoxA10 demonstrate that down-regulating HoxA10 production inhibits uterodome formation and implantation in mice. Similar antisense technology could be used in viviparous lizards to determine whether HoxA10 is regulating uterine receptivity in various species. The first stage in such a strategy would entail sequencing the region of lizard HoxA10 that contains the start of translation site. Once this sequence is known for a particular species, antisense oligonucleotides can be designed to inhibit HoxA10 and the effects of this on uterine receptivity can be studied. If several species of lizard that evolved viviparity independently are all shown to rely on HoxA10 to regulate uterodome development and uterine receptivity it will indicate that HoxA10 is a vital part of the evolution of viviparity. It will be interesting in future studies to determine which cells of the lizard uterus express HoxA10 and whether, like the mouse, the expression of lizard HoxA10 is regulated by co-factors such as vitamin D.
10.2307/1467074|Incubation temperature has a direct effect on sex determination of the desert tortoise. Low temperatures (26.0-30.6 C) produce males and high temperatures (32.8-35.3 C) produce females. Pivotal temperature is approximately 31.8 C. Macroscopic and microscopic anatomy of the gonads is similar to that of other turtles. Hatching success and survival is very good between 28.1 and 32.8 C in dry sand (-5000 kPa). Incubation at 35.3 C is lethal for 72% of the eggs and produces weak hatchlings that die within 45 days. Wet sand (-5 kPa) is lethal for desert tortoise eggs. Hatchling size was dependent upon egg size and incubation condition. Hatchlings from eggs incubated at 32.8 and 35.3 C were significantly smaller than hatchlings from eggs incubated at 28.1 and 30.6 C. Hatching mass had no effect on growth rate of hatchlings. Thus, large eggs produced large hatchlings that were larger than their siblings at 120 days of age. Hatchlings from eggs incubated at 30.6 C grew significantly more than hatchlings incubated at 28.1 and 32.8 C. Hatchlings incubated at 35.3 C lost mass. Incubation condition did not affect temperature selected in a substrate thermal gradient when hatchlings were tested within one week (x=29.2 C) or 40 days of hatching (x=26.6 C). Because of temperature-dependent sex determination and the effect of incubation conditions on hatching success and later growth, management strategies for the desert tortoise should be very conservative. To ensure normal sex ratios of desert tortoises, natural vegetation communities and native soil composition and structure must be preserved or restored. Long term recovery and survival of desert tortoises can only be assured when we have information on pivotal temperatures and nesting ecology for its various populations.
10.2307/1467047|The scrub pythons (Morelia amethistina complex) are revised based on museum specimens and new material recently collected in eastern Indonesia. Morelia kinghorni (formerly M. amethistina kinghorni) and M. amethistina (formerly M. amethistina amethistina) are recognized as species, and three new species are described. The phylogenetic relationships of scrub pythons are resolved using morphological and molecular characters. Scrub pythons are most closely related to Morelia boeleni and have undergone both ancient divergences and a relatively recent radiation. The distribution of scrub pythons corresponds well with areas of endemism recognized in earlier studies of other taxa. Their distribution and evolution appears to have been shaped by combined effects of dispersal and vicariance. Scrub python populations exhibit interesting color and pattern polymorphism and ontogenetic change, and these characteristics vary among populations.
10.2307/1467076|Three types of behavioral experiments were performed on captive desert tortoises at the Desert Tortoise Conservation Center in Las Vegas, Nevada to determine the role of male-male dominance interactions and female choice in the mating system of this species. We conducted 64 male-male aggression trials. Results demonstrate that dominance is affected by size (P = 0.0002), past encounters (P = 0.0093), and residence in home pens (P = 0.0096). In trials (n = 8) in which two males and one female were allowed to interact freely, dominant males courted and mounted females significantly more frequently than subordinate males (P = 0.0059 and 0.0233, respectively). Female choice experiments indicated that females preferred large males in their first encounter. We conclude that while size is most important to the establishment of dominance relations and in female choice, where there is not a great difference in the size of males, dominance is based on residency and previous interactions may determine courtship and mating opportunities.
10.2307/1466959|The social behavior of wood turtles was studied for 6 yr in central Pennsylvania. The study population of 84 marked individuals had a sex ratio of 1:1. Most of the infrequent interactions between adult females were neutral. Non-mating encounters between males and females were evenly divided between non-agonistic and agonistic interactions, and males usually dominated in the latter. Of the 560 encounters observed between males, 88% were agonistic. Of those, 66% involved physical contact such as nudging, ramming, biting, and homosexual mounting. Most encounters lasted only a few seconds to a few minutes, but some fights lasted up to 3.5 h. Male-male encounters of all kinds were significantly more frequent in the autumn than in the spring, and a significantly higher proportion of the autumn encounters were agonistic. The turtles were not territorial. The outcomes of the dominance encounters between males revealed an essentially linear rank order that was positively correlated with age and weight. Mating behavior was observed from April through October, but was concentrated in early spring and especially in autumn. Most mounting sequences lasted from 1 to 5 h, but some lasted for several days and nights. No sperm was found in the cloacas of females immediately after 76.4% of the observed mounting sequences, and only a trace of sperm was found in 8.1%. The other 15.5% of the sequences ended in copulatory ties, and in all of these instances the cloacas of the females were filled with sperm. Because most of the mating behavior occurred in autumn and there was a single annual period of egg-laying in June, it was assumed that females store sperm over winter. Some females mated with several males between ovulatory periods, raising the possibility of sperm competition. There was a significant correlation between male rank and various behavioral measures of apparent mating success. These results were confirmed by a paternity study using DNA fingerprinting in 1989.
41058254|We use data from external morphology and mitochondrial gene sequences to provide the basis for a taxonomic revision of two polytypic, pentadactyl Philippine species of scincid lizards of the genus Brachymeles. Although previous studies have noted significant morphological variation among island populations, the similarities in body size and scale pigmentation and pattern have led to the continued recognition of these two "widespread species." A third, widespread, pentadactyl species, Brachymeles talinis, is known from Jolo Island and the central and northern Philippine islands. We evaluate both morphological and genetic data to define species limits in B. boulengeri, B. schadenbergi, and B. talinis. Our molecular and morphological data indicate each of the four subspecies of B. boulengeri, and both subspecies of B. schadenbergi, are genetically distinct, with ranges biogeographically circumscribed, differ from their congeners by numerous external morphological features, and therefore should be recognized as full species. Our morphological and genetic data necessitate the recognition of northern populations of B. talinis (from Luzon Island) as a new species and also reveal an unanticipated new species from Masbate Island. Finally, morphological data require the recognition of the B. talinis population from Jolo Island as a unique, new species. These 10 taxa elevate the total known number of species of Brachymeles from 18 to 25. Gamit ang datos mula sa panglabas na kaanyuan at mga gene sequence mula sa mitochondria nagsagawa kami ng rebisyon ng tatlong species ng reptilyanong nabibilang sa genus na Brachymeles. Sa kabila ng malaking pagkakaiba sa kaanyuan ng mga populasyon sa iba't ibang isla, dalawang kalat na speciesBrachymeles boulengeri at Brachymeles schadenbergiang patuloy na kinikilala dahil sa magkakatulad na laki ng katawan at pagkakahawig ng kulay at disenyo ng kanilang kaliskis. Ang ikatlong species, ang Brachymeles talinis, ay matatagpuan sa isla ng Jolo at sa gitna at hilagang bahagi ng Pilipinas. Ipinapakita ng aming datos na ang bawat isa sa apat na subspecies ng B. boulengeri at ang dalawang subspecies ng B. schadenbergi ay may natatanging kalamnang genetiko, may bukod-bukod na distribusyon, at naiiba sa ibang miyembro ng genus sa maraming aspekto ng panlabas na kaanyuan at samakatwid ay nararapat na kilalanin bilang ganap na species. Binibigyang katwiran ng aming datos genetiko ang pagkilala sa populasyon ng B. talinis mula sa Luzon bilang bagong species at ang pagtuklas ng isang di-anaasahang bagong species mula sa isla ng Masbate. Sa huli, kinakailangan ding makilala ang populasyon ng B. talinis mula sa isla ng Jolo bilang isang bago at ganap na species dahil sa kanilang namumukod na kaanyuan. Sa pamamagitan ng rebisyong ito, tumataas ang bilang ng species na nabibilang sa genus na Brachymeles mula sa Pilipinas sa 25.
4093022|We describe two new species of Eleutherodactylus that are hypothesized to belong to the E. orcesi Group. Both species are found in Andean habitats of northern Ecuador at elevations above 3000 m. The presence of an anteriorly exposed frontoparietal fontanelle distinguishes the two new species from most other members of the genus, in which the frontoparietal fontanelle is covered by frontoparietal bones. Additionally, both species have fingers and toes with fleshy lateral fringes, and vomerine teeth reduced or absent. The new species differ from one another mostly by tuberculation and coloration patterns.
10.2307/1466952|The classification and phylogeny of the caecilians has received much attention in the past decade, yet no consensus has been reached. We present new mitochondrial ribosomal gene sequence data from 13 caecilian species representing 10 genera from four of the six recognized families. Out of 1208 total sites, 890 were aligned, 475 were variable, and 329 were informative under the parsimony criterion. A phylogeny for these taxa supports the Caudata (as represented by Amphiuma) as the sister lineage to the Gymnophiona, the basal position of the Rhinatrematidae and Ichthyophiidae, the paraphyly of the Caeciliaidae, and the monophyly of the Seychellean caecilians. These sequence data support previous morphological studies suggesting that the typhlonectids were derived from Neotropical caeciliaids, and therefore the Typhlonectidae is synonymized within the family Caeciliaidae. Species previously placed in the Typhlonectidae are assigned to a separate subfamily (Typhlonectinae) of the Caeciliaidae. Resolution of relationships within the largest family, the Caeciliaidae, remains the major task of caecilian systematics.
10.2307/1466987|Anurans show a distinct dichotomy among the sources of energy used during larval growth and development, endotrophy and exotrophy. This distinction allows more exact definitions of direct development, ovoviviparity, viviparity, and related terms. Endotrophic larvae, whether as a non-hatched embryo or a free-swimming, non-feeding tadpole, gain immediate developmental nutrition solely from parental sources, most frequently from the yolk allotted to each egg during vitellogenesis. Exotrophic larvae are always free-swimming, feeding tadpoles and orally consume numerous sources of energy not derived from a parent. The morphology of exotrophic tadpoles is surveyed with an emphasis on oral structures. Speculative scenarios and hypotheses concerning the functions of the various morphologies and the relationship of trophic structures to the ecology of the tadpoles are offered. Larval morphology and behavior permit the recognition of six developmental guilds of endotrophic larvae and 18 ecomorphological guilds of exotrophic larvae; these guilds are fully characterized.
10.2307/1467071|The seasonal reproductive cycles of male and female desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) were studied under semi-natural conditions. Tortoises were maintained in outdoor pens subject to ambient weather conditions and received supplemental food and water. Heparinized blood samples were collected monthly using jugular puncture. Ovarian follicular growth and egg development were monitored using ultrasonography. Mating was observed in the fall (following nesting) and the spring (prior to nesting). Vitellogenesis occurred during the fall prior to hibernation. Nesting was observed from May-early July with females producing one or two clutches. Clutches ranged from 2-7 eggs. Both males and females displayed seasonal testosterone cycles.
4540116| Four new species of Eleutherodactylus are described from montane forests at elevations of 1330-3000 m in the Cordillera Oriental in the central Peruvian Departamentos Hunuco, Junn and Pasco, Three of the new species are assigned to the Eleutherodactylus unistrigatus Group. Two of them lack a tympanum, but have distinct colorations and iris patterns: one has the groin and hind limbs partly orange to red and the iris with a brown vertical and black horizontal streak forming a cross, whereas the other has the groin and hind limbs partly yellow and the iris with a brown horizontal streak and a black vertical streak from the pupil to the lower margin of the eye forming a "T". The third species, assigned to the Eleutherodactylus conspicillatus Group, is similar to E. rhabdolaemus, but differs from that in certain morphological characters and coloration. The fourth species, assigned to the E. lacrimosus assemblage, has a yellowish-tan dorsum with dark brownish-purple blotches and streaks and white flanks and venter. It inhabits terrestrial bromeliads and is compared with E. schultei from northern Peru. Morphological and distributional data are provided for seven previously described Eleutherodactylus from central Peru. The elevational distributions of Andean Eleutherodactylus, Phyllonastes, and Phrynopus from central Peru is compared. 
40205457|We provide a taxonomic diagnosis and discussion of the frogs of the Rana papua group within Milne Bay Province, the southeasternmost extent of New Guinea and associated offshore islands. Six members of the R. papua species group occur in the province. We rediagnose R. grisea, known with certainty only from the type locality in Papua Province, Indonesia, and note that most, if not all, specimens referred to this species in New Guinea are mis-assigned. We rediagnose R. supragrisea and note that the type series contains members of at least two or three different morphospecies. The true geographical limits of this species outside of southeastern New Guinea and associated islands remain to be determined. We resurrect R. milneana from the synonymy of R. daemeli and note its close relationships to two species recently described from far western New Guinea. We describe one new species closely related to R. daemeli and occurring on the mainland portion of the province and in the D'Entrecasteaux Islands. We describe the tadpoles of two of these species for the first time. As previously noted, members of the R. papua species complex are difficult to distinguish using traditional morphological measurements but call and (sometimes) habitat are important for this purpose. Contrary to previous researchers, we have found color pattern to be valuable for distinguishing among Rana species within the limited confines of Milne Bay Province and anticipate that it will prove equally useful in diagnosing other geographically constrained Rana faunas throughout New Guinea.
10.2307/1467024| The Rana palmipes group consists of eight species of frogs distributed from southern Mxico to Per, Bolivia, and Brasil. The frogs currently recognized as R. maculata and R. palmipes are composites of two and three species, respectively. Frogs previously referred to R. maculata from the Maya Mountains of Belize are described as a new species, R. juliani. The three species previously included under the name R. palmipes comprise the R. palmipes complex: R. palmipes of eastern South America, R. vaillanti of Central America and western South America, and a newly described species, R. bwana, of the Pacific versant of the Huancabamba Depression in southwestern Ecuador and northwestern Per. Morphological variation in the R. palmipes group (R. bwana, R. juliani, R. maculata, R. palmipes, R. sierramadrensis, R. vaillanti, R. vibicaria, and R. warszewitschii) provides information on the phylogeny of the species. The group is easily defined on the basis of morphological and biochemical characters. Within the R. palmipes group, there is a primary dichotomy between the lowland species (R. bwana, R. palmipes, and R. vaillanti) and the montane species (R. juliani, R. maculata, R. sierramadrensis, R. vibicaria, and R. warszewitschii). Within this latter group, the southern Central American species (R. vibicaria and R. warszewitschii) form one clade and the northern Central American species (R. sierramadrensis, R. juliani, and R. maculata) form another clade. Within the northern Central American clade, R. maculata and R. sierramadrensis, which are separated by the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, are sister species. Diagnostic keys for both adults and tadpoles are provided for the species groups of Neotropical Rana as well as for the species of the Rana palmipes group. 
10.2307/1467075|The chemical structure and biological functions of chin gland secretions were examined in a group of captive desert tortoises, Gopherus agassizii, housed at the Desert Tortoise Conservation Center near Las Vegas, Nevada. Monthly measurements of the chin glands of 20 adult males were made over one year. Gland volume varied seasonally, reaching a maximum in late summer. The chin glands of socially dominant males tended to be larger than those of socially subordinate males. Among all males, there was a positive correlation between plasma testosterone levels and size of the chin glands. Behavioral experiments demonstrated that tortoises of both sexes discriminate the chin gland secretions of familiar males from those of unfamiliar males, suggesting that chin gland secretions may function in conspecific recognition. Electrophoretic studies of chin gland secretions revealed the presence of 12-17 protein components ranging in size from 25,000-115,000 Daltons. Although banding patterns among males were very similar, slight individual differences existed in the number and size of high molecular weight protein components.
10.2307/1466953|The phylogenetic relationships of the ten salamander families (Ambystomatidae, Amphiumidae, Cryptobranchidae, Dicamptodontidae, Hynobiidae, Plethodontidae, Proteidae, Rhyacotritonidae, Salamandridae and Sirenidae) were examined using 209 phylogenetically informative characters, including 177 from ribosomal RNA sequence variation, 20 from head and trunk morphology, and 12 from cloacal anatomy. Our analysis invokes the principle of "total evidence" by combining all relevant data to generate a phylogeny, and then examining patterns of character congruence on that phylogeny. The morphological and molecular data sets were not highly incongruent; only 4-26% of the total incongruence among characters occurs between the morphological and molecular data sets and the remainder occurs within them. The combined analysis differs from an earlier analysis of the molecular data alone primarily by favoring monophyly of the internally fertilizing salamanders. Our favored working hypothesis of salamander family relationships places the Sirenidae as the sister group to all remaining salamanders, and the Cryptobranchoidea (Cryptobranchidae and Hynobiidae) as the sister group of the internally fertilizing salamanders (all remaining families). Among the internally fertilizing families, the Ambystomatidae and Dicamptodontidae are closely related and form a sister group to the Salamandridae; the Proteidae (represented by the genus Necturus) is the sister group to these three families combined. The Amphiumidae, Plethodontidae and Rhyacotritonidae represent early branching events within the clade containing the internally fertilizing salamanders. New molecular data on hynobiids (including the genera Batrachuperus, Hynobius, Onychodactylus and Salamandrella) are compatible with monophyly of the Hynobiidae.
10.2307/1466963|We report on a collection of 74 frogs, 11 lots of frog eggs or tadpoles, and two snakes collected from the Chapare Region in the yungas of the eastern Andean Cordillera de Cochabamba, Bolivia. Collecting localities range from approximately 300 m to >3200 m in elevation. The specimens pertain to 23 species, probably 10 of which are undescribed. We describe four new species of frogs, one each in the genera Bufo, Centrolenella, Colostethus, and Hyla, and one new species of snake, genus Dipsas. We place Atelopus rugulosus in synonymy with A. tricolor.
10.2307/1467004| This study demonstrates the correlation of an array of ecological characteristics with foraging mode in sit-and-wait foraging Crotalus cerastes and widely foraging Masticophis flagellum. Crotalus cerastes are chiefly nocturnal and spend most of their time on the surface either coiled on or partially buried in the sand waiting to ambush prey. Masticophis flagellum are strictly diurnal predators and cruise through the habitat searching for active and sedentary prey. In this study, C. cerastes averaged 7.2  0.7 (SE) h/day on the surface, almost twice the time of M. flagellum (3.9  0.9 h/day). Body temperatures (T<sub>b</sub>'s) of active M. flagellum, determined from surgically implanted radio transmitters, were significantly greater than those of active C. cerastes. Crotalus cerastes, whose T<sub>b</sub>'s conform to changing environmental temperatures, appear to possess a broad "thermal performance breadth," enabling them to move and to acquire prey over a relatively wide range of T<sub>b</sub>'s (16-38 C). Active M. flagellum typically possessed a narrower range of T<sub>b</sub>'s (30-35 C), suggesting that they operate with a narrow "thermal performance breadth." Masticophis flagellum traveled greater distances (241  38 m) and more frequently (76  4% of days monitored) than C. cerastes (111  12 m and 32  2% of days monitored, respectively). Thus, M. flagellum averaged more than five times the distance traveled per day (186  37 m/day) than C. cerastes (35  4 m/day). Consequently, M. flagellum possessed activity ranges (53.4  13.3 ha) that were significantly larger than those of C. cerastes (20.1  3.3 ha). Additional correlates of widely foraging for M. flagellum include higher predation risks, streamlined body shape, and greater rates of energy expenditure and acquisition. Correlated with their sit-and-wait foraging tactics, C. cerastes are stocky in body shape, rely on crypsis and immobility to escape detection from predators, and balance low foraging success with low energy requirements. 
10.2307/1467067|Hematologic and plasma biochemical parameters were monitored in free-ranging desert tortoises, Gopherus agassizii, near Las Vegas, NV and on a population of captive tortoises maintained in 4 ha pens with natural physiography and vegetation and subjected to varying levels of water supplementation to mimic different levels of hydric stress. Significant increases in plasma electrolyte and urea nitrogen concentrations and white blood cell counts (compared to free-ranging and water-supplemented, captive animals) occurred in captive animals without water supplementation. Differences in electrolytes and BUN among treatments were consistent with altered water balance. Free-ranging animals received no supplemental water. Blood profiles from free-ranging animals, however, more closely resembled profiles from captive animals that received supplemental water than profiles from animals that did not receive supplemental water. Captivity, thus, altered blood profiles in a manner similar to that seen with decreased water availability. The electrolyte, urea nitrogen, and white blood cell differences among water supplementation treatments, while significant, were not sufficient to distinguish among animals from different treatments. No reliably predictive indicators of water stress--or other stresses--were found. Several biochemical assays suggested specific stresses (other than water stress) which some of the tortoises faced. We suggest that blood profiles might be more profitably used to search for specific hypothesized stressors in populations rather than as assays of unspecified generic stress on populations of tortoises.
10.2307/1467055|Incubation temperature affects a wide range of phenotypic traits of hatchling reptiles. The main objective of this research was to determine if such phenotypic traits persist long enough in the field to have an effect on fitness. Eggs of Sceloporus undulatus lizards were incubated at six temperature regimes, five constant and one fluctuating, with means ranging from 23-33 C. Hatchlings were measured and their subsequent morphology, growth, and survival were monitored for 7-9 months, one to two months before individuals reached adult size. Phenotypic traits of lizards that hatched at the field site were used for comparative purposes. Morphological traits persisted for 7-9 mo. In contrast, growth rates did not differ among incubation temperature treatments after individuals were released in the field. Overall, 29 (27%) of 107 individuals that were released survived to the spring following hatching, and individuals from eggs incubated at the lowest temperature had higher survival than individuals from all other groups. The phenotypes of lizards incubated at intermediate temperatures tended to be most similar to those of field hatched lizards. We rejected two predictions about phenotypic responses to incubation temperature. The first prediction was that extreme incubation temperatures would be associated with the most deviant phenotypes. Observed phenotypic responses to temperature were either linear or, only one extreme temperature produced a deviant phenotype. The second prediction was that hatchlings incubated at warm temperatures and that hatched early in the season would have higher survival in general and higher overwinter survival in particular than hatchlings incubated at cool temperatures and that hatched later in the season. The reverse was true; observed survival was greatest for hatchlings from the coolest incubation treatment that hatched last.
10.2307/1467000|Relationships among phylogeny, foraging mode, and prey chemical discrimination by tongue-flicking were investigated by experimentally testing for the presence of lingually mediated prey chemical discrimination in representatives of two families of gekkonoid lizards having different foraging modes. In the experiments, the tongue-flicking and biting responses of each lizard were recorded in response to cotton swabs bearing three classes of stimuli: prey surface chemicals, cologne as a pungency control, and deionized water as an odorless control. In a eublepharid species, Eublepharis macularius, the tongue-flick rate, the proportion of individuals attacking the swab, and a composite measure combining effects of tongue-flicking and attack (TFAS(R)) were significantly higher and the latency to attack significantly shorter in the prey stimulus condition than in the other conditions, which did not themselves differ. In contrast, no tongue-flicking or attacks were observed in any of the conditions for two gekkonid species, Thecadactylus rapicauda and Gekko gecko. Because eublepharids are active foragers whereas gekkonids are ambush foragers, prey chemical discrimination was associated with active foraging, as predicted. Prior to this report, all families of ambush-foraging lizards known to lack prey chemical discrimination belonged to a single clade, Iguania. Actively foraging carnivorous lizards identify prey by chemical cues and belong to Scleroglossa, which includes the families studied here. It is argued that adoption of active foraging may have induced selection for gain of prey chemical discrimination involving tongue-flicking in eublepharids. Phylogeny and the presence or absence of prey chemical discrimination are closely related in lizard families because foraging mode is conservative in the major clades Iguania and Scleroglossa.
10.2307/1467051|The classification of reproductive patterns inherited from the 19th century reflects mammalian biases and fails to capture our understanding of amniote reproductive diversity. Much more useful is a bipartite classification that fully distinguishes between two separate reproductive parameters: sources of nutrients for development, and state of the reproductive product at emergence from the mother. "Oviparity" and "viviparity" are used in their literal senses to refer to "egg-laying" and "live-bearing" reproduction. "Lecithotrophy" refers to provision of nutrients to the embryo via the yolk, and "matrotrophy" to provision by alternative means (e.g., a placenta, a pattern termed "placentotrophy"). Use of these terms has several advantages, including elimination of confusion associated with the archaic term "ovoviviparity". This system also recognizes commonality between patterns involving maternal provision of nutrients before birth or hatching (e.g., to eggs and embryos) and afterwards (to neonates). Growing consensus around the bipartite classification of reproductive patterns reflects recognition of the importance of a common biological vocabulary that applies widely across traditional methodological, disciplinary, and taxonomic boundaries.
10.2307/1467020| A systematic study of the chuckwallas (genus Sauromalus) is presented which combines a traditional monographic revision with a modern phylogenetic analysis. Included are a reassessment of alpha taxonomy and geographic variation, a hypothesis of evolutionary relationships, a reevaluation of the relationships of Sauromalus to other iguanid genera, and an examination of trends in morphology, biogeography, and natural history within Sauromalus in light of the recovered phylogeny. Due to difficulties in diagnosing many of the chuckwalla species, geographically isolated populations were selected as operational taxonomic units (OTU's). This resulted in the designation of 31 insular and eight continental OTU's. These OTU's were included in a larger analysis with the other 23 species within Iguanini (the clade of iguanids above Dipsosaurus, Armandisaurus, and Brachylophus). A phylogenetic analysis was performed using 142 characters of scalation, coloration, soft tissues, and osteology; 93 of which came directly or were modified from the previous studies of de Queiroz (1987a,b) and Norell and de Queiroz (1991). Two analyses were performed, each using different coding schemes for polymorphic characters. The first used the baseline method (polymorphisms coded as "0,1") and the second used the frequency bin method (Wiens, 1993, 1995). The monophyly of all currently recognized iguanid genera is supported in both analyses. Intergeneric relationships are resolved in the strict consensus tree using the frequency bin method (Ctenosaura ((Cyclura + Iguana) + (Sauromalus (Amblyrhynchus + Conolophus) and only partially resolved using the baseline method. Interspecific relationships are proposed for the genera Cyclura, Ctenosaura, and Sauromalus. Relationships among the OTU's in Sauromalus are partly resolved using the frequency bin method, although some nodes are weakly supported. The results from the baseline method are consistent with the more strongly supported nodes from the frequency bin method. The strict consensus trees suggest the recognition of four insular endemics, hispidus, klauberi, slevini, and varius, while the OTU's recognized under obesus, australis, and ater yield an unresolved polytomy. Because the relationships between the obesus, australis, and ater OTU's are unresolved and these taxa cannot be diagnosed from each other using fixed character differences, obesus and australis are synonymized with ater. The phylogenetic relationships within Sauromalus are: (varius (hispidus (ater (klauberi + slevini)))). Accounts of each species of Sauromalus include a synonymy, etymology, definition, diagnosis, detailed description of external morphology and color pattern, skeletal characterization, geographic variation, natural history, fossil record and distribution. A redescription of the type specimen of S. ater is provided and the type locality is restricted to southern coastal Sonora, Mxico. 
10.2307/1467061|Recent paleontological evidence suggests the North American herpetofauna has been remarkably stable taxonomically and biogeographically throughout the Pleistocene. However, this paper uses paleontological, ecological, and molecular genetic data to argue that the thermophilous and xerically-adapted Collared Lizard (Crotaphytus collaris) did not persist in the northern parts of its range during glacial phases of the Pleistocene. First, a careful review of the paleontological data used to support the stability model reveals no northern fossils unambiguously dated to glacial phases. Second, environmental conditions inferred for the Ozark Plateau and Flint Hills during glacial phases were not compatible with fitness requirements of collared lizards. Third, phylogeographic analyses of an intraspecific mtDNA gene tree suggest a recent invasion of the Ozarks and Flint Hills. Finally, microsatellite data are statistically consistent with a Holocene invasion but not with long-term occupation of the Ozarks or the Flint Hills by collared lizards. These combined data sets provide strong evidence that collared lizards are able to occupy northern parts of their range only during the warmer, drier interglacials. Other thermophilous and xerically-adapted reptilian species might be expected to show similar historical patterns.
10.2307/1466950|Phylogenetic relationships among caecilians and of caecilians to other amphibians are not well understood. A generally accepted hypothesis of relationships exists for families of caecilians, but relationships among genera and among species remain unresolved for the most part. Current hypotheses of relationships are based largely on morphological characters, primarily external features and some osteology; molecular data are accruing. However, I contend that morphology has not been explored adequately in the search for characters of systematic utility. I present a summary of work in progress on the examination of aspects of the neuroanatomy and reproductive morphology of caecilians and a discussion of the possible contribution of such characters to phylogenetic analysis. I conclude that morphologists should, whenever possible, both place their work in a phylogenetic context, and use their data to contribute to phylogenetic hypotheses.
10.2307/1466981|Sixteen species of Proctoporus (nine of them new) occur in Ecuador. Summaries of individual and geographic variation, distribution, figures, and a key to species are provided. Most species have restricted distributions; however, in some cases this may be an artifact of collecting. Species occupy narrow elevational zones, such as those documented herein along a transect across the Andean Cordillera of extreme northern Ecuador. There are seven possible or confirmed cases of sympatry among congeners. Morphological evidence suggests that species in sympatry may utilize different microhabitats.
40929489|We review the Philippine frogs of the genus Leptobrachuim. All previous treatments have referred Philippine populations to L. hasseltii, a species we restrict to Java and Bali, Indonesia. We use external morphology, body proportions, color pattern, advertisement calls, and phylogenetic analysis of molecular sequence data to show that Philippine populations of Leptobrachium represent three distinct and formerly unrecognized evolutionary lineages, and we describe each (populations on Mindoro, Palawan, and Mindanao Island groups) as new species. Our findings accentuate the degree to which the biodiversity of Philippine amphibians is currently underestimated and in need of comprehensive review with new and varied types of data. Pinagbalik aralan namin ang mga palaka sa Pilipinas mula sa genus Leptobrachium. Ang nakaraang mga palathala ay tumutukoy sa populasyon ng L. hasseltii, ang uri ng palaka na aming tinakda lamang sa Java at Bali, Indonesia. Ginamit namin ang panglabas na morpolohiya, proporsiyon ng pangangatawan, kulay disenyo, pantawag pansin, at phylogenetic na pagsusuri ng molekular na pagkakasunod-sunod ng datos upang maipakita na ang populasyon sa Pilipinas ng Leptobrachium ay kumakatawan sa tatlong natatangi at dating hindi pa nakilalang ebolusyonaryong lipi. Inilalarawan din naming ang bawat isa (populasyon sa Mindoro, Palawan, at mga grupo ng isla sa Mindanao) na bagong uri ng palaka. Ang aming natuklasan ay nagpapatingkad sa antas kung saan ang biodibersidad ng amphibians sa Pilipinas sa kasalukuyan ay may mababang pagtatantya at nangangailangan ng malawakang pagbabalik-aral ng mga bago at iba't ibang uri ng datos
10.2307/1467050|Neonatal reptiles are here defined as an age class of young eureptilian amniotes (excluding birds) that express attributes most influenced by the pre-paritive development environment (oviduct, egg, and egg nest) and by the demands of parition and first dispersal. Neonatal character states are typically transformed, reduced, or eliminated during the first 10% of their pre-reproductive development. Traditionally, neonates have not been distinguished from juvenile reptiles. As a result the neonatology of reptiles has rarely been addressed in past literature. Recent studies reveal a complex array of developmental scenarios involving character state transformations, heterochrony, unique character states in morphology, behavior, physiology, nutrition, dispersion and health. Unique morphological features (such as egg teeth) and limited skeletal ossification characterize many neonates. Distinguishing behaviors include "reversal" movements, utilization of bright color patterns, and startling movements with both serving as anti-predation mechanisms. Prolonged association with protective parents, group migration, unique agonistic behavior, and tendencies toward rapid dispersion characterize the neonates of individual species. Neonatal physiological attributes include: a special availability to inoculation by symbiont fermenting anaerobes in herbivores, rapid conforming responses to their external environments in thermal and hydric exchanges, and in the case of some turtles, extraordinary capacities for supercooling (8.9 C). Post-paritive lecithotrophy (nutrition from residual yolk) sustain both the overwintering of nestlings and the dispersion of non-feeding young for as long as several months. Resistance to infections (such as mycoplasmas) from their maternal parents, combine with nutritive reserves of residual yolk and a common tendency for rapid dispersion to make neonates attractive candidates for augmentation and translocation programs. Coupled with the practical advantages of maintaining and manipulating small animals in a laboratory environment, these qualities distinguish neonates as particularly useful models for experimentally evaluating the relative apportionment of reproductive resources into greater numbers of offspring or into improved quality/survivorship of individual offspring.
41058258|We revised the taxonomic status of Atractus species occurring in the eastern slopes of Central Cordillera, Magdalena Valley, and west slopes of Eastern Cordillera of Colombia on the basis of morphological characters (meristics, morphometrics, color patterns, and hemipenes). A lectotype is designated for Atractus obtusirostris. Additional specimens of A. melanogaster are reported for the first time and a neotype is designated for the species. The status of A. werneri is restricted to include only specimens from the western slopes of the Eastern Cordillera. Three new species are described from the eastern slopes of the Central Cordillera. Additionally, we provided a key for species distributed from the eastern Central to the western Eastern Cordilleras of Colombia, and propose a new species group for Atractus based on the sharing of exclusive morphological features. Se revis el status taxonmico de las especies de Atractus que ocurren en la vertiente oriental de la Cordillera Central, Valle del Magdalena y vertiente occidental de la Cordillera Oriental de Colombia a traves de caracteres morfolgicos (mersticos, morfomtricos, patrones de color y hemipenes). Un lecttipo es designado para Atractus obtusirostris. Especmenes adicionales de A. melanogaster son reportados por primera vez y un neotipo es designado para la especie. El status de A. werneri es restringido para incluir solamente especmenes de la vertiente occidental de la Cordillera Oriental. Tres nuevas especies son descriptas de la vertiente oriental de la Cordillera Central. Adicionalmente, proveemos una clave para las especies distribuidas desde el este de la Cordillera Central hasta oeste de la Cordillera Oriental de Colombia y un nuevo grupo de especies de Atractus es propuesto basado en caracteristicas morfolgicas exclusivas compartidas.
40205466|Seven species of Dipsas occur within Bolivia. On the basis of new material, we revise D. chaparensis, D. peruana, and D. variegata. We review D. i. cisticeps and consider it to be a subspecies of D. bucephala. We transfer D. boettgeri, D. latifrontalis, and D. polylepis to the synonymy of D. peruana. We consider D. neivai and populations of D. variegata from Bolivia, Brazil, and Peru to be conspecifc with Guianan and Venezuelan D. variegata. On the other hand, we recognize D. trinitatis Parker as a morphologically distinct, full species rather than a subspecies of D. variegata. We refer Leptognathus robusta Mller to the synonymy of D. oreas rather than D. variegata. Alizarin red staining reveals calcification patterns of snake hemipenes and is recommended as a modification of techniques used to prepare these organs. Characters of visceral morphology improve our understanding of dipsadine relationships. As in most snakes, male Dipsas usually have higher subcaudal counts than females. On the other hand, species of Dipsas either have reverse ventral count dimorphism or their ventral counts are not dimorphic.
10.2307/1467078|We conducted tests on the behavioral responses of captive desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) to barriers and highway obstacles. Desert tortoises are slow-moving but persistent wanderers in their natural habitat. Consequently, they move substantial distances when they meet a barrier that they cannot go around. Tortoises responded differently to solid and non-solid barriers when placed in small pens constructed of various materials. Our tests indicated that a screen mesh with small enough openings to exclude a tortoise's head was the most suitable barrier material. When tortoises were tested for 2 h periods or after an overnight stay in a barrier pen, rates of responses with barriers declined with time but tortoises continued movement along the barrier. In a choice situation, we found no preference by tortoises for following either solid or mesh barrier fences. Tortoises quickly walked past openings in a barrier which were too small to enter but easily escaped from a barrier pen within 30 min when openings of an appropriate size were available. We found tortoises willingly entered culverts under large highways and retreated from concrete highways barriers.
10.2307/1467038|Plethodontid salamanders of the genus Batrachoseps comprise a clade of morphologically similar, elongate species whose great genetic diversity is being revealed through molecular studies. We used allozymes and mtDNA sequences to study variation in 62 populations from central coastal California, treated most recently as members of the B. pacificus complex. Analyses of mtDNA data identify four lineages that are well differentiated from each other and do not form a monophyletic group. Instead, the central coastal lineages are multiply paraphyletic with respect to the southern California members of the pacificus group. Marked allozymic differences show that these four lineages are strongly differentiated, although some limited gene exchange may have occurred in the past. Each lineage is also morphologically distinctive, but the differences between them are subtle. Because these lineages appear to be evolving independently, we describe them as new species: B. luciae, B. incognitus and B. minor, distributed parapatrically from north to south in the Santa Lucia Mountains of coastal Monterey and San Luis Obispo Counties, and B. gavilanensis, occurring mainly inland from the range of B. luciae, centered on the Gabilan Mountains, but also extending to the Pacific coast at the north end of the range of the complex, along the northern border of Monterey Bay. Although no sympatry is known among any of the new species, B. luciae and B. gavilanensis are narrowly parapatric. Furthermore, all but B. luciae occur in sympatry with other members of the genus in at least a part of their geographic ranges. The new species may have arisen vicariantly with respect both to each other and to related forms in southern California, in part as a result of the dramatic tectonic movements that have characterized the last 15 million years of geological history in western North America.
10.2307/1466975|We studied the population biology and ecology of the island night lizard (Xantusia riversiana) on Santa Barbara Island, California from 1981-1988. We trapped all the major habitats on the island, using pitfall traps and Sherman small mammal traps. In addition to permanently marking individuals by toe-clipping, we used specialized marking techniques on some individuals (fluorescent powder and radioactive tags) to study home range, movement and activity patterns. Island night lizards are exclusively diurnal and exceedingly secretive. Though generally cryptic in coloration, their dorsal coloration is highly variable. They occur most commonly in habitats providing dense vegetative cover (thickets of boxthorn and prickly pear) and in certain types of rock habitat. Night lizards are sedentary and have very small home ranges (x=17.2m<sup>2</sup>). They are slow-growing with some individuals living to at least 12 years old. The most common injuries (tail and scale injuries) apparently result from intraspecific fighting. A wide variety of terrestrial spiders and insects make up the majority of their diet, but they also feed on an unusually large amount of plant material for a small lizard. Because of their diverse diet, low metabolic rate and small, overlapping home ranges, they reach greater densities (>3200 lizards/ha in boxthorn) than previously reported for any other ground-dwelling lizard. Favorable habitat has been reduced because of past farming and grazing, but, given their wide distribution on the island, exceptionally high densities and current protection within a National Park, X. riversiana on Santa Barbara Island are not threatened with extinction, as was previously thought.
10.2307/1466979|We investigated patterns of variation at 22 allozyme loci in 53 populations of salamanders currently referred to Desmognathus ochrophaeus Cope. Analyses of genetic distance data revealed that a homogeneous and well-diffentiated form is distributed from New York to southeastern Kentucky, in and northwest of the Ridge and Valley Physiographic Province. To the south, two relatively well-differentiated, genetically homogeneous forms replace each other para-patrically in the Blue Ridge Physiographic Province at Iron Mountain Gap on the Tennessee-North Carolina border and somewhere between Linville Falls and McKinney Gap on the Blue Ridge divide. Farther south, a loose collection of relatively well-differentiated populations occupies the Blue Ridge Physiographic Province south of the Pigeon River. Patterns of isolation by distance are evident for interpopulational comparisons both within and among these forms, and genetic differentiation has been accompanied by various degrees of ethological reproductive isolation. We propose that the application of a single name to this complex of populations is no longer tenable, and name the four forms (from northeast to southwest): ochrophaeus, orestes sp. nov., carolinensis, and ocoee.
1467032|We report on a small collection of parachuting frogs from Sumatra and Java. Three new species are described. Rhacophorus achantharrhena is similar to R. dulitensis and R. prominanus and differs from these species by a suite of characters including morphology of the supratympanic fold, digital webbing, coloration, and morphometrics. These three species are unusual in having white visceral and parietal peritonea. Rhacophorus catamitus is a small species similar to R. angulirostris and differing from this species by having a calcar at the heel and reduced digital webbing. Rhacophorus barisani resembles R. baluensis but differs from this species in color pattern, habitus, webbing of the fingers, and morphology of the dermal appendages. A new specimen of Sumatran R. pardalis is described and compared to the holotype of R. pulchellus. Rhacophorus prominanus is reported from Gunung Rajabasa, Lampung. Two specimens are described and compared to Bornean R. dulitensis and R. prominanus from the Malay Peninsula. Rhacophorus tunkui Kiew is a junior subjective synonym of Rhacophorus prominanus Smith. Finally, we describe new specimens of Rhacophorus margaritifer from Cibodas, Java. Skeletons of the new species and of R. margaritifer are described in detail. Superficial jaw and throat musculature appears to be relatively conservative within the genus.
10.2307/1466996| To test the hypothesis that males will more vigorously defend high-value territories (those containing females versus those with no females), male green anoles (Anolis carolinensis) were allowed to establish residency in 50  25  31-cm terraria with or without a female present. Each male was then removed for 1, 3, 5, or 7 h while an intruder was given access to the terrarium. The original owner was then returned to the terrarium with the intruder present, and the aggressive acts of both males were recorded. An aggression index was calculated for each owner-intruder pair to determine which member "won" the contest. Owners won more contests than intruders after all removal times except 7 h. Aggression did not increase significantly at intermediate removal times, when both males may have perceived themselves as territory owners. When the value of a territory was increased by the presence of a female, aggression by both the owner and the intruder increased significantly after the 3-h owner removal time, and aggression by the intruder (but not owner) increased significantly after the 5-h owner removal time. Winners of territorial contests in male green anoles seem to be determined by the resource holding potential of the contestants, the value of a contested territory, and particularly the ability of males to assess each other. 
41406831|With robust new datasets from morphology and DNA sequences, we review the limbed, nonpentadactyl species of the Brachymeles samarensis complex (now known to include B. cebuensis, B. minimus, and B. lukbani), and describe five new species in this highly limb-reduced, endemic Philippine clade of scincid lizards. For more than four decades, B. samarensis has been recognized as a single "widespread" species. This perception of the species' peculiar geographic range has persisted as a result of weak sampling and similar gross morphology (body sizes, scale pigmentation) among populations. However, previous authors have noted morphological variation between different island populations, and our new data build on these observations and extend them to delimit new proposed species boundaries. Our data indicate that the "widespread" species B. samarensis is actually a complex of six distinct lineages, some of which are not each others' closest relatives, and each of which is genetically unique. The taxa we define possess allopatric geographic ranges and differ from their congeners by numerous diagnostic characters of external morphology, and therefore should be recognized as full species in accordance with any lineage-based species concept. Species diversity in the genus has doubled in the last 3 yr, with these six taxa increasing the total known number of species of Brachymeles to 30.
