3893248|Many lizards use caudal autotomy as an antipredatory strategy. We experimentally examined the effect of tail loss on the time-budgets, movement patterns, and home range size of the Iberian rock lizard Lacerta monticola in the field during the mating season. Our results indicate that tail loss did not alter most variables in male and female time-budgets but did affect the time spent moving and movement patterns of males. Tailless males spent less time moving and, when moving, more time on rocks, with shorter movements, more pauses, and less time on bushes than did tailed ones. Home range size was smaller in tailless males but did not differ between tailed and tailless females. The results suggest that tailless males may compensate the survival cost of autotomy by modifying their use of space and time; as a result, however, they may incur lower access to females.
3893369| Herpetological survey on Mt. Ayanganna in west-central Guyana resulted in the discovery of five species of Stefania occurring syntopically at about 1500 m. Two additional species occur at the base of the mountain. We describe three new species of Stefania and provide redescriptions and range extensions for four other Stefania. The number of Stefania known from Guyana increases from three to seven species. /// Cinco nuevas especies de Stefania han sido descubiertas tras un reconocimiento herpetolgico llevado a cabo en el Monte Ayanganna en la Guyana centro occidental. Las cinco especies han sido halladas en torno a los 1500 m de altitud. Dos especies mas han sido halladas en la base de la montaa. Se describen aqu tres especies nuevas de Stefania halladas. Para las restantes cuatro especies se recoge su redescripcin as como el rea de distribucin. El nmero de especies conocidas de Stefania aumenta de este modo de tres a siete especies. 
3892668| Ptychohyla sanctaecrucis is named from the subtropical wet forest of the Sierra de Santa Cruz in Guatemala. The genus Ptychohyla is redefined to include 10 species, the larvae of which have large ventral mouths with minimally 2-3/5, and up to 6/9, long tooth rows and well developed lateral folds. A new genus, Deullmanohyla, is described for the Central American group of hylid frogs with larvae having large pendant mouths with 2/2, 2/3, or 3/3 short tooth rows. The phylogeny of these problematical groups of frogs is analyzed with an emphasis on larval morphology and certain sexually dimorphic features. Two species, P. macrotympanum and D. chamulae, are resurrected from synonymy. /// Se describe una nueva especie de hylido, Ptychohyla sanctaecrucis, del bosque lluvioso subtropical de la Sierra de Santa Cruz, Guatemala. Se caracteriza por su gran tamao (hembras hasta 50.7 mm); machos adultos con pequeas espinas nupciales, y un canto que consiste en notas tartamudas y bajas; membranas interdigitales reducidas en las manos; iris castao muy plido, casi blanco, con finas marcas cafs. Las larvas poseen una boca grande ventral con pliegues laterales, dos hileras de papilas laterales, y dientes en hileras largas en relacin 5/7. La composicin del gnero Ptychohyla se redelimita haciendo nfasis en morfologa larval y caracteres relacionados a dimorfismo sexual. Se incluye en el gnero a Hyla salvadorensis, H. legeri, H. erythromma, Ptychohyla panchoi, P. merazi, P. sanctaecrucis, y las taxa del grupo euthysanota (sensu Duellman, 1970) antes reconocidas. Se describe un nuevo gnero de hylido, Duellmanohyla. Las larvas de este gnero poseen una boca gigante y pendiente con una hilera de papilas laterales y dientes en hileras cortas en relacin 2/2, 2/3, o 3/3. Se presenta un cladograma de los gneros Duellmanohyla y Ptychohyla y se sugiere estatus especfico para D. chamulae Duellman (1961) y P. macrotympanum (Tanner, 1957). 
3892345|Albumin evolution in 12 taxa of the genus Triturus was studied by the quantitative immunological technique of micro-complement fixation. Interpopulation albumin variation was identified within T. marmoratus and within the T. cristatus complex. Triturus cristatus and T. carnifex have very similar albumins and are each other's closest relatives; T. marmoratus is their next closest relative. All phylogenetic trees derived from reciprocal immunological distances indicate that the main lineages of modern Triturus diverged during the middle Miocene. These lineages are represented today by the T. helveticus, T. alpestris, and T. cristatus species groups.
3892091|Measurements or counts were made of 97 different features of the skulls of Farancia a. abacura, F. a. reinwardtii, F. e. erytrogramma and Pseudoeryx plicatilis. One-way analysis of variance of raw data, logarithmic transformations of the raw data, and ratios derived from all linear measurements demonstrated significant differences between two or more taxa for 72 raw variables, 56 log variables, and 30 ratio variables. Principal component and stepwise discriminant analyses revealed that optimal discrimination between taxa is achieved by much smaller subsets of variables that emphasize features of the toothed bones of the skull for raw and log variables and aspects of the braincase for ratio variables. All three data sets produce similar patterns of separation of taxa and indicate that Pseudoeryx is distinct from all Farancia taxa. Furthermore, the skulls of the Farancia taxa, including both subspecies of F. abacura, are significantly separated in multivariate space and separation of the two subspecies from each other requires little more information than does the separation of F. erytrogramma from both taxa of F. abacura.
3890770|Data on the ecology, size, scutellation, and pigmentation of 24 specimens and one newborn litter of 12 Natrix cyclopion from Illinois are given. Except for five individuals all are from the Pine Hills Swamp in Union County. Marginal habitat and abundance of Agkistrodon piscivorus probably contribute to scarcity of N. cyclopion in southern Illinois. Few Natrix of any species were found where A. piscivorus was abundant. N. cyclopion, unlike other species of Natrix, is apparently restricted in southern Illinois to Austroriparian swampland where it is ecologically sympatric with A. piscivorus. Stomachs of N. cyclopion contained Siren intermedia and sunfishes. Twelve young were born on 28 August 1969, and another female contained 14 half-term embryos on 25 July 1969.
3892335|Males of Ambystoma texanum in central Kentucky vigorously nudge females and other males prior to spermatophore deposition in a manner similar to that reported by Garton (1972) and Arnold (1972), but they do not dorsally amplex females or lead them forward to mount spermatophores as reported by Wyman (1971). Laboratory observations of courtship, as well as field observations of the spatial distribution of spermatophores at breeding sites in western Kentucky and southern Illinois, suggest that the non-amplexing pattern is characteristic of the species. Courtship of stream-breeding individuals differs from that of pond-breeding individuals observed by Garton (1972) in three ways: (1) the period between initiation of courtship and deposition of spermatophores is abbreviated, (2) females rarely nudge or court males, and (3) males often attempt to disrupt other males that are depositing spermatophores. The first two modifications may represent behavioral adaptations to breeding in streams, while the latter is presumed to be a form of sexual competition.
23352173|Understanding the relationship between climate-driven habitat conditions and survival is key to preserving biodiversity in the face of rapid climate change. Hydroperiodthe length of time water is in a wetlandis a critical limiting habitat variable for amphibians as larvae must metamorphose before ponds dry. Changes in precipitation and temperature patterns are affecting hydroperiod globally, but the impact of these changes on amphibian persistence is poorly understood. We studied the responses of Boreal Chorus Frog (Pseudacris maculata) tadpoles to simulated hydroperiods (i.e., water level reductions) in the laboratory using individuals collected from ponds spanning a range of natural hydroperiods (Colorado Front Range, USA). To assess the effects of experimental hydroperiod reduction, we measured mortality, time to metamorphosis, and size at metamorphosis. We found that tadpoles grew at rates reflecting the hydroperiods of their native ponds, regardless of experimental treatment. Tadpoles from permanent ponds metamorphosed faster than those from ephemeral ponds across all experimental treatments, a pattern which may represent a predation selection gradient or countergradient variation in developmental rates. Size at metamorphosis did not vary across experimental treatments. Mortality was low overall but varied with pond of origin. Our results suggest that adaptation to local hydroperiod and/or predation and temperature conditions is important in P. maculata. Moreover, the lack of a plastic response to reduced hydroperiods suggests that P. maculata may not be able to metamorphose quickly enough to escape drying ponds. These results have important implications for amphibian persistence in ponds predicted to dry more quickly due to rapid climate change.
3891504| The small, green, spiny-tailed iguanids of Amazonian South America comprise a single polytypic species, including Uracentron azureum azureum in eastern Brazil and the Guayanan region, U. azureum guentheri in western Brazil and eastern Peru, and U. azureum werneri in eastern and central Colombia and southwestern Venezuela. The hemipenis is very similar to that of another tropidurine, Plica plica. Uracentron azureum is diurnal, arboreal, and eats mainly ants. A clutch consists of one or two relatively large eggs. Antipredator behavior includes climbing, biting, and lashing the tail. A specimen from near the Brazilian border in Vaups documents the occurence of Uracentron flaviceps in east-central Colombia and sympatry with U. azureum. 
3892458| A new species of chelid turtle, Platemys macrocephala, is described from the upper Rio Mamor of central Bolivia and the Pantanal region of the upper Rio Paraguai of Brazil. It is most closely related to P. radiolata and differentiated mainly by its wider head, more robust skull, and larger body size. 
3893450|Evidence for ecological character displacement must include correlation between the morphological character in question and the function of that character in the organisms' environment. Examination of the cranial skeletons and jaw components of sympatric populations of Plethodon cinereus and Plethodon hoffmani correlate well with the sympatric shift in diet in these two species relative to their respective allopatric populations. This hypothesized relationship between cranial features and diet is consistent with ecological character displacement. A biomechanical model predicts a stronger, slower jaw in sympatric P. cinereus and a faster, weaker jaw in P. hoffmani relative to their respective allopatric populations. Inherent in this model is the assumption that no differences in the jaw muscles exist. Here we test this assumption using data on jaw muscle mass and tooth number in sympatric and allopatric populations of P. cinereus and P. hoffmani. Our findings indicate significant differences between species, but no consistent pattern of character displacement in these structures. We discuss the consistency of our data with the previously proposed biomechanical model and alternative hypotheses.
3891641|Habitat selection with respect to ground cover and relative light intensity was studied in two sympatric tropical anoline lizards. Apparently microhabitat variation, consisting of differences in ground cover, light intensity and possibly relative humidity, accounts for much of the observed habitat selection behavior in the anoles studied. In artificial enclosures placed in the field, Anolis humilis preferentially selected leaf litter over grass ground cover; Anolis limifrons demonstrated a significant preference for grass cover. Anolis humilis oriented itself to reduced light intensity within the microhabitat enclosures, whereas A. limifrons failed to show this orientation behavior. In A. humilis, narrow ecological adaptation to deep-shaded habitats rich in leaf litter may reflect moisture tolerance limits of adults and juveniles, egg desiccation rates affecting mortality, or predation pressures. A broader ecological spectrum of adaptation is argued for A. limifrons due to its greater behavioral plasticity with respect to habitat selection. A discussion and model of proximate and ultimate factors affecting anole habitat selection is presented. Research in the areas of behavioral and physiological ecology may pinpoint more precise cause-effect relationships with respect to the habitat selection process in anoline lizards.
3891637|Analysis of the relationships of six genera of caecilians (Amphibia: Gymnophiona) by microcomplement fixation techniques gave immunological distances of from 70 units to 210 units for Dermophis to other genera. The times of divergence indicated for these genera are consistent with those postulated on zoogeographic grounds.
3892059|Body temperatures
3893213|We electrophoretically assayed 32 gene loci in the Sceloporus scalaris complex. We sampled 208 animals from 22 localities representing the following: Sceloporus aeneus (12 localities), S. bicanthalis (five localities), S. chaneyi (one locality), S. goldmani (one locality), and S. scalaris samcolemani (two localities), and we used Sceloporus parvus and S. variabilis as outgroups. Of the 32 gene loci, 11 were uninformative, 10 were polymorphic both within and among species, and 11 were polymorphic among species but monomorphic within species. Thirteen diagnostic loci, plus two morphological characteristics (number of canthal scales and male belly patterns) and the type of parity mode present, define a total of eight genetically and/or morphologically distinct ingroup units. Cladistic analysis of these markers suggests at least two separate origins of viviparity within the complex (based on the most parsimonious trees from the cladistic analysis), as well as the possibility of reproductively bimodal groups within the complex. A phylogenetic hypothesis of the complex is presented.
3891495|Reproductive data for the freshwater and terrestrial turtle species found in north Florida is presented. Reproductive strategies range from production of a single, small clutch annually (as in Terrapene carolina) to continuous production of large clutches throughout the year (as in Chrysemys floridana). Turtle size is positively correlated with both clutch size and estimated annual fecundity. Unstandardized egg volume is positively correlated with turtle size and clutch size. Relative egg volume (standardized to turtle size) is negatively correlated with clutch size. The relationship of habitat to reproductive strategy is discussed.
3892244|Habitat modeling offers an approach to understanding some management problems of desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) and to focusing new research efforts. Modeling can provide (1) a method to organize existing information, (2) a means to identify whether physical habitat or some factor outside the scope of the habitat model is limiting populations, (3) a method to integrate habitat into resource development planning, and (4) a mechanism for focusing research on missing species-habitat information.
3891277|In captivity under almost constant artificial conditions, sexual behavior and mating occur throughout most of the year, but fertility is different. Matings in the first half-year are 100% fertile, whereas those from the second half-year are only 33.3% fertile.
3892411|Populations of the garter snake Thamnophis sirtalis in the Lake Erie area are polymorphic, consisting of striped and melanistic morphs. The frequency of melanistic morphs is similar between sexes but varies greatly among seven island and 15 mainland sites: from 0.00-0.59. Thermoregulatory differences thought to exist between morphs have not resulted in differences between morphs in frequency of reproduction by adult females or in snout-vent length of adults of either sex. Non-selective factors (genetic drift, founder effect) may influence morph frequencies but have not produced significantly greater variance in morph frequency among island sites than among mainland sites.
3893541| The green anole (Anolis carolinensis, Sauria: Polychrotidae) is the only native member of the neotropical genus in the United States and can be found as far north as North Carolina and Tennessee. Green anoles remain active throughout the winter in Tennessee, a rare behavior for reptiles at this latitude (35 34 N). In the Little Tennessee River population observed, individuals shift habitats in winter to a south-facing bluff where they aggregate in rock crevices at night and on cloudy days. The crevices provide thermal protection from air temperatures that routinely drop below freezing. Aggregations did not seem to provide any thermal benefits to lizards. Lizards emerged from the crevices when the sun illuminated their section of the bluff. The emergence order of lizards from a crevice was nonrandom; some lizards consistently emerged earlier than others. Position in the emergence sequence was determined by the depth of the lizard within the crevice, with shallow lizards emerging first. Lizards remained close to the same group of crevices throughout the entire winter and often returned to the same section of the bluff the following winter season. 
3892871| Field work in the summer of 1990 on Martinique, French Antilles, led to the discovery of a new species of Colostethus (Anura: Dendrobatidae). The new species is a small (snout-vent length <20 mm), brown frog which can easily be identified by its distinct ventral coloration. The venter is a uniform pale orange in life, with males having a dark throat and a black collar covering the entire hyoid region. Toe webbing is reduced to barely perceptible vestigial webbing between toes III and IV. The species has a crepuscular activity cycle and a distinctive, high-pitched call. Its habitat is restricted to the upper slopes of Montagne Pele on the island of Martinique in the central Lesser Antilles. Its discovery is remarkable because it was not recognized previously on this otherwise herpetologically well-known island, and because it is the only known member of the frog family Dendrobatidae endemic to an oceanic island. 
3893567|The selection of an appropriate ambush site by a sit-and-wait predator is necessary for maintaining an adequate energy intake for survival and for future reproduction, especially when events are of long duration. We tested whether the snake Echis coloratus (Viperidae), a sit-and-wait predator, selects specific ambush sites in an oasis setting. We characterized the sites used by 22 individuals near a desert spring and compared them to randomly selected available sites. Ambush sites were not random; they were usually located <5 m from water on raised objects. Females, but not males, occurred more frequently under cover than expected by random choice. Field observations did not enable us to determine the cues that lead the snakes to locate their ambush. Thus, we used semi-natural enclosures to test the hypothesis that E. coloratus uses prey chemical cues when selecting its ambush sites. Most ambushes were located in sites with cover, whether the odor of gerbils was present or not. Even when odors from additional prey species were presented, there was no preference for sites with odor over control sites. The results suggest that E. coloratus at the oasis set ambushes in microhabitats that provide cover, high probability for encounters with prey, and, possibly, a physiologically convenient humid environment. The cues used by E. coloratus for predicting future prey availability seem to be the structure of the microhabitat rather than prey odor.
3891740|An apparently isolated population of Rana maculata is reported from the Mountain Pine Ridge of Belize, Central America. The tadpoles, which differ strikingly in pigmentation from previously described R. maculata, are illustrated and described. A recently metamorphosed individual is described and a map of the known distribution of R. maculata is presented. This constitutes a northward range extension of 160 km and is the first record of R. maculata from Belize.
3893010| Spermatozoa of Cnemidophorus sexlineatus were studied by transmission and scanning electron microscopy. The cell is filiform, 62 m long and 0.6 m in diameter. Organization of the midpiece with five sets of ring structures and mitochondria (designated rsl/mil... rs5/mi5), terminated by an annulus, an, is homologized to spermatozoa of other species of lizards, notably Old World Lacerta. An acrosomal filament composed of 8 nm fibers is present in spermatozoa isolated from the ductus deferens. The nucleus has two curves which offset the head of the sperm from the cell axis. The flagellar fibrous sheath begins at rs3 and enwraps the flagellum to 1 m above its terminus. The flagellar axoneme is of the typical 9-doublet + 2-central-singlet microtubule construction. The A-tubules contain electron-dense material. Microtubule-fibrous sheath connectives and fibrous sheath-cell membrane connectives were observed. Extracellular tubules attend maturing spermatozoa in the ductus deferens. A maturation process is suggested for male sex cells in the female tract. Spermatozoa in the ductus deferens are characterized by spatulate acrosomes and bends of the midpiece at rs2/mi2. Spermatozoa flushed from the oviduct/uterus have pointed acrosomes and are straight in the midpiece. 
3892651|I examined differences of the feeding behavior between two species of rat snakes (Elaphe quadrivirgata and E. climacophora) in three age classes. I compared feeding durations, proficiency of immediate constriction, and effects of prey size on prey handling method, direction of ingestion, and condition of prey at ingestion. All snakes, except one group of E. quadrivirgata that was raised by force feeding, were raised on mice and resultant feeding behavior was compared when they were approximately 1 yr old (yearlings) and 2 yr old (juveniles). Feeding durations were compared between species in three age classes (hatchlings, yearlings, and juveniles). Yearlings and juveniles of E. quadrivirgata showed less efficient prey handling behavior when compared to E. climacophora in some points such as proficiency of constriction and condition of prey at ingestion. Mouse-fed yearlings of E. quadrivirgata tended to kill large mice before swallowing, whereas force-fed yearlings of E. quadrivirgata swallowed them alive, indicating that feeding experience with actual prey is important to develop adequate handling behavior. Elaphe quadrivirgata took longer to handle and ingest mice than E. climacophora as hatchlings but not as juveniles. Coupled with earlier studies, I suggest that E. quadrivirgata, a generalist feeder, is less efficient in mouse-feeding than E. climacophora and E. taeniura, endothermic prey specialists, throughout early development.
3893065|The habitat in which a predator experiences the highest level of foraging success may depend on the complexity of the structure within that habitat. Visual perception of prey may increase in an open habitat where structure is absent, whereas a predator's crypsis in an ambush posture may increase in a highly complex habitat. We examined the effect of variation in habitat structural complexity on the predatory success of the semi-arboreal snake Elaphe obsoleta spiloides foraging for small mammals (Mus domesticus). Individual snakes searched for mice in large enclosures containing one of five levels of vegetation density. Latency to prey capture and snake behaviors were recorded on video tape for each foraging episode. Gray rat snakes were least proficient at capturing prey in enclosures devoid of vegetation, but latency to prey capture was not reliably affected by variation in the density of vegetation within the enclosures. Subjects spent over 95% of foraging time performing 10 of the 20 described behaviors; three behaviors occurred more often than the other seven regardless of variation in structural complexity of habitat. Experimental manipulation of structural complexity within simulated habitats did not influence predatory success or behavioral expression in gray rat snakes foraging for small rodents.
4497950|Predators use characteristics such as pattern and shape in forming search images of prey, thereby influencing the evolution of prey morphology. In lizards, sit-and-wait foraging species are thought to have body shapes that enhance their ability to remain cryptic to predators. Structurally complex habitats provide more opportunities for prey to avoid detection, thus predator foraging efficiency is predicted to be higher in structurally simple habitats. I used clay lizard models to test whether predation varies among lizards with different body shapes and whether predation varies among habitats in the Brazilian Cerrado with different structural characteristics. Predator attack frequency was highest in the most structurally complex habitat, but the probability of being attacked was higher in more open microhabitats. Attack frequencies did not significantly differ among the four lizard model shapes. Lizards and birds were the main attackers of models and attacks were primarily directed toward the models' heads. My results demonstrate that predator-prey interactions are largely influenced by the environmental context and scale, and that body shape alone does not efficiently promote crypsis.
3892263|Oxytetracycline when injected intramuscularly produces fluorochrome in bones of the sea-turtle Chelonia mydas (L.). Dosages of from 5-28 mg/kg body weight produced in vivo labels, with no apparent effects on the experimental animals. Brightness of the fluorescence varied with dosage. The label was incorporated rapidly and lasted for 3 yr in the sample. The results are comparable to those from studies performed on mammals, and proffer a useful technique for measuring accretion of hard tissue in herpetological studies-especially for age determination and growth.
3891600| Morphological and histological studies were made of the skins of the snakes Leptotyphlops dulcis, Tantilla gracilis, T. nigriceps, Sonora episcopa, and Virginia striatula to elucidate integumental adaptations which might enable these sympatric species to inhabit subterranean environments. Scale morphology and skin histology are described, illustrated, and compared. Special emphasis is placed on the structure, formation, and distribution of a new proposed scale zone, the free margin. Functional strategies of the free margin and Oberhutchen layer are discussed and correlated with species' burrowing abilities. It is suggested that free margins function in body streamlining and traction. 
3893127| I studied the population dynamics of Tropidurus itambere in an outcrop formation in Valinhos, So Paulo State, southeastern Brazil. I carried out a mark-recapture study on a 1.72 ha grid from February 1993 to January 1995. I estimated density (number of individuals/ha), biomass (g/ha), sex ratio, age structure, and the observed population growth rate (r) monthly. Survival (persistence) rates of males and females were estimated between successive reproductive seasons. Density varied seasonally, increasing during the recruitment period. The observed population growth rates varied monthly and their mean value (r = 0.015) was positive, though small, suggesting that this population was marginally increasing. The sex ratio of juveniles was 1:1, suggesting there is no between-sex differences in birth rate. Within adults, female-biased sex ratios occurred during the reproductive seasons (December-March), and these biases may result from the spacing pattern of adults in the habitat in these seasons. Survival rates between successive reproductive seasons did not differ statistically between sexes, although survival rates for females (0.35) were higher than for males (0.25). 
3892311|In this paper, I compare the reproductive biology of Desmognathus fuscus and Desmognathus santeetlah from the Unicoi Mountains of eastern Tennessee and western North Carolina. Male D. santeetlah mature at approximately 30 mm snout-vent length (SVL); male D. fuscus mature at approximately 35 mm SVL. Males of both species show little seasonal variation in reproductive structures once sexual maturity is attained. Female SVL at maturity is 35 mm in D. santeetlah and 40 mm in D. fuscus. Males of both species mature at approximately 2 yr of age, females at approximately 3 yr. Oviposition in D. santeetlah peaks during June and mean clutch size is 21.3 ova. Mean clutch size in D. fuscus is 22.9 and oviposition takes place primarily in July. Mean clutch sizes of the two species differ significantly when corrected for SVL. Hatching in the laboratory occurs in 50-60 days in both species. Principal nesting sites of D. fuscus are beneath rocks along streambanks; D. santeetlah oviposit most commonly beneath mosses on rocks or logs in seepage areas. Differences in reproduction between the two species are as distinct as their genetic and morphological differences.
3892816|Prairie rattlesnakes, Crotalus viridis, responded to natural prey, Peromyscus maniculatus, with the same motor patterns seen when Mus musculus were prey (experiments 1 and 2). Further, C. viridis rapidly formed chemical search images of these natural prey (experiments 3 and 4). With the snake behind a barrier, chemical trails were made with two deer mice, neither envenomated. Then the snake struck one of these mice and was allowed to choose between the two trails, with neither mouse present. The trail previously made by the mouse that was eventually struck was selected on 83.3% of the trials. Results were identical when the the two trails were made with sibling mice raised together.
4497948|Previous research suggests that female red-backed salamanders (Plethodon cinereus) in Virginia court biennially whereas males court annually. Therefore, males may face a choice to court either gravid or nongravid females. Because gravid females represent an immediate insemination opportunity (whereas nongravid females do not), male red-backed salamanders may be under selection to be able to distinguish the reproductive status of conspecific females. We conducted an experiment to determine if males could discriminate between gravid and nongravid conspecific females through volatile chemical signals. Focal males were allowed to establish territories in testing arenas for 5 d and then were exposed to three treatments in a randomized order: volatile chemical signals from gravid females, nongravid females, and a control (blank filter paper). Randomization tests revealed that focal males exhibited significantly more aggressive behavior when they were exposed to volatile chemical signals from nongravid females than when they were exposed to those from gravid females and the control. We infer that male red-backed salamanders. can determine the reproductive status of conspecific females through volatile chemical signals, which may influence their social associations.
3892212|Ptychohyla merazi is described from moderate elevations of the Cordillera de Nombre de Dios in northern Honduras. Its relationships lie with the members of the P. euthysanota group and P. panchoi. The tadpole is described and figured. We suggest that the genus Ptychohyla is not a monophyletic group.
3893025| The northernmost member of the genus Diploglossus is described from the Sierra Madre Oriental in Puebla, Mexico. This new terrestrial species is relatively large (up to 113 mm snout-vent length) compared to other species inhabiting Mexico and northern Central America, with only the arboreal D. atitlanensis attaining a similar snout-vent length. The new Pueblan species differs from its northern mainland congeners in a number of features, including having a distinctive bright red ventrolateral band extending between axilla and groin. We review the northern mainland species of Diploglossus and provide annotated synonymies, diagnoses, and a discussion of the distribution and habits of each species occurring from Mexico to Nicaragua. Diploglossus atitlanensis is resurrected from the synonymy of D. bivittatus. /// Se describe al miembro ms norteo del gnero Diploglossus de la Sierra Madre Oriental en Puebla, Mxico. Esta nueva especie es terrestre y relativamente grande (hasta 113 mm SVL) comparada con las otras especies que habitan Mxico y el norte de Centro Amrica, solamente la especie arbrea D. atitlanensis adquiere un tamao similar. La nueva especie Poblana difiere de sus parientes norteos continentales por una serie de caractersticas, entre ellas se encuentra el poseer una banda ventrolateral distintiva de color rojo brillante entre la axila y la ingle. Se revisa las especies norteas continentales del gnero Diploglossus y se provee una lista de sinonimias, diagnsticos, y una discusin de la distribucin y hbitos de cada especie que ocurre de Mxico a Nicaragua. Diploglossus atitlanensis se resucita de la sinonimia de D. bivittatus. 
25621911|We measured body size of individuals from two populations of the southern crested newt, Triturus karelinii, from two localities at different altitudes (7 m, Klaros and 1373 m, Readiye) in Turkey. Lines of arrested growth (LAGs) recorded in phalanges were used to estimate the age of juveniles and adults. Females were on average larger than males in Klaros, and males were on average larger than females in Readiye. Our results did not follow the Bergmann's rule and developmental temperature-size rule: for both sexes, the individuals of lowland population were larger than the individuals of highland population. Significant differences were found between the populations in terms of mean SVL (snoutvent length). The average age was calculated as 6.14  1.51 and 6.16  1.46 yr in Klaros and 5.30  1.20 and 5.76  1.26 yr in Readiye, for males and females respectively. No significant differences were found between the age distributions of the females in both populations. Both sexes from lowland population had age distributions that were similar to their counterparts from highland population. The growth curves for T. karelinii populations were well described in a Von Bertalanffy growth model. K was not significantly different between the sexes. However, ${\rm SVL}_{\text{max}}$ was significantly larger in females than males in both populations
3891217| The recent acquisition of series of many species of Ecuadorian eleutherodactyline frogs has permitted the re-evaluation of the status of several species. Eleutherodactylus carrioni Parker is considered a synonym of E. lymani Barbour and Noble. Eleutherodactylus margaritifer (Boulenger) is considered a synonym of E. galdi (Jimnez de la Espada). Eleutherodactylus flavomaculatus Parker is transferred to the genus Niceforonia. Eleutherodactylus cajamarcensis Barbour and Noble is redescribed and reported from localities in the Andes of southern Ecuador; this species is closely related to E. unistrigatus (Gnther). 
25621902|Six species of Geophis occur in eastern Nuclear Central America: G. damiani, G. dunni, G. fulvoguttatus, G. hossmanni, G. nephodrymus, and G. rhodogaster. These species are assigned to two species groups: the dubius group and the sieboldi group. Geophis nephodrymus is a species endemic to an isolated cloud forest locality in northwestern Honduras and was recently described based on a single specimen. Subsequently, an additional 16 speciments of G. nephodrymus were collected, demonstrating considerable morphological variation. This variation is characterized using features of morphology and color pattern. A key to the species of Geophis from eastern Nuclear Central America is provided. Of these six species, two meet the IUCN criteria for designation as Critically Endangered and two more as Endangered.
3893231| We studied the variability of 25 isozymes among 14 populations of tree lizards, Urosaurus, in Baja California, Mxico. Populations were distributed from Cabo San Lucas northward to Catavia, including both the peninsula and the Islands of Cedros, Danzante, and San Marcos. Twenty loci were variable and 18 were scored for all populations examined. We detected significant substructuring among the populations. Urosaurus sensu "nigricaudus" from the southern peninsular could be differentiated from more northernly distributed tree lizards by the apomorphic expression of Man-A in liver and/or muscle tissue. Two synapomorphies unite northern U. microscutatus and U. lahtelai. They share a duplicated Pep-B locus and a silenced duplicated Pep-A locus; sAat-A is polymorphic in northern populations but monomorphic as the apomorphic state in the south. These patterns are correlated with two ancient trans-peninsular seaways. A southern late Tertiary trans-peninsular seaway may have isolated U. nigricaudus from U. microscutatus at the Isthmus of La Paz. Genetic differences between populations of U. microscutatus north and south of the mid-peninsular Vizcano Desert are correlated with the mid-Pleistocene seaway that further subdivided the peninsula into an archipelago. The patterns of allelic distribution also indicate ongoing gene flow. Thus, we recommend synonymization of Urosaurus microscutatus with U. nigricaudus. We tentatively recognize U. lahtelai pending further investigation. 
3892661| An analysis of karyotypes, allozymes, color pattern, and distribution indicates that the Sceloporus magister complex is composed of three species. Sceloporus zosteromus is endemic to the Baja California peninsula and is composed of what was formerly considered S. rufidorsum, S. monserratensis, and S. zosteromus. The insular endemic of Isla Santa Catalina, S. lineatulus, is given full species status, and S. magister is considered here to be monotypic and to contain the remaining populations. /// El complejo Sceloporus magister est compuesto de tres especies; S. zosteromus de Baja California, S. lineatulus de Isla Santa Catalina en el Golfo de California, y S. magister del suroeste de los Estados Unidos y noroeste de Mxico. Se muestre que todas las subespecies de este complejo son clases patrones y se recomende que ellos no se deben a reconocer en clasificaciones con base en linajes. 
3892148|Male carpenter frogs, Rana virgatipes, have a complex vocal repertoire consisting of a 1-10 note advertisement call, a single-note aggressive call, a multi-note aggressive call, a release call, and a growl given during wrestling. Females have a single-note call that is given during courtship. Dominant frequency and intensity of calls are correlated with body size, but the strength of the correlation decreases as body size increases. Calling activity occurs between sunset and sunrise, peaks around midnight, and is influenced by chorus density. Playback experiments were conducted using natural stimuli to investigate the response of territorial males to the proximity, size, and calling behavior of neighboring males. Males increased the number of aggressive calls as stimulus intensity increased and gave more aggressive responses to aggressive calls than to advertisement calls. When males were presented with calls of large and small males, they responded to the calls of the smaller male with more total notes and more single-note aggressive calls. Small males are more likely to retreat in response to a vocal intrusion.
3892748|The feeding behavior of animals can be modified in response to hunger. This study examined how hunger influences striking, prey-handling, and venom expenditure by prairie rattlesnakes (Crotalus v. viridis) feeding on deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus). Eleven snakes were allowed to strike mice after seven and 28 days of food deprivation (i.e., well-fed and hungry conditions, respectively) in a repeated measures design. Hungry snakes were somewhat less successful in striking (more missed attempts), but the frequency of multiple bites, site struck, distance of strike, duration of strike, handling of prey (hold versus release), and latency to begin prey relocation (strike-induced chemosensory searching) did not vary between conditions. Hungry snakes expended less venom when securing prey than well-fed snakes, due perhaps to conservation of venom supplies or constraints on venom delivery. Performance of envenomated mice, including distance traveled and time to immobilization and death, did not differ between conditions. Apparently rattlesnakes do not respond to increased hunger by reducing the risks associated with the release and possible loss of envenomated rodent prey.
3892735|We examined availability of soil invertebrates in Berlese samples in a Mediterranean locality in central Spain and compared availability with the actual diet of the amphisbaenian Blanus cinereus. Although a greater diversity of prey types was found beneath stones than elsewhere, the occurrence of B. cinereus under stones was not reflected in its diet. This species is somewhat opportunistic and mainly feeds on insect larvae and ants, which are the most abundant invertebrates. However, larvae of larger size are selected in higher proportion than their availability, and some of the genera of ants are not eaten. Compared to epigeal lizards, low numbers of prey items per stomach were found, suggesting relatively lower energy requirements. The absence of a correlation between predator and prey size, as well as the relationships between food availability and diet, suggests that B. cinereus selects scarce, energy-rich prey, probably requiring search efforts. In these circumstances, the energetically less favorable but more abundant prey would provide a more generalist diet.
3892370|Survivorship of eggs of the lizard Anolis limifrons was monitored at two sites at Barro Colorado Island in Panama. At AVA and Lutz sites, egg survivorship was 34% and 17%, respectively, over the 40-day incubation period. Of the eggs that did not survive, 15 were killed by ants (Solenopsis spp.), 3 were killed by snails, 2 were killed by unknown predators, and 18 disappeared. At AVA site, the density of lizards was about two times greater than at Lutz site. The results of life-table analyses suggest that the greater density of lizards at AVA site can be attributed to greater egg survival at AVA than at Lutz site.
3893057|We describe a new species of Pseudoeurycea from the northern versant of the state of Oaxaca, Mexico. This is the only aquatic species of bolitoglossine salamander known. Besides its aquatic behavior, this species differs from congeners by having very long legs, a triangular shaped head with nostrils that can be completely closed, and relatively few maxillary teeth. This remarkable new species of salamander may have become extinct over two decades ago.
3892976|Ecologists have a tendency to use parametric statistics when testing hypotheses despite evidence that requisite assumptions are not satisfied. Nonparametric statistical methods, which rely on fewer and milder assumptions, are less frequently employed in the ecological literature. We discuss several concepts relevant to comparing parametric to nonparametric procedures including power, robustness, resistance, the central limit theorem, independence, and transformations. We suggest that presumptuous usage of parametric statistical methods may lead to unjustified inferences in ecology; alternative nonparametric methods are available but seldom utilized.
3893178|I tested the effect of reproduction on food intake of the striped plateau lizard, Sceloporus virgatus, a sit-and-wait foraging lizard with a high relative clutch mass (RCM). I maintained male-female pairs in outdoor enclosures throughout the production of females' single annual clutches, observed feeding behavior during methodical feeding trials performed thrice weekly, and related both male and female feeding behavior to the reproductive state of the female. Female food intake was significantly reduced during gravidity, relative to that during vitellogenesis and following oviposition. This reduction was due to decreases in both the frequency and the size of meals. A limitation of abdominal space due to maximization of current reproductive output (i.e., filling the abdomen with eggs) may largely regulate this relationship in species with high RCM; other mechanisms may regulate the same relationship in species with relatively low RCM. Male food intake was significantly less than that of females when females were vitellogenic and receptive to male courtship. During female gravidity, male intake was significantly greater than that of females. No sex differences in food intake were observed after females oviposited. These differences in male and female feeding behavior can be significant components of the differences in reproductive investment between the sexes.
41239003|We describe a new species of treefrog of the Scinax ruber clade related to Scinax fuscomarginatus from southwest of the state of Gois in central Brazil. The new species is characterized by its small size (snout-vent length of males, 15.9-18.6 mm; females, 18.1-18.7 mm), very slender body, a snout that is strongly acute in lateral view and subelliptical in dorsal view, two lateral broad blackish stripes from the posterior corner of the eye to inguinal region, reduced toe webbing, and advertisement calls that are a single pulsed note with a pulse period of 2-13 ms and a dominant frequency of 2.51-5.95 kHz. Vocalizations of the new species and S. fuscomarginatus, Scinax parkeri, Scinax squalirostris, and Scinax wandae are provided and discussed.
3893609|Kin discrimination, or the differential treatment of kin, is evident in a wide variety of taxa. The benefits and costs of kin discrimination may vary according to social and ecological conditions, causing discrimination to be context specific. We tested for context-dependent kin discrimination in the red-backed salamander (Plethodon cinereus), a terrestrial species in which adults of both sexes defend feeding territories in which juveniles are often found. If individuals demonstrate the ability to discriminate kin from non-kin, this action would indicate that a mechanism for long-term parental care is present. Mother salamanders may provide protection for juveniles by defending territories from cannibalistic intruders or by feeding on large invertebrates that are predators of juveniles. However, mother salamanders did not significantly discriminate their offspring from unrelated neonates when simple interactions between the two were monitored or when conspecific intruders were added to chambers. Neonates did not behave significantly differently toward mothers than they did toward unrelated females during simple interactions. They also failed to discriminate between substrates that had been scented by their mothers and those that had been scented by unrelated females. When given a choice between related and unrelated neonates, however, females cannibalized unrelated neonates significantly more than their own offspring. This study suggests that kin discrimination between mothers and offspring may occur only in particular contexts, but that mothers possess the mechanism by which they are able to discriminate their offspring from unrelated neonates.
3891478|Sixty-nine nests of the four-toed salamander (Hemidactylium scutatum) were studied in two ponds in Virginia during 1979. More than one female often laid eggs in the same nest, but brooding was always a solitary activity. The presence of a female attending a nest increased embryonic survival. The selective basis for the communal nesting and solitary brooding is unclear.
40931040|I describe a new species of Riatna from the Pacific versant of the Andes in extreme southwestern Colombia. Among the species o Riama, the new species most resembles R. vieta, with which it shares rugose dorsal and ventral scales. Unlike R. vieta, the new species has three postoculars and males lack heavy black spots dorsally and black bands ventrally. Males of the new species have seven to eight femoral pores per leg (total number 14-15) and two scales between the femoral pores (anterior cloacal plate scales paired). Describo una nueva especie de Riama de la vertiente del Pacfico de los Andes del suroccidente de Colombia. Entre las especies de Riama, la ms parecida es f. vieta, con la cual comparte la caracterstica de tener escamas dorsales y ventrales rugosas. A diferencia de f. vieta, la nueva especie tiene tres escamas postoculares y los machos carecen de notorias manchas negras dorsalmente y bandas negras ventralmente. Los machos de la nueva especie tienen siete a ocho poros femorales en cada miembro posterior (nmero total 14-15) y dos escamas entre los poros femorales (plato cloacal anterior compuesto de dos escamas).
3891575|Bunopus aspratilis is a new species of gekkonine lizard differing from other members of the genus in having all scales of body, tail, limbs, and head, with exception of labials, chin shields, and nasals, prominently keeled. A key to the five species of Bunopus recognized currently is provided.
3892549| The Telmatobufo venustus tadpole is a mountain type larva. It is suggested that this larval type, which is shared with Telmatobufo australis, could be characteristic of the genus. Telmatobufo is the only anuran genus in Chile having this larval type. Conclusions relative to generic relationships can be derived from larval characteristics. /// Se describe la larva de Telmatobufo venustus. Esta y la de Telmatobufo australis son larvas del tipo de montaa. Se propone que esta es una caracterstica de Telmatobufo, siendo este el nico gnero de Leptodactylidae conocido en Chile con este tipo de larva. Esta caracterstica es compartida con leptodactlidos Sudafricanos y Australianos. 
3891612|Samples of Plethodon gordoni, Plethodon dunni and Plethodon vehiculum from an area of sympatry in western Oregon were examined by methods of starch-gel electrophoresis involving 24 presumptive genetic loci. Although P. dunni and P. vehiculum are very distinct from one another (D = 1.208) and from Plethodon elongatus (D = 1.320 and 1.708, respectively), P. gordoni is nearly identical (D = 0.001) to P. dunni. Attempts to verify reported morphological distinctions between P. dunni and P. gordoni were unsuccessful, and thus available evidence suggests strongly that P. gordoni is only a somewhat localized color morph of P. dunni.
3893270|Although the pectoral-girdle of sooglossids and the ranid taxa Rana rugulosa, R. tigerina, and R. occipitalis have been considered to be morphologically unique among anurans, two recent studies suggest they are not. The ventromedial parts of the pectoral girdles of adults of R. rugulosa (Ranidae) and Nesomantis thomasseti (Sooglossidae) were studied using histological sectioning. The pectoral girdle of N. thomasseti is arciferal with epicoracoid cartilages that are fused anteriorly but free and overlapping posteriorly; epicoracoid horns are present. The pectoral girdle of R. rugulosa is unique among anurans because the epicoracoids are fused anteriorly and posteriorly and overlapping, but not free, in between. However, the nature of the overlap of the epicoracoids in R. rugulosa differs morphologically from that of arciferal taxa.
3891617|The South American chelid turtle Phrynops gibbus has previously been reported from Trinidad, Surinam, Guyana, French Guiana, the Iquitos region of Peru, eastern Ecuador, northeastern Venezuela, the Departamento of Meta, the Intendencias of Caqueta and Casanare and the Comisaria of Vaupes in Colombia, and the states of Para and Mato Grosso in Brazil. New locality records reported here extend the range of P. gibbus into southern Venezuela, the Vichada of Colombia and the upper Amazon region of Colombia and Brazil. Examination of the Mato Grosso specimen revealed that it is not P. gibbus. Clutch size in P. gibbus varies from 2 to 4 and eggs are laid in a variety of sites. Incubation period ranges from 178 to 200 days and hatchlings weigh 10 to 15 g and range in size from 43 to 48 mm. Phrynops gibbus lives in a variety of aquatic habitats, most of them stagnant or slowly flowing and muddy bottomed.
3892376|Only 50-70% of the female Chrysemys picta in southern Michigan reproduce every year, and approximately 10% produce two clutches in a season. Energy allocation to the largest class of follicles begins at least 10 months prior to egg laying. The average female enters brumation with half of the 222 kJ of an average clutch already in follicles that are approximately 14 mm in diameter. Between emergence in the spring and egg laying, stored body lipids may supply the remaining 50% of the energy required to complete the clutch. The average clutch in the population is 7.6 eggs. Egg material of the painted turtle is high in energy (
3893005| I studied the distribution of the heliothermic lizard Psammodromus algirus around the shrubs of a Mediterranean open forest. Observations were classified according to the compass direction of the sector of the shrub patch used by lizards (N, NE, E, SE, S, SW, W, or NW). The distribution of lizards around shrub patches was clearly selective and varied markedly with time of day. The frequency with which lizards were found in different positions around shrubs was negatively related to the average distance between shrub edge and nearest available sunlit perch; the shrub sectors preferred were always those in the direction of the sun, so that behavioral thermoregulation could be performed with little movement and risk. In the morning and in the afternoon, basking lizards remained closer to vegetation than expected by the availability of sunlit perches. Individual lizards known to have survived an entire activity season used sun-directed shrub sectors more frequently than their conspecifics that emigrated or died. /// Se ha estudiado la distribucin primaveral del lacrtido heliotermo Psammodromus algirus en torno a las manchas de vegetacin de un encinar mediterrneo. Las observaciones se clasificaron en ocho posibles sectores angulares en torno al permetro de los arbustos (N, NE, E, SE, S, SO, O  NO). La distribucin de las lagartijas result ser claramente selectiva y variar marcadamente con el perodo horario. El nmero de animales solendose en cada orientacin se correlacion inversamente con la distancia media al parche soleado ms prximo medida en diez arbustos seleccionados al azar; las orientaciones preferidas fueron por tanto las situadas en la direccin del sol, lo que permite desarrollar la termorregulacin comportamental minimizando los movimientos y riesgos asociados. Por la maana y por la tarde, las lagartijas se expusieron al sol ms cerca de los arbustos de lo que cabra esperar considerando la accesibilidad media de las reas soleadas. Los individuos marcados que sobrevivieron toda una estacin de actividad hicieron uso de las orientaciones en la direccin del sol con mayor frecuencia que sus congneres desaparecidos. 
3891622|Investigation of middorsal axial musculature and body conformation during lateral undulatory locomotion in the coachwhip, Masticophis flagellum and rosy boa, Lichanura roseofusca indicates that: (a) high locomotory speed in Masticophis may be due, in part, to its unusually long major axial muscle units which enable it to move with fewer "points d'appui," thus reducing lateral resistance to undulatory movements; (b) the relatively short axial muscle units of Lichanura facilitate powers of constriction in this snake; (c) constriction and locomotory speed may be mutually exclusive in snakes.
3891884|This paper is the first interfamilial study of cloacal anatomy of male salamanders since 1895. Cloacae from representatives of the Salamandridae (Notophthalmus viridescens), Ambystomatidae (Ambystoma tigrinum), and Plethodontidae (Eurycea bislineata) were examined by light microscopy. Homologies and standarized names for cloacal glands are proposed. Four cloacal glands occur in N. viridescens. These are the pelvic gland, dorsal gland, anterior ventral-gland, and posterior ventral-gland. The dorsal gland has no homologue in A. tigrinum or E. bislineata, but the other glands are present. However, the pelvic gland has two divisions in A. tigrinum and three in E. bislineata. In addition, A. tigrinum and E. bislineata possess Kingsbury's gland and the vent gland, neither of which is found in N. viridescens.
3891097|A population of Holbrookia maculata maculata was studied in a stabilized dune habitat in eastern New Mexico. Over a period of 7 months, a total of 138 adults and 84 juveniles was marked. Ten adult females had an average home range size of 0.06 hectare. Ten adult males had an average home range size of 0.1 hectare. The difference in home range size of males and females was not significant (P = 0.05-0.10). A significant difference (P < 0.01) was noted between movements of adults and juveniles. Juveniles had an average movement of 15.8 m between captures; adults moved an average of 40.2 m between captures. Holbrookia maculata maculata appears to favor certain habitat features in selection of its home range area. An explanation is given for the occupancy of active dunes by Holbrookia maculata ruthveni.
23352177|Optimal-escape theory predicts that flight initiation distance (predatorprey distance when fleeing starts) increases as predation risk increases; optimal-refuge-use theory predicts that time spent hiding in refuge increases as risk upon emergence increases. I tested predictions of an extension of escape theory to a scenario in which an immobile predator stands near an immobile prey. When a previously immobile predator moves, the probability of fleeing is predicted to increase as predation risk increases. This scenario corresponds to ambush. I also examined potential effects of three poorly understood risk factors on time spent hiding in refuge. In the lizard Sceloporus virgatus, probability of fleeing was greater when the predator turned toward rather than away from prey, stood closer to prey before moving, or was oriented parallel to the prey rather than facing in the opposite direction. These findings and previous work indicate that costbenefit considerations govern responses to ambush predators as well as to openly approaching predators, extending escape theory to encounters in which both predator and prey are initially immobile. Hiding time was unaffected by starting distance (predatorprey distance when approach begins), was longer after the second of two successive approaches, and was shorter early in the day when thermal cost of refuge use was high than later when refuge temperatures were warmer. The positive correlation between first and second hiding times adds to evidence for a boldness syndrome in S. virgatus.
3892090|Variation at 10 electrophoretic loci was used to describe the population structure of yellow-bellied slider turtles (Pseudemys scripta, n = 104) collected from four discrete locations on or near the Savannah River Plant, Aiken, South Carolina. Collectively, turtles exhibited a per locus heterozygosity of 0.148. Enzyme polymorphisms were observed at seven of the 10 loci. Significant spatial heterogeneity was observed at five of seven polymorphic loci. Significant
3891732| Movements of marked P. glutinosus were studied in an oak-hickory forest in North Carolina for 3 years. First-year young showed no movement between logs. Adults moved significantly greater distances than juveniles. There were no significant differences in the movements of   and  . There was some increase in movement distance with increasing time between captures. During a drought, salamanders left the leaf litter and formed dense aggregations under logs. 
3892176|Ascaphus truei at Butler Creek, Montana, were assigned to cohort on the basis of length, development and reproductive condition. We verified the assignment of ages with a capture-recapture study. Age-determination is precise for animals of age six or younger while older individuals must be assigned to composite age-groups. Frogs in this population possess one of the longest life histories yet described for anurans. Transformation occurs at age three and first reproduction at ages 7-8. Maximum longevity is at least 14 yr. The selective factors favoring such a life history remain to be determined.
3892000|Minute scales are present in the dermis in some specimens of the gymnophione amphibian, Typhlonectes compressicauda. All members of the family Typhlonectidae had been thought to lack scales. The scales are smaller and less well developed than the "typical" scale; the scale pocket is not well defined and the dermis is otherwise comparable to that of scaleless caecilians. The presence of scales of this morphology may indicate developmental error; this may provide insight into the pattern of development of normal scales.
3893645| A new species of the Andean-Patagonian Liolaemus elongatus-kriegi complex is described. The new species differs from all other members of the complex in the distinct coloration of the dorsum, a bright red-yellow belly, and other morphological traits. Liolaemus punmahuida is known from a small area in the Tromen Volcano in northwestern Patagonia above 3000 m. /// Una nueva especie del complejo de especies andino-patagonico Liolaemus elongatus-kriegi es descripta. La nueva especie difiere de todos los otros miembros de complejo en su coloracin dorsal y en su brillante vientre rojo/amarillo y otras caractersticas morfolgicas. La nueva especie es conocida solo para una pequea rea sobre los 3000 m en el volcn Tromen, Noroeste de la Patagonia. 
3893019|I investigated how density affected the growth and survival of two predatory species (Gyrinophilus porphyriticus, Desmognathus quadramaculatus) and one prey species (Eurycea wilderae) of larval salamanders by manipulating the density of each species in stream enclosures. Survival and growth of E. wilderae was independent of density, suggesting a lack of competition. Growth also was not affected by the presence of predator species. However, survival of E. wilderae was significantly reduced when exposed to one or both predators. Larvae of G. porphyriticus were more effective predators than larval D. quadramaculatus, and larvae of G. porphyriticus exposed to high prey density grew more than those exposed to low prey density. Prey density had no effect on prey survival. Predator effects on prey survival were additive, indicating neither a mutualistic nor a competitive interaction between the two predators.
3891445| Reproduction patterns of three populations of the gray-bellied salamander, Eurycea multiplicata griseogaster in northwest Arkansas were determined. Considerable variations, correlated with water temperature and supply, in the reproductive season and the length of the larval period was noted. The reproductive season was determined by spermatozoa production, ova development, presence of corpora lutea, and presence of spermatozoa in spermathecae. The reproductive season of the Trout Farm population began in September and lasted through April. This population was associated with a pond that had a constant supply of water with little temperature variation. Larvae in this population transformed 7-8 months after hatching. The Lost Valley population had a constant water supply; however, water temperature ranged between 14.0-18.9C. Reproduction in the Lost Valley population began in September and lasted through January. The larval period lasted 7-8 months in this population. The Black Oak population was associated with an intermittent stream that frequently froze in the winter and reached 21.0C in the summer. The reproductive season of this population began in January and lasted through March. Larvae in this population transformed 5-6 months after hatching. Oviposition in the Lost Valley and Black Oak populations occurred when the water temperature of these areas was between 14.6 and 15.8C which was within the annual extremes in water temperature of the Trout Farm study area. No differences in clutch size (3-21) and size at which larvae transformed (33-48 mm snout-vent length) were noted among the populations. Males attained sexual maturity during or soon after transformation. All   > 36 mm SVL were sexually mature. 
3892688|Duvernoy's secretion was collected from five species of opisthoglyphous colubrids. Large yields were obtained from Boiga dendrophila melanota. Specimens of B. d. multicincta and a large adult specimen of B. blandingi produced large volumes of secretion with low content of solids. Lethal potency determinations showed that samples of secretions from the dispholidines, Thelotornis capensis and Dispholidus typus, were the most toxic, while B. d. multicincta and the large adult B. blandingi had the lowest lethal potency of the species studied. Assay of hemorrhagic and proteolytic activities revealed that secretion from a specimen of B. blandingi from Ghana had the highest level of these activities of any boigine sample examined. Both dispholidine samples had far greater protease and hemorrhagin activities than any boigine sample studied. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicated that Thelotornis and Dispholidus had relatively complex patterns which differed from each other and the boigine samples. Secretions from B. blandingi and both races of B. dendrophila share major components in the 10,000-14,000 molecular weight range. It is not clear if these are identical proteins or different components with similar molecular weight. Cation exchange analysis resolved one, two, and three toxic fractions from secretions of B. d. melanota, B. blandingi, and D. typus, respectively. The fractions from B. d. melanota and two of the fractions from D. typus were proteolytic and hemorrhagic, while the fractions from B. blandingi produced symptoms suggestive of a postsynaptic neurotoxin. Immunodiffusion indicated immunoidentity between components of most of the secretions studied and venoms of the bungarine elapids, Ophiophagus hannah and Bungarus multicinctus. Little identity was seen with the elapine elapid, Micrurus fulvius fulvius. Some reactivity was observed with antiserum against the crotaline viperid, Crotalus horridus; however no identity with venom type A of C. scutulatus was noted. Components of several of the lethal pools obtained from cation exchange showed identity with the elapid antisera and minor reactivity with antiserum against venom of the viperine viperid, Echis coloratus.
3891731| This report presents new data on the turtles Macroclemys temminicki from the Gulf Coast region and Chelydra serpentina from the northcentral and southeastern USA. Specifically, new findings include for Macroclemys: an extension to 72 m from water for the distance which   may travel overland to nest, a determination indicating xeric and open to mesic and shaded as the range of habitats acceptable for nesting, an apparent use of the tail during filling of the nest hole and an instance of aerial basking; for Chelydra: an indication of a possible relationship between selection of nest site and regional climate, advancement of the nesting season into late winter and early spring in Florida and a compilation of actual instances of aerial basking. 
3892968|The abilities of the desert iguana, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, to detect food odors and to discriminate them from non-food odors were demonstrated by presenting chemical stimuli on cotton-tipped applicators to lizards. The stimuli were from two plant food species, an insect food species, deionized water (odorless control), and cologne (pungency control). Tongue-flick attack score, a measure of squamate response strength to chemical food stimuli that combines effects of biting and tongue-flicks before biting, differed greatly among conditions. Tongue-flick attack score was significantly greater for all food stimuli than for the two controls, which did not themselves differ. The same pattern of results was found for total number of tongue-flicks in one minute. For tongue-flicks before biting, the only significant difference was a greater response to carrot than water. Lizards bit only applicators bearing food stimuli. Significantly more bit and at shorter latencies when responding to plant odors than to either control, and significantly more bit in response to carrot than cricket stimuli. These results falsify the wide belief that a major group of lizards, the Iguania, is insensitive to food stimuli. Relationships between diet, foraging mode, and reliance on chemical cues in feeding are discussed.
3891414|The natural history of the leopard lizard, Crotaphytus wislizeni was studied at the Nevada Test Site, Mercury, Nevada. Individuals were marked and examined from June 1965 through September 1971. Reproduction cycles were examined by field observations and by autopsy. Sexual maturity is reached at or soon after emergence from the second hibernation. Growth is rapid while they are hatchlings and juveniles. Data indicate some territoriality at least for a few years in some individuals. Territories are large and widely dispersed. Food consists of arthropods, lizards and vegetation (mainly blossoms and berries). One clutch of eggs is laid, usually in June, with greater reproductive activity occurring in some years. Density is approximately 5 per hectare at the study plot in Frenchman Flat.
3892684| The anatomy of the m. depressor mandibulae and variation in its origins in frogs of the genus Eleutherodactylus do not form patterns consistent with cladistic hypotheses or phenetic groups. In most species, the muscle is not divided into distinct slips associated with the annulus tympanicus, dorsal fascia, and squamosal. A condition (
3892818|The ability of the desert iguana, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, to discriminate conspecific chemical deposits by lingual sampling was examined during their breeding season. We individually tested 12 males and 12 females in a series of cages in which we presented the following stimuli in a randomized order: male and female conspecific odor, male and female heterospecific odor, cologne odor, and distilled water. The number of tongue extrusions and the latency to the first extrusion were recorded and used as a measure of the lizard's responsiveness to each of the chemical stimuli. Because males and females did not differ in their responses to the six chemical stimuli, their data were combined for analyses. Conspecific odors elicited more tongue extrusions than did other stimuli, and no differences were found in tongue extrusion frequency to male versus female conspecific odor. These results suggest that the desert iguana is capable of discriminating conspecifics from heterospecifics based on chemical cues alone. No difference in latency to first extrusion was observed with any of the chemical stimuli presented.
3891663|The turtle genus Callopsis Gray occurs from northern Mexico southward to northern South America, and consists of four monotypic species (C. annulata, C. areolata, C. funerea, and C. nasuta, which is elevated from subspecific rank) and three polytypic species (C. pulcherrima, C. punctularia, and C. rubida). The subspecies of C. pulcherrima are C. p. pulcherrima, C. p. incisa, C. p. manni, and a new taxon, C. p. rogerbarbouri. The subspecies of C. punctularia are C. p. punctularia, C. p. diademata, and C. p. melanosterna. Callopsis rubida has two subspecies: C. r. rubida and C. r. perixantha. A key for identification, a description, and the geographical range are presented for all species and subspecies. The genus includes three groups based on shell morphology and color, and on figure patterns of the head, carapace, plastron, and bridge: (1) the pulcherrima-rubida group of terrestrial turtles; (2) the punctularia group of aquatic and terrestrial species (including C. annulata, C. funerea and C. nasuta); and (3) C. areolata, of uncertain relationships. The similarities and differences within each group are discussed, and a hypothesis on the radiation within the genus is presented. The form Rhinoclemmys lunata Gray, 1873, is synonymous with Rhinoclemys bellii Gray, 1863, and both are only head pattern variants of Testudo punctularia Daudin, 1802 [= Callopsis p. punctularia].
3892605| A phylogenetic analysis of the Masticophis lateralis complex reveals that M. aurigulus and M. barbouri are sister taxa. Because of their close morphological similarity, the new combination M. a. barbouri is proposed. Biogeographical data support the hypothesis that the common ancestor of M. lateralis and M. aurigulus was isolated on the Cape Region as it separated from mainland Mexico and that the evolution of these two species was the result of intermittent isolation of the Cape Region from the rest of Baja California. /// El gnero Masticophis, como se constituye corrientemente, contiene ocho especies. Dos de stas especies, M. aurgiulus y M. barbouri son especies hermanas y forman el grupo hermano de M. lateralis. Una evaluacin de la distincin morfolgica entre M. aurigulus y M. barbouri implica que ellas deben reconocer como la misma especie. Por tanto, M. barbouri ha puesto en la sinonoma de M. aurigulus y ha reconocido como una subespecie. Estas relaciones apoyan el hiptesis que el pariente comn entre M. aurigulus y M. lateralis se evolucionaron en el Regin del Cabo como lo se separ del Mxico suroeste. 
3893540|The reproductive ecology and mating success of male Limnonectes kuhlii, one of the fanged frogs which are characterized by a suite of unusual sexually dimorphic traits (males have larger body, head, and fang sizes than females), were studied under natural conditions in subtropical Taiwan in order to clarify the role of sexual selection on male body size. There were no significant temporal peaks in the number of adult males or amplexed females observed along an 81-m transect of a small creek throughout a 3-mo study period. The nightly sex ratio was highly male biased. Over the study period, the distribution pattern of males showed a significant tendency toward clumping at oviposition sites (represented as oviposition sections of the creek where females laid eggs). During the nights, males usually showed a nonclumped distribution pattern along the transect, probably due to male-male interactions mediated through vocalization and physical combat, including vigorous biting. The calling sites of males were considered as breeding territories and sites of oviposition. Larger males often changed their nightly position along the transect, whereas smaller males remained at the same sites over the study period. The number of different oviposition sections in which each male was present over the study period ranged from 0-11 and was positively correlated with male body size. The number of matings by each male ranged from 0-9, and 42% of the males mated at least once. Male mating success was positively correlated with six male traits that included body size and the number of nights present. However, multivariate analysis revealed that a direct factor determining male mating success was the number of different oviposition sites which a male visited. This study also demonstrated that large-male mating advantage in L. kuhlii occurred indirectly through the size-dependent spatial movement pattern. A large body size in male L. kuhlii seems to have evolved through intrasexual selection (male-male competition by physical combat) in the context of a resource-defense polygyny mating system.
3891875| The Guatemalan and Mexican plethodontid salamanders Bolitoglossa franklini and Bolitoglossa resplendens are allopatric except in an area of habitat disturbance near Volcn Tajumulco, in western Guatemala, where they hybridize. However, morphological and electrophoretic analyses suggest that hybridization is relatively limited, with most hybrids ascribable to early backcross generations. The hybridization has a pervasive effect on the morphology of B. resplendens, whereas B. franklini has a far more stable phenotype and can accept a larger dose of alleles of B. resplendens without apparent morphological change. Extent of hybridization is underestimated if morphological criteria are used. This is the first documented case of hybridization in tropical salamanders and is the result of secondary contact of genetically and ecologically well differentiated species. 
3893152|We describe a new species of Mabuya from Isalo Reserve on the high plateau of south-central Madagascar. This new species, M. nancycoutuae, is the sixth named species of the aureopunctata-group of Madagascan mabuyas. It is most similar in appearance and habitat to M. vato with which it is narrowly allopatric. Both are rock-dwelling species of xeric habitats. Mabuya nancycoutuae differs from M. vato in having seven longitudinal rows of thin, broken, white lines dorsolaterally on the head and anterior body, rather than nine rows of white spots. The rows of white spots of M. vato extend further posteriorly than do the white lines of M. nancycoutuae. Additionally, the forelimbs of M. vato have white spots, whereas those of M. nancycoutuae lack white spots. Mabuya nancycoutuae is probably smaller than M. vato. Including the three species of the elegans-group of Madagascan mabuyas, there are now nine named species of Mabuya in Madagascar, and an additional five species remain to be described. Since last reviewed in 1983, the number of Madagascan species of Mabuya has grown from 6 to 14.
3893014| Two new species of Sphaerodactylus are described from eastern Cuba: S. schwartzi is from low elevation xeric habitats in western Guantnamo Province, and S. cricoderus is from moderate elevations on the north and south slopes of the Sierra Maestra in Santiago de Cuba Province. The two new taxa appear to be sister species and allied to S. ramsdeni, also endemic to eastern Cuba. Together, these three species form the ramsdeni group, which is characterized by dark, short-snouted species with very small dorsal scales, more than one internasal, and lack of marked sexual dichromatism. Convergence in the genus Sphaerodactylus is discussed, and two ecomorphs are proposed (mesic forest and xeric forest). 
3893086|I investigated intraspecific aggressive behavior using staged encounters of males of Plethodon serratus and P. websteri from the same geographic area in west-central Georgia. Both species were most aggressive during winter, which corresponds to courtship and surface foraging periods. Little aggression was observed during the time when they are usually in underground retreats. Both species exhibited similar aggressive and submissive behaviors that largely resemble those previously reported for Plethodon. Residents of both species exhibited a distinct advantage over intruders, indicating that they may be territorial. Body size differential was not a factor in determining dominance. There is greater similarity in aggressive behavior patterns between P. serratus and the more distantly related P. websteri than between P. serratus and its sibling species P. cinereus. The similarity of distantly related species and disimilarity of sister taxa suggest that certain components of agonistic behavior may respond to local selective factors and do not necessarily reflect phylogeny.
3892477|Prey size preference was determined for all major aquatic predators of tadpoles from semi-permanent pond communities in New York. All predators tested, except larvae of the predaceous diving beetle (Dytiscus verticalis), preferred small tadpoles. The prey size preferred by beetle larvae was dependent on predator size. Dytiscus verticalis was the only common aquatic predator capable of handling other than recently hatched tadpoles. Some prey species may avoid predation by rapid larval growth, becoming too large for predators.
3890773|Western salamanders of the genus Plethodon constitute three species groups: Vandykei group (vandykei, larselli), Vehiculum group (vehiculum, dunni, gordoni sp. nov.), and Elongatus group (elongatus, stormi). P. gordoni is described as closely related to dunni, and subspecies of vandykei are not recognized due to the discordant nature of geographic variation. Each species is described in detail and a key to the species is provided. A dendrogram of proposed evolutionary relationships is presented; P. vandykei is considered the most primitive and elongatus is considered the most specialized. Character displacement is exhibited by sympatric dunni and gordoni. Character convergence occurs for dunni where it is sympatric with larselli and elongatus. Geographic variation in costal groove number, tooth numbers, limb length, pigment characters, and head shape was examined in each species. The number of maxillary plus premaxillary teeth was shown to be valuable in determining phylogenetic relationships. Significant geographic variation is present in vandykei, larselli, vehiculum, dunni, and elongatus but subspecific designations are not justified.
3892503|Upon oviposition, female dusky salamanders have two behavioral alternatives: abandon their eggs or remain with them. Both alternatives are costly; mortality in unguarded clutches approaches 100%, and there is a significant energetic cost to remaining with them. Female Desmognathus fuscus guarded their eggs for approximately 46-61 days; the nest site was more "attractive" after oviposition. Brooding tenacity is defined as the tendency of a female to remain with her clutch after one or more disturbances. Levels of tenacity were generally high as long as there were eggs to benefit from such behavior. Prior to oviposition and, possibly, after hatching began, brooding females were less tenacious. There was no general pattern of increased tenacity with either cumulative investment (CI) or reproductive value (RV). Tenacity did not increase with either brooding time, clutch size, or body size. The data to evaluate the relationship between brooding tenacity and nest location are equivocal but may support a prediction based upon RV. No relationship existed between brooding tenacity and moisture levels or cover type.
3892214| Nectocaecilia fasciata Taylor is a junior synonym of Chthonerpeton indistinctum Reinhardt and Ltken. The range of Nectocaecilia is restricted to northern South America. A hypothesis of phylogenetic relationships among the four genera of the Typhlonectidae is proposed, and alternative hypotheses are evaluated. The recently established genus Pseudotyphlonectes and other higher taxonomic categories proposed by Lescure et al. (1986) for the Typhlonectidae are invalid. Pseudotyphlonectes is a junior synonym of Typhlonectes Peters. It is suggested that phylogenetic studies of the Gymnophiona should proceed independently of taxonomic considerations until a compelling hypothesis is accepted. 
3892813|Microgeographic variation in the size of the Tenerife lizard, Gallotia galloti, is studied by recording snout-vent length (SVL) from numerous samples of mature males in breeding color. The reliability of the means is commensurate with those of other morphological characters. When simultaneously tested against several hypothesized causes, by both partial correlations and Mantel tests, SVL was shown to vary in relation to both altitude and topographically determined climate/vegetation (latitudinal categories). Both of these altitudinal and latitudinal elements can also be seen in various characteristics of the scalation and color pattern.
3891428|Larval and transformed tiger salamanders, Ambystoma tigrinum, were primarily active during the dark phase of a light-dark cycle. Larvae were considerably more active than transformed animals. After 72 hours of darkness the activity rhythm had ceased. Larvae of the large morph had significantly lower rates of dissolved O
3890824|Both sexes of Dipsosaurus dorsalis from several locations in southern California were autopsied each month during their active period from August 1958 through May 1963, and the breeding cycle was determined. The majority was captured from April 1959 through September 1962. Most individuals appeared to reach reproductive maturity during the fifth summer or later. Adult testis volumes changed markedly during the year, generally reaching maximum size in May. Males were found as potential breeders from mid-April until near the end of July. Present evidence indicates that male breeding cycles can be determined rather precisely by examining either testes volumes, the vas deferens, or the histology of the testes. Seasonal changes in the histological morphology of the testes were observed. A series of eight stages, indicating these changes in spermatogenic activity, is described. These stages arbitrarily divide a continuous process into several recognizable stages. The testes appeared to function during July, the hottest month of the year. Possible explanations for this ability are suggested. Females contained oviducal eggs from early June until the middle of August. Presumably only one clutch of eggs a year is laid by most females in southern California. Inconclusive evidence suggested that slight variations in reproductive cycles occur in any one region from year to year and that similar variations may occur in different populations during the same season. Eggs required about 75 days for incubation in the field. Young lizards first appeared in August. The data suggest that female abdominal fat bodies contribute fat to developing ova during the breeding season.
3891455|The rectus superficialis muscle is absent in pygopodid lizards. The similarity of the abdominal musculature in pygopodids and gekkonids can be cited as further evidence of their close relationship. The limbless Pygopodidae is a major exception to the thesis that for functional reasons serpentine locomotion cannot exist without the rectus superficialis.
3891095|The activity of frogs during progressive desiccation showed an increase with a peak at a moisture content of 60-69% hydrated weight, after which it declined again. Based on previous literature, it is suggested that the initial increase probably represents attempts to escape desiccating conditions; the subsequent decline can be interpreted as a moisture-conserving mechanism when escape is unsuccessful. If this is true, such an activity curve would be of adaptive significance. When desiccated in constant light, most nocturnal species displayed higher activity at night than they did at comparable desiccation levels during the day. With some possible exceptions, the reverse was true for frogs with diurnal tendencies. Litoria caerulea was exceptional in having the nocturnal and diurnal curves the same. Species from wet habitats showed generally lower activity and displayed a smaller influence of moisture content on activity than did those from drier ones.
24634281|We provide novel data on the biology of Proceratophrys melanopogon and describe its larval external morphology and internal oral features on the basis of specimens from the Serra do Mar, southeastern Brazil. We also review the larval internal oral features of the genus, including descriptions and comparisons with P. cururu and P. moratoi. The external morphology of tadpoles of P. melanopogon is very similar to that of closely related species. The internal oral features are very conserved in this genus, with the majority of species having lingual papillae unusually bifurcated, four infralabial papillae, and a transverse ridge on the prenarial arena. Our results also provide data for phylogenetic studies on the genus Proceratophrys.
3891598|Electrophoretic analysis of structural and enzymatic proteins of an estimated 27 genetic loci reveals a dichotomy between the collared and leopard lizards involving 8 to 10 genetic loci. Separation of these two groups at the generic level is recommended. Biochemically the collared lizards form a conservative group, showing relatively few intragroup protein differences. Crotaphytus dickersonae is the most distinctive member of the group; C. collaris is the most generalized. The form bicinctores is biochemically (as well as morphologically) closer to C. insularis than to C. collaris. Phenetically, the collared lizards separate into two morphologic clusters: C. i. insularis, C. i. vestigium, C. i. bicinctores and C. dickersonae exhibit a laterally compressed tail, relatively narrow head and long snout. C. collaris and its subspecies exhibit a more cylindrical tail, broad head and blunt snout. C. reticulatus is close to the latter group, but shows moderate caudal compression. Cladistically, the collared lizards form two diverging lines-the insularis and collaris groups. C. reticulatus and C. dickersonae represent early offshoots of the collaris line. The insularis group and C. reticulatus share several primitive character states. The mixture of insularis and collaris features shown by C. dickersonae may be due to hybridization as well as to retained primitive states.
3893631| A new species of Atractus is described from grasslands of the State of Rio Grande do Sul, southern Brazil. The new species is distinguished from all congeners by the combination of a single postocular, long loreal, six supralabials, generally six infralabials, 17 dorsal scales rows, six or seven maxillary teeth, and a dorsal color pattern in preservative uniformly grayish-brown with a creamish-white temporal region. Comparisons of the new species are made with all other Atractus species, and its affinities with A. reticulatus and allied species are suggested based on the morphology of the hemipenis. /// Uma nova espcie de Atractus  descrita dos campos do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul, sul do Brasil. A nova espcie pode ser distinta de todas as suas congneres pela seguinte combinao de caracteres: uma ps-ocular, loreal longa, seis supralabiais e geralmente seis infralabiais, 17 fileiras de escamas dorsais, seis ou sete dentes maxilares e um padro uniforme de colorao dorsal marrom acinzentado com a regio temporal branco creme esbranquiado. Comparaes so feitas com todas as demais espcies de Atractus do sul da Amrica do Sul e a afinidade filogentica da espcie nova com A. reticulatus e espcies afins  sugerida com base na morfologia do hemipnis. 
3890625|Adults and larvae of Ambystoma macrodactylum croceum and A. m. sigillatum were tested for responses to light. Adults of both subspecies were photonegative, croceum strongly, sigillatum weakly. Larvae of croceum were negatively phototactic, but large larvae of sigillatum showed a positive phototaxis. The negative phototaxis of croceum is attributed to its arid habitat; the more positive reactions of sigillatum are correlated with its cool, montane habitat.
3892502|A field experiment was performed to quantify the functional relationship between rock density and the population density of Desmognathus quadramaculatus salamanders in a southern Appalachian mountain stream. Results indicate that a significant positive association exists between salamander population density (including larvae, juveniles, and adults) and the density of pebbles and cobbles in the stream bed habitat. The relationship between salamander density and rock density is non-linear and takes the form of a hyperbolic function, which has an upper asymptote that is intuitively related to the carrying capacity (K) of the aquatic environment. Results of the empirically derived equation show high correlation with observational estimates of rock and salamander density (P < 0.01,
3893298|We conducted two laboratory experiments with juveniles of Ambystoma opacum and A. maculatum to test for intra- and interspecific competition for burrows. Experiment 1 examined how the behavior of an intruder (i.e., an individual that enters an occupied burrow) was influenced by the presence of a resident salamander that had been placed in the test chamber 5 d earlier. In Experiment 2, we investigated patterns of cohabitation when salamanders were introduced singly, as conspecific pairs, or as heterospecific pairs during a 7-d test period. The results of these experiments indicate that (1) when maintained alone, juvenile A. opacum were observed more frequently outside of the burrow than were juvenile A. maculatum; (2) A. maculatum were more likely to enter unoccupied burrows compared to burrows that were occupied by conspecific or heterospecific salamanders; (3) A. maculatum intruders were bitten more frequently by resident A. opacum than by resident A. maculatum; (4) when two individual salamanders shared a burrow, A. maculatum were more likely to leave a cohabited burrow whereas use of shared burrows by A. opacum was not influenced by the presence of another salamander in the burrow. These experiments demonstrate that juvenile A. opacum may defend burrow space by excluding heterospecific salamanders. However, our results also indicate that species-specific behavioral differences may influence patterns of burrow use, which may reduce the importance of agonistic interactions under natural conditions.
3892290|A new species of salamander, Ambystoma andersoni, is described from the municipality of Zacapu, Michoacan, Mexico. It is a robust (adults 100-140 mm in snout-vent length [SVL]), branchiate species of the A. tigrinum species group distinguished by a black-spotted reddish-brown body; short tail (56-78% of SVL); reduced body fin on adults; short, extensively webbed toes (posterior margin of hind foot conspicuously keeled); always three rather than four phalanges in the fourth hind toe; and only 14-25 gill rakers on the anterior face of the third gill arch (both sides summed). The dark yellowish brown eggs are 2.2-2.3 mm in diameter. Hatchlings lack balancers and are 12-13 mm in total length. Maturity is reached in about 1 yr at SVL ca. 90 mm. A few animals beginning to transform spontaneously in the laboratory underwent various degrees of skull metamorphosis but continued to resemble branchiate adults in body proportions and pigmentation.
3892515|Variation in leg and cheek coloration in the salamander Desmognathus ochrophaeus is a genetically based polymorphism, with the variants either red or drab brown. In four populations that contain both polymorphisms, observed frequencies of animals that have both red legs and red cheeks exceed expected numbers predicted by random association. Red-leg animals were absent in the two southernmost populations. Red-cheek animals were absent in the northernmost population. Preliminary mate choice experiments showed no preference based upon cheek or leg coloration; thus there is no evidence that non-random mating causes the significant association of red-leg and red-cheek coloration.
3892995| Platyinion lividum Amaral is a rare colubrid xenodontine snake, known only from 19 specimens from 12 localities in two southern Brazilian states. We discuss meristic variation and, based on those data and hemipenial morphology, place the species in the synonymy of Philodryas Wagler. /// Platyinion lividum Amaral  uma rara serpente colubrdea conhecida apenas por 19 espcimes de 12 localidades em dois estados do sul do Brasil. A variao merstica  discutida e, com base nestes dados e na morfologia do hemipnis, Platyinion  colocado na sinonmia de Philodryas Wagler. 
3891473|The pineal of the bloodsucker Calotes versicolor, is inactive May-August and active September-April as judged by its weight and height, nuclear diameter, and density of secretory granules in epithelial cells. The testes, on the other hand, are active March-August and inactive September-December. There is probably an inverse relationship between the pineal and gonadal cycles of this lizard.
23255787|Spatial ecology is crucial to determining how animals exploit resources in their environment. Snakes display highly varied energetic and space use strategies; we hypothesized that snakes with higher energy demands are more mobile to fulfill their energy needs. We studied the spatial ecology of two syntopic colubrid snakes (Hierophis viridiflavus and Zamenis longissimus) that show a marked divergence in energetics. Specifically, we predicted that H. viridiflavus should be more active than Z. longissimus because of its higher energy requirements. Because reproductive status also influences movement patterns, we investigated its effect within each species. We indeed found that H. viridiflavus moved more frequently and covered longer distances during the postreproductive period, probably because of foraging activity. Both species displayed similar activity during the reproductive period, however. The extended movements during the reproductive period may be related to mate-searching in males and egg-laying in females.
4497953|We describe a new species of Anolis from a high elevation locality in Department of San Martin, Peru. A single hatchling from this population was described by Ernest Williams and Russel Mittermeier and referred to Phenacosaurus (= Anolis) orcesi in 1991. Our recent collections document consistent differences between this population and A. orcesi, including a larger female dewlap and greater number of loreal scales in the new species. The new species may exist in a narrow altitudinal range along the eastern Andean slope of Northern Peru.
3893451| The pattern of growth, age and size at sexual maturity, and sexual size dimorphism were determined for 30 Indian bullfrogs, (Hoplobatrachus tigerinus) reared in out-door terraria, from metamorphosis to 3 years of age. Size and the growth rates for males and females were comparable throughout the study. For SVL, annual mean growth rate was very high in the first year (7.31 cm) but declined in the 2
3891264|Late summer behavior of the sympatric iguanid lizards, Sceloporus merriami and Urosaurus ornatus, was studied in and near Big Bend National Park in southwestern Texas in the summers of 1958-1963 and 1966. Both species are strongly territorial and display toward trespassing members of their own species. No interspecific displays were witnessed between adults. The displays of U. ornatus like those of certain other iguanid lizards involve challenging pushups, lateral face-offs, and a terminal chase or fight. S. merriami has the same general pattern, but has elaborated it into a preliminary challenge, challenge, circle, and fight. The preliminary challenge consists of the challenging pushups of U. ornatus and other iguanids. The challenge is a modified pushup in which the lizard stands motionless at the peak of a pushup with its head and tail elevated and its colors fully exposed. The challenge is slowly and deliberately given in a single pushup, rather than as an extreme peak of several pushups. The circle evolved from the lateral face-off display by both lizards moving in tandem in a circle as they do pushups. The fight or chase-fight is a brief encounter in which one lizard butts the other and both fall a few feet from a boulder or canyon wall. The display in U. ornatus lasts only a few minutes and the chase or fight is the most active phase of the encounter, but in S. merriami the display may last for over 4 hours and the circle is the most active and lengthy phase of the encounter. Thus, emphasis is on the display in S. merriami, and such emphasis may have been favored by selection because it reduces risk from injury or predation and conserves energy. U. ornatus appears to be polygamous during its breeding seasons, while S. merriami appears to be monogamous. Female U. ornatus do not participate in territorial defense, but female S. merriami are almost as protective of the territories as are the males. Variations in the intensity of the behavior pattern of S. merriami appear to be related to density. At Lajitas, Texas, density is low and displays are more intense and lengthy than they are in Big Bend National Park where density is high. Territories overlap in the Park, but not at Lajitas. Frequency of contact is presumed to lessen the intensity of behavior in the Park. Food is presumed to be more abundant in the Park than at Lajitas. Thus, one function of territoriality and territorial displays may be to space animals in relation to the available food supply.
27669731|Time- and context-dependent nest site selection of a phytotelm-breeding frog (Kurixalus eiffingeri) was evaluated in a natural bamboo habitat in subtropical Taiwan from 2004 to 2005. At the beginning of the breeding season (mid-March), frogs preferred bamboo stumps with large water holding capacity, which may be considered high-quality stumps since water availability is critical to the survival of tadpoles. Prior to 21 May, no tadpole-occupied stumps were re-used even though they represented 1040% of total stumps at the study site; however, tadpole-occupied stumps were consistently re-used afterwards. Stumps with fewer tadpoles were used proportionally more than those with more tadpoles. By choosing the stumps with fewer tadpoles, the negative competitive effect of the late-clutch tadpoles on the early-clutch tadpoles would be somewhat alleviated. Male frogs did not breed in the same bamboo stump for consecutive breeding events, which may relate to the male reproductive strategy. We propose that it would often be a better strategy for a male frog to breed in different stumps than to stay in the same stump, even if the stump was of high quality. Breeding in multiple stumps would increase the number of breeding opportunities by reducing the interval between successive mating attempts, minimize the inter-clutch competition between tadpoles, and avoid competition between two cohorts of its own genetically-related tadpoles. Our results suggest that stump quality is indicated by water holding capacity and the number of the tadpoles in the stump during early and late breeding seasons. Thus, oviposition site choice in this species is dependent on stump quality, but stump quality is both context- and time-dependent.
4497961| Because sex is determined by incubation temperatures in sea turtles and immature animals are not sexually dimorphic externally, circulating levels of testosterone measured with radioimmunoassay (RIA), in conjunction with laparoscopies, have been used to estimate sex ratios. From September to December 1995 to 1997, and from June to December 1998 to 2002, we sampled blood from 1106 juvenile loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) incidentally captured in pound nets set in Core and Pamlico Sounds, North Carolina to measure testosterone levels. Laparoscopies of 89 of these turtles revealed a sex ratio of 2.1F:1M, similar to other juvenile loggerhead populations along the southeastern coast of the USA. Laparoscopies demonstrated that testosterone levels correctly identified males during summer months (water temperatures >23 C), but were unreliable during late autumn/winter months (water temperatures 16 C). During the summer months, females (n = 201) exhibited testosterone concentrations with an upper limit of 239.0 pg/ml, and males (n = 69) exhibited a lower limit of 372.0 pg/ml, for a sex ratio of 2.9F:1.0M. We recommend that verification of the RIA should be conducted by laparoscoping a subset of turtles sampled in all sex ratio studies. In addition, this verification should be conducted at several different times throughout the year to evaluate any possible seasonal effects on testosterone concentrations. 
3893642| We describe a new species of Cycloramphus from Ribeiro Grande in the Atlantic Forest of the State of So Paulo, Southeastern Brazil. The new species is characterized by the presence of an inguinal gland in adult males, feet not webbed, smooth skin, relatively small eyes, and massive jaw adductor muscles. The general aspect of body, conferred by a combination of a relatively short body and hind limbs, reduced eyes, and the massive aspect of head, suggests fossorial habits. Based on these characters, the new species is presumed to be closely related to the Cycloramphus bolitoglossus group, previously allocated to the genus Craspedoglossa. 
3891988| The percent assimilation (percent of organic material removed from the food during passage through the gut) and clearance time (time for food to pass through gut) were determined for five species of anuran tadpoles at 22  2 C (30 C for Rana catesbeiana). Means of percent assimilation ranged from 53.8-85.7, although the data for R. catesbeiana are problematical. Mean clearance times ranged from 29-101 minutes. 
3893304| We provide a redescription of Leposoma hexalepis based on 32 specimens, including males for the first time, and detailed data on the external morphology of the species, meristic characters, pattern of coloration in life and after preservation, and its geographic distribution. /// Se redescribe a Leposoma hexalepis basados en una serie de 32 ejemplares, donde se incluye por primera vez a los machos de esta especie. Se ofrecen datos detallados sobre su morfologa externa, caracteres mersticos, patrones de coloracin en vida y en preservativo y su distribucin geogrfica. 
3893623|Rattlesnake predatory behavior is defined by a strike and then release of rodent prey. Poststrike, the released envenomated prey dashes off and dies. Therefore, the snake must relocate the prey relying largely upon chemosensory cues emitted by the struck prey. Assessing these poststrike chemosensory cues is important to the snake as these cues may contain significant information about the effectiveness of the preceding strike and hence the likelihood that trailing the odor left by the envenomated prey will allow successful recovery of the prey. One possible cue in this scent trail is concentration of the distinctive odor generated in the prey during envenomation. To test this, we presented snakes with different poststrike choices of low and high prey-odor concentrations. We found that although rattlesnakes could trail each concentration level, they preferred the high odor concentrations. These results imply that rattlesnakes respond to concentration levels, not just to a threshold level of prey odor. This adjustment to different odor concentrations is not accomplished by varying rate of tongue flicks (RTFs). Based on this study and previous work, we propose a behavioral mechanism by which rattlesnakes assess the chemosensory quality of a poststrike prey odor trail.
3892328|Bolitoglossa meliana, a new species from the mountains of central Guatemala, is described and assigned to the B. franklini group. Electrophoretic comparisons with the other species in the group confirm the distinctiveness of B. meliana, but cause us to question the validity of B. brevipes and B. nigroflavescens, which are hereby synonymized with B. franklini. Plio-Pleistocene tectonic and climatic events may have led to secondary contact and hybridization between previously isolated inland and Pacific coastal populations, thereby complicating patterns of genic similarity.
3891430|The dental morphology and distribution of tooth types along the jaw is reported for nine genera of teiid lizards (Ameiva, Cnemidophorus, Kentropyx, Teius, Dicrodon, Tupinambis, Callopistes, Crocodilurus, and Dracaena). Ontogenetic changes are well illustrated by the genus Tupinambis and a correlation between tooth structure and diet in this form is discussed. Two groups are distinguished on the bases of tooth structure and diet. Tupinambis, Callopistes, Crocodilurus and Dracaena are large active carnivores with primarily conical recurved teeth best adapted for the grasping and holding of active prey. Ameiva, Cnemidophorus and Kentropyx exhibit biconodont or triconodont teeth best suited for the puncture of insects. Teius and Dicrodon exhibit a modified biconodont tooth, expanded in a transverse direction across the jaw, resembling the teeth in primitive insectivorous mammals. The diet of these two genera is composed mainly of insects though Dicrodon holmbergi is reported to eat vegetation.
3891608| Future management of American alligator populations depends upon a thorough understanding of the reproductive activities of this species. Nesting ecology was investigated during 1976 at 15 alligator nests in freshwater lakes and marshes in north-central Florida. Habitat preferences, nest sites, eggs, hatchlings, hatching success, and predation are described in this report. Alligators nest in close proximity to permanent water and use a wide variety of available plant materials and soil in constructing their dome-shaped nesting mounds. Peak egg laying activity occurred in late June or early July when an average of 30 eggs were laid in a cavity in the top center of each nest mound. Incubation was accomplished over 60-65 days. Sixty-two percent of the complete clutches of eggs produced live young. Of these nests, 31% were destroyed by mammalian predators (probably raccoons) and 8% were lost to flooding. Nesting   were not aggressive at the nest site during our study. 
3892369|The sex of many reptiles is determined by incubation temperature. Laboratory studies of 14 genera of turtles in five families show that a developmental temperature of 25 C produces all males in most species, and that 31 C or higher produces all females. Survival of embryos to hatching is sufficiently high in some studies to conclude that this phenomenon is not due to differential death of the sexes. Field studies corroborate the laboratory work and suggest that nest temperature is the chief agent determining sex. The sex ratio of natural populations may be influenced by climatic changes, but natural selection on maternal choice of nest sites and on the embryonic control of sex determination may compensate for climatic change and bring the sex ratio to its equilibrium.
3891514|Unusual bufonid tadpoles from Chirinda Forest, Rhodesia, are described. Their morphological and adaptive difference support a generic split from typical Bufo. A new genus has been erected to accommodate this species.
3891982| Roars of three captive Chinese alligators Alligator sinensis (two   and one ) were tape recorded, and analyzed with a sound spectrograph. Differences in durations of roars, roaring bouts, and inter-roar intervals as well as spectral qualities and the number of roars/roaring bout suggest that roar structure and pattern contain potential information about the vocalizing animal's sex and individual identity. These possibilities are discussed in terms of adaptations to their natural environment. 
3892031|The red eft stage of the newt Notophthalmus viridescens varies geographically in color, behavior, abundance, and life history. The brightly colored forms predominate in montane regions with habitats conducive to terrestrialism, large conspicuous populations, and warning behavior. Populations inhabiting regions with more severe terrestrial conditions tend to minimize the time spent in the eft stage, reduce the population density of the land form, and adopt cryptic coloration and behavior. Red salamanders, Pseudotriton spp., tend to parallel the color patterns of the local form of red eft. It is suggested that this represents a case of Batesian mimicry in those areas with high densities of aposematic efts but parallel evolution towards cryptic coloration of both species in those areas not conducive to aposematism. Some of the selection forces acting upon aposematism, pseudaposematism, and crypsis are abundance, life stage, size, frequency, and kin selection.
3892768|During the summers of 1985-1987, the southeastern United States suffered a drought equaled in severity only five times since AD 372. We monitored the abundance and population structure of five species of aquatic snakes before, during, and after this record event in South Carolina. There was significant variation among species in response to drought conditions. Based on capture records before the drought, Nerodia fasciata and Seminatrix pygaea left the study site in relatively high numbers whereas Nerodia floridana left in relatively low numbers. We found significant variation in the timing of movements among species; N. fasciata left the site mainly in 1986 and 1988 whereas Seminatrix pygaea left the site mainly in 1987. We suggest that N. fasciata left the site in direct response to low water levels whereas S. pygaea left in response to the absence of suitable prey. Snakes exited the site using discrete, non-random corridors. Long-term changes in abundance and species composition were marked; the prey base was altered radically, overall abundance of snakes was lowered, and Nerodia floridana was not seen at the site for five years after the drought. Our results support earlier suggestions that long-term data on populations are needed to determine whether population declines result from natural or anthropogenic factors.
3891772|The technique of stomach-flushing, originally developed for use with turtles, has been adapted for use on unanesthetized lizards and anurans. Mortality is less than 1% once the procedure is established. The technique was used on 393 lizards of 16 species and 27 anurans of 5 species.
3890979|The statistical relationships between wet and dry body weights, wet and dry weights of the fat bodies, and lipid content of the fat bodies and of the entire body were determined for the canebrake rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus) and the black racer (Coluber constrictor). The results indicate highly significant correlations between certain variables. The most useful relationship is that total lipid content can be confidently estimated once the wet weight of the paired fat bodies is determined.
3893361| We describe a new species of Bufo from the Andes of southern Ecuador. This species is assigned to the phenetic Bufo spinulosus group based on its narrow frontoparietals, poorly developed cranial crests, and weak sculpturing of the dermal roofing bones. This species most closely resembles B. spinulosus, but they differ from one another in several aspects of their external and cranial morphology. A key is provided for the species of the Bufo from the Andes of Ecuador and Peru. /// Describimos una nueva especie del gnero Bufo de los Andes del sur del Ecuador. Asignamos a la nueva especie al grupo B. spinulosus por poseer frontoparietales angostos, crestas ceflicas poco desarrolladas y huesos craneales lisos dorsalmente. Esta especie se diferencia de B. spinulosus en varios aspectos de su morfologa externa y craneal. Incluimos una clave para las especies de Bufo de los Andes del Ecuador y Per. 
3893475| Nine species of Gastrotheca primarily have allopatric distributions in the Andes of northern Peru. A new species with integumentary-cranial co-ossification is described from montane forest in the northern part of the Cordillera Central in the Departamento de Amazonas, Peru. A second new species from the same area lacks integumentary-cranial co-ossification and differs from all other members of the genus by having a black venter with white spots. /// Se describen dos nuevas especies de Gastrotheca para los bosques montanos de la parte norte de la Cordillera Central, en el Departamento de San Martn, Per. La primera nueva especie se caracteriza por tener una co-osificacin craneal integumentaria y la segunda nueva especie, de la misma rea sin co-osificacin craneal integumentaria, se diferencia de todos los dems miembros del gnero por poseer el vientre negro con puntos blancos. Siendo nueve las especies de Gastrotheca, con una distribucin principalmente aloptrica, las que habitan en los Andes del norte de Per. 
3892347|Hybridization between the southwestern toad (Bufo microscaphus) and Woodhouse's toad (B. woodhousii) along the Agua Fria and Hassayampa rivers in central Arizona was investigated over a 3-yr period. Variation in allozymes and the pulse rate of male release calls was compared with morphological variation in these taxa and their hybrids. At two sites on the Agua Fria drainage, data on release calls, but not morphology, were concordant with allozyme evidence of hybridization. At a third site on the Agua Fria, morphological data, but not release calls, corroborated electrophoretic evidence of hybridization. Along the Hassayampa River, all lines of evidence indicated that there has not yet been any hybridization in an area of recent sympatry. Temporal changes at one site along the Agua Fria River are consistent with the hypothesis that hybrid zones between these toads are unstable and that B. woodhousii is replacing B. microscaphus.
24634285|A new species of the genus Goniurosaurus is described from Libo County, Guizhou Province and Huanjiang County, Guangxi, China. Goniurosaurus liboensis sp. n. can be discriminated from other known congeners by its medium size, with adults measuring 103.2110.3 mm snoutvent length; 23 precloacal pores in males; a posteriorly protracted nuchal loop six or seven scale rows in width; two or three internasals, eight or nine nasal scales surrounding nares; a greatly enlarged row of supraorbital tubercles; the granular scales of upper eyelids nearly equal in size as those on the top of head; deep axillary pockets; claws sheathed by four scales; chin, throat, thorax, and ventral surfaces of body and limbs white, immaculate; and three thin immaculate dorsal body bands between limb insertions. Natural history data and an expanded key to the genus Goniurosaurus are provided.
3892532|Skeletons of Graptemys caglei and Graptemys versa of the Guadalupe and Colorado rivers of Texas, respectively, are compared. G. caglei and G. versa differ in color pattern, morphology of the vertebral spines, and eight significant osteological characters. Osteological divergence is noted in the relative contribution of the jugal to the orbit, the shape of the rostral projection of the basisphenoid, the shape of the basisphenoid-basioccipital suture, the conformation of the ventral border of the apertura nervi trigemini, the shapes of the supraoccipital, the nature of the contact between the palatine process of the premaxilla and the vomer, and the presence or absence of a posterior process on the coracoid. The presence of a prefrontal process on the frontal, lack of broadening of the alveolar surfaces, and lack of excessive shelving on the parietals, supraoccipital, squamosals, and postorbitals support inclusion of G. caglei and G. versa in the "narrow-headed" Graptemys species group. Sexual maturity in both species is attained at a carapace length of 60 mm, unlike G. flavimaculata and G. nigrinoda (80 mm). Sexual dimorphism in the basioccipital and supraoccipital is displayed in both G. versa and G. caglei. The sexual dimorphism described for the supraoccipital is the same as that previously described for G. flavimaculata and G. nigrinoda.
25621886|Acoustic signals are constrained by background noise. Visual signals are an alternative or complementary communication mode in noisy habitats and play a fundamental role in anuran communication. The Bornean rock-skipper frog, Staurois latopalmatus, is a diurnal species living along fast-flowing streams and waterfalls. Males perform foot-flagging displays with either one or two legs to advertise their readiness to defend their territories. In quantitative video analyses of visual displays during 14 male-male agonistic interactions, totaling 106 minutes, foot flagging performed in the direction of the interacting male was the most common display and was performed at a higher rate than advertisement calls. According to a dyadic transition matrix, foot flagging was preceded by foot-flagging displays of interacting males. Advertisement calls were temporally coupled with foot flaggings and act as introductory components to direct the receiver's attention to the subsequent visual display. We conclude that foot flagging acts as a spacing mechanism and may have resulted from the ritualization of agonistic male behavior to minimize physical attacks.
3893031|Generally it has not been recognized that salamanders of two distinctive color morphs currently are assigned to Tylototriton verrucosus Anderson. One form is uniformly dark brown dorsally, with bright orange coloration confined to the ventral edge of the tail; the other has a dark brown to black dorsal ground color with orange dorsolateral warts, an orange vertebral crest, and orange lateral and medial crests on the head. In addition, the limbs and ventrolateral surfaces of the second form have a variable pattern of orange coloration. The brown form occurs in northeastern India, Nepal, northern Burma, Bhutan, northern Thailand, the type locality in extreme western Yunnan, and perhaps in northern Vietnam. The orange-patterned form occurs only in western Yunnan Province, People's Republic of China. The two forms appear to be allopatric but occur close together in the area of the type locality near the Burma border in western Yunnan. There is no evidence of color intergradation in specimens from this region. Analyses of morphometric and meristic characters, however, suggest the possibility of limited genetic exchange between adjacent populations of brown and orange-patterned forms in western Yunnan. The genetic and taxonomic relationships between the two forms is not fully resolved. However, these two highly distinctive forms obviously have evolved along independent trajectories and merit taxonomic recognition. We therefore propose to restrict the concept of Tylototriton verrucosus to the brown form and designate a neotype for that purpose, and we describe a new species to receive the orange-patterned form.
3891796|The iguanid lizard Polychrus acutirostris was studied for 12 months in the interior of northeastern Brazil near the geographical center of zonas das caatingas, a semi-arid region. Behavioral patterns were similar to those of other iguanids with males and females possessing a variety of displays. Adult females were larger (in both SVL and mass) than males. The diet consisted of arboreal insects and vegetation. Cycles of fat bodies in males and females were similar to those of many other lizards with fat bodies being smallest during the reproductive season. Reproduction was seasonal and synchronous with females producing large clutches (7-31 eggs) of small eggs. Oviposition occurred at the beginning of the wet season and hatching presumably occurred at the end of the wet season or at the beginning of the dry season. All individuals apparently reached sexual maturity during the first year of life. Certain behavioral traits of P. acutirostris are similar to those of tropical Anolis, but Polychrus exhibits a much different set of reproductive characteristics.
3893536|A new medium-sized species of Hyla from a montane forest in northeastern Brazil is described (snout-vent length in males 37.3-42.2 mm). The new taxon is diagnosed by the following combination of characters: (1) prepollex and prepollical spine present; (2) dorsal color pattern brown, with bright, metallic tan or yellowish triangular spot covering dorsum of snout; (3) supralabial stripe metallic beige, slightly yellowish; (4) dorsolateral stripe bright, yellow, extending from middle eyelid to groin, breaking into series of small contiguous ovoid spots posteriorly; (5) concealed areas of legs and flanks pale cream; (6) tadpole stream-inhabitant. A large proportion of the tadpoles, which are herein described, revealed oral disk abnormalities that could be potentially associated with infection by chytrid fungus. To our knowledge, this is the first published record of species of Hyla with stream-inhabitant tadpoles in northeastern Brazil.
3893573|Morphological variation in the abdominal skeleton of Tropiduridae was examined from radiographs and cleared-and-stained specimens of 61 species. Based on the numbers of xiphisternal and postxiphisternal inscriptional ribs, as well as the presence of inscriptional ribs articulating ventromedially, seven patterns of rib attachment are described. The distribution of these patterns among the species studied reveals intra- and interspecific variation, which indicates that the abdominal skeleton of lizards is a good source of fixed and polymorphic characters for phylogenetic analyses.
3891068|Growth of the turtle, Chrysemys picta, was studied in southeastern Pennsylvania. Growth is most rapid in juveniles and slows appreciably in adults. First year turtles ranged to 45 mm, second year to 60 mm, third year to 75 mm, and fourth year to 90 mm. Growth is initiated in hatchlings as soon as the shell shape is set and they start to feed. Growth in the first season depends on the date of hatching. Hatchlings which overwintered and emerged the following spring and early summer grew larger due to the longer season. The usual growth period in southeastern Pennsylvania is from 1 June until 31 August, or 92 days, and is limited by water temperature, amount of rainfall, and availability of food. Painted turtles annually shed their shell laminae. Juveniles start ecdysis in late June and are finished by mid-August. Adults start in the beginning of July, and ecdysis may be prolonged until autumn. There is no pattern to the ecdysis. Ecdysis is delayed and prolonged in turtles kept continually in water and not allowed to bask.
3892550|Offspring from 75 egg clutches of Desmognathus ochrophaeus were raised past transformation and their phenotypes compared to those of their presumed mothers. Assuming single gene control with complete penetrance, the red-leg and red-cheek traits appear to be inherited as dominants controlled by different loci. The red traits are a complex of features including synthesis of red pigment, reduction of melanophores and white chromatophores, and, in the red-cheek trait only, iridophore production. Polymorphic clutches from non-red females were used to estimate multiple inseminations at a frequency of 25% at one locality.
3891437|The distribution of Pelamis platurus is best described as being divided into resident and waif populations. The distribution of resident and breeding populations is probably circumscribed by the 25 C isotherm and the 100 meter isobath. Its upper temperature limit is gradually-acclimated individuals is about 36 C but its lower normal activity temperature is between 25-26 C. The upper temperature tolerances are not significant factors limiting distribution. The lower temperature tolerances are the most important limiting factors. The hydrophiid adaptive zone is of relatively recent origin and was probably occupied in the late Oligocene or later. A similar adaptive zone was occupied in the early Tertiary by booid-like Palaeophidae, which became extinct by the middle Oligocene, possibly because of the general cooling of oceanic surface waters.
3892474|Thirty presumptive gene loci were examined in four populations of the salamander Plethodon larselli using starch gel electrophoresis. Twenty-five of the loci assayed were monomorphic. Mean heterozygosities varied from 0.002 to 0.013. The most common allele at each polymorphic locus was shared by all populations. No alternate alleles were shared by these populations. The four populations are genetically distinct but show more similarity than anticipated, based on the presumed time since separation.
3892991|Two recent papers by Dubois, in 1987 and 1992, have proposed changes in generic definitions and relations as well as significant revision of the classification of the family Ranidae. These significant papers have four general and a number of specific weaknesses that undermine Dubois's definitions of certain genera and cast doubt on many of the relationships that he proposed.
3892811| Examination of the holotype of Rana trilobata and comparison with other taxa of ranid frogs that occur in the vicinity of the type locality (Guadalajara, Mxico) indicate that R. trilobata Mocquard, 1899 is a senior subjective synonym of R. megapoda Taylor, 1942. /// Se compara el holotipo de Rana trilobata con las otras especies de Rana, que estn distribuidas en los alrededores de localidad tipo (Guadalajara, Mxico). Rana trilobata Mocquard, 1899 es un sinnimo subjectivo mayor de R. megapoda Taylor, 1942. 
25209124|Amphibian skin secretion is a rich source of biological compounds. Histological, morphometrical, functional, and protein biochemical methods were used to understand the role of skin glands in the tail of the red-legged salamander (Plethodon shermani), an emerging organismal model for the physiology and evolution of pheromonal communication. Individual granular glands were approximately three times larger in the dorsal tail skin compared to the ventral tail skin. Dorsal tail granular glands emptied when animals were handled to induce release of noxious/sticky substances. Ventral tail granular glands emptied during scent marking. Granular glands in both dorsal and ventral tail skin rapidly enlarged when animals were placed on a clean substrate. Histological study of tail skin identified a subset of ventral granular glands that stained differently from dorsal granular glands. Protein analysis of acetylcholine chloride extracts of dorsal tail skin and ventral tail skin revealed differences in the protein content released by glands in these tail region. Together, these data suggest that the dorsal granular glands secrete noxious/sticky substances putatively involved in predator defense and the ventral granular glands secrete products possibly involved in scent marking. Future studies will examine behavioral responses to dorsal and ventral tail skin secretions in order to better understand their role in chemical defense and chemosensory communication.
3890624|The reproductive cycle of Cnemidophorus gularis gularis was studied by dissecting 173 females. Reproduction begins in late April and ceases by late July. Females may first reproduce at a size of about 65 mm snout vent length or at 10-12 months of age. As many as half of the females do not mature until their second reproductive season at an age of 20-22 months. Females which mature as yearlings do so only late in the reproductive season (June) and produce a single and typically smaller clutch of 3-4 eggs. Older females normally produce two clutches per year with an average of 5 eggs each.
3890841| Interspecific variation in the protein content of herptiles is slight. Protein levels of 23 species of reptiles and amphibians ranged from 62.6-83.2% (x = 74.7  0.5%). These levels are similar to those reported for species of several other vertebrate groups. Protein intake by carnivores feeding on amphibians and reptiles, as well as other vertebrates, is proportional to the amount of food consumed since there appears to be relatively small interspecific variation in protein content. 
3891474|Eight complete combat sequences were observed between captive male black rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta). Seven motor patterns are described and behavioral sequences are arranged in interindividual dyadic transition matrices. These matrices demonstrate that communication occurs between combatants and motor patterns change as a bout progresses and dominance is established. Techniques of information theoretic analysis demonstrate that the behavior of one snake affects that of the other, and that certain motor patterns carry more information than others.
3892846|A new species of Asian box turtle, Cuora pallidicephala (Emydidae: Bataguridae), is described from north central Yunnan Province, China. Comparisons are made with other members of the genus Cuora (including Cistoclemmys). Cuora chriskarannarum is placed in the synonymy of Cuora pani; C. aurocapitata may be a subspecies of C. pani; and C. evelynae is relegated to a subspecies of C. flavomarginata. A key to the species of Cuora is provided.
3892218|We examined the effects of prey density, presence of a conspecific, and feeding history prior to the experimental period (alone versus group) on the search behavior of Chelus fimbriatus, the side-necked matamata, in the laboratory. The turtles, previously described as ambush predators, changed ambush-sites frequently and moved longer distances when prey density was low, and moved less frequently and shorter distances as density increased in both the single and paired turtle trials. The presence of a conspecific resulted in a decrease in ambush-site changes, in the distance moved, and in the number of prey captured/turtle. Feeding history had no effect on ambush-site changes, distance moved, or number of prey captured.
3893562|A new species of the Scinax catharinae group is described from Misiones, northeastern Argentina. It is characterized by the dark yellow flash colors in hidden areas of thigh and shank; robust but not hypetrophied forearm; and lack of a thick glandular patch in the inguinal region. It is closely related to Scinax berthae, from which it can be distinguished by having a more robust forearm and less toe webbing. In addition, relative to S. berthae, males of the new species are slightly larger and the few known females are notably larger.
3893180|From March 1996-August 1997, we studied the reproductive cycle of 132 female Chinese green tree vipers, Trimeresurus stejnegeri stejnegeri, in northern Taiwan by examining seasonal changes in their hormone levels and reproductive organ morphology and histology. Based on follicle size and the presence or absence of corpora lutea, we classified each female into one of five reproductive cycle stages. Ovulation occurred in stage IV while stage V was the post-partum stage. Liver mass peaked during stages II and III when vitellogenin is demanded for vitellogenesis. Changes in kidney mass and fat body mass paralleled changes in liver mass. Most histological characters of the oviduct, including epithelium height and gland diameter, increased gradually during stages I through III, and declined thereafter. Serum progesterone concentration peaked in stage IV while serum estradiol peaked in stage III. Stage I females were considered non-reproductive while females in stages II to V were classified as reproductive. The ratio of reproductive to non-reproductive females was nearly 1:1. However, the proportion of reproductive females increased significantly with female body size. These results suggest that female Chinese green tree vipers have the potential to breed annually but often reproduce less than once per year. Like crotaline snakes from temperate areas, female Chinese green tree vipers in northern Taiwan exhibited low-frequency reproduction, postnuptial vitellogenesis, and long-term sperm storage.
3892974| Leiopelma hamiltoni is a rare species known to occur on only two islands: Maud Island, where it is restricted to a 15 ha forest remnant, and Stephens Island, where it is confined to a 600 m
24634295|Sexually dimorphic coloration that plays a role in social signaling during stereotypical displays is well known in lizards. Previous studies on a large Australian agamid lizard (Eastern Water Dragon, Intellagama lesueurii) documented male-biased sex differences in ventral coloration, but males were not observed to use postures that displayed their ventral surfaces. Male resource-holding potential (RHP) was determined by body size, with the largest individuals controlling territories in preferred riparian habitat. Both large males that defended territories and those that did not had fully developed ventral coloration. Together these observations suggested that male ventral coloration does not play a role in social communication in male Water Dragons. We tested this hypothesis by recording the behavior of free-ranging males during baseline social conditions and when the level of aggression was much higher because we temporarily removed and then reinstated territory owners. Male Water Dragons performed three behavior patterns that displayed their conspicuous ventral coloration when engaged in agonistic encounters with same-sex rivals, especially when social conditions among neighboring males were unstable. Rival males responded to these displays in all instances. A large, model Water Dragon male in which we manipulated ventral color elicited lower-intensity responses from rival males when the model ventral surface was red than when it was brown. This result is also consistent with the hypothesis that red coloration plays a role in signaling and perhaps in intimidation of rivals. Water Dragon displays that revealed ventral coloration were not given when males interacted with females, suggesting red coloration does not function in advertisement to potential female mates. Our results support the hypothesis that red ventral coloration in Eastern Water Dragons functions in advertisement to rival males similar to the function of red coloration in several other vertebrates.
27669739|Each year, as the warmth of summer turns into the cool of autumn and the cold of winter, snakes disappear from the Canadian landscape. For several months of the year, winter weather at high latitudes is much too cold for snakes to be active in the open and they must seek subterranean shelter to hibernate. This long period underground is one during which these animals are subject not only to the possibility of mortality, but also to lost opportunity for activities such as foraging and the acquisition of resources for reproduction. Winter is thus a major constraint on the life histories of temperate-zone snakes. Short, cool summers further restrict their foraging and reproductive opportunities. In apparent response to this challenge, most high-latitude snake species are viviparous, counter to what is seen in warmer climes. Viviparity allows gravid females to "manipulate" the developmental temperature of their progeny, via behavioral thermoregulation, until those offspring are independent, an option not open to oviparous species. However, viviparity also has costs, not least of which is a pronounced reduction in feeding during pregnancy, which means that the post-partum female has only a short time before winter to make up the reserves ("capital") that she spent on reproduction and will need for future reproduction; therefore, reproduction in consecutive years is not always possible. Evidently, the demographic costs of viviparity are outweighed by its advantages, but what remains unexplained is how some oviparous species manage to persist at high latitudes. Demographic advantages of oviparous over viviparous species, due to shorter "pregnancy" of the former, are not apparent from limited temperate-zone studies. More likely, cool-climate oviparous species also reproduce successfully by taking advantage of the thermal heterogeneity of the environment, especially by thermoregulating precisely while gravid and/or by careful selection of nest sites.
3892618|In situ hybridization with biotinylated probes was used to determine the location of ribosomal DNA sequences in chromosomes of 16 species of lizards and four species of snakes. Variation was found among genera that are karyotypically identical according to non-differentially stained preparations. We conclude that during the evolution of squamate reptiles, the organization of rDNA sequences in the genome has changed substantially without altering the morphology of the karyotype. Closely related species and genera often have similar rDNA distribution patterns. For some groups, the location of rDNA may be of systematic value.
3891791|The Inyo Mountains salamander (Batrachoseps campi) was recently described on the basis of specimens from two populations in the extremely arid mountains of eastern California. Here we report the discovery of 11 additional populations from a series of canyons in the same range. Genic variation in B. campi was investigated using starch-gel electrophoresis. A relatively high level of genetic differentiation is demonstrated in the species. Nei genetic distance ranges from .01-.23 (mean = .12) based on 33 electrophoretic loci. Substantial genic subdivision within the species is demonstrated (
3892250| Hyla soralia is described from moderate elevations of the Sierra de Omoa in northwestern Honduras. Its relationships lie with the members of the uranochroa group, otherwise known from Costa Rica and western Panam. The tadpoles are described and figured. Relationships of the uranochroa group are discussed. 
3892425|The all-red or erythristic color phase of Plethodon cinereus exhibits much macro- and microgeographic variation in frequency. Highest frequencies (20-25%) occur in northeastern Ohio, the Berkshire and Litchfield Hills of southern New England, and the Bay of Fundy region. Experiments with caged, wild-caught bluejays indicate that these birds selectively avoid attacking erythristic P. cinereus. In some birds, this avoidance is enhanced by experimental exposure to red efts (juvenile Notophthalmus viridescens), which are red, noxious, and toxic. Frequencies of erythrism seem never to exceed 25%, and this may be the upper level that selection can support in this apparent mimicry system. The evolutionary basis for macro- and microgeographic variation in this and other characters of P. cinereus remains poorly understood.
3890631|Newborn Eumeces inexpectatus were presented body surface extracts from two insects and one mammal. During 60 sec presentations of each stimulus, the number of tongue flicks and the duration of orientation toward the extracts were recorded. The mean duration of orientation to the stimuli were different (.05 < p < .10) with the Elateridae larvae and laboratory mouse receiving the highest scores. The mean orientation time to the juvenile Reduviidae was lower than the mean orientation time to the Elateridae larvae extract (p = .10). These differences in orientation times suggest (1) an innate chemical discrimination of potential prey animals, and (2) a possible disinterest in the extract from a distasteful insect.
3891983| Regression equations of the form
3891284|The ability of plains spadefoot toads, Scaphiopus bombifrons, to use solar cues in orientation and learning directional goals was analyzed. Orientational tests were conducted with animals moving toward breeding sites and taken from breeding aggregations. Toads used the sun to guide their migrations to breeding aggregations and used a y-axis mechanism relative to a shoreline while breeding. Training tests revealed that these anurans learn directional goals rapidly when the sun was the only apparent cue. Collection data reveal that this species can migrate at least a mile to breeding sites and that they are often active several days prior to heavy rains in the spring.
41238989|Dietary separation is an important means of differentiating ecological niches and avoiding interspecific competition between sympatric species. Congeneric species that overlap in geographic distribution provide an excellent opportunity to explore the mechanisms of coexistence. Two monitor lizards, Varanus gouldii and V. rosenbergi (Varanidae), are sympatric at a local scale in the northern Jarrah Forest of Western Australia. Both species are wide-ranging terrestrial predators of a similar size and may differentiate their ecological niche by utilizing alternative foraging strategies resulting in dietary separation. Because varanid lizards are an important group of terrestrial high-order predators in the Old World, any such separation may have important implications for faunal community structure. In total, 169 scat and stomach samples were analyzed revealing extensive dietary overlap between the species. Dietary intake was not distinguishable between species or related to individual body size. Invertebrates were most important in terms of frequency and volume, although reptiles, mammals and birds were also commonly identified. Dietary partitioning is not the mechanism allowing these congeneric varanid lizards to coexist.
3892869| Lepidoblepharis montecanoensis is a small, short-toed species from relictual areas of tropical dry forest on the semiarid Paraguan Peninsula, Estado Falcn, Venezuela. It represents the first species of Lepidoblepharis reported from Venezuela and the first endemic reptile recorded from the Paraguan Peninsula. It is distinct from other short-toed Lepidoblepharis by character combinations involving snout and chin scutellation, dorsal scale morphology, and its relatively featureless color pattern. /// Lepidoblepharis montecanoensis es una especie muy pequea con dedos del pie cortosque se encuentra en una rea amenazada de bosque seco tropical de la pennsula semirida de Paraguan, Estado Falcn, Venezuela. Se representa la primera especie de Lepidoblepharis reportada de Venezuela y el primer reptil endmico registrado de la Pennsula de Paraguan. Se diferencia de otras Lepidoblepharis con dedos del pie cortos por las combinacines de caracteres de morfologa de escama dorsal, otras caracteres de escamacin, y su relativemente modela de color lisa. 
3892899|The anatomy of the cloaca of male Triturus v. vulgaris was studied by light microscopy, including microcomputer generated three-dimensional reconstructions of serial sections. Five types of cloacal glands occur. (1) Dorsal glands secrete into the caudal end of the cloaca, and, when hypertrophied, their distal ends extend anterior of the pelvic girdle. The eosinophilic secretion of dorsal glands is complex and involves globular products that may be positive with periodic acid/Schiff's reagent (PAS) for carbohydrates as well as a PAS negative granular secretion. (2) Pelvic glands secrete into the cloacal tube, and (3) anterior ventral glands secrete into the walls of the cloacal orifice except for the most posterior end. Although pelvic glands are eosinophilic and anterior ventral glands are basophilic, both of these glands have PAS positive granular secretions. Reported in Triturus for the first time are the occurrence of two small, basophilic, PAS positive gland clusters, (4) Kingsbury's glands, along the cloacal tube, and (5) posterior ventral glands, in the anterior cloacal chamber. Dorsal glands secrete courtship pheromones. Secretions from pelvic and Kingsbury's glands form the cap of the spermatophore, anterior ventral glands secrete the base, and pelvic and posterior ventral gland secretions form the portion that attaches the cap to the base.
4497958|Comparative biologists often conceptualize sexual size dimorphism (SSD) as a static characteristic of adult populations, but recent work has emphasized that SSD reflects a developmental process in which males and females "grow apart" in body size. This ontogenetic perspective requires knowledge of (1) the demographic factors that give rise to SSD (e.g., differential survival, migration, or growth) and (2) the ontogenetic timing of these sexual differences (e.g., juvenile, maturational, or adult divergence). Together, such data help formulate testable hypotheses concerning proximate physiological mechanisms responsible for the development of SSD. To illustrate this approach, we present a case study of two sympatric lizard congeners with opposite patterns of SSD (Sceloporus virgatus: female-larger; S. jarrovii: male-larger). Using mark-recapture data, we show that (1) sex differences in survival and migration cannot account for SSD, and (2) both nonlinear growth models and age-specific linear growth rates identify sexually dimorphic growth as the cause of SSD in each species. SSD develops in S. virgatus because females grow more quickly than males, particularly during the spring mating season. By contrast, SSD develops in S. jarrovii because males grow more quickly than females throughout the first year of life, particularly in association with vitellogenesis and gestation in females. Thus, opposite developmental patterns of SSD in these species may reflect underlying differences in energetic trade-offs between reproduction and growth.
3892196|A population study of the wall lizard, Podarcis muralis, was conducted from 1979-1981 with occasional surveys until 1985. The study site was a 0.52-ha cemetery. Lizards required 2 yr to reach sexual maturity. An average of two clutches are produced per breeding season (April-July), and clutch size decreases with time. Some older females may produce a third clutch in late July. Clutch size is strongly correlated with female body size. Population size showed little variation throughout this study, and average absolute density (excluding hatchlings) was 531/ha. The 1-yr-old cohort represented between 66% and 71% of the population. Maximum longevity approximates 5 yr.
3892151|Egg mass mortality of Ambystoma maculatum varied from 0-100% among seven ponds in 1981 and from 0-40% among eight ponds in 1982. Ambystoma opacum clutch mortality was 64% in one pond in 1979. Juvenile recruitment varied over 3 yr from 4-230 individuals for A. opacum and from 0-4 individuals for A. maculatum. In 1980, premetamorphic mortality was estimated to be 99.89% for A. maculatum and 91.18% for A. opacum. Recruitment for A. maculatum was calculated to be insufficient to maintain the population.
3891849|Alligators are known to remain in attendance at their nest, but the nature and function of this behavior have not been demonstrated. The response of an attending alligator to an intruder may include an ordered sequence of up to ten progressively more agonistic behaviors which terminate in an attack. The function of these behaviors appears to be to guard the nest against potential predators. Attending alligators respond differently to various potential predators depending in part on the intensity of the threat. Several factors, especially experience, modulate the response and determine the behavior of individual alligators.
3893575|We describe a new species of riparian Litoria from the Cloudy Mountains of southeastern Papua New Guinea. The new species is a member of the Litoria nigropunctata species group and differs from other members of that group in its combination of small size, blunt snout, head wider than long, no vomerine teeth, fingers one-third webbed, red iris, and several aspects of color pattern. The new species is among the smallest members of its genus in New Guinea and apparently can be distinguished readily from all other Papuan (New Guinea and surrounding islands) Litoria by its iris color alone. The sole female has many small, white ova, but exact reproductive mode for the species remains uncertain.
3892133|The anterior lobe of a plastron of a box turtle (Terrapene Merrem) represents the earliest known occurrence of this Emys group genus (Barstovian: middle Miocene). This specimen comes from the same stratigraphic horizon as the oldest previously known member of the Emys group, Emydoidea sp., also from the Barstovian of Nebraska. The Terrapene fossil comes from the Mysers Farm Fauna, Webster County, south-central Nebraska, and was associated with turtles of the genera Trionyx, Macroclemys and Geochelone, and several species of snakes discussed elsewhere. Two forms of Geochelone are present: a very large one and an unnamed very distinct small one with a quite narrow, dorsoventrally thickened epiplastral projection. The climate in which these reptiles lived must have been at least as mild as that of the Gulf Coastal Plain of the United States, today, and the winters were probably even milder.
3890627|The ecology and life cycle of Gyrinophilus porphyriticus were studied at four localities in the southern Blue Ridge and Piedmont of North and South Carolina. The species was more abundant at higher elevations in the Nantahala and Balsam Mountains than at lower elevations on the edge of the Blue Ridge and in the Piedmont. Larvae were found throughout the year at all localities. Metamorphosed individuals could not be located in the summer months at low elevations, but were found in all seasons at high elevations. At all four sites G. porphyriticus was less abundant than most other sympatric species of plethodontid salamanders. Such scarcity is attributed to the trophic position of G. porphyriticus, i.e., a tendency for feeding on other salamanders. Larger body sizes are attained by adult G. porphyriticus at higher elevations than at lower elevations; this is a consequence of delay in development to maturity after metamorphosis in high-elevation populations. Male reproductive cycles are similar at all four localities. Sperm are generated in the testes through the summer months, and are discharged into the vasa deferentia in autumn and winter. The vasa deferentia of most mature males are filled with sperm from early autumn through late spring. Females apparently oviposit in the summer at low elevations, and in the cooler months at high elevations. Fecundity is positively correlated with body size, but, for females of similar size, egg production is greater at lower elevations. It is concluded that, within the study area, past and present environmental conditions have favored r-selection in low-elevation populations of G. porphyriticus and K-selection in high-elevation populations of the species.
3891954|Naturally metamorphosing individuals are reported from 6 centrally located populations of the generally paedogenetic plethodontid salamander Eurycea neotenes, including at least 2 populations in which paedogenesis appears to be uncommon or absent. Aspects of reproductive biology and population structure are presented, and modification of a recent model for the origin of paedogenesis is suggested. The external and skeletal morphology of transformed specimens is described in detail; metamorphosis is morphologically complete. Structural evidence indicates that these salamanders are correctly assigned to the genus Eurycea, and are most closely allied to their small congeners of the Interior Highlands.
3892934|A population of Ambystoma talpoideum was monitored from 1977-1982 using mark-recapture techniques to document changes in population parameters. Body size differed significantly between the sexes; males had longer body lengths than females, females had greater masses than males, and males had longer cloacae than females. Sex ratios varied significantly from 1:1 during two of the 5 yr studied, and a shift toward more males was noted. Annual fecundity was 57-504 eggs/female based on oviducal and ovarian counts. Population natality was estimated to be 2555 eggs/year. Mature females were larger (snout-vent length) but oviposited fewer eggs than females from South Carolina. Clusters of 3-50 eggs were deposited within thin, clear jelly envelopes; single eggs were not found. Annual, biennial, and other reproductive cycles occurred, but most individuals (68%) were annual breeders. Growth rates declined logarithmically after hatching. Sexual maturity occurred at 2 yr of age, and the onset of reproductive senility occurred in the fifth year of age in females and in the seventh year of age in males. Breeding population size ranges, for three of the years studied, were 131-214 females and 177-220 males/year, and declines were indicated. Adult mortality rate was estimated to be 25.8% per breeding season, and longevity of more than 8 yr was documented.
4497944|Species of pond-breeding salamanders in the Great Lakes region often coexist with unisexual (all-female) populations that compete with larvae and are sexual parasites on adult males. We evaluated the effects of interactions with the larvae from unisexual salamander (Ambystoma laterale-complex) populations on blue-spotted (A. laterale) and small-mouthed salamander (A. texanum) larvae. We coupled observations in natural ponds with mesocosm and laboratory approaches to investigate the roles of competition, predation, microhabitat partitioning, and behavior on the coexistence of these populations. Unisexual salamander larvae increased mortality, reduced growth, and were observed to attack and bite small-mouthed and blue-spotted salamander larvae in mesocosms. Unisexual larvae were competitively superior to blue-spotted salamander larvae, but competitively equal to small-mouthed salamander larvae. Laboratory experiments confirmed field observations that both species increased their use of refuges in the presence of unisexual larvae and that this behavior resulted in niche partitioning. Blue-spotted salamander larvae were less active in the presence of unisexuals; however, small-mouthed larvae increased activity and use of refuges in the presence of larger intraguild predators. The hypothesis that microhabitat partitioning and altered activities minimize the effects of competition and predation was supported.
3893216|I examined annual changes in the ovaries and accessory sex organs in Hynobius nigrescens. During the March breeding season, all gravid females collected just before entering a breeding pond were still in a preovulatory condition, and ovulation occurred in the pond. After ovulation, remaining ovarian eggs were translucent until August, and they assumed a mint green color in August when vitellogenesis (i.e., the accumulation of yolk granules) was initiated. Melanin deposition in the ovarian eggs began in September, and the eggs were entirely dark brown in October and the following winter months. Ovary mass began to increase in August and in January reached the maximum level, maintained into March when females possessed ripe ova before entering the pond for breeding. Sizes of both ovarian eggs and ventral glands increased sharply from July-November and further increased gradually during hibernation. The mass of the oviduct plus ovisac increased from August toward the breeding season. The maximum mass of the fat bodies was recorded in August. This is the first documentation of the annual reproductive cycle in any female hynobiid species.
3891998|Scales from various dorsal and ventral body regions of 11 species of lizards (six families) and two species of snakes (one family) were examined with the scanning electron microscope (SEM). Surface features of scales include cells of the outermost epidermal layer (Oberhautchen), superimposed outlines of clear layer cells from the previous epidermal generation, and spinules, pits and laminae on the Oberhautchen cells. It is proposed that these surface details of scales be called "microornamentation (MO)." Microornamentation often is most prominent on dorsal scales of the head, trunk and tail, apparently reflecting mechanical wear and adaptive modifications. In this sample, MO patterns and current taxonomic arrangements are generally correlated. Fundamentally, the Oberhautchen of ascalabotan families is spinulate (Gekkonidae) or spinulate-pitted (Iguanidae), and Oberhautchen cell outlines are usually well-defined. Autarchoglossan families usually possess a laminated Oberhautchen without visible cell outlines (Scincidae, Anguinidae) or a relatively smooth Oberhautchen with small pits and visible cell outlines (Anniellidae, Helodermatidae). The Oberhautchens of Xantusia henshawi and X. vigilis are laminated and without visible cell outlines, supporting the assignment of Xantusidae to Autarchoglossa. The MO pattern of the autarchoglossan Cnemidophorus tigris (Teiidae), however, is similar to that of the desert iguanids Dipsosaurus dorsalis and Uma notata. While such resemblance can be interpreted as further evidence of taxonomic affinities between iguanids and teiids, character convergence cannot be ruled out. These data are insufficient to assess fully the usefulness of MO patterns in defining higher taxa of lizards and snakes. Since MO may reflect ecological adaptations as well as phylogeny, however, further SEM studies should do much to elucidate both the systematics and general biology of squamate reptiles.
3892506|A convenient method for measuring the size and shape of morphological characters <25 mm is described. The apparatus includes a stereomicroscope with a drawing tube attachment and a microcomputer with a mouse.
3892831| A new species, Coniophanes longinquus, is described from the Ro Zaa Valley on the western slope of the Andes in northwestern Peru. It is the southernmost species of the genus, and the only one for which definite Peruvian localities are known. It differs from all congeners in having a unique pattern of paired dorsal blotches on the anterior part of the body, and is unusual in having only 17 dorsal scale rows at midbody. The new species appears to be closely related to Coniophanes dromiciformis of southern Ecuador and C. joanae of eastern Panama on the basis of shared details of color pattern and hemipenial structure. The occurrence of Coniophanes dromiciformis in Peru, based on two specimens from the James Orton collection, is questionable. /// Se describe una nueva especie, Coniophanes longinquus, del valle del Ro Zaa, que se ubica en la vertiente oeste de los Andes al noroeste del Per. Es la especie mas al sur del gnero, y la nica para la cual se conocen localidades Peruanas definitivas. Difiere de todos sus congneres por el patrn de manchas dorsales pareadas en la parte anterior del cuerpo, y es inusual al tener slo 17 filas de escamas en la parte media. En base a detalles del patrn de coloracin y estructura del hemipene, la nueva especie se considera cercanamente relacionada a Coniophanes dromiciformis del sur de Ecuador y a C. joanae del este de Panam. La ocurrencia de Coniophanes dromiciformis en Per, basada en dos especmenes de la coleccin de James Orton, se considera cuestionable. 
3893412|Green turtles are highly migratory and difficult to study in aquatic habitats. Despite much progress in recent decades, some aspects of the green turtle's life history remain obscure. Long distance migrations by adults between foraging grounds and nesting habitats are striking, yet juvenile movements are poorly known. We performed mixed-stock analysis using mtDNA markers on a foraging population of juvenile green sea turtles, Chelonia mydas, from Hutchinson Island, Florida, to determine the origin of these animals. The results indicate that contributions to this population from previously surveyed nesting populations were 53% from Costa Rica, 42% from the United States and Mexico, and 4% from Aves Island (Venezuela) and Surinam. Results differed significantly from a similar juvenile foraging population in the nearby Bahamas (Costa Rica: 80%; United States and Mexico: 5%; Aves Island and Surinam: 14%; Ascension Island and Guinea Bissau: 1%). This difference may be due to a number of factors resulting in geographic or temporal changes in haplotype composition. Results of this study reinforce the need for cooperative international management of migratory species.
3893345|The Philippine parachute gecko, Ptychozoon intermedium, originally described from a single specimen that was destroyed during World War II, is redescribed on the basis of all available museum specimens and newly acquired material from the island of Mindanao, Philippines. This Philippine endemic differs from its congeners by the combination of large size at maturity (snoutto-vent length = 68.6-99.8 mm), 8-12 pore-bearing preanal and 12-19 pore-bearing femoral scales; the usual presence of flat or slightly convex dorsal tubercles; denticulate dermal expansions along the tail ending in a small terminal flap (at most slightly larger than nearest lobe) with limited lobe fusion on its proximal edge; three transverse wavy bands in dorsal axilla-groin distance; and various body proportions. We designate a neotype from Davao City Province, Mindanao, and describe the parachuting escape behavior of this secretive Philippine gecko.
3893042|We investigated year-to-year variation in intra-populational growth rates for two populations of the red-eared turtle, Trachemys scripta elegans. We propose a method to determine the impact of such variation. Females of one population showed statistically significant year-to-year variation in growth. Failure to test for such variation can cause misinterpretations in studies of turtle growth rates. Previous studies of turtle growth, all of which failed to account for year-to-year variation in the data analyses, should be considered suspect.
3891416| Male-male interactions of two species of centrolenid frogs (Centrolenella viridissima in Mxico; C. valerioi in Costa Rica) are described. This variously involves an approach sequence consisting of jerky rocking motions, an amplexus-like clasp, and a call. This call is different from the previously-described mating call, being of lower intensity and of slightly longer duration. It is suggested that it be termed an encounter call. 
4497930|The sex of young sea turtles is difficult to determine because they lack externally dimorphic characteristics and heteromorphic sex chromosomes, yet internal dimorphic morphologq is defined at hatching. We tested the reliabilitv of nine internal gonadl and accessory duct characteristics to identify the sex of 558 postlhatchling loggerhead sea turtles accurately. We modified existing laparoscopic procedures, previously ilsed to classify the sex of larger sea turtles anld other turtle species, for use in posthatchlings. Here we describe our approach and quantify the reliabilitv of our nmorphological criteria. Sex was verified by histological examinationi of gonadal biopsies from a subset of the turtles. We noted seasonal shifts in early gonadal structure so that some characters which were reliable in the summer and fall were not reliable other times of the year. Thus, we confined the analysis to the six characters that were reliable year round: gonad shape, paraimesonephric duct size, gonad size, paramesonephric duct lumen presence, paramiesonephric duct mobility and gonad attachment. Using discriminant analyses of the biopsy and morphological data, we found high correlations between sex from tissue biopsies and these six morphological characters: this analysis misclassified just 2% of the animals with histological verification. Applying the classification functions to animals without histology and comparing those results to our visual classification resulted in 2% reclassification. The analysis reclassified animals that we or the histology correctly identified that had both female-like and male-like characters. Our method provided accurate identification of sex in very young sea turtles. This methodology enables sex ratio assessments in early life stages, which are critical to species recovery efforts. Additionally, sex assignment data are basic to our understanding of patterns and processes directing dinmorphic changes of the gonads and their ducts.
3891777|The frequency of basking of seven immature Chrysemys concinna was studied under both fasting and sated conditions. The turtles basked slightly more frequently after feeding, but the difference was not significant. Basking remained a major component of their behavior under fasting conditions. These turtles were then exposed to a series of environmental cues (varying intensity and spectrum of incident radiation) to determine the stimulus that elicited the major response. The response to infrared radiation was greater in magnitude than the response to light alone and approximated the response to light and heat combined. These turtles bask for some benefit, other than enhancement of digestion, derived from an elevated body temperature.
3892493|Proteins encoded by 22-32 loci were analysed by starch-gel electrophoresis for 21 populations representing three species of Xantusia and eight species of Lepidophyma. Significant allozyme divergence exists within X. vigilis, with genetic distances between some populations as large as 0.452. Phylogenetic analyses of the allozyme data indicate that the populations of X. vigilis are not united by a uniquely derived allele and that the species may be paraphyletic. Data obtained for 10 loci in X. henshawi bolsonae suggest that it may be most closely related to the sympatric X. vigilis extorris and thus may represent a distinct species. The allozyme phylogeny indicates the existence of a northern and southern species clade within the genus Lepidophyma. A unisexual population of L. flavimaculatum has low levels of fixed heterozygosity and of differentiation from an adjacent bisexual population, and it may not be of hybrid origin.
3891854|Cloacae of male Eurycea bislineata, E. junaluska, E. multiplicata, E. quadridigitata, and E. tynerensis (paedogene) were examined by light microscopy. Cloacal anatomy is similar in all non-neotenic Eurycea and closely matches descriptions reported elsewhere for E. longicauda and E. lucifuga. Eurycea tynerensis differs from the other Eurycea by lacking vent glands, which are a group of cloacal glands associated with the epidermally lined caudal end of the vent. Neotenic E. tynerensis induced to metamorphose by thyroxin show no differences in cloacal anatomy from control specimens. Cloacal glands of all species are most highly developed in sexually active males. Plethodon cinereus and to a lesser degree P. dorsalis are similar to Eurycea in overall cloacal structure. When cloacal glands are actively secreting, specific regions of the cloacal epithelium are ciliated and these regions differ in Eurycea from those reported for Plethodon.
23254555|We studied growth, development, and metamorphic traits of Polypedates braueri tadpoles in Taiwan to elucidate the cause of tadpole overwintering in man-made water containers in lowland orchards on the Bagua Terrace. Polypedates braueri bred from March to August, but tadpoles were present year round. Laboratory experiments demonstrated that tadpole overwintering was facultative; low temperatures and limited food retarded both growth and development, resulting in overwintering in the tadpole stage. Tadpoles at the lowest experimental temperature (15C) never reached metamorphosis. A field experiment demonstrated that 78, 28, and 4% of tadpoles raised in high, medium, and low food regimes, respectively, metamorphosed before the onset of winter. Tadpoles that did not metamorphose by fall continued to grow slowly and either metamorphosed during the winter or the following spring. These findings indicate that food availability plays a key role in inducing overwintering in tadpoles. Jumping performance of metamorphs was positively correlated with food regimes, but body lipid content was significantly higher in metamorphs raised with either low or high food regimes than in those with medium levels of food. Overwintering by P. braueri tadpoles has not been previously reported; however, agricultural activities have created new breeding habitats (i.e., man-made bodies of water), some of which are sufficiently food-limited that tadpoles overwinter to complete development and metamorphosis. An understanding of the survivorship, life history traits, and physiology of these frogs is needed to shed light on how man-made breeding sites affect the population dynamics of native frog populations.
3891559|A population of Lepidophyma smithii inhabits caves at Puerto Marquez, Guerrero, Mexico. Individual lizards occupy specific sites within the caves and are equally active by day and night. In the field, 91% by dry weight of stomach contents is fig fruit (Ficus spp.) which falls into the caves. In captivity, lizards eat arthropods, fish, figs, lettuce, cheese, and tomatoes, indicating an omnivorous, opportunistic diet.
3893367| We describe a new pitviper species, Bothrops alcatraz, of the Bothrops jararaca group, from Alcatrazes Island, off the coast of So Paulo, southeastern Brazil. It differs from the mainland coastal populations of B. jararaca in southeastern Brazil mostly by its darker coloration; smaller size; lower number of ventrals, subcaudals, and infralabials; number and shape of anterior cephalic scales; shape of hemipenis spines; intense coagulant activity of venom; and three specific venom proteins. From Bothrops insularis, another island species from southeastern Brazil, the new species differs mainly by its color pattern, smaller size, lower number of subcaudals in males, and absence of hemiclitoris in females. Bothrops alcatraz presents some features that may be viewed as paedomorphic within the B. jararaca group, such as small adult size, proportionally large eyes, intense coagulant venom activity, and diet composed of centipedes and lizards. We postulate that the dwarfism and characteristics of venom in B. alcatraz may be related to its diet (similar to that of juveniles of the mainland B. jararaca). Bothrops alcatraz and B. insularis may have originated through the isolation of populations of a B. jararaca-like ancestor on the Alcatrazes and Queimada Grande islands, respectively. The new species is regarded as critically endangered due to its very small area of occurrence and the declining quality of its habitat. /// Uma espcie nova de viperdeo, Bothrops alcatraz, pertencente ao grupo jararaca,  descrita da Ilha de Alcatrazes, situada na costa de So Paulo no sudeste do Brasil. Esta espcie difere das populaes continentais da costa do sudeste do Brasil pela colorao mais escura, menor tamanho, menor nmero de escamas ventrais, subcaudais e infra-labiais, nmero e forma das placas ceflicas anteriores e formato dos espinhos do hemipnis, alm da intensa atividade coagulante e da presena de trs protenas especficas do veneno. A espcie nova difere de Bothrops insularis, outra espcie insular de jararaca do sudeste do Brasil, pelo padro de colorao, menor tamanho, menor nmero de subcaudais em machos e ausncia de hemiclitoris em fmeas. Algumas caractersticas de B. alcatraz, como o tamanho pequeno do adulto, os olhos proporcionalmente grandes, a intensa atividade coagulante do veneno e a dieta composta por centopias e lagartos, podem ser interpretadas como pedomrficas dentro do grupo jararaca. Sugerimos aqui que o pequeno tamanho e as caractersticas do veneno de B. alcatraz estejam relacionados  sua dieta (semelhante  dos juvenis de B. jararaca do continente), o que pode ser resposta  diferente disponibilidade de tipos de presas na Ilha de Alcatrazes (especialmente a ausncia de pequenos mamferos). Bothrops alcatraz e B. insularis podem ter se originado atravs do isolamento de populaes ancestrais semelhantes a B. jararaca nas ilhas de Alcatrazes e Queimada Grande, respectivamente. A espcie nova  considerada como criticamente ameaada devido a sua pequena rea de ocorrncia e o declnio da qualidade de habitat. 
3893199| We describe a new species of Colostethus from moderate elevations of Cuchilla los Picachos, a spur of the eastern slopes of the Cordillera Oriental of Colombia (Departamento de Caquet). The new species is a small, diurnal, forest dweller characterized, in part, by lacking sexual dimorphism in ventral coloration; the throat, chest, and anterior belly of adults of both sexes are very dark brown or black. Adult males possess a patch of black, apparently glandular tissue on the ventral and medial surfaces of the distal extreme of the upper arm, just proximal to the elbow (="black arm band"), which is conjectured to be a unique synapomorphy of the C. ramosi species group. Species previously considered part of the C. ramosi group are C. exasperatus, C. fascianiger, C. lehmanni, and C. ramosi. In addition to the new species described herein, we recognize C. cevallosi as part of this group, which brings the total number of species in this clade to six. We also provide new Colombian locality records for C. fascianiger, C. lehmanni, and C. ramosi. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Colostethus de alturas moderadas de la Cuchilla los Picachos, en las estribaciones de la Cordillera Oriental de Colombia correspondiente al Departamento del Caquet. Es una especie pequea, diurna, que habita en sitios boscosos, en piso de bosque primario. Se caracteriza, en parte, por la ausencia de dimorfismo sexual cromtico, dado que los adultos de ambos sexos presentan la garganta, el pecho, y la region anterior del abdomen de color caf muy oscuro o negro. Los machos adultos presentan en las superficies ventrales y mediales, del extremo distal del brazo, una region de tejido negro, aparentemente glandular (="banda negra del brazo"), el cual se considera una sinapomorfa del grupo de C. ramosi. Las especies C. exasperatus, C. fascianiger, C. lehmanni, y C. ramosi se han considerado como parte de este grupo que unidas a C. cevallosi nos da un total de seis especies dentro del grupo C. ramosi. Para Colombia se incluyen nuevas localidades de C. fascianiger, C. lehmanni y C. ramosi. 
3891395|A collection of 351 amphibians and reptiles taken in Okinawa in 1964 and 1965 includes 21 species (1 salamander, 7 frogs, 1 turtle, 6 lizards, and 6 snakes). Some of the species are poorly represented in museum collections. Localities, habitats, size, and variation are discussed.
3892721| Uta encantadae, U. tumidarostra, and U. lowei are three new species of side-blotched lizards that most likely form a monophyletic group. Each is endemic to a different small, volcanic, landbridge island within the Islas Las Encantadas Archipelago in the northwestern region of the Gulf of California, Mxico. These species are principally intertidal and feed primarily on the marine isopod Ligia occidentalis. They have acquired hypertrophied nasal salt glands that presumably function to help maintain an electrolyte balance by counteracting an apparent increased salt load incurred from the ingestion of L. occidentalis and other marine invertebrates. This has led to additional major anatomical modifications of the head as well. It is hypothesized that the intertidal life style of these species may have evolved because of severe habitat alteration of inland areas on the islands due to extensive guano-covering by seabirds. /// Durante un estudio sobre la filogenia del genero Uta, me di cuenta que los poblaciones de Islas El Muerto, Coloradito, Encantada, y Islotes Blancos, del Arcipelago de las Islas Las Encantadas, ubicada en el noroeste del Golfo de California, no se pudieron incluirse en la especie U. stansburiana de la que ya haban puestos anterioremente. Estas poblaciones comparten un complejo de carcteres derivados que indican que las forman un grupo monfiltico. Entre este grupo, las poblaciones se diferencian profundamente por osteologa, squamacin, y coloracin y estn considerados como especies diferentes; U. lowei de Isla El Muerto, U. tumidarostra de Isla Coloradito, y U. encantadae de Isla Encantada y Islotes Blancos. El carcter ms diagnstico de este grupo es la hipertroficacin de la glndula nasal. En reptiles y aves, esta glndula sirve como un mecanismo para la excrecin de sal exceso. Se hipotiza aqu que la hipertroficacin de esta glndula en estas especies es una adaptacin permitindolas comer ispodos marinos. Generalemente, estas especies estn restringidas a la intermarea de las islas posiblemente porque el hbitat del interior han sido modificado tanto por la deposicin de guano por las colonias de aves. En habitates como stas, no hay muchos artrpodos y la fuente de comida ms seguro existe en la intermarea. 
3892435|Barisia imbricata is a high elevation viviparous lizard occurring in the transvolcanic mountains of Mexico. The reproductive biology of one subspecies (B. imbricata imbricata) is described in detail whereas partial information is presented for the other three subspecies. Male B. i. imbricata exhibit testicular recrudescence in spring, peak activity during the summer, and regression in autumn. Testicular recrudescence is positively correlated with increasing photoperiod and precipitation of the collection area but is not correlated with temperature. Females exhibit a summer/autumn activity pattern with follicular growth in summer, ovulation in autumn, and pregnancy over the winter months. Follicular growth is positively correlated with the onset of summer precipitation but is not correlated with rising temperature or increasing photoperiod. Dry mass of ovulated eggs and neonates suggests that the placenta of this species has a nutritive function. Data on the other subspecies indicate that little geographic variation exists in the reproductive cycle.
3891182|Monthly samples of male and female Gerrhonotus coeruleus principis were collected in coastal Washington. Reproductive condition of both sexes was recorded as well as body, air and substrate temperatures. Basking behavior in late fall and early spring coincides with the period of active spermatogenesis. Ovulation and mating occur from late April through mid-June. Young are born from mid-August through mid-September. Testes are in a regressed state during mid-summer. Adult lizards are gregarious during late fall and early spring, being relatively abundant at localized hibernation sites. Lizards are not gregarious during summer. This species has a typical temperate zone lizard reproductive cycle.
3892953|One method for assessing the mode of embryonic nutrition of viviparous reptiles is to compare the chemical composition of surgically removed uterine eggs with sibling neonates. The effect of removing eggs early in development on placental supply of nutrients to the remaining embryos has not been tested. Gravid females of Virginia striatula (n = 32) were surgically manipulated either (1) to remove a single egg from the right oviduct or (2) to remove the entire right oviduct. Females were maintained until parturition of the remaining young. We estimated wet mass, dry mass, inorganic mass, and total calcium for eggs and sibling neonates. Net placental transfer of inorganic molecules to embryos occurred in both groups but did not differ significantly between treatments. We conclude (1) that surgical removal of oviductal eggs is a useful method to estimate net placental transfer among reptiles that ovulate large yolked eggs and (2) that placental provision of nutrients is not influenced by the number of embryos undergoing development in V. striatula.
3892276|This study of the heart of Cryptobranchus alleganiensis includes the first photographs of the organ. Among the new findings is a rudimentary septum in the sinus venosus and ventricle. Additionally, the interatrial septum, considered to be incomplete (perforated) previously, is found to have an extensive complete (non-perforated) component serving as a sinoatrial valve. In conjunction with this anatomical work, we consider the comparative anatomy of the urodelan heart. Differences in position and shape of chambers suggest two phylogenetic histories for the urodelan heart, one encompassing the Sirenidae-Proteidae and the other encompassing all remaining urodeles including Cryptobranchus alleganiensis.
3893426| Phylogenetic analyses of 52 morphological characters from Agkistrodon contortrix, Atropoides nummifer, Bothriechis bicolor, B. lateralis, B. nigroviridis, B. schlegelii, Bothrops asper, Cerrophidion godmani, Gloydius blomhoffii, Ophryacus undulatus, Porthidium melanurum, P. nasutum, and P. ophryomegas indicate that the Mexican black-tailed pitviper (Porthidium melanurum) is more closely related to Ophryacus undulatus than it is to its congeners P. nasutum and P. ophryomegas. To achieve a monophyletic classification, P. melanurum is placed in the genus Ophryacus. /// Anlisis filogenticos de 52 caracteres de Agkistrodon contortrix, Atropoides nummifer, Bothriechis bicolor, B. lateralis, B. nigroviridis, B. schlegelii, Bothrops asper, Cerrophidion godmani, Gloydius blomhoffii, Ophryacus undulatus, Porthidium melanurum, P. nasutum, y P. ophryomegas indican que el crotlido mexicano de cola negra (Porthidium melanurum) est ms relacionado a Ophryacus undulatus que a sus otros congneres, P. nasutum y P. ophryomegas. Para lograr una clasificacin monofiltica, P. melanurum es colocado en el gnero Ophryacus. 
3891715|When subjected to seemingly nonstressful thermal environments, immature Bufo americanus appear to demonstrate behavioral hydroregulation. Toads subjected to increased heat loads exhibited behavior that was possibly a response to the combined thermal and hydric pressures. Under natural conditions, anurans probably do not exhibit precise regulatory behavior for any one physiological process, but instead probably control all physiological processes within some physiologically equitable limits.
3892433|Agonistic behavior in male lizards belonging to the fasciatus group of Eumeces (Scincidae) is directed primarily and perhaps almost exclusively to conspecific males. Heterospecific males, although visually quite similar to conspecific males, are usually ignored following chemosensory investigation by tongue-flicking. Male E. inexpectatus did not behave aggressively toward male E. fasciatus except when cloacal and skin odors of male E. inexpectatus had been transferred to them. Male E. inexpectatus therefore recognize conspecific males by a species-identifying odor. Eumeces fasciatus and E. laticeps may or may not possess similar abilities. Chemosensory discrimination of conspecific from heterospecific males by male E. inexpectatus may have evolved through intraspecific selection for ability to recognize sexual competitors or by direct selection against interspecific fighting.
3892494|Captive breedings of western diamondback rattlesnakes (Crotalus atrox) produced neonates which possessed anomalous polarity of scale orientation on various parts of the body. The extent and nature of the anomalies are much greater than anything previously described. While it is possible that a single genetic locus expressed differently in different genetic backgrounds is responsible for the inheritance pattern observed, it seems more likely that multiple recessive mutations were involved in the expression of the scale anomalies, and that control of scalation is polygenic. In addition, amelanotic pigment patterns were followed through four generations. Again it is possible that one genetic locus is involved in the production of the amelanotic phenotype; however, it appears more likely that two independent pairs of recessive alleles were involved in the expression of amelanism in these crosses. The genes for scale anomalies and amelanism are independently transmitted and are functionally unrelated.
3892844| We studied patterns of reproduction for the teiid lizards Ameiva exsul Cope and Ameiva wetmorei Stejneger for 1 yr in southwestern Puerto Rico. Reproduction, indexed by follicle, egg, and sperm production, and relative testis size, ceased entirely or was greatly depressed from October through January for both species. Day length was the environmental variable most closely associated with reproductive condition. Fat bodies of females reached minimal size during the months of oviposition. The larger species, A. exsul, had a larger clutch size (x = 2.0) than A. wetmorei (x = 1.0), but the proportion of body mass invested per clutch was similar for both species. 
40602626|Cost-benefit models predict that hiding time in refuge increases with predation risk. Studies of diverse prey confirm this prediction for various single risk factors, but much less is known regarding joint effects of variation in multiple factors. For single risk factors, we predicted that Balearic lizards (Podareis lilfordi) hide longer after faster and more direct approaches by predators and when predators attack persistently or remain close to the refuge. We predicted that effects of approach speed on hiding time would interact with those of directness of approach and predator proximity to the refuge. We simulated attacking predators by approaching lizards ourselves. Predictions for all single risk factors were confirmed: hiding time was greater after faster and more direct approaches, second than first attacks, and when an investigator stood closer to the refuge. These findings agree with those for other prey that are ecologically and phylogenetically diverse, suggesting that optimality theory is broadly applicable to refuge use. The predictions of interaction of approach speed were confirmed for both directness of approach and predator proximity, but the interaction between approach speed and predator proximity was opposite that predicted. Knowledge of the shapes of curves relating joint risks to hiding time are needed to use optimality theory to predict joint effects of multiple risk factors, but these shapes are unknown. Comparative studies are needed to detect quantitative effects of ecological and phylogenetic differences on hiding time.
3890618|A new species, including two subspecies (Amphibolurus nobbi nobbi and Amphibolurus nobbi coggeri), of the agamid genus Amphibolurus is described from eastern Australia. The species is distinguished from its nearest known relative (Amphibolurus muricatus) by the presence of a lower number of dorsal scale rows and a lack of heterogeneity of the dorsal and lateral scutellation. A map of the geographic range of A. muricatus and the two new forms is presented.
3892454|Oxygen uptake from the atmosphere and from the water and total body lactate concentration were measured for freely-diving and surfacing loggerhead musk turtles at 22 C. These turtles generate lactate rapidly during vigorous swimming but do not accumulate lactate during long periods of voluntary diving and surfacing. Their great anaerobic capacity is most probably utilized during pursuit of prey, during emergencies, and possibly during aquatic hibernation. Under minimal resting conditions, aquatic oxygen uptake supplies only 12% of the total oxygen consumed. Thus, pulmonary ventilation provides the majority of the oxygen needed during periods of quiet diving, swimming and surfacing. When these data are compared with those from forcibly-submerged loggerhead musk turtles, it is clear that involuntary immersion elicits a rate of extraction of oxygen from the water three times that seen in voluntary dives.
3893194| We describe two new species of salamanders of the genus Lineatriton, which occur as allopatric populations in the Sierra de Jurez, Oaxaca, and the Sierra de Los Tuxtlas, Veracruz, Mexico. The name Lineatriton lineolus (Cope) is restricted to populations in the Sierra Madre Oriental of Veracruz. The population in the Sierra de Los Tuxtlas, previously allocated to L. lineolus, is here described as Lineatriton orchimelas. The population from the Sierra de Jurez is reported here for the first time and is described as yet another new species of Lineatriton. These new species differ from L. lineolus in aspects of body size, body proportions, and pigmentation of the male reproductive organs. /// Se describe dos especies de salamandra del gnero Lineatriton de las vertientes hmedas de Veracruz y Oaxaca, Mxico. Las nuevas especies se conocen de poblaciones aloptricas de la Sierra de Jurez y la Sierra de Los Tuxtlas. Previamente estas poblaciones fueron referidas como Lineatriton lineolus. Lineatriton lineolus se restringe a poblaciones en la Sierra Madre Oriental, Veracruz. Las nuevas especies difieren de L. lineolus por presentar tamaos de cuerpo diferentes y en la coloracin de los rganos de reproduccin en machos. 
3893116|Heteroliodon Boettger is one of the many poorly known, endemic, colubrid genera of Madagascar. Described in 1913, this monotypic genus was known only from the holotype of the single species until 1994 when we reviewed the genus and provided data for seven additional specimens. Since then, we obtained 15 more specimens of Heteroliodon, most of which are from new localities, and two of which represent a second species of the genus. The new species, Heteroliodon lava, is distinguished from the type species, Heteroliodon occipitalis, by its larger size (maximum snout-vent length = 365 mm compared to 265 mm for H. occipitalis), absence of a light-colored vertebral stripe (invariably present in H. occipitalis), and higher number of ventral scales (214-224, versus 158-182). Heteroliodon occipitalis is restricted to the dry spiny and deciduous forests of southern and southwestern Madagascar. The two known specimens of H. lava were found in the deciduous forest/karst habitats of the Behmaraha and Ankarana regions of west-central and northwestern Madagascar.
24634299|A new species of the genus Allophryne is described and, in contrast to its congeners that occur in the Amazon Basin, is based on specimens obtained in Uruuca, State of Bahia, in the Atlantic Rain Forest of eastern Brazil. Allophryne relicta sp. nov. is characterized by a medium body size for the genus (snoutvent length range 19.921.9 mm in males); large head (head width about 35% of SVL); large, red-orange eyes, with a large black transversal stripe on iris; dorsum covered by few tubercles and many scattered black dots; dorsolateral surfaces cream with dark brown, elongate, anastomosed spots, and venter clear gray with scattered small white tubercles; presence of a line of tubercles on the ventrolateral surface of forearm; advertisement call formed by a multi-pulsed note of 0.509  0.029 s in duration and emitted at intervals of 1.287  0.500 s, with notes composed of 28.58  1.84 pulses at a dominant frequency of 3828  82.28 Hz; call-note emission rate of 34.46 notes/min and pulse emission rate of 56.13  1.25 s. The molecular phylogeny supports the placement of A. relicta sp. nov. as sister taxon of a clade formed by A. resplendens + A. ruthveni.
3891905|Contrary to the normal similarity in size of models and mimics, the mimics of this Batesian complex (Pseudotriton ruber) are significantly larger (p < 0.0001) in standard length, total length, greatest body width and total volume than the model (Notophthalmus viridescens efts). Only measurements of newly-metamorphosed red salamanders overlap those of the largest efts. The highly toxic and noxious nature of the model allows this disparity between the model and mimic.
3891824|Male slimy salamanders (Plethodon glutinosus) were associated with one another less frequently than expected if they associated with all classes of individuals in proportion to their occurrence under logs. Males and females were associated more frequently than expected, particularly in the spring. Females did not appear to avoid other females, and juveniles associated with males, females, and juveniles equally. The spatial distribution of salamanders in a population appears to be influenced by interactions among individuals and does not simply reflect the dispersion of suitable microhabitats.
3891782|During postembryonic ontogeny, Varanus niloticus shows the formation of a crushing dentition correlated with changes in mandibular mechanics. Postembryonic changes of the feeding apparatus of V. niloticus might be correlated with an adaptational shift from an insectivorous to a molluscivorous diet. Proportional changes of the lower jaw result in a slower yet stronger bite. The adaptational shift, involving quantitative and qualitative modifications of a complex of funcionally correlated characters, results from differential growth during ontogeny.
25209090|A new species of small, montane, forest floor Sphenomorphus is described from Fraser's Hill, peninsular Malaysia on the basis of a unique suite of character states that differentiates it from all other 32 Sunda Shelf species of Sphenomorphus. The new species may be allied to the other montane West Malaysian species S. ishaki from Pulau Tioman and S. butleri from Bukit Larut. The discovery of S. bukitensis underscores the unrealized biodiversity in the mountainous regions of peninsular Malaysia.
3891973|The segmental arterial supply to the osteoderms of Alligator mississippiensis is described. Each transverse row of osteoderms is served by a single median artery that bifurcates in the midline. Typical osteoderm morphology is also described. A role in regulation of body temperature is proposed as one function for the osteoderms of A. mississippiensis.
3892626|Conservation strategies involving relocations, repatriations, and translocations (RRT) have been carried out, are underway, or are advocated for a number of endangered and threatened amphibians and reptiles. However, recent reviews of RRT projects involving birds and mammals suggest that the success rate is low and that the factors that lead to endangerment operate to impede effective RRT results. In this paper, we review available information on RRT projects involving amphibians and reptiles, examine the motives for advocating RRT strategies, and recommend biological and management criteria that should be considered prior to undertaking RRT projects. Most RRT projects involving amphibians and reptiles have not demonstrated success as conservation techniques and should not be advocated as if they are acceptable management and mitigation practices. We urge caution in accepting claims of success and urge colleagues to publish detailed methods and results of past and ongoing RRT projects.
3891941|Stomach contents of live turtles can be flushed out through the esophagus with a simple water-pumping device. The technique has been used extensively on Australian chelids without evident harm to the animals.
3893168|The period during which neonatal aquatic turtles migrate from their nests to the water is a critical stage, as mortality is high. Thus, the patterns and targets of natural selection involving the turtles are important to investigate. To evaluate these questions, we incubated eggs of red-eared slider turtles (Trachemys scripta elegans) and overwintered the resulting hatchlings under ecologically-relevant, common-garden conditions in the laboratory. We then performed an experimental release of 358 neonates in the field to investigate the possible effects of (1) water potential of the substrate on which the eggs were incubated (-60 and -100 kPa), (2) body size at the time of release, and (3) clutch of origin on short-term posthatching survivorship. Only clutch significantly affected survivorship in this field study. The lack of an effect of body size on survival may be due to substantially drier weather during the migration period than in previous and subsequent experiments, which may have led to atypical burying behavior by the turtles.
3893316|Size at metamorphosis may influence terrestrial performance of anurans in numerous ways. I examined the diet of recently metamorphosed spadefoot toads (Scaphiopus couchii) of varying size to see if body size influenced foraging success. Prey availability was examined using sticky traps. Toadlets ate a wide size range (0.2 to > 15 mm in length) of arthropod prey. In moist habitats where toadlets were active, small arthropods were abundant and toadlets of all sizes had numerous prey items in their stomachs. Prey sizes and taxa varied with toadlet size; smaller toadlets ate prey of smaller minimum, mean, and maximum sizes than larger toadlets. Smaller prey were relatively more abundant on sticky traps, suggesting that the prey size distribution of the smallest toadlets most closely matched the size distribution of prey available. Larger toadlets were more selective in their prey choice. In feeding trials, larger toadlets were much better than small toadlets at capturing prey (pinhead crickets) that were at the higher end of the prey size distribution of the smaller toadlets. However, at least on moist soil, arthropods of all sizes were available, and the body size of field-collected toadlets was unrelated to the number of prey items in the stomach. Larger toadlets may only have a foraging advantage under crowded conditions, or as soil dries and size-dependent biophysical constraints on activity are imposed.
3893621| The largest remaining green turtle (Chelonia mydas) population in the Atlantic is potentially threatened by the resurgence of a commercial artisanal green turtle fishery in Nicaragua. Nicaragua is the site of the principal feeding ground for adults from the Tortuguero, Costa Rica, rookery. Little is known about the life history parameters of this population away from the nesting beach. To better understand the potential impact of harvesting in Nicaragua on the Tortuguero population, we estimated survival rates of adult females tagged on the nesting beach at Tortuguero, and a mixed group of large juveniles and adults tagged at turtle fishing sites in Nicaragua. Based on band recovery analysis, large juvenile and adult green turtles tagged at Nicaragua turtle fishing sites have a very low annual survival probability, 0.55. Adult females tagged on the nesting beach, which may forage at a broad range of Caribbean feeding grounds, had an annual survival probability of 0.82. These survival rate estimates are likely too low to sustain the population and have important implications for the future of the Tortuguero rookery. /// La mayor poblacin remanente de tortuga verde (Chelonia mydas) en el Atlntico se encuentra potencialmente amenazada por el resurgimiento de la pesquera comercial artesanal de tortugas en Nicaragua. Nicaragua es el sitio de la principal rea de alimentacin para los adultos de la colonia de Tortuguero, Costa Rica. Se conoce poco acerca de los parmetros de la historia de vida de esta poblacin fuera de la playa de anidacin. Para comprender mejor el impacto potencial de la captura en Nicaragua de individuos de la poblacin de Tortuguero, estimamos las tasas de sobrevivencia de hembras adultas marcadas en la playa de Tortuguero, y de un grupo mixto de juveniles grandes y adultos marcados en las localidades de pesca en Nicaragua. Con base en un anlisis de recuperacin de bandas, los juveniles grandes y adultos de tortuga verde marcados en las localidades de pesca en Nicaragua tienen una probabilidad de sobrevivencia anual muy baja, 0.55. Las hembras adultas marcadas en la playa de anidacin, las cuales pueden alimentarse en un rango amplio de zonas de forrajeo en el Caribe, tienen una probabilidad anual de sobrevivencia de 0.82. Estos valores estimados para tasas de sobrevivencia son probablemente demasiado bajos para sostener la poblacin y tienen importantes implicaciones para el futuro de la colonia de Tortuguero. 
3893055| A revision of the endemic alligator lizard, Elgaria paucicarinata from Baja California, Mxico, revealed that it is composed of at least three separate species: E. cedrosensis from Isla de Cedros and the narrow coastal margin of adjacent northwestern Baja California; E. paucicarinata which is restricted to the Cape Region of Baja California; and a new species described herein which extends along the Peninsular Ranges of central Baja California from at least 41.5 km west of Santa Rosala in the north to Misin de Dolores in the south. The new species is unique in that it has strongly keeled dorsal scales, dark dorsal head markings in the shape of spots, bar-shaped transverse black and white markings in the lateral body fold, a hatchling/juvenile color pattern of distinct, pale-colored, transverse bands, and lacks a distinct, dark dorsal postorbital stripe. 
3892989|We studied the structure of the tongue and anterior process of the sublingual plica of two colubrid water snakes, Xenochrophis piscator and Enhydris chinensis, by light and electron microscopy. The lingual fork of each species bears a middorsal invagination that broadens gradually toward its base. The epithelial cells on both the dorsal and ventral sides of the fork have large and small microfacets, micropores, and short microvilli. These structures may aid in collecting chemicals during tongue flicking. The cell size, distribution of large microfacets, number of small microfacets, and presence of micropores on both sides of the fork are nearly the same within a species, and are not conspicuously variable between these two taxa. Histologically, the tongue forks of these two species are similar; however, the mucosa is surrounded by a single cornified sheath in X. piscator whereas in E. chinensis, there are two sheaths. Taste buds seem to be absent. The anterior processes are concave, platelike expansions of the most anterior portions of the sublingual plicae. Structures associated with the anterior processes may be involved with chemoreception and chemical transfer to Jacobson's organs.
3891319|Leopard frogs exposed to a daily cycle of 15-25 C after a previous acclimation to a constant 15 C had a faster rate of acclimation to the highest value of the cycle (25 C) than did animals transferred from a previous acclimation at a constant 15 C to constant 25 C; after an exposure to only one temperature cycle (24 hr) the CTMax was significantly higher (P < 0.0005) than in the group exposed to constant temperatures. These results indicate that summation alone cannot explain the acclimation of animals to the highest temperatures of short-term photoperiods as suggested by previous investigators.
27669740|Habitat destruction and alteration is a major cause of population declines; thus, habitat restoration is essential for preventing species extinctions. Habitat restoration, however, may be hindered by an inadequate understanding of species' habitat requirements. Habitat structure may play a major role in influencing the biotic interactions among species. Pond-breeding amphibians are one group that has experienced loss and alteration of critical habitats. Vegetation structure in wetland environments may be important to amphibian larvae if its presence mediates biotic interactions, such as competition, which can affect growth and survival to metamorphosis. Despite the potential importance of habitat structure and competition, few studies have examined these factors simultaneously. In a full-factorial pond mesocosm experiment, we tested for the effects of variation in habitat structure and density of a larger tadpole competitor (Rana pipiens, northern leopard frog) on development and survival of three species of larval amphibians: Bufo americanus (American toad), Hyla versicolor (gray treefrog), and Ambystoma maculatum (spotted salamander). Survival of Bufo was greater in mesocosms with live or artificial cattails than in those lacking vegetation. Although responses varied among species, our data suggest that time to metamorphosis, survival, and species evenness can be influenced by both aquatic habitat structure and competition, whereas size at metamorphosis is affected primarily by competition. Our study is the first to demonstrate that vegetation structure alone can affect the expression of metamorphic traits for some anuran species.
3890749|Examination was made of musk turtles (Sternothaerus odoratus) in a central Florida population to determine clutch size, ovulation time, size at maturity, and extent of sexual dimorphism. The results indicate an earlier time of ovulation than previously reported and a positive relationship between clutch size and body size within a population. A small body size at the advent of maturity and sexual dimorphism were also observed. These findings substantiate general reproductive hypotheses reported for this species.
25209127|We describe a new species of gekkonid lizard on the basis of 21 recently acquired specimens from Babuyan Claro Island, Babuyan Islands group, northern Philippines. The new species differs from other Philippine Gekko by characteristics of external morphology, color pattern, and body size. The new species has been found low on trunks and buttresses of mature closed-canopy climax forest trees at low elevation near the island's coast. It is known from only Babuyan Claro Island and is likely endemic to this single small, isolated landmass. The remaining gekkonid fauna of the Babuyans and Batanes island groups is understudied and in need of comprehensive review.
3892967|Ten clutches of eggs from Caretta caretta were divided into subsamples and incubated in sand containing one of five percentages of moisture: 0, 25, 50, 75, and 100. The percent hatch was greatest at 25% moisture and significantly less at higher and lower levels of moisture. Incubation time was significantly longer at 75 and 100% moisture than at drier conditions. Measurements of hatchling carapace length decreased significantly with each increase in moisture treatment after 25%. Hatchling plastron lengths were greatest at 25% moisture and significantly smaller in other levels of moisture. Hatchling mass and carapace width measurements did not differ between treatments. Thus, 25% moisture was the optimum level for maximum percent hatch and hatchling size. The average moisture content of the sand in natural nests of Caretta on the beach was 18%. The hydric environment in areas frequented by nesting loggerhead turtles generally coincided with the optimum conditions required for proper egg development. Proper moisture conditions are necessary for maximum hatching success and, therefore, are important in the maintenance of a turtle egg hatchery.
3890953|The influence of environmental temperature and the periodic storage and utilization of body fat on hibernation and reproduction was investigated in the green frog, Rana clamitans, and the cricket frog, Acris crepitans. Temperature influenced the entrance and emergence of frogs from hibernation. The periodic storage and utilization of body fat was correlated with the reproductive cycle of both species.
3892690|Cannibalism in the American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) was evaluated in Louisiana by examining 706 alligator stomachs for web tags previously attached to smaller alligators. Alligators >2.73 m total length (TL) were more cannibalistic than smaller alligators. Large alligators (>2.73 m) preyed almost exclusively on large juveniles and small adults (1.22-2.12 m TL). Medium-sized alligators (2.13-2.73 m TL) preyed principally on medium-sized juvenile alligators (0.75-1.20 m TL), while small alligators (1.35-2.12 m TL) preyed mainly on hatchlings and small juveniles (<0.75 m TL). Alligators <1.35 m TL were not cannibalistic. We consider cannibalism an important population regulating mechanism and estimated that cannibalism accounted for 50.2% of total hatchling mortality and 63.7% of total mortality in alligators of age 11 mo and older. Mortality due to cannibalism appeared to be distributed proportionately among all cohorts in the 0.35-2.12 m TL size classes, resulting in a relatively uniform reduction across the group; males and females were cannibalized in the same proportions as they occurred in the population. Cannibalism accounted for only a small part of each predator's diet. Total losses due to cannibalism were an estimated 2.13 prey alligators per potential predator in the standing crop per year.
3893186|We performed phylogenetic analyses of the Asian coral snakes (Elapidae: Calliophis and Maticora) based on morphological and cytochrome b sequence characters, comparing them also to American coral snakes (Micruroides and Micrurus). Asian coral snakes fall into three major clades: (1) the tropical mainland species C. beddomei, C. bibroni, C. gracilis, C. maculiceps, C. melanurus, C. nigrescens, and Maticora, (2) the Philippine C. calligaster, and (3) the northern tropical/subtropical mainland species C. hatori, C. japonicus, C. kelloggi, C. macclellandi, and C. sauteri. This last clade is closely related to the New World coral snakes. These three clades of Asian coral snakes warrant generic recognition, which necessitates a new name for the last clade. The pattern of relationships inferred in this study imply that the New World coral snakes are derived from an ancestor which dispersed from Asia into the New World, presumably over the Bering land bridge.
3892162|Phylogenetic conservatism, allometry, and proximate environmental effects may be as important as adaptation in determining interspecific variance in diets and life-histories, especially within rather than among lineages. This view is supported by data from dissection of 2152 preserved specimens of 10 species of Australian "brownsnakes" (Pseudonaja), and by observations of captive snakes. All species except P. modesta grow to >1 m in length. The extent of sexual size dimorphism is similar in all taxa but is influenced by allometry; males are slightly larger, relative to females, in larger species. Most of the larger taxa (affinis, textilis, and "nuchalis") eat a wide range of terrestrial vertebrates, especially small mammals. Smaller species of Pseudonaja tend to eat lizards and frogs, as do juveniles of the larger species. Pseudonaja inframacula is unusual in its restriction to forested areas and the scarcity of mammals in its diet. The diets of most species of Pseudonaja are phylogenetically conservative, with intrageneric variance mainly due to differing body sizes (probably because of gape-limitation). Reproductive biology of this genus is also conservative and dependent upon body size. Maternal body size correlates with clutch size intraspecifically, and with both mean fecundity and mean offspring size interspecifically. Adaptation may have been important primarily during divergence of the ancestral taxon from other elapids. For example, compared to most other Australian elapids, all Pseudonaja produce large clutches of small eggs. Individuals of Pseudonaja are unusual also in their ability to thrive in disturbed habitats and their utilization of introduced mammals (especially Mus) as a significant food source.
3893593|Rattlesnakes are highly adept at following substrate chemosensory trails left by struck (envenomated) prey. However, there are other sources of chemical information that may be present in the post-strike environment, such as odors from unstruck mice, that could either confound or aid predatory success. Rattlesnakes can follow airborne chemosensory trails of a struck prey, but the ability of rattlesnakes to use airborne chemosensory cues of unstruck prey has not been examined. Therefore, our purpose was to examine the abilities of rattlesnakes to locate prey using substrate and airborne cues from unstruck mice and compare this with their success with airborne odors from struck mice. We used a Plexiglas Y-maze through which paired airborne and/or substrate odor choices were presented to northern Pacific rattlesnakes (Crotalus oreganus). In one treatment, snakes given a choice of odor from an unstruck mouse (substrate) versus a control (unscented air) showed a significant preference for the unstruck, substrate odor trail. In a second treatment, snakes given a choice of unstruck mouse odor (airborne) versus a control (unscented air) showed no significant preference for the airborne odor. In a third treatment, snakes given a choice of unstruck mouse (airborne) versus struck mouse odor (airborne) again showed no preference for either odor. This last result suggests that one cue used during airborne trailing is a general chemical cue and is most likely not associated with a distinct post-strike searching image (as is the case in substrate trailing). Snakes also exhibited certain behaviors within the maze (i.e., turning behavior, emergences) more often when exposed to airborne cues than when exposed to substrate cues. These observations indicate that a different system of behaviors is used when rattlesnakes follow airborne compared to substrate odor cues during post-strike trailing.
3893539| We monitored 11 populations of eight species of Eleutherodactylus in Puerto Rico from 1989 through 2001. We determined relative abundance of active frogs along transects established in the Caribbean National Forest (El Yunque), Carite Forest, San Lorenzo, and in the vicinity of San Juan. Three species (Eleutherodactylus karlschmidti, E. jasperi, and E. eneidae) are presumed to be extinct and eight populations of six different species of endemic Eleutherodactylus are significantly declining at elevations above 400 m. Of the many suspected causes of amphibian declines around the world, we focused on climate change and disease. Temperature and precipitation data from 1970-2000 were analyzed to determine the general pattern of oscillations and deviations that could be correlated with amphibian declines. We examined a total of 106 tissues taken from museum specimens collected from 1961-1978 and from live frogs in 2000. We found chytrid fungi in two species collected at El Yunque as early as 1976, this is the first report of chytrid fungus in the Caribbean. Analysis of weather data indicates a significant warming trend and an association between years with extended periods of drought and the decline of amphibians in Puerto Rico. The 1970's and 1990's, which represent the periods of amphibian extirpations and declines, were significantly drier than average. We suggest a possible synergistic interaction between drought and the pathological effect of the chytrid fungus on amphibian populations. /// Hemos estudiado 11 poblaciones de ocho especies de Eleutherodactylus en Puerto Rico desde 1989 hasta 2001. Estimamos abundancia relativa de ranas activas en transectos establecidos en el Bosque Nacional del Caribe (El Yunque), el Bosque de Carite-Guavate, San Lorenzo y reas bajas en la vecindad de San Juan. Tres especies, E. karlschmidti, E. jasperi y E. eneidae, se presumen extintas y ocho poblaciones de otras seis especies de Eleutherodactylus estn disminuyendo significativamente en elevaciones mayores a 400 m. De los varios factores que se consideran causantes de las declinaciones de anfibios alrededor del mundo, nos concentramos en cambios climticos y enfermedades. Analizamos datos de temperatura y precipitacin entre los aos 1970-2000, para determinar el patrn general de variaciones, y las desviaciones inusuales que estuvieran asociadas a las declinaciones de anfibios. Examinamos tejido de 106 especmenes de museos colectados entre 1961-1978 y de ranas vivas que capturamos en 2000. Encontramos el hongo qutrido en dos especies de El Yunque colectadas entre 1976 y 1978, representando este, el primer informe de quitridiomicsis para el Caribe insular. Anlisis de datos climatolgicos reflejaron una tendencia significativa al aumento de temperatura y una asociacin entre aos con perodos de sequa extendidos y las declinaciones de anfibios. La dcada de los 70 y los 90, que representan los perodos de declinaciones de anfibios en Puerto Rico, fueron significativamente ms secas. Sugerimos una posible interaccin sinergstica entre la sequa y la patogenicidad del hongo qutrido en los anfibios. 
40602627|Courtship is an essential component to male reproductive success. Most males must identify and court appropriate females to enhance their fitness. At the same time, female reproductive state and investment is influenced by the quality of male courtship. In this experiment, we test whether the amount of female courtship experience influences the behavior of males interacting with those females in sagebrush lizards, Sceloporus graciosus. We used a robotic lizard to present male courtship displays to females, presenting females with displays either every other day (low quantity) or four times daily (high quantity).After 2 wk of courtship experience, we placed a live male into the home terrarium of each female and recorded interactions for 30 min, scoring both male and female behavior from these recordings. Males exhibited more movements and chemoreceptive behavior toward females that had received more courtship experience, showing that they could detect an effect. We did not detect any difference in female behavior between groups. Future work is needed to identify physiological differences between females differing in courtship experience. Our study also confirms the utility of a robotic lizard in understanding lizard behavior and expands the use of robotic stimuli outside of the context of playback experiments.
23254560|Fossil anuran remains from an outcropping of Oligocene sediments in central Patagonia have been attributed to the extant genus Eupsophus based on their putative similarity to the skeleton of living members of this genus. These remains would represent the only and oldest evidence of the existence not only of Eupsophus, but also of any cycloramphid anuran in Patagonia during the past. Given the scarcity of the anuran fossil record, these fossils have been long considered as significant evidence in the discussion of the evolutionary history of the South American batrachofauna. However, re-examination of these specimens reveals that some skeletal structures were misinterpreted and that these anurans clearly differ from living Eupsophus. Although osteological synapomorphies of this genus are still unknown, there is no evidence to link these fossil remains with the presence of Eupsophus in the Oligocene batrachofauna of Patagonia.
3891878|The resting metabolic rates of recently fed and fasted spectacled caimans (Caiman crocodilus) at 25 C were determined. Post-absorptive animals consumed oxygen at a rate of
41406822|Liolaemus alticolor is redescribed herein, providing new character states that distinguish this taxon from all other members of the alticolor-bihronii group. Two new species of the alticolor-bibronii group are also described. One of the new species occurs in northern Argentina, in the Jujuy Province, whereas the other occurs in southern Argentina, in the Neuqun Province (northern Patagonia). Both of them exhibit characters that distinguish them from each other and from all other members of the alticolor-bibronii group. A key to the species of this group is provided. Liolaemus alticolor es redescripto, proveyendo nuevos estados de carcter tiles para identificar a este taxon de todas las dems especies miembros del grupo alticolor-bibronii. Tambin, se describen dos nuevas especies de Liolaemus, pertenecientes al grupo alticolor-bibronii. De las nuevas especies, una habita en el norte de Argentina, en la Provincia de Jujuy, mientras que la otra habita en el Norte de la Patagonia, en el sur de Argentina, en la Provincia de Neuqun. Ambas especies, muestran estados de caracteres que las diferencian entre s y de todos los miembros del grupo alticolor-bibronii. Se incluye una clave de identificacin para las especies del grupo.
3891623| Investigation of  and  reproductive cycles of the gekko Phyllodactylus marmoratus, revealed that both oviducal sperm storage and delayed fertilization occur. In  , testis wt and meiotic activity suggest that insemination occurs in the late summer and autumn. Histological examination of   confirms this time of insemination and indicates that sperm are stored in vaginal lamellae of the posterior vaginae throughout winter. Fertilization occurs at time of ovulation in spring and early summer, using sperm received in late summer and autumn. This is the first report in the Gekkonidae of a reproductive strategy based on delayed fertilization utilizing oviducal sperm storage. 
3892224|Most frogs and toads dehydrate rapidly in terrestrial environments. We designed experiments to assess the impact of such water loss on the locomotor ability of leopard frogs (Rana pipiens), green frogs (Rana clamitans), American toads (Bufo americanus), and marine toads (Bufo marinus). Dehydration of animals to 80% of their standard mass had no effect on the distance covered in three consecutive jumps in the four species. However, loss of body water influenced endurance in specimens of both species of Rana by severely depressing the distance traveled and the time to exhaustion. Moderate dehydration reduced the distance traveled in 5 min by American toads but had no effect on locomotion in marine toads. When the plasma osmolality of leopard frogs was increased by injections of hypertonic saline, sprint performance was not altered, but endurance was reduced significantly. Frogs loaded with isotonic and hypertonic saline solutions had different plasma osmolalities at the beginning of exercise, but exhausted at the same plasma osmolality. Declining performance (fatigue) seems to be related both to initial hydrational status and to the accumulation of metabolites during exercise.
3890847|The desert tortoise, Gopherus agassizi, Berlandier's tortoise, Gopherus berlandieri, and gopher tortoise, Gopherus polyphemus, respond to a visual cliff by avoidance of the deep cliff. These tortoises have been shown to have no turning bias and appear unaffected by the use of blue and white and red and white patterns of squares upon the visual cliff. The perception of depth when used in conjunction with forelimb tactile sensing may be related to avoidance of falling.
3890741|Rana catesbeiana was introduced to Taiwan from the United States via Japan. Based on gross and microscopic gonadal examination, bullfrogs on Taiwan were found to exist in two sex races. In the differentiated race, testis and ovary develop respectively from the medulla and cortex of the undifferentiated gonad; bisexuality occurs in early-stage tadpoles. In the undifferentiated race, tadpoles are 100% female; testes are transformed from already differentiated ovaries after metamorphosis. The all-female tadpole population of the undifferentiated sex race of R. catesbeiana is ideal material for experiments dealing with sex differentiation and sex reversal.
3892655| We determined the extent of sexual dimorphism in four cohorts of pigmy rattlesnakes, Sistrurus miliarius. Our field sites were several small areas of woodland surrounded by freshwater marsh in Volusia Country, Florida, USA. The snakes were of known ages because they were involved in a mark-recapture study. We measured mass, snout-vent length, tail length, and head size in 148 neonates from 27 litters, 42 yearling snakes, 36 2-yr old snakes, and 58 snakes 3 yr of age. We also measured sexual dimorphism in four aspects of color pattern of neonates. We ranked the extent of the red-orange stripe down the back of the snake, the extent of the white ring encircling the black dorsal blotches, darkness of the background coloration, and the irregularity of the dorsal blotches on a 0-9 scale. There was no sexual dimorphism in color pattern. Mark-recapture data indicated that there was no sexual dimorphism in growth rate. Only relative tail length was consistently sexually dimorphic, with males having longer tails. Field observations indicated that larger males were engaged either in copulation or association with females more often than smaller males. Similarly, larger females produced larger litter sizes then smaller females. The lack of sexual size dimorphism in pigmy rattlesnakes may be the result of selection for larger body size that is of similar intensity in both sexes. 
3892464|Snakes of the genus Regina feed almost exclusively on crayfish. The paired, symmetrical gastroliths of crayfish are not digested and are detectable from x-rays of the snake. Gastrolith length is directly proportional to carapace length and can be obtained from x-rays. Carapace length can be converted to kcal of ingested energy. Using these relationships and repeated captures of radio-telemetered Regina, estimates of food consumption and energy intake by free-living snakes are feasible. New information on prey selectivity, feeding behavior, and predator-prey size relations in Regina grahami and R. septemvittata are presented and compared with similar data for other snakes.
3890776|A collection of 159 amphibians and reptiles taken in Quang Nam Province, South Viet Nam in 1965 includes 23 species (1 toad, 11 frogs, 3 lizards, and 8 snakes). Localities, habitats, size, and variation are discussed.
3892457| A new species of Eleutherodactylus is described from the mountains of Mrida, western Venezuela. It belongs to the unistrigatus group and represents the first species of the genus to be reported from Venezuelan andean cloud forests. 
3891092|Vertical body motion of displaying males was quantified by calculating two ratios which related shoulder and hip movement to head movement during each push-up. Species in the Uta-Urosaurus complex fell into two distinct groups. Species of Urosaurus formed one group by displaying with considerable hip motion, and species of Uta (sensu Mittleman) formed the second group by displaying with little hip motion. Mean hip ratios of these two genera exceeded the range of comparable values for 22 species of Sceloporus. These data support the division of Uta and Urosaurus. Present data further indicated that the displays of the merriami and maculosus species groups of Sceloporus were similar to those of Urosaurus, supporting the view that Urosaurus stemmed from this branch of Sceloporus. A similar situation was noted between the Sceloporus variabilis group and Uta. Relative hip movement of Petrosaurus mearnsi was similar to that of species of Uta.
3891502|Histological observations on the tentacles of Erpeton tentaculatum have revealed that they are composed of erectile tissue which is highly innervated and muscular. The tentacles probably function as mechanoreceptors detecting vibrations in the water. The tentacles are derived from the cavernous tissue found in the snouts of most reptiles. Comparisons with Acrochordus, Cerberus and Vipera support this contention.
3891172|During the period of residency at the natal pond immediately after metamorphosis, young Mexican toads, Bufo valliceps, used a sun compass to move away from the pond on a Y-axis. After 72 hours of laboratory confinement, they moved toward the pond. Toads released in the natal pond oriented using a sun compass under clear skies but apparently relied on local cues to reach the nearest shoreline when the sun was obscured. Tadpoles did not exhibit a sun compass. Young toads did not respond to the odor of their natal pond water or to a small humidity differential.
3891479| The components of feeding behavior of captive metamorphosed tiger salamanders, Ambystoma tigrinum, before and after successful consumption of prey, were determined and described. Transitions between different sequential pairs of feeding components were not random, implying order and dependence on previous events. Feeding sequences were seen to be rather complex (x = 50.7 components) and often long (x = 247 seconds). They were analyzed to determine frequency and duration of individual behavioral components. A comparison of behavior before and after prey ingestion indicated that components associated with search activity increased after feeding, but movement was generally limited and relative intensity of animal activity declined. When prey were motionless, the complexity and duration of a predatory sequence increased and predator feeding efficiency greatly decreased. Ambystoma tigrinum is postulated to exhibit the "sit-and-wait" type of foraging strategy in the natural environment. 
3891756|When hard, calcareous eggs of softshell turtles (Trionyx spiniferus) were incubated on substrates of vermiculite differing in water potential, eggs on all but the wettest of substrates declined in mass throughout incubation. However, rates of decline in mass were lower for eggs incubated on relatively wet substrates than for those incubated on drier substrates. Because all eggs probably experienced similar rates of transpirational water loss from that part of their shell exposed to the nest atmosphere, the several patterns of change in mass manifested by incubating eggs are attributable to different rates of water absorption from the substrate. Neither hatching success nor size of hatchlings was correlated with wetness of the substrate upon which eggs were incubated.
3892350|Scat analysis and foraging observations were used to determine the diet of a gopher tortoise, Gopherus polyphemus, population in a sandhill community in west-central Florida. Vegetation was assessed to determine plant availability. The bulk of the gopher tortoise diet was composed of dominant plants in the habitat, although the tortoises were selective with respect to most plant genera. Tortoises ingested many plant taxa, with Poaceae, Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Pinaceae, and Fagaceae being the most frequent components of the diet. Sixty-eight genera from 26 families were identified in the diet. In the scat, the most common genus identified was Aristida and the most common family was Poaceae. Other common genera were Pinus, Quercus, Galactia, Cnidoscolus, Tillandsia, Pityopsis, and Richardia. Insects and charcoal were often present in scats. Comparing the overall diet indicated no difference between sexes or age groups. Comparing diet with respect to individual plant taxa indicated that young tortoises ingested significantly less Poaceae and fewer plants with external defense mechanisms (Rubus, Cnidoscolus) than did adults. Non-plant items may be a significant source of nutrients. Jacobs' Electivity Index indicated that the tortoises preferred Galactia and Tephrosia, Cnidoscolus, Pinus, Quercus, Vaccinium, Richardia, and Rubiaceae. Some of the most common plants in the habitat (Poaceae, Aristida, Asteraceae), were selected at or below the proportions at which they were available. Feinsinger's Proportional Similarity Index indicated the foraging habits of the gopher tortoise lie midway between a specialist and generalist.
3891393|Concentrations of granular glands are present as parotoid glands and a tail ridge in Ambystoma gracile. Each granular gland has a collar of smooth muscle around its neck and a smooth muscle sheath around the entire gland. The secretion of these glands is viscous, insoluble, toxic, and irritates the lining of the mouth and eyes. Specialized defensive postures are effective in orienting glandular regions toward predators. Head butting and tail lashing bring the glandular secretions into contact with the predator.
40931017|Because gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) occupy high-value lands in the southeastern United States, are declining throughout their range, and stir public passion when they are entombed through currently legal take, refined conservation measures for this species are needed. Of particular interest is a determination of how many individuals constitute a population and what sized areas are required by such populations so that animals currently in harm's way might be moved to designated reserve areas. We use surveys of burrows of gopher tortoises from a large sample of areas of differing sizes to test for a relaxation of the linear relationship between area and number of burrows expected at the edge of a population of gopher tortoises. For measures of burrow abundance, some of our data are from sites on which estimates were based on transect samples; on other sites, complete counts were made. The relationship between area and abundance was elevated for transect samples compared to similar data from complete counts, indicating that transect data yield inflated counts when extrapolated over large areas. For complete counts, our data indicate a threshold point at which a linear relationship between area and abundance ends and a loss of this relationship for larger areas begins. This threshold point suggests that, on average, populations of gopher tortoises consist of 444 burrows, cover 755 ha, and contain 240 tortoises. These figures describe features of tortoises inhabiting a variety of lands that differ in current management goals and past land-use history. Our results suggest that many current reserve areas for gopher tortoises are likely to be too small. Our results also provide an example of how key conservation variables can be generated for long-lived species.
3891285|Adult Elaphe climacophora swallow self-killed mice significantly more often by the head than by the tail. The direction of ingestion appears to be influenced by the shape of the body and position of capture. Hair position and olfactory cues may be of secondary importance. The length of time required for swallowing head first is significantly less than if it proceeds tail first.
41406821|Vitamin E, vitamin A, and carotenoids are essential micronutrients for animals because of their antioxidant and immunostimulant functions and their implications for growth, development, and reproduction. In contrast to mammals and birds, information about their occurrence and distribution is generally lacking in reptiles, constraining our understanding of the use of these micronutrients. Using highperformance liquid chromatography, we determined the concentrations of vitamin E, vitamin A, and carotenoids in plasma, storage sites (liver and abdominal fat bodies), and in the colored ventral skin of male Common Lizards, Lacerta vivipara. All tissues shared a similar micronutrient profile, except the liver, which also showed traces of vitamin A. The main vitamin E compound present was -tocopherol followed by lower concentrations of -(-) tocopherol. Vitamin A was the main vitamin A compound and it showed the highest concentration in the liver, where vitamin A esters and traces of vitamin A were found. Lutein was the main carotenoid, and it formed esters in the liver and the ventral skin. Zeaxanthin and low concentrations of carotene were also present. The liver was the main storage site for carotenoid and vitamin A, whereas hepatic vitamin E concentrations resembled those present in abdominal fat bodies. Compared with abdominal fat bodies, the ventral skin contained lower concentrations of vitamin A and vitamin E, but similar concentrations of carotenoids. These results suggest that important differences exist in micronutrient presence, concentration, and distribution among tissues of lizards and other taxa such as birds and mammals.
3893441| We describe a new species of the genus Apostolepis based on two specimens from the city of Posadas, Misiones province, northeastern Argentina. The new species is easily distinguished from its congeners by the highest number of ventrals known in the genus (male: 269, female: 276); the nasal separated from the preocular by the prefrontal; temporals 0 + 1; the black head with large white blotches on the snout; the dorsal coloration reddish brown with broad lateral black stripe from the fifth row of dorsals to the lateral third of the ventrals, and the white nuchal ring two to three scales long, and posteriorly edged by a black band. Additional comments on the other species of the genus and their distribution in Argentina are given. /// Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Apostolepis en base a dos ejemplares de Posadas, Misiones en el nordeste de Argentina. La nueva especie se diferencia fcilmente de las otras especies del gnero por tener: el mayor nmero de ventrales conocido en el gnero (macho: 269; hembra: 276), nasal separada de la preocular por la prefrontal, 0 + 1 temporales, cabeza negra con manchas grandes blancas en el hocico, coloracin dorsal pardo rojiza con dos bandas longitudinales laterales anchas desde la quinta hilera dorsal hasta un tercio del vientre, collar nucal blanco de dos a tres escamas de longitud, con el borde posterior marginado de negro. Se realizan comentarios adicionales sobre las otras especies citadas para el pas y se brindan datos sobre su distribucin. 
3892262|In vivo labels can provide unique information on the accretion of hard tissues, invaluable in research areas as disparate as histology, physiology and ecology. Investigations of labeled bone to study growth and age determination are well advanced in most vertebrates, but there has been little work on poikilothermic tetrapods, and what little exists is restricted almost entirely to species and publications in Europe and Asia. Potential problems in using and interpreting in vivo labeling techniques, although described in early investigations, are being ignored in contemporary studies, much to their decrement. There is a need to test and modify preexisting techniques, especially those that have been developed for use with mammals, and to make this information available to a wider readership. The present study reviews published work on in vivo bone labeling in amphibians and reptiles as well as the general phenomenon of vital marks in bone as it applies to herpetological studies.
3893611| We describe a new species of Hyla from southern Ecuador that is diagnosed by the absence of an omosternum; the presence of an enlarged, curved, and pointed prepollex in males; features of coloration; and an associated suite of presumed anti-predator behaviors. Upon capture, frogs exuded a white, sticky fluid; continued perturbation elicited a defensive posture in which white patches on the posterior sides of the limbs and the vent were displayed. The phylogenetic relationships of H. tapichalaca with respect to the H. armata, H. larinopygion, and H. pulchella groups are discussed. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Hyla del sur de Ecuador. El taxn nuevo se diagnostica por carecer de omosternum, tener un prepollex grande, curvo y puntiagudo, por aspectos de la coloracin y un set asociado de comportamientos antipredatorios. Cuando son capturadas, las ranas secretan un fluido blanco, pegajoso. A mayor perturbacin asumen una postura que enfatiza las manchas blancas en las partes posteriores de las extremidades y regin cloacal. Se discuten las relaciones de H. tapichalaca con respecto a los grupos H. larinopygion, H. armata e H. pulchella. 
3892847| A new species of gymnophthalmid lizard, Proctoporus cashcaensis, is described from the Hoya de Chimbo in the Andean Cordillera Occidental of Ecuador. This species is distinguished from other species of Proctoporus by features of squamation and body proportions. Natural history data for the new taxon are presented. /// Se describe una nueva especie de lagartija, Proctoporus cashcaensis, de la Cordillera Occidental de los Andes de Ecuador en la Hoya de Chimbo. Se le asigna el nombre especfico en referencia al Bosque Protector "Cashca Totoras" que constituye uno de los ltimos refugios naturales para la flora y fauna interandinas en Ecuador, y el cual alberga una herpetofauna singular de la cual esta especie es una muestra. Se incluye esta lagartija en el Gnero Proctoporus en base a la carencia de escamas prefrontales y la ausencia de caracteres que definen otros gneros. Esta inclusin se la hace por razones de conveniencia, pues el gnero Proctoporus no ha sido diagnosticado por la presencia de caracteres derivados nicos. Proctoporus cashcaensis se distingue de otras especies por diferencias en la escamacin. Los caracteres diagnsticos de esta especie son: extremidades que al ser pegadas al cuerpo no se sobreponen; la presencia de una banda lateral de escamas granulares en el cuerpo; tres o cuatro escamas supraoculares de las cuales dos o ms estn en contacto con las escamas ciliares; disco palpebral dividido; escamas dorsales estriadas; dos escamas postparietales en contacto medio, dos escamas dorsales grandes entre los orificios auriculares y las escamas postparietales; poros preanales ausentes; hemipenes con dos grupos de filas oblicuas y rectas de espinas calcificadas, engrosamiento medio ausente. Se presentan datos reproductivos y de contenidos estomacales. Estos ltimos revelan una dieta variada de artrpodos. La distribucin de esta especie comprende reas con cultivos y vegetacin natural espordica en la zona de vida de Bosque Hmedo Montano Bajo en el interior de la Hoya de Chimbo. 
3892292|Three color morphs, reddish-brown, gray and green, occur in populations of Pseudacris ornata (Hylidae) in north Florida. From the results of four crosses involving 236 laboratoryreared progeny, no distinctions among morphs were found in any traits related to components of larval fitness. Frequencies of color morphs varied among crosses with different parental color combinations, suggesting a genetic basis to the color variation. However, within crosses, colormorph frequencies varied with rearing conditions, suggesting an environmental effect on the determination of the color phenotype.
3893189|We used two field experiments to examine the nature and effects of size-dependent interactions between two terrestrial salamanders, Plethodon cinereus and Plethodon glutinosus. We reared juveniles of P. cinereus in an enclosure alone, with a similarly-sized conspecific, with a similarly-sized P. glutinosus, and with a larger P. glutinosus. We also reared juveniles of Plethodon glutinosus alone. We found that both intraspecific and interspecific competition reduced growth in juveniles of P. cinereus, but the effect of intraspecific competition did not differ from that of interspecific competition. Interspecific competition reduced growth in juveniles of P. glutinosus. Size asymmetry did not appear to affect competition between juveniles. Size, not species identity, determined the use of the space beneath wooden cover objects placed in the enclosures. In the second experiment, we housed adults of P. cinereus and juveniles of P. glutinosus with similarly-sized conspecific individuals to simulate intraspecific competition. Adults of P. cinereus were also paired with similarly-sized, smaller, and larger individuals of P. glutinosus. Interspecific competition did not affect growth differently than intraspecific competition for P. cinereus, and the size of the competitor did not affect the growth of this species. Interspecific competition reduced the growth of P. glutinosus significantly more than intraspecific competition and had the greatest effect when competing individuals were similarly-sized.
23255789|The species Rhabdosoma microrhynchum (now Atractus microrhynchus) was originally described based on a single specimen collected by the Orton Expedition at "Guayaquil," in the Guayas province on the Pacific coast of Ecuador. The holotype is currently lost and all specimens previously referred to this species were misidentified on the basis of material from Peruvian Amazonia. While examining museum collections and conducting fieldwork in the Pacific lowlands of Ecuador and Peru, we found specimens assignable to A. microrhynchus. In this study, we report the morphological variation in these new specimens of A. microrhynchus and evaluate the taxonomic status of the Amazonian species previously confused with it. We restrict the concept of A. microrhynchus to the Pacific lowland populations from Ecuador and Peru, and we designate a neotype for the species. Based on the examination of the types of A. emersoni and A. natans from Amazonia, we found that there is wide overlap in the internal and external characters of both taxa. Therefore, A. emersoni is relegated to the synonymy of A. natans. Furthermore, we compared A. microrhynchus with all congeners and discuss its affinities with the A. multicinctus species group based on shared, exclusive hemipenial features. La especie Rhabdosoma microrhynchum (ahora Atractus microrhynchus) se bas en un solo espcimen colectado por la Expedicin Orton en "Guayaquil," provincia de Guayas, costa Pacfica del Ecuador. El holotipo est actualmente perdido y todos los especmenes previamente referidos a esta especie fueron identificados errneamente sobre la base de material de la Amazona Peruana. Durante la revisin de colecciones de museos y la realizacin de trabajo de campo en las tierras bajas del Pacfico de Ecuador y Per, encontramos especmenes que se pueden asignar a A. microrhynchus. En este estudio, reportamos sobre la variacin morfolgica de estos nuevos especmenes de A. microrhynchus y evaluamos el estado taxonmico de las especies Amaznicas previamente confundidas con esta. Restringimos el concepto de A. microrhynchus para las poblaciones de las tierras bajas del Pacfico de Ecuador y Per y designamos un neotipo para la especie. Basados en la revisin de los tipos de A. emersoni y A. natans de la Amazona, encontramos que hay una amplia superposicin de las caractersticas de ambos taxones. Por lo tanto, A. emersoni se coloca bajo la sinonmia de A. natans. Ms an, comparamos A. microrhynchus con todos sus congeners y sus afinidades con el grupo-de-especies A. multicinctus son discutidos sobre la base de las caractersticas hemipenianas exclusivas compartidas.
3890671|A population study of Sceloporus undulatus near the western extreme of its range in Utah was carried out from 1969-1971, and the data were compared with those obtained from four other populations of this species. Most adults (90%) require 2 years to reach sexual maturity at which time they produce 3 clutches during each breeding season which average 6.3 eggs per clutch. Most females become postreproductive after mid-July. Mean clutch size increases by about one egg per year; few females live to reproduce more than 3 or 4 years and the mean generation time is about 2.4 years. Hatchlings first appear in late July at a size of about 25 mm SVL. This body length is doubled by the following June, and by August the lizards have reached a minimum mature size (60 mm SVL) and breed the following spring. About 20% of hatchlings survive to age 1 and about 50% of the yearling females and 40% of the yearling males survive to maturity. Average annual survivorship of adults is near 50% for females, 40% for males. A life table for this population indicates a replacement rate of .83. Average density (excluding hatchlings) was about 35 per hectare, the highest found in any previously studied population of this species, and is apparently associated with low predation levels. Biomass averaged nearly 250 g per hectare. Delayed maturity, small clutch size and rate of growth suggest greater resource limitation on individuals in this population than in those previously studied. It may be significant that there are more potential competitors at this site than at others previously investigated.
3893533| A new species of frog of the Eleutherodactylus alfredi group is described from the mountains of Zoquitln, Puebla, Mexico. It is known from a single adult male only 15.8 mm in snout-vent length. The new species is known from an elevation of 2155 m in oak cloud forest. This new species differs most noticeably from other species in the group by its diminutive size and possessing a suprarostral white-colored patch. /// Se describe una especie nueva del grupo Eleutherodactylus alfredi de las montaas de Zoquitln, al sureste de Puebla, Mxico. Esta especie es conocida de solo un ejemplar macho con una longitud de 15.8 mm. La nueva especie se distribuye a una altitud de 2155 m en bosque mesfilo con encinos. Difiere notablemente de las otras especies del grupo por su diminuto tamao, falta de excrecencias nupciales y por poseer una mancha blanca en la regin suprarostral. 
3891196|The red-spotted newt, Notophthalmus viridescens viridescens, is protected from predation by a noxious and toxic skin secretion. The black-chinned red salamander, Pseudotriton ruber schencki, closely resembles the red eft stage of Notophthalmus in coloration. Feeding experiments using 179 Pseudotriton, 150 eft Notophthalmus, 12 adult Notophthalmus, 22 Gyrinophilus porphyriticus, and 403 control Desmognathus sp. were carried out using 9 Blue Jays (Cyanocitta cristata), 1 Brown Thrasher (Toxostoma rufum), and 7 domestic chickens (Gallus domesticus) to determine if a mimetic complex exists between Pseudotriton and the terrestrial red eft stage of Notophthalmus. Birds that ate Pseudotriton before conditioning showed no signs of distaste or any harmful effects from ingestions of this salamander. Rejection of red efts occurred after only a few encounters, with rejection of Pseudotriton occurring afterwards. All birds, except one chicken, were unable to distinguish red efts from Pseudotriton and consistently rejected both on sight. The red eft served as an effective model for Pseudotriton regardless of size. Due to its larger size and more conspicuous coloration, Pseudotriton may convey a stronger warning signal to predators.
3890970| The herpetological fauna of Reunion Island is poor and probably of recent derivation. Such is the case for Chamaeleo pardalis Cuvier, 1829. Its introduction may be explained by three factors: transport by men, ease of indigenation and absorption capacity of the biotope. Its localization around the pond of St. Paul is probably the result of human and ecological factors. The study of this population shows that the rigorous insularity favors parasitic defaunation and monomorphism. Morphological similarities between chamaeleons of the Comora Islands, Nossi-B and Reunion Island demonstrate the existence of an insular form. 
3891537|Synapturanus salseri sp. nov. is a new fossorial microhylid frog with a short, whistle-like call that lives in burrows in the rain forest floor. The eggs and larvae are terrestrial and the adults are territorial.
3892986|We experimentally examined patterns of diurnal retreat site use by 50 adults of Bufo marinus in a 45 m
3893393| Egg clutches of the salamander Nototriton picadoi were located in cloud forest habitats in Tapant National Park, Costa Rica. I found nests in clumps of moss on the ground, on stumps, and on the trunks and limbs of shrubs and trees. Clutch size varied from 1-8. Clutches were not brooded by females. I also found clusters of empty egg capsules. The temporal distribution of viable eggs and empty capsules suggested that oviposition begins early in the wet season (May), continues for several months, with hatching completed by the end of the wet season in December. I raised hatchlings from eggs in the laboratory, and recorded their morphology and coloration. The embryonic period appears to be 2.5-3.0 months. The absence of attending females at clutches may reflect a tradeoff between the advantages of parental care in plethodontid salamanders versus the inherent risks of egg brooding in small tropical salamanders. I suggest that in Nototriton the tradeoff involves adaptations of the egg capsule itself, which minimize desiccation, predation, and, or, fungal infection. 
3893013|Two new arboreal leptodactylid frogs, Eleutherodactylus corona and E. dolomedes, are described from remnant cloud forest in the Massif de la Hotte, Dept. du Sud, Haiti. One (E. corona) is a bromeliad/orchid specialist whereas the other (E. dolomedes) is more generalized in habitat preference. Both belong to the bakeri series of the large subgenus Euhyas.
3891223|Whether Gambelia merits recognition as a genus distinct from Crotaphytus remains a question unanswered despite the studies of Robison and Tanner (1962) and Weiner and Smith (1965). In both studies only two specimens of Crotaphytus reticulatus (collariform group), and no specimens of silus (wislizenii group) were examined. In the present study, a series of silus and additional specimens of C. reticulatus and C. collaris have been examined, particularly to reevaluate those characters which previous workers consider as having the greatest phylogenetic significance. Seven of the 25 differentiae listed by Weiner and Smith (1965) are here considered invalid; four others are held in doubt. The remaining differentiae have not been studied, but are believed to be linked genetically in groups (Weiner and Smith, 1965) which represent, at best, five complexes. As yet, no apparent paleotelic character has been found to separate the two groups of crotaphytiform lizards. The conclusion is reached that there is no present need to recognize Gambelia at the generic or subgeneric level.
3891525| The microhylid frog Engystoma microps Dumril and Bibron is a senior synonym of E. subnigrum Miranda-Ribeiro. Under the present generic system, the populations from southeastern Brazil hitherto known as Myersiella subnigrum must become Myersiella microps and those from northern South America hitherto known as Synapturanus microps require a new specific name. Synapturanus mirandaribeiroi, species nova, is proposed. Taxonomic history, types, distribution, and literature are summarized for M. microps and S. mirandaribeiroi. /// Engystoma subnigrum Miranda-Ribeiro est synonyme d'E. microps Dumril et Bibron (localit-type: Rio de Janeiro). Les populations du nord de l'Amrique du Sud appeles jusqu' maintenant Synapturanus microps (D. et B.) exigent un nouveau nom spcifique. Synapturanus mirandaribeiroi, nov. sp., est propos. L'histoire taxonomique, la description des types et la rpartition gographique de Myersiella microps et S. mirandaribeiroi sont exposes. 
3893018|Using data from gopher tortoises captured over a 10-yr period in a population in central Florida, we modeled growth patterns and analyzed morphological characters for sexual dimorphism. Growth rates of non-adults were rapid and facilitated the attainment of sexual maturity at a relatively young age for females (9-11 yr) and probably for males as well. Rapid growth of tortoises at our study site likely is a response to the length of the growing season and/or high quality habitat, maintained by periodic controlled burning. The degree of sexual dimorphism was low in our population perhaps because of rapid growth and the relatively early attainment of sexual maturity. The best external morphological indicator of the sex of an individual was the size, shape, and depth of the plastral concavity. Anal width and anal notch also were dimorphic but did not become distinctly dimorphic until sexual maturity was attained, and by then, the plastral concavity could be used to distinguish sex. Because female tortoises mature only a year or so after male tortoises, morphological characteristics associated with differences in body size between the sexes (e.g., body width and body thickness) do not have sufficient time to become distinct. We suggest that rapid growth and an abrupt attainment of sexual maturity diminish sexual dimorphism in our population in central Florida. Perhaps the most significant result of this research was to re-emphasize the value of active habitat management (periodic burning) to resident tortoises.
3893254| Urosaurus ornatus is a small desert lizard that utilizes rapid changes of dorsal skin color for thermoregulation and social signaling. We performed an investigation on the hormonal control of color change utilizing skins, in vitro, of U. ornatus (1) during the species' reproductive season (July) and (2) when not sexually active (September). Alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (-MSH) was a potent skin darkening agent, the ED
3893557|Previous research has shown that red-backed salamanders (Plethodon cinereus) are able to detect the unseen presence of conspecifics through pheromones left on the substratum. We conducted an experiment with territorial males to determine if they can also detect volatile (or airborne) components of pheromones from male and female intruders. By placing pheromone-laden substrata from source males and females inside or outside a perforated Petri dish, we found that males respond aggressively towards male pheromones inside the dish relative to a control and nose tapped dishes containing both source males' and females' pheromones more than the control. We did not find evidence that residential males could differentiate between volatile components of males' and females' pheromones, but they responded more aggressively towards males' than towards females' pheromones when they had direct access to pheromone-laden substrata. These data suggest that territorial males need not patrol their small territories in search of intruders but can detect such intruders through volatile components of their pheromones. Direct contact with pheromones on the substratum may be necessary for males to differentiate between male and female intruders.
3892897|An angular toed gecko collected from sandstone rock in the alpine Punjab, Pakistan, and southwestern Azad Kashmir is described and compared with Palearctic trihedral scaled and Tibeto-Himalayan tuberculated geckos reported from the area. Observations on sexual dimorphism, reproduction, ecology, and distribution of the new species are recorded.
3892589| We compared basking behavior among 29 male, 86 female and 22 juvenile painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) and documented basking patterns of individuals. Hourly basking surveys (0800-1900 h) were conducted on 19 days from 6 July-1 August 1990 in Algonquin Park, Ontario. Based on the hypothesis that turtles bask to maximize the efficiency of physiological processes, we predicted that females would bask more than males to meet assumed higher energetic costs of egg production. Contrary to our prediction, the mean daily time spent basking by males (116.62  45.67 (SD) min) and females (104.21  42.84 (SD) min) was not significantly different. We also tested the effect of body size on the duration of basking bouts. Juveniles basked for significantly shorter periods than did adults, possibly due to faster heating or to greater readiness to return to the water when disturbed because of higher risk of predation. However, there was no relationship between body size and length of basking bout among adults. In all groups, basking time decreased as temperature increased, and basking was most frequent at 0-25% cloud cover and in the morning, peaking at 1000-1100 h. Individuals displayed fidelity in their choice of basking sites. Basking of male and female C. picta in this study may be similar because the energetic costs of males and females are not different, or because basking is not used primarily to maximize rates of digestion and assimilation, but rather to attain an optimum temperature for foraging and other activities. 
40931039|A new species of squeaker frog (genus Arthroleptis) is described from the northern mountains of the Cameroon Volcanic Line, a species-rich region within the West African biodiversity hotspot. This new species is associated with human-altered landscapes, including farms and grasslands, and is known from the highland areas near Bamenda, including Mt. Oku, Cameroon, as well as the Obudu and Mambilla Plateaus of eastern Nigeria. The known distribution suggests that it may eventually also be found throughout the Acha-Tugi Ridge that traverses the Cameroon-Nigeria border. More than 40 years ago, a specimen from one of these populations was recognized as probably representing a new species, but no further work was published on this material. We posit that the taxonomy of this new species has proven problematic because of morphological similarity to Arthroleptis poecilonotus . Although in some ways resembling A. poecilonotus, a molecular phylogeny based on mitochondrial gene sequence data demonstrates that the new species is not closely related to A. poecilonotus and, instead, forms a clade with A. krokosua, A. perreti, and A. variabilis. The new species is diagnosable by the combination of medium-small body size (24-29 mm snout-vent length in adult females), the color patterns of the venter and head, and a relatively stout hindlimb with a prominent inner metatarsal tubercle. The description of this new species further highlights these mountains as an important region of endemism within the Cameroon Volcanic Line.
3890978|A long-day photoperiod, in contrast to a short-day photoperiod, initiated the early development and subsequently the early completion of blastema formation in the small iguanid lizard Anolis carolinensis. The tail elongation phase of regeneration was also found to be stimulated by the long-day photoperiod. The observed photoperiod effect initiated a precocious acceleration or shift in the average daily rate of regenerative tail growth. It appears as if the long-day photoperiod was instrumental in initiating the predetermined regenerative growth responses at a much earlier time than did the short-day photoperiod. Consequently, there was an earlier tapering off of the rapid elongation phase of regeneration (2-4 weeks after amputation) under the long-day photoperiod influence. The idea that photoperiod changes were instrumental in shifting the time of attainment of certain average daily growth rates only during the rapid phase of tail elongation is discussed.
3893437|We performed an analysis of fluctuating asymmetry (FA) on samples of lizards from a hybrid zone between fission 5 (F5) and multiple fission (FM2) chromosome races of the Sceloporus grammicus complex in central Mexico. Defining the zone are three diagnostic chromosome markers that demonstrate sharp concordant changes from one parental race to the other over a geographic distance of about 1 km. These chromosome markers allowed five classes of genotypes to be designated: parental F5, parental FM2, F
3893226| We studied the signaling, territorial, and courtship behaviors of the diurnal frog Hylodes asper. Visual and acoustic communication were used during intraspecific interactions involving males, females, and subadults. Hylodes asper has a complex visual communication system, of which foot-flagging is the most distinctive display observed in the repertoire of visual signals. The splash zone produced by the waterfalls and torrents creates a high, nearly constant, humidity near the streams, reducing the risk of desiccation which enables the diurnal activity of H. asper. Although the ambient sound pressure levels (SPL), measured at the calling sites, are similar to the SPL of the advertisement calls, the high-pitched calls of H. asper are spectrally different from the noise produced by the water current. Thus, the ambient noise produced by the water current may not interfere significantly with the acoustic communication of this species. The noise and the nearly constant and high humidity produced by the torrents and waterfalls, along with the availability of light, probably favored the evolution of contrasting colors and visual communication in H. asper. Males of H. asper excavate underwater chambers that are probably used to shelter the eggs and to prevent the clutch from being drifted downstream. /// Os comportamentos de sinalizao, territorial e de corte foram estudados para o anuro diurno Hylodes asper, com base nos sistemas de comunicao acstica e visual. Estes sistemas de comunicao so usados durante interaes intraespecficas envolvendo machos, fmeas e subadultos. Hylodes asper tem um sistema de comunicao visual complexo, destacando-se a sinalizao realizada com os membros posteriores ("foot-flagging"), que  a mais distintiva dentro do repertrio de sinais visuais. Os borrifos d'gua, produzidos pelas corredeiras e cachoeiras, criam uma umidade elevada e constante prximo aos riachos, reduzindo os riscos de dessecao, o que possibilita a atividade diurna de H. asper. Embora a intensidade do rudo ambiental seja similar  da vocalizao de anncio de H. asper, esta  espectralmente diferente do rudo produzido pelas corredeiras e cachoeiras. Assim, o rudo ambiental no parece representar uma fonte importante de interferncia na comunicao acstica desta espcie. O rudo e a umidade elevada e constante gerados pelas corredeiras e cachoeiras, juntamente com a disponibilidade de luz, provavelmente favoreceram a evoluo de coloraes contrastantes e comunicao visual em H. asper. Machos de H. asper escavam tocas subaquticas que provavelmente so usadas para proteger a desova contra predadores e prevenir que os ovos sejam carregados pela correnteza. 
3892199|Venom of Crotalus viridis lutosus was fractionated over the gel filtration medium Sephacryl S-200. Venom proteins were resolved into five major fractions on the basis of absorbance at 280 nm. Phosphodiesterase and L-amino acid dehydrogenase eluted in the first fraction with estimated molecular weights of 159 kD and 133 kD, respectively. Phospholipase activity eluted as a major peak in the second and third fractions with a trailing peak of activity between the third and fourth fractions, with estimated molecular weights of 50.4 kD and 22.2 kD, respectively. These estimates approximate those anticipated for homotetramers and homodimers and constitute the first suggestion that crotalid phospholipases may achieve greater structural complexity in solution than the dimeric state. Protease activity, as evidenced by hydrolysis of six natural and synthetic substrates, was distributed throughout the first four fractions, suggesting the presence of multiple proteases with a wide range of molecular weights and with differing substrate specificities. Small myotoxins are absent from the venom of these populations. This is consistent with data from two Utah populations of C. v. lutosus but contrasts with all existing information on the venoms of conspecific taxa C. v. viridis, C. v. concolor, and C. v. helleri. Based on experience with other rattlesnake venoms, the fifth S-200 fraction probably consists of hypotensive peptides. Two venom constituents account for over 90% of the 214 nm-absorbing material in the fifth fraction, which is the third largest fraction in venom from these populations, based on absorbance at 280 nm.
25621903|A new species of the Bokermannohyla martinsi group is described from Chapada Diamantina, State of Bahia, northeastern Brazil. It is differentiated from the other two species in the group by the combination of slender body (quite robust in B. langei and B. martinsi), non-bifid distal prepollex (bifid in B. langei and B. martinsi), squared shape of the posterior portion of the distal prepollex (pointed process in B. langei and B. martinsi), large size and lateral inclination of the tympanum (quite reduced in B. langei, almost parallel to the longitudinal axis in both B. langei and B. martinsi), absence of dark bars in hidden areas of thighs (dark bars present on anterior, dorsal and posterior surfaces of thighs in B. martinsi), and shape of the supratympanic fold. We report for the first time the occurrence of a mental gland in 16 species of Bokermannohyla.
3892076|The female reproductive cycle of the lizard Eumeces okadae on Miyake-jima, an island of Izu Archipelago, Japan, was studied by autopsy and mark-recapture methods. Mature females ranged from 72-94 mm in SVL and a clutch of eggs was laid from mid-June to early July. Clutch size varied from 4-12 with a mean of 7.6 eggs. Females brooded eggs for about 37 days until hatching. During brooding, females suspended foraging and food intake was reduced markedly. Fat body mass was maximal prior to yolk deposition and minimal just after brooding. Most mature females reproduced biennially, with 47-64% of mature females being reproductive in a given year.
3892405|Aspects of reproduction were examined for male chuckwallas, Sauromalus obesus, as part of a 7-yr life history study. Size and age at reproductive maturity were 125 mm snout-vent length and 2 yr, respectively. All males exceeding minimum size and age produced mature spermatozoa in most years. Confirmation of spermatogenic activity was more reliable than testis volume or mass in estimates of breeding condition because testis size was highly correlated with body size at the time of breeding. The secretory cycle of interstitial cells was synchronized with development of reproductive organs and secondary sexual characteristics. Epididymal and vas deferens epithelia appeared capable of resorption and secretion. Secretions of the sexual segment of the kidney may contribute to formation of seminal fluid. Corpora adiposa were probably largely devoted to reproduction. Spermatogenesis appeared not to be energy limited because of the early age at reproductive maturity and because all adult males in the population typically produced spermatozoa. Seasonal changes in seminiferous and testicular accessory tissues were highly synchronized, and spermiation always occurred in May and June. The timing of spermiation was similar for male chuckwallas over much of the species' geographic range.
3891500|Bluegill sunfishes (Lepomis macrochirus) were offered eggs and tadpoles at different developmental stages of Rana sphenocephala and Rana areolata. The fish ate significantly more tadpoles than eggs. There was no significant difference between predation on the two species or tadpole stage. Rana sphenocephala eggs stripped of the jelly were eaten in significantly higher amounts than eggs with jelly. However, eggs without jelly were eaten in significantly lower amounts than tadpoles. The differential predation on the eggs and tadpoles resulted from the presence of the jelly, and possibly the immobility of the egg did not release a predatorial response from the fish.
3892537|Cnemidophorus laredoensis is a parthenogenetic species known only from the immediate vicinity of Laredo, Texas. Allozyme and karyological data indicate that it is allodiploid, with C. gularis and C. sexlineatus as the most probable parental species. The distributions of cleavage sites for the restriction enzymes EcoRI, HindIII, XbaI, BamHI and XhoI in the mtDNAs of these three species were compared. The cleavage site distributions for C. laredoensis and C. gularis were identical. Geographic variation was detected in the XbaI digests of C. gularis mtDNA: individuals from central Texas had one XbaI site, whereas those from Mexico (and C. laredoensis) had none. These data indicate that C. gularis is the maternal parental species for C. laredoensis and suggest that the hybridization event may have involved southern, rather than northern, C. gularis.
25621888|We examined habitat use in a population of synurbic watersnakes with equal access to urban and natural habitats to test the hypotheses that species occupy urban environments either by (1) restricting their activities to any remaining natural areas, or (2) capitalizing on, instead of avoiding, artificial features. For three years we radio-tracked 50 northern watersnakes (Nerodia sipedon) living in a 40-ha area along 2 km of a city stream in Pennsylvania (USA). Half the study site is urbanized (municipal park and an active industrial area), and half is a relatively natural conservation area. Habitats selected by snakes in the two areas were significantly different: in the natural half, snakes occupied areas with a wide riparian zone and dense canopy cover; in the urban half, they frequently used artificial substrates and were in close proximity to people. Snakes were relocated 2520 times, yet were found at only 113 sites. Frequently reused sites were mostly artificial, including piles of scrap metal or concrete, holes in a railroad bed adjacent to the stream, and dead evergreen trees secured into the stream bank to combat erosion. Urban and natural areas were approximately equal in area and stream length, and had similar numbers of snake-selected sites (64 urban, 49 natural), but urban sites were used by more snakes. Of sites used by more than five different snakes, 22 of 26 were in the urban area. Snakes were found within 5 m of a tagged conspecific at 38% of urban area relocations compared to 15% of natural area relocations. These data suggest that anthropogenic structures in urban environments provide conditions (concealment, thermal) that offset dangers posed by closer proximity to people.
3893173|We investigated the genetic structure of wood frog (Rana sylvatica) populations in a woodland habitat around Lake Itasca, Minnesota, USA. Based on published studies of wood frog movement patterns, we expected to find genetic differentiation at inter-population distances exceeding a few kilometers. We sampled 10 populations separated by 95 m to 9.6 km. Of five micro-satellite loci developed for a study of R. sylvatica in North Dakota, only three were polymorphic in the Itasca sample. We found some evidence for statistically significant differences among populations, with the greatest magnitude estimates of F
3891765|Serum albumins of 18 species of African Bufo were compared using the quantitative micro-complement fixation technique. On the basis of similarities in albumins, five species-groups can be identified among toads having a diploid complement of 20 chromosomes. The albumin of B. mauritanicus, a species with 22 chromosomes, is more similar to albumin of B. rangeri (2N = 20) than are the albumins of African Bufo with 2N = 20. Analysis of the albumin data indicates that the separation of African from South American Bufo dates to the Cretaceous, and that many radiations among species of African Bufo with 2N = 20 occurred during the Miocene. Bufo (= Schismaderma) carens appears to have been an independent lineage since the Eocene.
3892255|The three species of sooglossid frogs of the Seychelles Archipelago share a number of features of superficial mandibular musculature and vocal sac structure including a large Musculus submentalis and an extensive median aponeurosis to the M. intermandibularis. The vocal sac apertures are extremely short. This suite of character states supports an association of sooglossids with the Ranoidea.
3891438|Effects of different live foods on growth, survival and nutritional health of bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) were investigated in two studies. In Study 1, newly metamorphosed bullfrogs were fed a diet of mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis), earthworms (Lumbricus spp.) or crickets (Acheta domestica). Juvenile bullfrogs fed live mosquitofish made greater weight gains than those fed the other diets and were free of the rickets which developed in cricket-fed frogs and a muscular disorder that developed in earthworm-fed frogs. In Study 2, juvenile bullfrogs were fed either mosquitofish (Diet I), a combination of crickets and earthworms (Diet II) or a mixture of crickets, earthworms and mosquitofish (Diet III). Bullfrogs fed Diets I and III had no significant differences in weight gain, but both made greater weight gains than bullfrogs on Diet II. Bullfrogs on Diet II also developed a skeletal disorder of the backbone.
3891876|Tailed frogs (Ascaphus truei) from British Columbia, Oregon, and Montana have a diploid number of chromosomes that is consistently 46. The karyotype of Ascaphus has the largest number of telocentric chromosomes of any diploid salientian. We support placing Ascaphus and Leiopelma in separate families on the basis of great karyotypic dissimilarity, long geographic isolation, unique life histories, and scarcity of shared, derived characters.
24634298|We describe a new species of Trachycephalus from the Amazon Rain Forest, which is morphologically similar to T. resinifictrix (Goeldi). This new species is characterized by a medium body size for species in the genus (males snoutvent length [SVL] 57.974.3 mm, females SVL 74.484.9 mm); skin of the head not co-ossified with underlying dermal bones; dorsal skin texture, including that of the head, densely glandulous with several tubercles; paired vocal sac that protrudes at a posterior angle to the jaw when inflated; iris coloration pinkish-beige with a horizontal black bar and a vertical thin black line below the pupil; dorsal color pattern consisting of a wide interocular whitish-beige and a dark blotch on the middle of the dorsum joining the crossbar at the top of the dorsum, forming a "T" shape; rounded snout in dorsal view, and rounded or acuminate in profile; well-developed supratympanic fold; ulnar tubercles present, sometimes associated with ulnar fold; well-developed axillary membrane; well-developed tarsal fold; males with nonhypertrophied forearm; minimum frequencies of the advertisement call lower than 0.38 kHz; pulse rate 126.7146.6 pulses/s; tadpole external coloration with brown reticulated blotches in the superior portion of the fin; tooth row formulae 2(2)/4. The new species, which is widely distributed in the Amazonian Forest, has been confused with the parapatric T. resinifictrix. It is a canopy treefrog that breeds in tree-holes that have accumulated rainwater.
3892604|The "Wolfsnake" of the Seychelle Islands, Lycognathophis Boulenger, 1893, is placed in the synonymy of Scopelophis Fitzinger, 1843. Examination of pertinent specimens shows its relationships to be with Ethiopian and Oriental natricines. An alternative vernacular name, Seychelles Cliffsnake, is suggested for the species.
3890820|Water content, desiccation tolerance and rate of water loss were determined for Hyla crucifer acclimated for 3 weeks at 7 and 20 C in a light-dark (LD) cycle of 12/12 hours and at 20 C in LD cycles of 6/18, 12/12, and 18/6. Desiccation rates were similar for all acclimations, but body water content was reduced at both 7 C and LD 18/6. These results suggest that temperature and photoperiod acclimations influence both body water composition and desiccation tolerance. The higher desiccation tolerances found at 7 C and LD 6/18 (similar to winter conditions) may reflect a seasonal physiological adjustment to withstand higher water losses.
3891776|Reports of combat between male African snakes are few. This paper gives an account of combat between three captive male gaboon vipers (Bitis gabonica). Territorial defense, competition for food, sexual domination, and homosexuality are examined as possible causes of combat in this species, but it appears that the ritual has its roots in sexual rivalry.
3891580|The description of the frog Rana caerulea (now Litoria caerulea: Hylidae) was probably based on two specimens, only one of which was a hylid. It is believed that the type specimen was in a collection assembled by Sir Joseph Banks and presented to the Hunterian Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. A catalog entry to this collection probably refers to Rana caerulea. Although the catalog was prepared by George Shaw, evidence is presented suggesting that Gilbert White should continue to be regarded as the author of the species.
3893371|Mountain yellow-legged frogs (Rana muscosa) at high elevations of the Sierra Nevada must obtain enough food during summer to survive 7-9 winter months when their aquatic habitats are frozen and food is presumably unavailable. Adults of R. muscosa prey on a variety of organisms, including aquatic and terrestrial invertebrates and anuran larvae. To determine if anuran larvae influence the condition, distribution, and survival of adults of R. muscosa, we assessed body condition (variation from the expected mass for given length) and distribution of R. muscosa in relation to abundance and distribution of larval Hyla regilla, Bufo canorus, and Bufo boreas. Using three years of mark-recapture data, we found that abundance of larval H. regilla in a water body was positively correlated with the condition of R. muscosa. Moreover, R. muscosa had higher relative mass
3893151| We describe a new species of Sphaerodactylus from the xeric southern slopes of the Sierra de Neiba, Dominican Republic, on the north side of the Valle de Neiba. It is a large-scaled, sexually dichromatic species found so far only in dead agaves. The new species differs in several scale characters and coloration from its closest relative, S. ladae, in the Sierra Martn Garca. 
3890672|A population of Cnemidophorus tigris gracilis was studied in the Sonoran Desert during 1964-1966. Mean distance between captures was 16.2 m for 29 immatures and 21.9 for 53 adults. Incidence of broken tails was relatively low in juveniles (5-10%) and high in adults (30-56%). Growth rates ranged from 1.3 mm/month in adults to 5.0 mm/month in juveniles. Some individuals reached minimum adult size in less than one year, but others did not do so until almost two years old. Females were gravid from April to early August and laid at least two clutches averaging 2.05 eggs each. Males had enlarged testes from March through July. About 70-80% of the population was potentially reproductive during the breeding season. Hatchlings emerged from mid-June or early July through September. Whiptails appeared equally abundant on two flatland desert and three low altitude (450-500 m) montane study areas. Density in a third flatland area was about 13/hectare in spring and 36/hectare in late summer. The reproductive pattern and life history of C. tigris are compared to those of eight other lizard species at the study location.
3892863|Karyotypes of 11 species of peninsular Malaysian frogs belonging to the genera Leptobrachium (Pelobatidae), Amolops, Rana (Ranidae), Philautus, Polypedates, Rhacophorus (Rhacophoridae), and Microhyla (Microhylidae) are described. Chromosome numbers of L. hendricksoni (2N = 24) and A. larutensis (2N = 24) differed from those previously reported in the two genera (2N = 26). The karyotype of Rana blythii (2N = 24) resembled reported karyotypes of R. macrodon and R. magna, suggesting their close relationships. Microhyla butleri had 2N = 22 chromosomes, which is the first record of this number for the genus. The karyotype of the genus Philautus (2N = 26) was described for the first time in P. asper.
3892329| An electrophoretic survey of proteins from 14 populations representing eight species and two species groups of Central and South American Bolitoglossa examines patterns of intraspecific and interspecific genetic differentiation and the possible implications of these patterns for the question of the time of entry of plethodontid salamanders into South America. These species are very old, as evidenced by the great genetic differentiation among species (including presumed close cladistic relatives), the high degree of genetic subdivision within species, and the very high levels of genetic variation within individual populations. The frequency of polymorphic loci and mean heterozygosity recorded for some populations, particularly the Costa Rican species B. subpalmata, may be the highest levels yet recorded for vertebrates. Cluster analysis based on degree of genetic relatedness reveals only a weak distinction between South American and Central American species; furthermore, many component lineages may predate the establishment of the continuous, permanent Pliocene land connection between Panam and Colombia. Thus, the recent South American fauna likely comprises descendants of several lineages that independently entered South America. Lastly, a specimen of B. pandi collected recently in Colombia indicates that this species, which previously was known from a single specimen collected near the turn of this century and feared extinct, still survives. 
40931030|Calling behavior and the properties of a male's call directly affect mate choice and mating success in frogs. In this study, I investigated the difference in call properties within and among males of Agalychnis moreletii at a breeding population in Belize. As a first step toward understanding female preference for specific male advertisement calls, I examined the variation of call traits from 575 calls of 30 individuals. I described and quantified call properties both within and among males and examined the relationship between mating success and body size. All of the call traits that I examined exhibited significantly higher among-male variation than within-male variation. Static call properties such as dominant frequency and call amplitude had the lowest variation within and among males. Dominant frequency was negatively correlated with body size, supporting a body-size constraint for this call trait. Call properties such as call rates, mean pulses per call, and call durations displayed greater variability among males. Such variability in these dynamic call traits suggests energy constraints because calling longer and calling more frequently are energetically costly. As a result, dynamic properties may be indicators of male quality and play a greater role in mate choice. Indeed, males found in amplexus produced a greater number of calls and those calls were of longer durations and tended to have a shorter intercall interval. Here, I characterize call trait variation and document call properties as indicators of mating success in the process of sexual selection in anuran communication.
3892484|The relationships among growth, pattern of thermoregulation, and digestive efficiency were examined in captive-born blue-tongued skinks (Tiliqua scincoides). The lizards were maintained on a diet of known composition and caloric content from birth. The dW/dt was 1.27 g/day from birth to adult weight (approximately 10 mo), whereas dL/dt was 0.70 mm/day. As the lizards matured, mean selected temperature during the photophase decreased from 37.5 C (at 25 g) to 32.4 C (at 400 g). During that same interval, daily use of environmental heat changed from a bimodal morning/afternoon pattern to a monomodal morning pattern. At a body mass of >400 g, the patterns of thermoregulation of the juveniles were indistinguishable from the pattern shown by adults. Energy intake required to increase body mass by 1.0 g increased from 10 kjoules (at 25 g) to 31 kjoules (>250 g). Digestive efficiency decreased from 93-81% over the same time period and corresponded to the observed changes in daily body temperature profiles. Adult skinks maintained on the same diet and held at a constant 35 C showed a digestive efficiency of 94%.
3891397|The Rocky Mountain wood frog, Rana maslini new species, is an ecological relict population that is genetically incompatible with northern wood frogs, Rana sylvatica, from Manitoba. These two species are not morphologically distinguishable, but R. maslini tends to have a shorter tibio-fibula and a higher frequency of dorsal stripes. The male voice of R. maslini has a lower dominant frequency than that of R. sylvatica recorded in Manitoba.
25621909|We present data about sexual dimorphism of two amphisbaenian species, Leposternon microcephalum and Leposternon wuchereri. Specimens were collected during faunal rescues in the course of the flooding process of four different hydroelectric dams, Santa Clara, Funil, Candonga and Ponte Hydroelectrics, at the Minas Gerais state, southeastern Brazil. Both species exhibited sexual dimorphism for different morphometric variables. While males of L. microcephalum have wider heads than conspecific females, males of L. wuchereri have wider, longer and taller heads than females but are smaller in body size.
3892927|The skin of the Puerto Rican gecko Sphaerodactylus roosevelti is characterized by extreme mechanical weakness. The dermis is bilayered as in other fragile-skinned geckos. Preformed zones of weakness are present at the hinge region between the imbricating scales of the dorsal and lateral body surfaces. Parameters of skin strength and toughness are approximately one to two orders of magnitude lower than in other geckos. The initial stages in wound healing following skin fracture are described. Integumentary weakness appears to be an important predator escape mechanism in some geckos and may be used in response to arthropod predators by species of Sphaerodactylus.
3893545|We redescribe Trimeresurus cornutus, a species that has not been reported for more than half a century, based on a recently collected live specimen from the Annamite Mountains of Central Vietnam. Besides new data on the distribution and habitat, we compare coloration and morphological data of the first known male of the species with the type specimen and a third known specimen from North Vietnam. We describe male genital morphology and analyze the systematic relationships of the species using external morphology, hemipenial morphology and molecular data. A phylogenetic hypothesis, based on four mitochondrial genes, suggests that the species is most closely related to Protobothrops jerdonii. The external morphology and hemipenial morphology are consistent with this placement. Based on the few specimens available, Protobothrops cornutus comb. nov. exhibits a very patchy distribution, with an altitudinal range reaching from 150-2000 m.
3893139| Digital hyperextension during locomotion is documented for Anolis sagrei by way of high speed videography. The subdigital adhesive pad is carried through the recovery stroke of the limb cycle in a hyperextended state. The pad and distal portion of the digit are configured into this hyperextended state as a result of ankle extension and rotation at the mesotarsal joint as the pes rolls onto its mesial border during the last components of the power stroke of the step phase. This method of digital hyperextension differs from that documented for geckos, in that in the latter the distal ends of the digits are rolled away from the substrate prior to completion of ankle extension and pedal rotation. In both instances, however, the subdigital pad is carried through the swing phase of the stride in the hyperextended configuration, and the setae are brought into contact with the locomotor substratum at footfall by the distal portion of the digit being brought into alignment with the more proximal part. /// La vido rapide (250 images/s) a t utilise pour dcrire l'hyper-extension des doigts des membres postrieurs lors de la locomotion chez Anolis sagrei. La rgion adhsive des lamelles sous-digitales, couvertes de soies de kratine, est maintenue en hyper-extension durant toute la phase de lever du membre. Cette hyper-extension est produite par l'extension de la cheville et la rotation de l'articulation msotarsale, comme le pied entre en rotation lors de la dernire partie de la phase de poser de la patte. Ce type d'hyper-extension est diffrent de celui des geckos. En effet, chez ces derniers, la partie distale des doigts se dtachent du substrat, en tournant, avant l'extension maximale de la cheville et la rotation de la patte. Cependant, la surface ventrale adhsive des doigts est maintenue en hyper-extension chez les deux espces lors de la phase de lever du membre. Ainsi, les soies de kratine sont maintenues en contact avec le substrat par l'alignement de la rgion distale du doigt avec sa rgion proximale, lors du mouvement des pattes postrieures. 
3891524|The moisture content of material inside three alligator nests was measured during four periods of the 1969 nesting season. Moisture content averaged 60.9% during Period 1 (22 June-11 July) and ranged from 45.4%-71.9%. During Period 2 (11 July-1 August), moisture levels increased in all nests and ranged from 68.3% to 79.0% until the eggs hatched during the first week of September. Coefficients of determination disclosed that variation in water depth and rainfall accounted for about one-half of the variation in nest moisture. Simulated alligator nests were used to test the effects of shallow flooding and rainfall on nest moisture. Only nests which received rainfall differed significantly from control nests.
3893639|The results of 11 captive matings among nine female and six male descendents of six wild-caught female common garter snakes from polymorphic populations near Lake Erie confirm that melanism is inherited as a simple Mendelian trait and is recessive to a striped pattern. The make-up of litters born to 71 wild-caught females from five sites corroborate this result: striped females never produced all melanistic litters and the frequency of entirely striped, mixed, and entirely melanistic litters conforms to expectations based on estimated allele frequencies. Possible explanations for a previously reported non-Mendelian inheritance of melanism include the occurrence of a somatic mutation or bias in sperm production and fertilization ability.
3892692|This paper reviews the various criteria for the recognition of oviparity and viviparity in squamates and proposes a hierarchy of these criteria based on reliability and practicality. The best evidence for oviparity includes field observations of oviposition and of developing eggs of certain identity, and observations of hatching eggs that were not freshly-oviposited. Other strong evidence of oviparity includes egg-tending behavior and the oviposition of developing eggs in captivity. Viviparous reproduction is strongly indicated by observations of parturition in the field and in captivity, as well as by ovulation of minuscule ova. Somewhat weaker evidence of viviparity includes the presence of advanced oviductal fetuses and the absence of an opaque eggshell around moderately developed oviductal embryos. However, the presence of an eggshell around oviductal eggs does not necessarily indicate oviparity, and its absence during early development does not exclusively indicate either reproductive mode. Likewise, the presence of immature embryos in the oviduct does not distinguish between oviparous and viviparous habits, nor do field observations of females in proximity to a clutch of unidentified eggs, or the emergence of young from thin-shelled (or shell-less) "eggs" of unknown history. Unsubstantiated reports in the literature warrant corroboration and must be treated cautiously. The use of criteria to recognize reproductive modes is illustrated with literature on the genus Eumeces. Future reports on squamates should detail how reproductive modes of individual species and higher taxa were inferred.
3893643| A new, brightly colored species of Physalaemus similar to P. deimaticus and P. rupestris is described from the Parque Estadual do Itacolomi, Municipality of Ouro Preto, State of Minas Gerais, southeastern Brazil. The new species is characterized by its small size (snout-vent length 23.2 mm in male, 26.2-26.6 mm in females) and by having the snout rounded in the dorsal view and protruding in profile; large inguinal glands, ovoid, light brown with a black ocellus outlined with white on their posterior half; light grayish brown dorsum with elongate longitudinal dark grayish brown stripes and blotches; venter white with gray mottling; and bright red on groin and ventral surfaces of arms, hands, thighs, tibiae, and feet. /// Uma nova espcie de Physalaemus de colorido vistoso, relacionada a P. deimaticus e P. rupestris,  descrita do Parque Estadual do Itacolomi, Municpio de Ouro Preto, Estado de Minas Gerais, sudeste do Brasil. A nova espcie  caracterizada pelo tamanho pequeno (comprimento rostro-anal 23,2 mm no macho, 26,2-26,6 mm nas fmeas), focinho arredondado em vista dorsal e saliente em perfil, glndulas inginais grandes, ovides, marrom claro e com um ocelo preto delineado por uma linha branca na sua metade posterior, dorso marrom claro acinzentado com linhas e manchas longitudinais marrom escuro acinzentado, ventre branco com marmoreado cinza e forte colorido vermelho nas superfcies ventrais dos braos, mos, coxas, tbias, ps e regio inginal. 
3893477| A new species of the Eleutherodactylus discoidalis group from the Andean humid montane forests of Departmento La Paz, northern Bolivia, is described. The new species differs from other species of the group by having regularly warty dorsal skin, a small tympanum, slightly enlarged, rounded digit discs, and uniformly dark brown coloration. Data on the advertisement call of the new species and an operational key for the species of the E. discoidalis group are provided. /// Se describe una nueva especie del grupo de Eleutherodactylus discoidalis de los bosques hmedos andinos del Departmento de La Paz, en el norte de Bolivia. La nueva especie se diferencia de otras especies del grupo por tener piel dorsal uniformemente rugosa, tmpano pequeo, discos digitales redondeados y ligeramente agrandados y color marrn oscuro bastante uniforme. Se proporciona una clave artificial para las especies del grupo de E. discoidalis. 
3893008|Larval development was studied in Desmognathus quadramaculatus from May 1987 through December 1988 at the southernmost extent of its natural range in Habersham County, Georgia. Large monthly samples were collected from tributaries of Nancy Town Creek, elevation approximately 300 m. Data on growth from the frequency distribution of snout-vent lengths (SVL) indicated that three larval size classes were present. Hatchling larvae appeared in the population in July of both years. Metamorphosing individuals were found in May and June of both years, indicating a larval period of 34-35 mo. Hatchlings from each year had a mean SVL of 16 mm whereas metamorphosing individuals had mean SVLs of 40 and 43 mm for 1987 and 1988, respectively. Information on larvae from a higher elevation (830 m) in Union County, Georgia, indicated the probable predominance of a 4-yr larval period with a much larger mean SVL (54 mm) at metamorphosis. The total range of variation in larval period and size at metamorphosis among populations of this species indicates that factors other than temperature affect larval life history patterns. Previous reports have shown that resource availability is a major factor determining interpopulation variation, although genetic effects cannot be ruled out.
3891601|Eggs of 12 species of reptiles were collected. Variations in structure, surface and hardness of egg shell, size of eggs and hatchlings, clutch size, and observed incubation period were observed. Almost all 90 clutches were found on the ground (under leaves, logs and rocks) or under the soil surface. Eggs of only a few species were found above ground level. The appearance of eggs correlated closely with average soil moisture.
3891927| Home range size of adult desert iguana lizards, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, was studied during June and July of 1975, in Thousand Palms, Riverside County, California, USA. The mean home range size of  
3891839|Records were kept on the number of individuals observed and captured per hour of each day over two summers at the Nevada Test Site. The four species of lizards studied were Callisaurus draconoides, Cnemidophorus tigris, Crotaphytus wislizeni and Phrynosoma platyrhinos. On an hourly basis Callisaurus was always the more abundant species ranging from 67% to 100% of the total of all species observed. Cnemidophorus was usually the 2nd most abundant species followed by Crotaphytus and Phrynosoma in that order. The same trend was observed on a seasonal basis. Callisaurus and Cnemidophorus were found to escape capture best at the time of day when they were most abundant.
3890747|Rana palustris consists of a generally distributed northern form and three separate populations of a southern form. Characters analyzed tend to be concordant and to have limits coinciding with the Coastal Plain boundary. Because of the great width of some areas containing intermediate frogs, particularly in cave regions, the authors recommend that subspecies not be recognized. Ventral mottling is suggested to have selection value against underwater predators, and the increase in dorsal pigmentation, through squaring of spots and presence of a snout spot, may be related to the heat budget of the frog.
3892036|Mean body temperature (MBT) at activity in outdoor cages was measured in small lizards of four species of Acanthodactylus (Lacertidae). All species were found to be thermophilic; the MBT of A. schreiberi is 40.6 C, A. boskianus 39.2 C, A. scutellatus-39.3 C, and that of A. pardalis-37.8 C. No significant differences in MBT were found between A. boskianus and A. scutellatus. Statistically significant to highly significant differences were found comparing other pairs of species. Significant differences in MBT between A. schreiberi and A. scutellatus may allow sympatry in some places. Heat absorption by lizards in outdoor cages was mainly from the substratum. Cloacal temperatures adjust to changes in substratum temperature within 5 minutes even when the lizards are exposed to direct sunlight. These lizards can be regarded as primarily thigmothermic species that occasionally bask.
3892024|Five species of Phyllomedusa occur in the upper Amazon Basin: P. bicolor (Boddaert, 1772), P. palliata Peters, P. tarsius (Cope), P. tomopterna (Cope), P. vaillanti Boulenger. Phyllomedusa palliata is resurrected from the synonymy of P. tomopterna. Phyllomedusa perlata Boulenger, P. feltoni Shreve, and P. blombergi Funkhouser are junior synonyms of P. vaillanti. Phyllomedusa nicefori Barbour, P. edentula Andersson, and P. orcesi Funkhouser are junior synonyms of P. tarsius (Cope). The status of P. coelestis (Cope) is unsettled.
3891536|Activity of the northern two-lined salamander Eurycea b. bislineata was recorded as the number of crossings of a fine sand transect operated for nine summers. Terrestrial activity begins around 1 June and lasts until 3 October. By comparing the numbers of uphill and downhill crossings it was found that the salamanders undergo an uphill postbreeding migration in June, an uphill dispersal movement in August, and a downhill migration in the fall. Activity is low between migrations but increases immediately prior to and during migrations. Calculations based on one year's data on two transects showed that the average salamander migrated 65 m from the stream in spring. Only 25% of the animals which moved uphill beyond the woodland transect 100 m from the stream, returned downhill in the fall. Circadian rhythm peaks after dark and tapers off during the night. Over 98% of the salamanders' terrestrial activity is nocturnal and strongly related to rain.
3891279|Rana boans Linnaeus, 1758, has priority over Rana maxima Laurenti, 1768, as the valid name for a large South American tree frog, genus Hyla. Hyla boans Latreille, 1801, is a secondary homonym of Hyla boans (Linnaeus, 1758). The earliest available name for the frogs previously known as Hyla boans Latreille, 1801, is Hyla albopunctata Spix, 1824. Neotypes are designated for the valid nominal taxa Hyla boans (Linnaeus) and Hyla albopunctata Spix.
3893339|Tropical frog species exhibit a wide variety of reproductive strategies, including opportunistic and continuous breeding. Opportunistic breeders are active for only a few nights at a time but usually call vigorously for many hours. More continuous breeders are active on more nights but often have more moderate calling rates. In this investigation, I studied the calling activity of two tropical hylids, Scinax rubra, an opportunistic breeder, and Scinax boulengeri, a more continuous breeder. Males of S. rubra were present in choruses for one night on average and chorus activity was significantly correlated with rainfall. On the other hand, males of S. boulengeri were observed on as many as 51 nights during the breeding season, and choruses were active on all census nights, regardless of rainfall. Overall, chorus tenure was quite brief in S. rubra but relatively more prolonged in S. boulengeri. In addition, males of S. boulengeri suffered gradual deterioration in body condition. These patterns suggest a tradeoff between energy investment in calling on a single night and number of nights of calling activity. Thus, I interpreted differences between the two species in chorus tenure in light of differences in morphological and biochemical characteristics of muscles involved in call production.
3891692|Body temperatures of 26 mudpuppies, Necturus maculosus, weighing 59.6-221.8 g were monitored following reciprocal exposures to 22 and 28 C. Temperature change halftimes (T 1/2) for heating and cooling were significantly correlated to body weight in a double logarithmic fashion. Best fit regression equations were: log T 1/2 = -0.64 + 0.47 log wt and log T 1/2 = -0.35 + 0.35 log wt for heating and cooling, respectively. Mean heating-cooling ratios were less than unity in both live (0.926) and dead (0.960) animals. The similarity in heating and cooling times is related to the physiological ecology of this species.
3891774|Time trials indicated that running speed of individual lizards was reduced by an average of 36% by removing their tails.
3892233|Previous estimates of survival rates of sea turtle eggs or hatchlings to adulthood depend upon the assumption that their populations are neither increasing nor decreasing in numbers. The assumption is made in spite of the fact that recent interest in sea turtle demography stems from the belief that populations are in decline. This paper presents estimates of the survival rate from egg to maturity necessary to maintain a population of loggerhead turtles, Caretta caretta, at its present observed rate of decline. Conventional demographic equations were used along with values of adult survivorship, fecundity and alternative estimates of age at maturity from the literature. Results indicate that the proportion of eggs surviving to adulthood lies between 0.0009 and 0.0018 in this declining population, as opposed to an estimated value of 0.0025 in the unlikely event that the population is stationary. These results suggest that previous studies have overestimated survival of eggs or hatchlings to maturity in sea turtle populations. The methodology may be used to assess gross survivorship from egg to adulthood in increasing or decreasing populations of any species in which adults and eggs are more easily studied than are juveniles.
3891944|Seven species of anurans (Bufo typhonius [Linnaeus 1758], Eleutherodactylus altamazonicus Barbour and Dunn 1721, Eleutherodactylus lanthinites Lynch 1975, Hyla lanciformis [Cope 1870], Leptodactylus mystaceus [Spix 1824], Leptodactylus pentadactylus [Laurenti 1768], and Rana palmipes Spix 1824) from Santa Cecilia, Napo Province, Ecuador were each found to be infected with one or more of the following helminths: Loxogenes macrocirra (Caballero and Bravo Hollis 1949) Yamaguti 1958 (Trematoda: Lecithodendriidae), new host record in R. palmipes; Cosmocerca brasiliensis Travassos 1925 (Nematoda: Cosmocercidae), new host record in E. altamazonicus and E. lanthinites; Ochoterenella digiticauda Caballero 1944 (Nematoda: Filariidae), new host record in H. lanciformis; Oswaldocruzia mazzai Travassos 1935 (Nematoda: Trichostrongylidae), new host record in B. typhonius, E. altamazonicus, L. mystaceus, and L. pentadactylus; and Schrankiana schranki (Travassos 1925) Strand 1942 (Nematoda: Cosmocercidae). All helminths are reported for the first time in Ecuador.
3891762|Analysis of fossil and Recent specimens of the Kinosternidae and related Dermatemydidae indicates that the primitive scale pattern of the plastron for kinosternids is the condition retained in Staurotypus. The homologies of these scales in comparison to testudinoid turtles are determined to be gulars, humerals, femorals, anals, and axillary and inguinal infra-marginals. A neomorphic scale (the intergular) was added in kinosternines, and the humeral of extant kinosternines is divided into two scales by development of a mobile transverse hinge between the hyoplastron and epiplastron. Kinosternids are unique in not having true pectoral or abdominal scales. The homology of the plastral scales in other casichelydian turtles is reviewed and revised.
3893169|Many lizards autotomize their tails during an encounter with a predator. Tails thrash following autotomy, thus distracting the predator and increasing the probability of escape. Regeneration of the tail occurs rapidly in many species of lizards. We investigated several aspects of the physiology of original and regenerated tails of the gecko Hemidactylus mabouia. Thrashing durations of original and regenerated tails after autotomy were similar, but original tails accumulated significantly more lactate per gram tissue than did regenerated tails. The reduction in lactate concentration paralleled a reduction in protein concentration in regenerated tails suggesting that lower protein concentrations in regenerated tails contributed to lower lactate concentrations. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity was not significantly different in original and regenerated tails, suggesting that LDH was not responsible for the observed difference in lactate concentrations. Histochemical and immunochemical analyses revealed that the number, size, and type of muscle fibers were not different in original and regenerated tails. Caudal fibers were mainly of the fast, glycolytic type, which presumably support high anaerobic activity of the tail following autotomy.
3892553|The breeding behavior of the treefrog Hyla chrysoscelis was observed for one season. The number of nights on which males called contributed significantly to variation in mating success. Male body size was not correlated with mating success and size assortative mating was not observed.
3891447|Various hematological parameters were studied in adult puff adder blood. Values obtained for hematocrit, hemoglobin and plasma protein concentrations were all higher than previously published ones from juvenile animals. Characteristic plasma protein and hemoglobin electrophoretograms were obtained at pH 8.5 (acrylamide electrophoresis) and the isoelectric points of the two hemoglobin components were found to be 8.15 and 8.72. The concentration of organic nucleotide triphosphates in blood was
3891406| The Neotropical vine snake, Oxybelis aeneus, was studied on the outskirts of Belize City, Belize. It was most common on Mimosa bushes in disturbed areas of low, scattered bushes and trees. Anoles, the principal prey of O. aeneus, were also common in those situations. Snakes perched nearly twice as high on the vegetation at night as they did by day. Most horizontal movements between captures were less than 50 m and activity ranges, measured as convex polygons, were about 4.40 ares. Daytime vertical movements were also limited. Although   grow faster than  , the latter attain larger size. Population density was estimated to be between 0.28 and 0.35 snakes per are. The diurnal Oxybelis may resort to its sleeping perch after dark. Tail vibrating was observed. 
3892542|Observations on the natural history of Liolaemus magellanicus from Tierra del Fuego, Chile are presented. This species is patchily distributed in areas of coastal scrub and coastal steppe, reaching high local densities. Two color morphs are described: grey-olivaceous and green. Color dimorphism is not related to sex or body size of adults; all neonates are grey-olivaceous. Reproductive maturity appears to occur at snout-vent lengths of >48 mm for males and 60 mm for females. Females are ovoviviparous, having a relative clutch mass of 0.322 (mean for five specimens) and a mean litter size of 5.5 neonates (range 3-8). Birth occurs during the midsummer (January and February), probably 1 yr after copulation. Based on a sample of feces and a single stomach, L. magellanicus appears to be largely or entirely herbivorous, despite its small size (ca. 6 g). Field cloacal temperatures (mean for 20 specimens = 27 C) are significantly lower than for central Chilean species of Liolaemus.
3891710| The ovarian cycle of high altitude ovoviviparous skink Scincella himalayanum from Kashmir (India) was studied by dissecting 179   from October 1971 to October 1973, months of hibernation (from early November to end of April) excepted. A  reaches reproductive maturity at  40 mm snout-vent length and produces a single litter of 2-6 embryos. Based on size, 3 types of follicles are seen in the ovary: small, 2.5 mm diam, transparent previtellogenic follicles, medium sized, 2.5 to nearly 5 mm diam opaque and yellowish-white vitellogenic follicles, and enlarged, deep yellow 5-6 mm preovulatory follicles. Only the previtellogenic type persist in the ovary throughout the year. Oviducal eggs are seen from early May to end of June and the embryos from June to end of July. Yolk deposition is a postpartum event, beginning in August and terminating before the onset of hibernation. Mature ova remain in the ovary throughout the winter. The corpus luteum remains developed through the gestation period. Hatching of the embryos is a late July or early August event, ensuring to the newly hatched sufficient time to develop and prepare itself for the winter. 
3893190|This study examines the mutual competitive effects among larvae of two syntopic salamanders, Ambystoma macrodactylum and Ambystoma gracile. Evidence for competitive equivalence and constant per capita effects among these syntopic species could justify the use of simple models for describing competition. The species were raised alone and together at two densities in replicated artificial ponds. Hatchlings of Ambystoma macrodactylum were smaller than A. gracile, yet larger at the end of the experiment when A. macrodactylum began to metamorphose. Competition was detected as a decrease in growth rate with increasing density, but competition was not so strong as to influence the survival of either species. Ambystoma macrodactylum grew slowly relative to heterospecifics, and growth declined more with increasing conspecific density than with heterospecific density. In contrast, growth of A. gracile was depressed more by increasing density of the slower growing heterospecifics. These differences in effects of competition likely arise from differing breeding phenology-A. macrodactylum breeds earlier than A. gracile, and A. macrodactylum was larger than A. gracile when the latter were added to the experimental ponds. The results provide no evidence for competitive differences or interaction at the low density used here. Assuming a coexistence mechanism exists to offset the competitive asymmetry at high density, I present a testable hypothesis on the mechanism of differential susceptibility of the species to predation.
23254561|We describe a new species of Pristimantis from evergreen lowland forest in the Amazon Basin of Ecuador. We observed all specimens to be active at night, located over leaves of shrubs in both primary forest and in the edge of forest clearings. The new species is tentatively assigned to Pristimantis (Pristimantis) frater group based on its small size (17.022.1 mm in snoutvent length of four males and 24.1 mm in a single female), relatively narrow head, short and subacuminate snout, lack of canthal stripes and labial bars, moderately long limbs, Finger I shorter than Finger II, and Toe V longer than Toe III. The new species differs from other congeneric species in Amazonia by possessing dense black reticulations on upper and lower borders of the iris, a dorsum that is orange or dark reddish brown without distinct pattern in life, a tympanic membrane not differentiated but ventral part of the tympanic annulus visible, and a small tubercle on each heel and eyelid. Una nueva especie de Pristimantis es descrita de los bosques siempreverde de tierras bajas de las Cuenca Amaznica de Ecuador. Todos los especmenes fueron observados durante la noche localizados sobre hojas de arbustos, tanto en reas de bosque primario y en los bordes con reas abiertas. La nueva especie es tentativamente asignada al grupo Pristimantis (Pristimantis) frater, por su tamao pequeo (17.022.1 mm en la longitud hocico-cloaca de cuatro machos; 24.1 mm en una hembra), con la cabeza relativamente angosta, rostro corto subacuminado, carece de lneas cantales o barras en los labios y extremidades moderadamente largas; con el dedo I ms corto que el dedo II en las manos, y el dedo V ms largo que el dedo III en el pie. La nueva especie difiere de otras especies congenricas de la Amazona por poseer densas reticulaciones negras en el borde superior e inferior del iris, exhibir el dorso anaranjado o caf rojizo uniforme en vida, con la membrana timpnica no diferenciada pero la parte ventral del anillo timpnico visible, y por presentar un pequeo tubrculo en los prpados y talones.
3892420|Ptychohyla panchoi is named from the upper tropical moist forest on the Sierra de las Minas in Guatemala. A phylogenetic arrangement of the species of Ptychohyla shows P. panchoi to be intermediate between species in the P. euthysanota group and the P. schmidtorum group.
3892204|Oreodeira gracilipes Girard, 1857, a monotypic genus known from a single subadult female specimen supposedly collected in New South Wales, Australia by the U.S. Exploring Expedition, is a junior synonym of Agama agama africana, a subspecies based on the holotype of Tropidolepis africanus Hollowell, 1844, and was probably collected in Liberia, Africa. A stepwise discriminant function analysis of 19 mensurable and meristic characters classifies the holotype with specimens from Liberia, rather than with Ghana or Nigeria.
3893262|We studied the effect of meal size on specific dynamic action (SDA) in the South American rattlesnake Crotalus durissus, by measuring oxygen consumption rates
3891759|A high incidence of mortality (cause not established) in the winter of 1974-1975 in hibernating ornate box turtles (Terrapene ornata) is reported. A subsequent decline in population density is discussed. Reuse of hibernation areas is noted.
3892432|The dietary patterns of Rana cancrivora Gravenhorst were studied in Bogor, West Java, Indonesia from October 1983 to April 1984. Females were significantly larger than males and, on average, consumed significantly larger food items than males. Prey size was positively correlated with head width in both sexes, although somewhat stronger in females. There was no significant difference between the sexes in the way prey size and head width were related. R. cancrivora were primarily opportunistic in taking prey taxa and prey size without large differences between males and females. A crab and a snail were important food items. The crab is a pest in irrigated ricefields and fish ponds, and the snail is an alternate host for the human liver fluke, Fasciola hepatica. Overall, potential pest organisms comprised 77% by volume of the diet of R. cancrivora.
3893171| We examined how male and female tngara frogs, Physalaemus pustulosus, respond to variation in the frequency spectrum of the chuck component of the advertisement call. We varied chuck frequency in two different ways. In the fixed frequency series, the sequence of calls within each series had chucks of the same dominant frequency. Different fixed-frequency series had chucks of different dominant frequencies designated as high, high-medium, medium, medium-low, or low frequency relative to variation in the test population. In the second varying frequency series, the sequence of calls varied in the chuck's dominant frequency such that the individual series had the same average frequencies as the high, high-medium, medium, medium-low, and low fixed-frequency experiments. Both males and females tended to respond more to lower-frequency chucks. The responses of both sexes to the same mean chuck frequency was similar to the fixed- and varying-frequency series of chucks. 
23255781|During reproduction, females often modify their behavior relative to the nonreproductive condition. These changes are frequently attributed to maternal efforts to optimize offspring development and survival (i.e., the maternal manipulation hypothesis). However, Schwarzkopf and Andrews (2012) recently challenged this concept as oversimplified, emphasizing that females should optimize their own lifetime fitness, and therefore maternal efforts may be directed at the female's future reproductive effort in addition, or even in contrast, to current reproductive effort. To provide insight into the relative importance of current versus future reproductive effort in shaping maternal behavior, we systematically explore a single study systempythons. Pythons show distinct maternal behaviors during gravidity (modified basking effort), perioviposition (nest site selection), and postoviposition (egg brooding). By examining each component, we reveal that python maternal effort is predominantly aimed at current offspring. Yet, at times, females will make decisions that benefit their future reproductive potential at a cost to their current effort. Therefore, maternal behavior likely reflects a focused effort to maximize fitness through optimizing current reproductive investment, but such effort is not without consideration of future reproductive potential.
3893269| Substantial individual variation in timing of emergence from hibernation has been reported among reptiles, although few studies have addressed the causes of that variation. Here we report patterns of spring emergence by black rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta) observed at 13 communal hibernacula in eastern Ontario from 1992-1997. Because our study area is at the northern extreme of the species' range, we expected synchronous emergence given the very short active season (about 5 months). Despite these apparent time constraints, however, the emergence period lasted an average of 40 days. Although we found significant variation in timing of emergence among years and among hibernacula, we found no evidence of a simple latitudinal gradient in mean emergence dates. Within hibernacula, significantly more snakes emerged on days with high maximum air temperatures, but maximum air temperature explained only a small amount of the variation among years in emergence dates. Larger individuals emerged earlier than smaller individuals, as predicted if early spring predation risk is higher for smaller snakes. Females tended to emerge slightly earlier than males. Condition was not a significant factor determining timing of emergence in our population. Individuals demonstrated significant repeatability between years in their time of emergence relative to other snakes in the same hibernaculum. /// On a rapport d'importantes variations individuelles quant  la date d'mergence d'hibernation parmi les reptiles. Cependant, bien peu d'tudes se sont pench sur les causes de ces variations individuelles. Dans la prsente tude, nous relatons les patrons dans l'mergence d'hibernation chez les laphes ratires noires (Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta) observes  13 hibernacula communautaires dans l'est de l'Ontario de 1992  1997. Parce que notre aire d'tude est situe  l'extrme nord de la distribution de l'espce, nous nous attendions  ce que les serpents mergent de faon synchronise puisque leur saison d'activit est trs courte. Malgr ces contraintes temporelles, la priode d'mergence d'hibernation a dur en moyenne 40 jours. Nous avons dcouvert une variation significative dans les dates moyennes d'mergence d'une anne  l'autre ainsi que d'un hibernaculum  l'autre. Cependant, il ne s'agissait pas d'un simple gradient en latitude des dates d'mergence moyennes des hibernacula. Significativement plus de serpents sortaient d'hibernation les jours o la temprature maximale de l'air tait leve, mais les diffrences de tempratures d'une anne  l'autre n'ont expliqu que partiellement les variations annuelles dans les dates d'mergence moyennes. Les individus plus longs mergeaient plus tt que les individus plus courts, comme prdit si le risque de prdation durant les conditions climatiques printanires plus froides est moins lev pour les individus plus longs. Les femelles avaient tendance  merger lgrement plus tt que les mles. La condition physique des individus n'tait pas un facteur significatif dans la dtermination des patrons d'mergence dans notre population d'laphes ratires noires. Les individus avaient une tendance significative  merger au mme moment anne aprs anne par rapport aux autres individus de leur hibernaculum. 
25621914|We describe a new species of the caecilian genus Microcaecilia (Amphibia: Gymnophiona: Caeciliidae) from the Lely Mountains, Suriname and provide new information about the identification and distribution of species of Microcaecilia across the Guiana Shield. The new species, M. grandis, is large (318 mm total length), has many premaxillary-maxillary teeth (>20), and has bicuspid vomeropalatine teeth. We determined that specimens from Suriname previously assigned to M. unicolor (Dumril, 1864) were misidentified and that M. unicolor is currently known only from French Guiana.
3891539| An observation of nest opening by a  American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) is reported and discussed in terms of other reports of parental behavior in this and other crocodilian species. 
3892220|Many species of reptiles exhibit complex interrelationships among maternal body size, clutch size, and offspring size. Although female size and clutch size are often positively correlated, the effects of female size and clutch size on offspring size are still poorly understood. In this study, we examined these interrelationships for three species of oviparous snakes (Elaphe guttata, Trimeresurus flavoviridis, and T. okinavensis). Our data showed that increasing female body length was generally associated with higher clutch size and wider eggs. When adjusted for female length, increasing clutch size was negatively correlated with egg length (all species) and egg mass (except in E. guttata). Our data support portions of a model proposed to explain offspring size variation in lizards. Our data also support the prediction of optimal offspring size theory that clutch size and offspring size should be negatively correlated. The failure of many previous studies of reptiles to support this prediction may be the result of not controlling for female size when examining the relationship between clutch size and offspring size.
3891997|Liolaemus kingi (Bell) from the eastern and central lowlands and tablelands of Argentine Patagonia, L. archeforus archeforus Donoso-Barros and Cei from the Lake Buenos Aires area, and L. archeforus sarmientoi Donoso-Barros from southern Santa Cruz province and neighboring Chilean territories, form a natural group, which is analyzed here. Serological relationships of the complex and the geographical distribution of its members are discussed.
3891585|During summer 1974, diurnal activity was observed in the following plethodontid salamanders: Plethodon jordani, Pseudotriton ruber, Eurycea bislineata, Desmognathus fuscus, D. monticola, D. ochrophaeus, D. quadramaculatus, and Aneides aeneus. That these salamanders are available to diurnal avian predators is further reflected by their cryptic or aposematic coloration, and by a daytime observation of Robin predation on P. jordani. Given that these salamanders are available to birds during the day and that birds learn to avoid noxious and aposematic models as well as palatable but similarly colored mimics, the hypothesis of Batesian mimicry of aposematic P. jordani by D. ochrophaeus and Notophthalmus viridescens by Pseudotriton spp. is a logical one.
3892656|Oviductal sperm storage has been demonstrated in Hemidactylus frenatus, a tropical gekkonid lizard that produces clutches of two calcareous-shelled eggs throughout the year on the island of Oahu, Hawaii. Histological examination of females revealed that sperm are stored within an area between the uterine and infundibular regions of the oviduct regardless of the ovarian condition of the female. In order to assess functional oviductal sperm storage, we maintained captive animals at ambient temperatures and natural lighting for 1 yr. Male/female pairs were maintained throughout November and December 1991, and in January 1992, females were individually isolated from males. Eggs were collected from all females and monitored for fertility and viability through November 1992. A range of 3-5 wk separated egg production intervals during March through August 1992. An average of seven viable clutches was produced per isolated female throughout this period, resulting in a sperm storage duration of a minimum of 36 wk. Hatchlings (64% of all fertile eggs) included males, contraindicating parthenogenesis. Females ceased egg production in October 1992, possibly due to cooler temperatures and the inability to thermoregulate beyond the confines of the cages. Oviductal sperm storage is of possible benefit to H. frenatus because of the small clutch size produced and variable egg production intervals.
3892159|Broadcasts of synthetic advertisement and aggressive calls to male spring peepers, Pseudacris crucifer, demonstrated that aggressive call duration is not a static feature. Frogs increased call duration as well as the number and proportion of aggressive calls that they gave in response to increases in stimulus intensity. Increases in the duration of aggressive call stimuli, independent of changes in sound intensity, also elicited elevations in call duration and other measures of aggressive response. Data on calling effort indicate that males may be energetically constrained during bouts of vocal activity, and that aggressive calls are given at the expense of advertisement calls if a male's calling effort is near its upper limit. Use of graded aggressive calls may be a form of honest signalling, enabling males to advertise their own endurance and assess that of potential opponents.
3892702| A new species of Eleutherodactylus is described from the Departamento de Izabal in eastern Guatemala. This species has a broad head (45-50% of snout-vent length SVL), smooth skin, prominent occipital folds, a prominent tympanum, low cranial crests in some large females, the first finger longer than second, fingers bearing small discs (discs on toes III-IV about twice as large as those on fingers III-IV), toes bearing poorly developed lateral keels but lacking toe webbing, and vocal slits and nuptial excrescences are absent. This frog cannot be placed in any species group presently known from Guatemala, and its relationships seem to be with the E. biporcatus group of lower Central America and northern South America. This moderate sized species is sexually dimorphic in body size (males to 21.6 mm, females to 44.1 mm SVL), tympanum size, and ventral body coloration. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Eleutherodactylus del Departamento de Izabal, en el Este de Guatemala. Esta especie se caracteriza por tener una cabeza bastante ancha (45-50% del largo total), piel lisa, pliegues occipitales prominentes, tmpano externo, crestas craneales poco desarrolladas en algunas hembras grandes, el primer dedo de la mano ms largo que el segundo, dedos de la mano con pequeas almohadillas (almohadillas en dedos III y IV de los pies aproximadamente dos veces el largo de acquellas en los dedos III y IV de las manos), dedos de los pies con quillas laterales poco desarrolladas y sin membrana interdigital, y por carecer de hendiduras vocales y excrecencias nupciales. Esta nueva rana no puede ser asignada a ningn grupo previamente conocido de Guatemala, parece estar relacionada al grupo de E. biporcatus del Sur de Centro Amrica y el Norte de Sudamrica. Esta especie de tamao moderado es sexualmente dimrfica en cuanto al tamao corporal (machos hasta 21.6 mm, hembras hasta 44.1 mm SVL), largo del tmpano, y coloracin ventral del cuerpo. 
3891403|The chromosomes of Siren intermedia nettingi (Goin) were studied from preparations of oocyte lampbrush bivalents and from a spermatogonial mitosis at prometaphase. In this salamander, n=23, and 2n=46, with centromeres in median, submedian and subterminal regions of the chromosomes. Among salamanders, karyotype evolution has proceeded with a reduction in the number of chromosomes. The relatively high chromosome number in Siren is similar to the situation in cryptobranchoid karyotypes, but the Siren karyotype differs from those of the more primitive salamanders by the absence of microchromosomes and of chromosomes with terminal region centromeres, so that the chromosome data are not clearly helpful in determining the evolutionary position of the Sirenidae. We have tentatively derived the sirenids from a proto-hynobiid ancestor in a position where the chromosome number fits the phylogenetic scheme.
3892501| This paper presents data on demographic and reproductive characteristics of three very near montane populations of the European common lizard, all situated on the Mont Lozre (France) within a range of 15 km. Densities reach very high levels (400-1000 individuals per hectare) in comparison to other populations of the same species. Average snout-vent length of one population is noticeably greater than in the other two, especially in females (59.0 mm vs. 54.0 and 53.3 mm, respectively, in June 1984). The same population also exhibits a larger average litter size than the other two (7.6 young/female vs. 5.1 and 4.6, respectively), and females produce lighter neonates (168 mg vs. 179 and 181 mg). Important fluctuations in density are observed in one of the populations, with a biased sex ratio of about 2:1 in favor of females in the last one. The available data on physical constraints and trophic resources of the three biotopes suggest that density is mainly limited by the former factors, whereas reproductive tactics seem to be influenced by a more complex set of ecological factors. Among the latter are prey abundance and the degree of saturation of the physical environment, but climatic fluctuations also seem to play an important part through the limitation of the activity of lizards and consequently of the amount of energy they can ingest. 
3891289|Rhinoclemys annulata was studied on Barro Colorado Island in Panama from September to December 1970. Activity patterns and feeding habits in the wild and in captivity are discussed. Sizes and weights of 12 specimens from Panama are given.
3891452|Several assemblages of amphibians and reptiles from the lower part of the Valentine Formation of north-central Nebraska, USA are considered as a single herpetofauna representing several temporally equivalent habitats in a restricted geographic area. Upland taxa are more numerous than aquatic and semiaquatic taxa, but there are twice as many lowland individuals, probably reflecting their greater proximity to the sites of deposition. Extinct genera are much more numerous in the upland than in the lowland component of the fauna, possibly reflecting the more dramatic vegetational shifts that occurred in the upland habitats. Several forms indicate a very mild climate with few, if any, winter frosts. Many forms have their living relatives with the center of their distribution either in eastern or in western North America, possibly reflecting a less pronounced zonation of rainfall in North America than at present. An upper Miocene age is suggested for the herpetofauna on the basis of several archaic genera that do not occur in any known lower Pliocene faunas.
3891850| A clutch of Caretta caretta eggs was divided into subgroups and incubated at constant temperatures ranging from 22-36C in 2 steps. Hatching occurred at 26-34C. At 30C both males and females developed. Above 30C only females resulted; below 30C only males resulted. At hatching the gonads were differentiated as ovaries with a conspicuous germinal epithelium, or as testes with well developed primary sex cords. The oviducts in males were not resorbed at hatching. 
3892341|The square vent lobes of Rhyacotriton olympicus are the external manifestation of subdermal vent glands, which, instead of secreting into the cloacal orifice as in other species, secrete at the posterior tips of the vent lobes. Aside from the vent gland autapomorphy, male cloacal anatomy of R. olympicus is similar to that of Dicamptodon, Ambystoma, and members of the Plethodontidae. Rhyacotriton olympicus, however, shares with Dicamptodon and Ambystoma some cloacal characters that are different in the Plethodontidae. Pheromones may be released from the vent gland during "tail curling".
3891742|An examination of available material reveals that two distinct assemblages exist in snakes previously referred to as Atractus elaps. On the basis of lower sums of ventrals plus caudals, shorter tails, fewer maxillary teeth, a distinct temporal condition, and dorsal pattern, Rhabdsoma poeppigi is removed from the synonymy of A. elaps and accorded full specific status. Variational trends in A. elaps indicate that the population in the Macas Valley, Ecuador, diverges from adjacent populations in having significantly lower sums of ventrals plus caudals. The Macas Valley population may be considered as a distinct race pending further investigation.
3891574|Montane neotenic Ambystoma tigrinum had lower critical thermal maxima (CTM) than desert neotenic A. tigrinum. In all other life history stages studied there were no differences in CTM between montane and desert populations. Comparison of life history stages in a desert population showed that larvae and neotenic adults had higher CTM than transformed animals or animals in the process of transforming. The CTM differences in life history stages reflects the potential thermal stresses to which these stages may be subject.
3893170|One component of the courtship display of males in the lizard genus Anolis is the extension and retraction of a large and often colorful throat fan (the dewlap). However, the relative importance of displaying the dewlap during courtship in terms of male mating success is controversial. For this reason, I tested the hypothesis that the display of the male's dewlap during courtship affects male mating success in the lizard Anolis sagrei. The hypothesis was tested in the laboratory by comparing the mating success of experimental males that were surgically prevented from extending their dewlaps to control males that were not prevented from extending their dewlaps. Males in the two treatment groups were housed in individual cages for one week before being used in mating tests. One day prior to the mating tests, I visually exposed a male from each treatment group to the female that it would be paired with during the mating test. On the day of the mating test, each male was removed from its cage and placed into the cage housing the female that it had been able to view. The behavior of the paired males and females was videotaped for two hours. The results did not support the hypothesis. Experimental males did not differ significantly from control males in number of copulations. Moreover, experimental and control males did not differ significantly in the latency period to copulation, copulation duration, or in the sexual receptivity of their female partners. These results provide no evidence that dewlap extension during courtship affects male mating success in Anolis sagrei, at least when males and females are in relatively close physical proximity to each other.
3890664|An analysis of 15 characters, including those used as diagnostic subspecific characters by the last revisor, was undertaken to discern patterns of geographic variation and taxonomy within upper Ohio River valley Eurycea bislineata. Twenty-three localities were analyzed, and all but 3 contained at least 15 specimens collected on one day from one deme. Specimens were uniformly preserved. Most demes were in roughly equivalent reproductive condition. Sexual dimorphism of characters was nonsignificant. Using a simultaneous testing procedure, east-west variation occurred only in coastal grooves and in the tail stripe length/tail length ratio. Covariation of these characters was discordant in northeastern Ohio, central Ohio, and northern West Virginia. It is recommended that E. b. rivicola be placed in the synonymy of E. b. bislineata.
3893343|Both male and female Aneides lugubris possess modified granular glands posterior to the cloaca. These glands are morphologically and histochemically similar to courtship glands that are found only in sexually mature males of other plethodontid species. Gland size is sexually dimorphic; glands are significantly larger in males than in females. Although these glands stain similarly to courtship glands, their function in A. lugubris is presently not known.
3893273|We describe a new species, Amolops tuberodepressus, from the mountainous regions of Jingdong County, Yunnan Province, China. This species differs from all other congeners in a combination of both karyological and morphological characteristics. Morphologically, the new species resembles A. mantzorum, A. kangtingensis, A. jinjiangensis, and A. liangshanensis occurring in southern Sichuan and northern Yunnan and may easily be confused with those species. However, Amolops tuberodepressus differs from those species by the presence of a distinct tympanum, flatter supratympanic fold, flatter tubercles on the flanks, and absence of a dorsolateral fold. Karyological evidence also strongly supports the distinctness of the new species. A consideration of one karyological character demonstrates that species of Amolops in southwestern China all share secondary constrictions on chromosome pair six. In view of the morphological similarity among species of Amolops in southwestern China, these species may have only recently diverged from a common ancestral species.
3892160|Data on clutch size for green turtles, Chelonia mydas, nesting at Tortuguero, Costa Rica, for a period spanning over 30 yr, and data on egg size from one nesting season are analyzed to determine sources of variation in clutch parameters. Mean clutch size is 112.2 (SD = 24.2, n = 2544) with a range from 3-219 eggs. Female body size is significantly correlated with clutch size but accounts for only a small proportion of the variation in clutch size. At the population level, clutch size increases significantly throughout a nesting season, but at the individual level, the increase in clutch size is not significant. Annual variation in mean clutch size was significant only between the years with the highest and lowest mean values. Clutch size increases significantly with age of the female; increase in body size with age is not significant. Number of days between clutches within a nesting season, number of years between nesting seasons, and egg size are not significantly related to clutch size. Egg size, which is significantly correlated with female body size, is less variable than clutch size. Apparently clutch size is not under strong environmental control.
3891072|Information on multiple laying, the internesting interval, and the relationship of these behavioral patterns to egg production and clutch size in the loggerhead turtles, Caretta caretta caretta (Linne), occurring off the southwest Florida coast is discussed for the first time. Data reveal that this population is similar in reproductive behavior to Atlantic Coast Caretta; however, slight differences have been detected.
40931022|We describe the gonadal and fat-body cycles and their relationship to environmental factors for Cuban female Anolis lucius (Polychrotidae). We obtained monthly samples of lizards from the karstic caves at Boca de Jaruco, Havana, Cuba. The lizards reached sexual maturity at 45.0 mm snout-vent length and at approximately 7 mo of age. Female A. lucius showed seasonal reproduction from March to August. The nonreproductive season occurred from September to February, as identified by the absence of active ovognesis. Vitellogenic ovaries, and almost all females having one or two oviductal eggs, characterized the peak reproductive interval from May to August. In contrast, fat-body mass diminished from May to July and reached its highest values from September to January. The clutch size is one egg per oviposition, and oviposition events occurred from July to September. Increased photoperiod and environmental temperature induced ovarian activity. Los ciclos gonadal y de los cuerpos grasos, y su relacin con factores ambientales son descritos para las hembras del lagarto cubano Anolis lucius (Polychrotidae). Mensualmente algunos lagartos fueron capturados en las cuevas crsicas de Boca de Jaruco, La Habana, Cuba. La madurez sexual fue alcanzada con 45 mm de longitud hocico-cloaca y aproximadamente a los 7 meses. El ciclo reproductivo es estacional y la reproduccin ocurri desde marzo a agosto. La estacin no reproductiva identificada por ausencia de actividad gonadal, ocurri desde septiembre a febrero. La mxima actividad reproductiva fue observada desde mayo a julio, todas las hembras presentaron ovarios vitelognicos y en su mayora uno o dos huevos oviducales. En contraste, los cuerpos grasos disminuyeron desde mayo a julio y alcanzaron sus mximos valores desde septiembre a enero. Las puestas son de un huevo por cada vez desde el mes de julio a septiembre. Incrementos del fotoperodo y de la temperatura ambiental indujeron la actividad ovlica.
4497928|To understand habitat use of juvenile Florida box turtles, Terrapene carolina bauri, I combined data gathered from periodic direct observation as well as from continually monitored individuals on Egmont Key, Florida. Habitat use of juveniles differed from that of adults, but this population did not demonstrate total habitat partitioning among size classes. Juveniles were found most commonly within a single habitat type, Palm Pepper Forest, and did not display the flexibility in habitat use seen in conspecific adults. Microhabitats with dense cover, particularly Brazilian pepper (Schinus terebinthifolius), were used preferentially by juveniles in this population. Juvenile turtles were found most frequently in areas with leaf litter and moist soil substrates. Florida box turtles are of conservation concern, and habitat requirements of juveniles should be considered in management decisions.
3891671|A nest containing 118 Coluber constrictor eggs and shells was under large rocks in a construction site. This and certain other known cases of communal nesting may be due to severe local limitation of suitable sites for egg-laying as well as to strong social affinity of some species.
3891847|New methods are described for taking blood and cerebrospinal fluid from marine turtles. The blood is obtained via the paired dorsal cervical sinuses while the cerebrospinal fluid sampling procedure requires the insertion of a needle through the foramen magnum into the brain's 4th ventricle. Both methods have been extensively employed by the authors and have been found to cause little stress or damage to the animals.
3890663|Alterations in oxygen consumption in Bufo boreas boreas were determined as they proceeded through spontaneous metamorphosis and correlated with changes in body weight and thyroid gland activity. Oxygen consumption varied inversely with increases in body size until late premetamorphosis. A sharp increase in oxygen uptake occurred prior to metamorphic climax. The rate of oxygen consumption declined with the onset of metamorphic climax and fluctuated when the tadpoles transformed. Maximum thyroid activity (indicated by height of thyroid epithelial cells) occurred near the end of prometamorphosis and decreased through metamorphic climax. An increase in thyroid height preceded the sharp increase in metabolism.
3891680|The chromosome complement of Australian specimens of the gecko Hemidactylus frenatus is reported. It includes 2n = 40 chromosomes differing in both number and morphology from Formosan specimens previously karyotyped.
3891572|The beach ascent tracks of nesting female Dermochelys coriacea were studied during the 1971 and 1972 nesting seasons on Matura Beach, Trinidad. Three patterns of ascent track were recorded-short tracks, tracks over 10 m long and tracks with orientation circles. Short tracks were more common on steep, unobstructed beach slopes, with a dark background and under constant light conditions and long tracks were more common on flat beaches. Orientation circling occurred mainly on cloudy, moonlight nights. It is suggested that changing illumination during the crawl may disorientate the turtle and lead to circling behavior. The disturbance of visual cues by changing illumination is discussed.
3891422|A growth study of hatchling Elaphe obsoleta quadrivittata showed a decrease in the rate of length increase and no change in the rate of increase in weight with accumulated food consumption.
3893209|The four-toed salamander, Hemidactylium scutatum, has markedly different tail length to body length ratios in its larval and adult stages. This ratio is always one or less than one in the larval stage. The ratio is 1.3 in the adult, and the longer tail may be related to antipredatory, fat storage, courtship, and locomotory functions. To generate variation in size and shape at metamorphosis, we manipulated larval density in artificial ponds and food levels in a laboratory experiment. Relative tail length was stage-dependent regardless of these environmental manipulations. In addition, size at metamorphosis and length of larval period displayed little variation. Length of larval period was much shorter than that reported for other plethodontids with an aquatic larval period. A negative ontogenetic allometry, based on repeated measurements of the same individuals, between tail length and body length was observed in the larval stage; the juvenile stage had a positive static allometry. There was no phenotypic correlation between relative tail length across metamorphosis, suggesting a decoupling of tail size: body size allometry between stages. Metamorphosis is the stage where negatively allometric tail growth changes to a positively allometric tail growth seen in the juvenile stage that leads to the attainment of the observed caudal morphology of the adult.
3891477|Growth of larval dwarf salamanders, Eurycea quadridigitata, is described for two populations on the upper Coastal Plain of South Carolina. The smallest larvae were collected in early February and were 6.4-6.8 mm in snout-vent length (SVL). After a 5-6.5 month larval period, larvae transformed at a SVL range of 20.7-25.6 mm. Larvae from Flamingo Bay transformed at significantly larger SVLs and appeared to mature earlier than those at Karen's Pond. The sex ratio did not differ from 1:1 and sexual dimorphism in SVL was not evident in newly transformed larvae. Maturity is presumably attained 8-9 months after hatching in September or October.
3891792|Gravid females of four sympatric species of African reed frogs (Hyperolius) were tested in two-choice call discrimination trials. Results from 232 trials using 47 females showed that females responded exclusively to conspecific mating calls, and were able to accurately locate the source of the signal. We conclude that a co-adapted signal-response system forms the basis for conspecific mate recognition in each of the four species of Hyperolius examined.
3892183|Chromosomes from 12 species of treefrogs were treated with trypsin and stained with Giemsa stain (G-banded). Banded karyotypes were compared within and between species. Based on this analysis, three species groups were discerned: the Pseudacris triseriata group, consisting of P. t. feriarum, P. brimleyi, P. ornata and H. crucifer; the Hyla gratiosa group, consisting of H. gratiosa, H. squirella, H. cinerea; and the Hyla chrysoscelis group, consisting of H. andersoni, H. chrysoscelis (two chromosome morphs), H. versicolor, H. avivoca and H. femoralis. These groupings generally agree with groupings from morphological, osteological, electrophoretic, immunological and hybridization studies. Chromosome inversions and translocations have played a role in chromosome evolution of the species examined. Populations of H. chrysoscelis have probably been involved in the origin of the tetraploid species H. versicolor. Two chromosome polymorphisms were discovered in the populations of H. chrysoscelis studied.
3892815|Two geographically distinct venoms (venom A and venom B) are produced by the Mojave rattlesnake (Crotalus scutulatus scutulatus) in Arizona. The purpose of this investigation was to define further the distribution and genetic divergence between the two venom populations. Seventy-one specimens were collected from central Arizona for immunological and biochemical venom assays and allozyme electrophoretic assays of divergence. Venom assays indicate that snakes of venom B type are restricted to central Arizona, occupying the region from east and northeast of Phoenix, south to near Tucson. Snakes of venom B type overlap with those of venom A type to the north, west, and south of this region, and they intergrade with snakes of venom A type to produce a third venom type (A + B). The results of starch gel electrophoresis of 55 different tissue enzymes indicate high gene flow between the two venom types with a low genetic divergence (Nei's D = 0.003), indicating that the two venom types are conspecific. Environmental and ecological isolating mechanisms that could have been responsible for the origin and distribution of these venom populations are discussed.
3892217|The validity of an agamid species Japalura brevipes Gressitt, previously synonymized with J. swinhonis swinhonis, is confirmed by morphological and karyological evidences. Morphological variation in this species is quantified and the definition revised on the basis of the types and recently collected specimens.
3893318|I tested assortative mating by size (i.e., the positive correlation between the size of mates, sensu Wright, 1921) and the temporal pattern of female matings in relation to male reproductive success in a population of common chameleon, Chamaeleo chamaeleon. I recorded mating data of 27 females (31 copulations) and 33 males (21 copulations) by using radio-telemetry techniques during three summers in a locality of southern Spain. Most females mated with a single partner each year, though multiple matings were also recorded. Data of mating pairs do not support assortative mating by size, because the correlation between the size of mates was not significant (n = 31). At most, a negative correlation was recorded when first mating per female or data from 1993 were selected. Also, larger females mated significantly earlier than smaller ones. Data for radio-tagged males showed a polygynous, serial-type mating system where one male bonded with several females during the breeding season, but only one at a time. Thus, few males monopolized most copulations recorded, successful males were consistently bigger that unsuccessful ones, and the order of mating by males that mated with more than one female followed a decreased female size rank order. The lack of assortative mating by size in this chameleon was due to mating asynchrony among individual females which allows more competitive (large) males to mate with large (early reproducing) females and small (late reproducing) ones. Under such circumstance, assortative mating by size is unlikely.
3892882|Because urodele amphibians tend to breed in relatively inaccessible habitats, little is known about the sexual strategies of natural populations. This review attempts to integrate knowledge of urodele sexual strategies based on field and laboratory studies of population dynamics, competition between males for females, mate choice, parental care, and physiological constraints on reproduction. Data are considered in the context of current theories in the behavioral ecology of sexual strategies. The duration of the breeding period is an important determinant of the sexual strategy of a population, exerting its major influence through the operational sex ratio. When breeding periods are short, males aggregate and scramble for matings by interfering with one another's attempts to inseminate females. In some species, these aggregations resemble leks. With prolonged breeding periods, males are more likely to defend exclusive areas to which females are attracted for mating. Opportunities for mate choice probably are greatest when breeding periods are long. Parental care, especially when provided by males, may select for mate choice by both sexes. These conclusions must be treated as provisional as they are based on data of limited quality and quantity.
3893315|We examined growth patterns of gopher tortoises in slash pine plantations using recapture data from a five-year period. Growth data were fitted to the von Bertalanffy and logistic asymptotic growth models. The von Bertalanffy model provided the best fit to the recapture data. Gopher tortoises grew more slowly than they did in any other published study and were estimated to require at least 20 years to attain sexual maturity. Intensive soil disturbance associated with site preparation and conversion to pine plantations in the 1970's destroyed much of the native ground cover. Therefore, slow growth, which resulted in delayed maturity, was attributed to poor forage quality of sparse ground cover vegetation, especially legume and nonlegume forbs. Our study provides evidence that anthropogenic activities associated with historic widespread conversion of longleaf pine habitats to pine plantations may continue to impact current gopher tortoise populations.
3892094|A population study of marked Dipsosaurus dorsalis was conducted at Thousand Palms, California. Growth of hatchlings and some yearlings occurred at a mean rate of over 22 mm/yr in snout-vent length. Growth during high rainfall years was twice that during low rainfall years. Reproductive size was attained by 82% of the 1979 cohort at 31-33 mo of age. Recapture data showed that D. dorsalis remain close to their hatching sites, suggesting little or no emigration or immigration. Survivorship was high in all age classes. Average annual survivorship was 73% for hatchlings, 43% for yearlings, 46% for two year olds, and 60% for adults. There were no significant differences in annual survivorship of subadult and adult desert iguanas. Mean annual survivorship of adult males (57%) and females (66%) also was not significantly different. Two D. dorsalis in this study lived at least 7.5 yr. Spring density estimates (excluding hatchlings) were 332/ha and 425/ha. Life history traits of this population of D. dorsalis appear to fit most closely those for organisms termed K-selected and constitute a reproductive strategy best characterized as late-maturing, single brooded.
3892259|Basking behavior was studied in a northern population of painted turtles, Chrysemys picta. Total radiation, air and water temperatures were obtained and related to hourly basking frequency patterns to determine environmental cues used for basking. Peak basking frequencies occurred in the morning and were associated with operative environmental temperatures (Te; an index of the thermal environment) close to selected body temperature for painted turtles (21.4 C). Observed basking patterns suggested that turtles in the present study used available air and water temperatures to maintain high body temperature over an entire day. Two patterns of hourly basking frequency, bimodal and unimodal, were observed. On days when bimodal basking patterns occurred, fewer turtles basked per hour, the first basking peak occurred earlier, and air and water temperatures were warmer than when unimodal basking patterns were observed.
3893488| A new species of hylid frog is described from the Sierra de Omoa of northwestern Honduras. The new species differs from all other small (<26 mm SVL) Nuclear Middle American hylids in having 7-10 large black spines on the thumb in males and the bones visible through the translucent skin of the posterior part of the dorsum in life. /// Se describe una nueva especie de rana de la familia Hylidae encontrada en la Sierra de Omoa en el noroeste de Honduras. La nueva especie se diferencia de todas las dems ranas pequeas (<26 mm LHC) de la familia Hylidae en Amrica Nuclear, porque tiene 7-10 grandes espinas negras en el pulgar de los machos y los huesos se pueden ver a travs de la piel que es transparente en la parte baja del dorso. 
3891628| The methanearsonate herbicide (ANSAR 529 HC) was significantly more toxic to juvenile Scaphiopus couchi than to adults. Eighty-six percent of a group of juvenile toads was killed by a concentration equivalent to one eighth the solution recommended for agricultural spraying. 
3892443|The dorsal scale microdermatoglyphic patterns of 30 species of rattlesnakes (Crotalus and Sistrurus) are investigated. A cladistic analysis of the patterns suggests that all species, except the plesiomorphic C. lannomi, C. stejnegeri, and C. willardi, form two monophyletic groups. One group consists of [(C. cerastes + C. mitchellii) + C. pricei] + S. miliarius. The other monophyletic group includes C. durissus, C. unicolor, C. vegrandis, C. enyo, and C. horridus. The present data indicate that a cladistic analysis of previously used characters may lead to a revision of the traditional view of rattlesnake phylogeny.
3892201| A new species, Phyllomedusa atelopoides, from the upper Amazon Basin of southern Peru is unique in being terrestrial, rather than arboreal as is typical of other members of the genus. Terrestrial adaptations include short limbs and digits, well-developed subarticular tubercles, and brown coloration. /// Una especie nueva, Phyllomedusa atelopoides, de la cuenca superior del Amazonas en el sur del Per, se caracteriza por ser terrestre opuesta a los hbitos arbreos de los otros miembros del gnero. Adaptaciones terrestres incluyen miembros y dedos cortos, tubrculos subarticulares bien desarrollados, y coloracin castaa. 
3892197|Five male and five female pine snakes (Pituophis melanoleucus) were fitted with radio transmitters for 1 yr in the New Jersey Pine Barrens. Habitat selection by radio-tracked snakes was compared with that of 51 hand-captured snakes located by searching the same study area in the previous 8 yr. Habitat selection of radio-tracked snakes (but not activity patterns) differed from that of the hand-captured snakes, and from that of points distributed randomly in the available habitat. Radio-tracked pine snakes selected pine-oak forests and spent equal time in undisturbed and disturbed habitats. Non-radio-tracked snakes were found over 90% of the time in disturbed habitats. Snakes were found in dense vegetation that provided shade and moist, cool ground cover. Snakes were inactive 41% of the time, basked 36% of the time, moved 20% of the time, and nested 3% of the time.
25209089|We describe a new species of Liolaemus from the alticolor group that was previously confused with L. alticolor. Populations of this new taxon are distributed in the area of Cuzco and Sicuani, in southeastern Per (Peruvian province of Cuzco). This new species is disjunct with respect to other members of the alticolor group. We analyzed 82 characters of external morphology, including external squamation, neck folds, precloacal pores, and dorsal and ventral patterns. These characters were compared between the new taxon and 17 morphologically similar species belonging to the more-inclusive chiliensis group. The new species is characterized by a unique combination of throat color pattern, smooth dorsal head scales, and well developed neck folds. This evidence, together with its geographic isolation, supports this taxon as a new species of Liolaemus. /// Describimos una nueva especie de Liolaemus del grupo alticolor, previamente confundida con L. alticolor. Las poblaciones de este nuevo taxn estn distribuidas en el rea de Cuzco y Sicuani en el sureste de Per (en la provincia peruana de Cuzco). Esta nueva especie es disyunta respecto de los restantes miembros del grupo alticolor. Analizamos 82 caracteres de morfologa externa incluyendo escamacin, pliegues del cuello, poros precloacales, y otros caracteres tomados de patrones dorsales y ventrales. Estos caracteres fueron comparados entre el nuevo taxn y otras 17 especies morfolgicamente similares pertenecientes al ms inclusivo grupo chiliensis. La nueva especie est caracterizada por una combinacin nica del patrn de coloracin de la garganta, escamas dorsales de la cabeza lisas, y pliegues en el cuello bien desarrollados. Esta evidencia, sumada a su aislamiento geogrfico, permiten definir este taxn como una nueva especie del gnero Liolaemus.
3893043|We studied seasonal and nightly variation in the trunk-muscle and liver glycogen reserves of calling male gray treefrogs (Hyla versicolor) during three breeding seasons in Connecticut. The objectives of the study were to (1) determine whether glycogen reserves decline throughout the course of the breeding season, (2) measure the rate of glycogen depletion in calling males on individual nights and use this to estimate the relative importance of glycogen and lipid reserves for call production, and (3) determine whether the length of calls given by males affects the rate of glycogen depletion. Glycogen reserves measured early in the evening declined during the 1988 breeding season, a dry year when feeding may have been difficult, but not in 1991, a wetter year when most males were able to feed. Trunk-muscle glycogen reserves declined by 50-60% after two hours of calling. Glycogen reserves supply only about 25% of the energy needed for an evening of call production, with the remainder presumably coming from much larger lipid reserves in the trunk muscles themselves. The rate of glycogen depletion was not affected by call duration.
3892146|Taxonomic relationships and genetic variability within the genus of Palaearctic newts, Triturus, were studied using starch-gel protein electrophoresis. Large differences in the amount of genetic variation were found, ranging from
3892439|Temperatures of natural nests of green turtles, Chelonia mydas, determined the sex of hatchlings at Tortuguero, Costa Rica. The beach could be divided into three distinct thermal zones: Zone 1-Low Beach, above high water mark up to sparse vegetation; Zone 2-Mid-Beach, area of sparsely vegetated sand up to dense jungle vegetation; Zone 3-High Beach, area of dense vegetation. At depths of 30 and 50 cm, sand temperatures in the High Beach were significantly lower than those in the Low Beach and Mid-Beach. Temperatures <28.5 C produced males and temperatures >30.3 C produced primarily females. Nests in the Low and Mid-Beach produced 72.0% and 87.0% female hatchlings while nests in the High Beach produced significantly fewer (7.4%) females. There were no seasonal trends in soil temperatures or sex ratios of hatchlings. The primary sex ratio computed for the entire beach for the 1977 nesting season was 67:33 female: male.
3891668| The monotypic anguid genera Placosauroides and Placosauriops, obtained from Middle Eocene Geiseltal lignite deposits in the German Democratic Republic, are structurally very similar to the North American Eocene glyptosaurine genus Xestops and are here placed in its synonymy. Placosauroides and Placosauriops differ from one another and from the North American species Xestops vagans in frontal morphology, size, and body scutellation, and are retained in the species Xestops abderhaldeni and Xestops weigelti, respectively. Three other Geiseltal glyptosaurines have been named: Placosaurus waltheri is a nomen dubium; the specimen of Placotherium waltheri is distinctive but cannot be compared with other known forms; and ?Glyptosaurus hillsi probably is referable to Necrosaurus sp. The Late Eocene species Paraxestops stehlini from Switzerland is also placed in the synonymy of Xestops. Synonymy of these 3 European glyptosaurine genera with Xestops strengthens generic similarity of Eocene North American and European lizards. /// Zwei monotypische Anguiden-Gattungen, Placosauroides und Placosauriops aus dem Mittleren Eozn der Braunkohle des Geiseltals der Deutschen Demokratischen Republik, gleichen strukturell sehr der nordamerikanischen Glyptosaurinen-Gattung Xestops und werden als Synonyme derselben zugeordnet. Placosauroides und Placosauriops unterscheiden sich untereinander sowie von der nordamerikanischen Art Xestops vagans in der Frontalmorphologie, der Grosse und der Krperbeschuppung. Entsprechend werden die Arten Xestops abderhaldeni und Xestops weigelti ausgehalten. Drei anderen Geiseltal Glyptosaurinen haben gennant geworden: Placosaurus waltheri ist ein Nomen Dubium; das Exemplar von Placotherium waltheri grnden sich auf Material, das mit anderen beschriebten Formen nicht vergleichbar ist; und ?Glyptosaurus hillsi ist wahrscheinlich an Necrosaurus sp. zugeschrieben. Die Obereozne Art Paraxestops stehlini aus der Schweiz wird ebenso zu Xestops gestellt. Die Synonymitt der drei europischen Glyptosaurinen-Gattungen mit Xestops belegt die generische bereinstimmung von Eidechsen im Eozn Nordamerikas und Europas. 
3891698| Thermal responses of the striped racer, Masticophis lateralis, were studied by radio telemetry in an outdoor enclosure. The pattern of thermoregulatory behavior was similar to that of various heliothermic lizards. Mean body temperature ( T
23254562|I rediagnose the microhylid frog Callulops robustus (Boulenger) based on examination of the type series and recently collected topotypic material. The species is distinguished by its large size, narrowly expanded finger and toe discs lacking or with poorly developed circum-marginal grooves, pustulose dorsal skin, long snout, unpatterned orange-brown or reddish-brown dorsal coloration, and uniformly brown ventral coloration. The species is almost certainly restricted to the type locality, Misima Island, at the easternmost extremity of the geographic range of Callulops. Based on examination of the holotype and recently collected material from the general area of the type locality, I then rediagnose Mantophryne microtis Werner and remove it from synonymy with C. robustus. It is readily distinguished from the latter species by its somewhat smaller body size, well-developed circum-marginal grooves on at least some of the fingers and toes, short snout, and color pattern of tiny white flecks on a dark gray or black ground color. This species is currently known from mountain ranges on the northeastern coast of New Guinea, but it may prove to occur in similar North Coast ranges farther to the west. I also discuss the taxonomic status of Pomatops valvifera Barbour and Liophryne kampeni Boulenger, currently placed in synonymy with C. robustus. Both species are clearly not referable to C. robustus, but each is known only from single, faded specimens, and compelling rediagnosis of each awaits collection of fresh topotypic material.
3893150|We describe a new gekkonid species, Lepidodactylus vanuatuensis, from Vanuatu, Melanesia. This species most closely resembles L. guppyi and L. gardineri, and belongs to Brown and Parker's (1977) Group II based on having entire terminal scansors on all digits and two or three divided or deeply notched subterminal scansors on digits II-V. However, it differs from these species in having the following combination of character states: only 99-114 scales around the midbody, relatively weak dilation of digits, and slight to moderate webbing of toes III and IV. The new species also differs from L. guppyi in mtDNA nucleotide sequences of cytochrome-b gene. A dichotomous key is provided for the Group II species from the Pacific.
3892193|Defensive behavior of the Galapagos tortoise (Geochelone elephantopus) was studied at Volcan Alcedo, Isabela Island, Galapagos Islands, Ecuador. The tortoises exhibited a variety of distinctive behavioral responses during and following the approach of an investigator. Withdrawal distances and subsequent protrusion latencies were not appreciably affected by body size or age. Because Galapagos tortoises have retained a defensive behavioral repertoire similar to that described in turtles from continental areas, we reject the hypothesis that the loss, reduction, or modification of antipredator strategies in island tortoises contributed to the development of gigantism. Rather, insular gigantism probably evolved from factors related to ecological conditions.
3892784|Environmental factors that influence geographic variation in life history have both direct and indirect effects on time-energy budgets of individuals. The exact relationships between environmental factors and time-energy budgets of snakes remain relatively unexplored. I studied two populations (Boquillas: area B, and Grapevine Hills: area G) of the mottled rock rattlesnake (Crotalus lepidus) in Big Bend National Park, Texas. Area B is hotter, drier, and less productive than area G. I used mark-recapture and radio telemetry to study age specific size, reproduction, surface use, movements, diet, and body temperatures of snakes from these sites. Adult snakes from area B had smaller age specific body masses and snout-vent lengths, lower frequency of surface use, higher average body temperature, and lower probability of defecation than snakes from area G. These observations suggest that resources for growth may be limited to a greater extent at area B. High environmental temperatures at area B may limit foraging time (therefore energy harvesting) and increase body temperatures (which influence maintenance metabolism) to a greater degree than at area G. Ongoing tests of these hypotheses may clarify relationships between environmental factors, time-energy budgets, and life history traits of snakes in these populations.
3892282| A third case of envenomation by Heterodon nasicus is reported. Symptoms included swelling of the bitten finger (to 1.3 its normal circumference) and adjacent hand, and slight, continuous bleeding from maxillary tooth punctures. These symptoms differed from those of other cases, and explanations for these differences are offered. 
3893195| I describe a new species of salamander of the genus Nototriton from Cerro Saslaya, eastern Nicaragua. It differs from all other species of the genus Nototriton by unique characteristics of coloration, morphometrics, and osteology. /// Una nueva especie de salamandra del gnero Nototriton es descrita como proveniente de Cerro Saslaya, al este de Nicaragua. Se diferencia de todas las otras especies del gnero Nototriton por caractersticas nicas de coloracin, morfometra y osteologa. 
3891511| Larvae of the frogs Hylorina sylvatica and Eupsophus vittatus (Leptodactylidae) and of the toad Bufo rubropunctatus (Bufonidae) are described. Ecological observations on the tadpoles and adults of the three species are presented. /// Se describen las larvas de las ranas Hyorlina sylvatica y Eupsophus vittatus (Leptodactylidae) y del sapo Bufo rubropunctatus (Bufonidae). Se agregan notas ecolgicas de larvas y adultos de estas especies. 
3891485|The social behavior and communication of Colostethus trinitatis were studied for 1.5 months at Simla, in the Northern Range of Trinidad. Females were territorial and defended sites with visual displays and aggressive behavior against all intruders. Most females remained at the same sites throughout the study. Males were more mobile and seldom remained in one place for more than a few days. Males turned black when calling and were aggressive only toward other black males. Non-calling males were light brown. Males gave an advertisement call and at least two courtship calls, but lacked agonistic encounter calls. Males carried tadpoles from terrestrial oviposition sites to water. The behavior of C. trinitatis appears to be similar to that of C. collaris and C. palmatus, but differs substantially from that of the Panamanian C. inguinalis.
3893210| Cochranella armata is named from cloud forests in the Srrania de los Paraguas in the Cordillera Occidental of western Colombia. Males have patches of cornified nuptial spines on the thumb, and the species appears allied to C. balionota and C. griffithsi. Prepollical spines seem to be universal in the family and are concealed in all but one species (Cochranella spinosa). Type-I nuptial pads occur in most species of Centrolene (80%) and Cochranella (70%) and are less common in species of Hyalinobatrachium. Type-II nuptial pads occur in four species of Centrolene, but they may be only rudimentary versions of Type-I pads. Rudimentary nuptial pads occur in at least four species of Hyalinobatrachium. No nuptial pads are known in six species of Cochranella. /// Se nomina Cochranella armata de bosques nublados de la Srrania de Los Paraguas en la Cordillera Occidental de Colombia. Los machos tienen almohadillas nupciales de espinas cornificadas en los pulgares, y la especie parece tener parentescos con C. balionota y C. griffithsi. Espinas prepolices parecen uniforme dentro la familia pero son escondidas en todos menos una especie. Se encuentra almohadillas de Tipo I en la mayoria de especies de Centrolene (80%) y Cochranella (70%), pero en pocas especies de Hyalinobatrachium. Se encuentra almohadillas de Tipo II en solamente cuarto especies de Centrolene, pero este tipo puede ser solamente una versin reducida de Tipo I. Se encuentra almohadillas reducidas en por lo menos cuarto especies de Hyalinobatrachium. Seis especies de Cochranella carecen almohadillas nupciales. 
3891985| The displays of a  Phenacosaurus heterodermus (Sauria: Iguanidae) were recorded under social contexts of assertion, challenge, and courtship. Cinematographic analysis verified three very stereotyped display patterns, one more than the modal number reported for the display repertoires of non-anoline iguanid lizards. Anolis contains species which have expanded display repertoires, and the phenacosaurs appear to represent an early divergence from the Alpha Section of Anolis. Therefore, the three display types of P. heterodermus suggest that the phenomenon of expanded display repertoires was an early development in the behaviorial evolution of anoles. A method for quantifying head movement amplitude is presented. 
3891631| Two lizard communities, each consisting of seven residents plus several transient or immigrant species, were studied between 1970 and 1975 on a Chihuahuan desert watershed. Lizard species diversity was correlated with the previous 2 yr rainfall. H varied between 1.28 and 1.91. The change in diversity in these lizard communities resulted from the influx of transient species and increase in numbers of resident species during a 2-yr wet period and the reverse during drought periods. The influx of transients and immigrants appeared to be related to the expansion of suitable habitat and the proximity to a source area for immigrants. The density of adult Cnemidophorus tigris nearly doubled in 1 yr which was attributed to above average overwinter survival of hatchlings. Seasonal activity periods of adults and hatchlings were longer during dry years than wet years. During wet years adults and juveniles of most species exhibited allochronic activity. Densities of most resident species varied directly with changes in productivity and relative abundance and activity of arthropods. Sceloporus magister numbers remained relatively constant over the 5 yr and this appeared to be related to availability of suitable habitat. 
24634277|Natural-history studies represent the observational stage of the scientific method, and the single greatest discovery in biological sciences, evolution by natural selection, was based largely on a vast amount of natural-history information collected by Charles Darwin. I briefly review natural-history observations that I have made during my career that led to discoveries in life-history theory, placentation in New World Mabuya that rivals that of eutherian mammals, social behavior in the North American clade of five-lined skinks, and the relationship of ecological traits of lizards globally to their evolutionary history (phylogeny). Gifted collaborators provided the intellectual interplay that led to these discoveries, and they certainly deserve as much credit as I do. I briefly comment on what I consider to be frontiers in herpetology that involve combining phylogenetic hypotheses with natural-history data. In a final comment, I encourage those among us who are able to spend extended time periods in the field to collect as much natural-history data as possible, because these data describe reality, and, as theories and phylogenies evolve, the kinds of basic data that led to Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection can be applied again and again.
3893458| A new species of Pseudoeurycea is described from cloud forests of the Sierra Madre Oriental of Puebla, Mxico. The new species is distinguished from all other Pseudoeurycea by its small size, stout body, short tail, large nostrils, presence of characteristic glandular convergent ridges on the pelvic region and the tail, and by its distinctive limb structure, with very small hands and feet that are extensively webbed and bear prominent but short and pointy middle digits. The only apparent close relative of this species is P. praecellens, from which it differs by the position and distribution of the dorsal and caudal glands, body proportions, nostril size and coloration. All specimens of the new species were found in cloud forest, under a canopy of Liquidambar, Quercus, and arborescent ferns, as well as in a coffee grove. The elevational range for the species is narrow, between 905 and 1400 m, unusually low elevations for Pseudoeurycea. 
3893489|We describe a new species of Cochranella from cloud forests in La Paz, Bolivia. The new species is assigned to the C. granulosa Group and characterized by the presence of crenulate folds, distinctive coloration, and the first finger shorter than the second. The new species occurs in sympatry with C. spiculata and C. sp.
3892520|Age at metamorphosis and age at first reproduction were studied in three populations of Desmognathus quadramaculatus in the southern Blue Ridge Mountains of southwestern North Carolina. Four age classes of larvae were identified in all three populations through the analysis of size distributions. The frequency of early metamorphosis at 3 yr or even 2 yr varied considerably among the populations. This variation was reflected in the size distributions of both larvae and post-metamorphic juveniles. The minimum age at first reproduction was estimated to be 6 yr in males and 7 yr in females in all three populations. Age at metamorphosis and age at first reproduction probably vary independently in D. quadramaculatus. It appears that interspecific variation in adult body size in the genus Desmognathus is correlated positively with age at first reproduction and may not reflect variation in growth rates.
3893586| Among vertebrates, sex is determined by environmental or genotypic sex determination, such that sex is determined by incubation environment or by the genetic contribution of parents, respectively. The selective advantage of one mechanism over the other is unclear and our understanding of the evolution of environmental sex determination (ESD) is obscured by the lack of description of the mechanism's genetic architecture. In this study, a reptile with environmental sex determination, the leopard gecko, Eublepharis macularius, was tested for a genotype  environment interaction (GE) with respect to sex-determining response to incubation temperature. Five sires were each mated to five unique dams. The eggs from each sire/dam combination were randomly assigned to one of three incubation temperatures and resultant hatchling sex ratios were measured. Temperature and temperature  dam (sire) interaction significantly affected treatment group sex. We report a statistically significant effect of genotype by environment interaction (GE) on the offspring sex in E. macularius. GE for ESD may provide an opportunity for evolution for different threshold conditions for sex determination in this ESD species. 
3893084|I tested the hypothesis that copulation duration and the number of sperm transferred in a copulation are significantly correlated in the lizard Anolis sagrei. I also investigated whether copulation duration and number of sperm transferred in a copulation are affected by when in the breeding season a copulation occurs, by the body masses and snout-to-vent lengths (SVL) of the copulating lizards, and by which hemipenis is used in a copulation. Reproductively active males and females of A. sagrei were collected monthly in the Miami, Florida area from April through July of 1997 and housed in laboratory animal rooms. Two days after capture, males were allowed to copulate with sexually receptive females. I recorded copulation duration and whether the left or right hemipenis was used for each copulation. In addition, I estimated the number of sperm that were transferred to the female's cloaca in a copulation. Copulations by 46 different pairs of males and females were observed. Copulation duration varied significantly with the month of capture, but the estimated number of sperm transferred did not. Neither copulation duration nor estimated number of sperm transferred were significantly correlated with male or female body masses or SVL, or were significantly affected by which hemipenis was used. Copulation duration and the estimated number of sperm transferred in a copulation were not significantly correlated. Thus the hypothesis that copulation duration and sperm transfer are correlated in A. sagrei was not supported.
25209131|A new species of Atelopus is described from three localities near Oxapampa between 1700 and 2200 m elevation in central Peru, representing the first record for the genus in the Department of Pasco. The new species is readily distinguished from all congeners by its small size (maximum SVL 22.1 mm in males), numerous gray coni on dorsal and lateral body surfaces, and a coloration pattern consisting of a cream dorsolateral stripe, narrow dark brown middorsal stripe, arms and legs dorsally dark brown with grayish brown reticulation, and ventral surfaces of hands and feet reddish orange. Females are unknown. /// Describimos una especie nueva de Atelopus proveniente de tres localidades en las inmediaciones de Oxapampa entre los 1700 y 2200 m de altitud en el centro de Per. Esta especie representa el primer registro del gnero en el Departamento de Pasco. La nueva especie se distingue de sus congneres por su pequeo tamao (SVL  22.1 mm en machos), la presencia de numerosas espnulas color gris en el dorso y superficies laterales del cuerpo y su particular patrn de coloracin, el cual consiste de lneas dorsolaterales color crema, una delgada lnea mediodorsal color caf oscuro, brazos y piernas color caf oscuro con una reticulacin caf grisacea, y superficies ventrales de las manos y pies color naranja rojizo.
3890960|The distribution, activities, and foods of Sceloporus teapensis, Cnemidophorus deppei deppei, and Cnemidophorus guttatus guttatus were studied on the beaches at several localities near the city of Veracruz in the summer of 1965. Three ecological associations occur in the area studied above the high tide level: barren sand, low dunes with sparse vegetation, and high dunes with dense vegetation. Sceloporus teapensis occurred at all of the localities and in all of the associations. Cnemidophorus guttatus occurred in the low dune and high dune associations at all of the localities, but was most abundant in the high dune association. Cnemidophorus deppei occurred only in the low dune association at some of the localities. Behavior of the three species indicates that there is no interspecific social antagonism between them, although Cnemidophorus guttatus may occasionally prey on the other two species. Stomach analyses revealed no severe competition for food among the three species.
3891571| The natural history of Phrynosoma platyrhinos platyrhinos was studied in populations at the Nevada Test Site, Mercury, Nevada. Individuals were marked and kept under surveillance from 1965 through 1971. Reproductive cycles were examined by field observations and autopsy. Hatchlings appear in July and August. Growth is rapid for the first year, and sexual maturity is reached before the second hibernation or soon after emergence from it. Territoriality is limited to broad general areas and is not a pronounced behaviorism as in most sceloporines. Food consists of arthropods, with ants the predominant item. Twenty-four   were producing 160 eggs with a range and average of 3-9 (6.66) eggs. Density was approximately 5/hectare with the greatest activity occurring during spring and early summer months. 
3892870| A new species of Rhadinaea is described from a cloud forest locality in northern Honduras. This new species is a member of the godmani species group and is distinguished from other members by the presence of 17 dorsal scale rows, 164 ventrals, 17 maxillary teeth, a brown dorsum with a dark stripe on adjacent portions of rows 3 and 4, a dark vertebral stripe, and a red venter. Cladistic analysis suggests that it belongs to a clade including R. godmani and R. hempsteadae and is more closely related to R. hempsteadae than any other extant species. /// Describimos una nueva especie de culebra de un bosque nublado a las 1900 metros sobre nivel mar en el Departamento de Atlntida de Honduras. A esta culebra damos el nombre Rhadinaea tolpanorum en reconocimiento de la regin antigua ocupada por el grupo indgena Tolpan o Xicaque. Entre las otras especies del grupo godmani de Rhadinaea se distingue esta culebra por su posesin de 17 escamas dorsales, 164 ventrales, 17 dientes maxilares, un dorso del color caf con una lnea negra en las porciones adyacentes de escamas dorsales 3 y 4, una lnea negra vertebral, y un vientre rojo. Esta especie parece como un descendiente de tamao inferior de un antepasado como R. godmani o R. hempsteadae. Es posible que R. tolpanorum es una especie endemica a la Cordillera Nombre de Dios. Dicha cordillera est casi aislada por tierras bajas en el norte de Honduras. 
3893625|In June 2002, we studied the natural history of Ameiva ameiva and sympatric anoles, Anolis aeneus and A. richardii, in an altered habitat on Grenada to test three predictions regarding intraspecific interactions in Ameiva, intrageneric interactions between anoles, and interfamilial interactions between Ameiva and anoles. Our data generally supported our first prediction that characteristics of an insular population of A. ameiva would essentially mirror those described for other insular populations of West Indian congeners, were less supportive of our second prediction that structural habitat use and diets would indicate interspecific resource partitioning between anoles, and strongly supported our third prediction that anoles would spend less time on the ground when Ameiva were active. Based on tests that indicated that Ameiva were predators of anoles, we suggest that predator-avoidance is the most parsimonious explanation for the apparent adjustments in foraging strategy.
41238986|Pathogen transfer may be an important but poorly understood cost of cannibalism. Does the consumption of smaller conspecifics by Cane Toads (Rhinella marina) result in transfer of viability-reducing parasites such as nematode lungworms (Rhabdias pseudosphaerocephala)? Our experimental trials confirm that cannibalistic toads can indeed become infected, and our results are probably the first evidence of macroparasite transmission via intraspecific prdation in amphibians. Our results also show that parasites acquired via cannibalism are viable, develop into fertile adults, and reduce the locomotor performance of the hosts. How cannibalism contributes to nematode transmission and spread in natural populations is not known, but we propose a scenario in which this interaction would be likely to increase the lungworm prevalence, intensity, or persistence.
3893250|Using data and insights derived from laboratory experiments, 9 yr of field experiments, and numerous observations of natural populations of the marbled salamander, Ambystoma opacum, we constructed a model to study the effects of larval density dependence on population dynamics. The model includes density-dependent larval survival and size at metamorphosis, density-independent survival in other stages, and size- and age-dependent terrestrial growth and reproduction. Terrestrial females are tracked individually. When survival in non-larval stages is high, equilibria are unstable, and high reproductive potential at low population densities leads to population dynamics with wide fluctuations. Density-dependent larval regulation, which decreases in intensity with decreasing survival in other stages, is much more sensitive to terrestrial survival than to egg survival. Density-dependent size at metamorphosis delays reproduction by as much as 3 yr and reduces average clutch size by as much as 70%. Applied to a natural population with low annual recruitment (range 0.7-7.9 metamorphs per breeding female over 9 yr), model results indicate that either high terrestrial survival
3893259|We studied the calling behavior of three Italian populations of the green toad (Bufo viridis). An analysis of male advertisement calls revealed a significant influence of both body size and temperature on call properties. Large males uttered relatively low-pitched and long calls. Temperature affected temporal but not spectral parameters. Therefore, female phonotaxis experiments were focused on calls differing in fundamental frequency, which was the most constant parameter within males and a potentially reliable acoustic indicator of male size. In discrimination experiments, females preferred low-pitched calls. A skeletochronological analysis showed a significant relationship between early sexual maturity and large size, which may be an indicator of potential mate quality in anurans.
3892925| The tadpole of the endemic Chilean frog Eupsophus vertebralis is described. Larvae live in water-filled cavities in the ground. Their keratodont formula is [(1)(1-1)/(1-1)(1)], the tail tip is slightly acute, the fin depth exceeds the body depth, and the maximum depth of the dorsal and ventral fins is at the middle of the tail. The proctodeal tube is triangular and its distal end is pointed. The anal vent opens medially. A morphometric comparison between the tadpole of E. vertebralis and E. emiliopugini was performed. The result of the discriminant analysis showed that tadpoles separate mainly by total length, body length, and body depth. The first factor of the principal components analysis accounted for the 36% of the variance, and tadpoles separate by body length, eye diameter, body depth, and total length. /// Se describe el renacuajo de la rana endmica chilena Eupsophus vertebralis. La larva tiene escasa pigmentacin ventral, posee frmula dentaria [(1)(1-1)/(1-1)(1)], el espirculo se abre hacia la izquierda y en el tubo proctodeal el ano tiene posicin mediana. El extremo de la cola es levemente aguzado. Se hace una comparacin morfomtrica multivariada entre las larvas de E. vertebralis y E. emiliopugini. 
3892590|We studied the activity patterns of Testudo graeca over 2 yr using the method of thread trailing on 131 individuals. The tortoises were active for about half of the year and exhibited a bimodal annual activity pattern, with well defined aestivation and hibernation periods. Daily distances moved averaged about 50 m/day throughout the year, the maximum distances being 1019 m/day for males and 316 m/day for females. There were temporal differences between male and female activity patterns, consisting of an earlier emergence of males from hibernation and a delay in entering aestivation of females. Tortoises were active mainly on non-rainy days with maximum temperature ranging from 20-30 C, minimum temperature from 6.5-15 C, relative humidity from 35-75%, and accumulated radiation from 24-42
3892558|Exposure to low temperatures in darkness (hibernation) appears to be required for the induction of sexual receptivity and eventual vitellogenesis in female garter snakes Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis; the relative importance of temperature vs. light is unknown. Temperature, independent of photoperiod, may affect follicular condition. In snakes kept in the dark at 4 C or at 17 C with a 12L:12D photoperiod for up to 20 wk starting in fall, ovaries remained at the same size and previtellogenic condition characteristic of animals entering hibernation in autumn. In contrast, at 30 C with 12L:12D, snakes fed well and appeared healthy, but ovaries underwent complete regression which persisted for over a year; follicles involuted with a net loss in ovarian gonadotropin receptors. Females maintained at 17 C or 30 C (with only previtellogenic or regressed ovaries) remained sexually attractive to courting males for over a year, despite the absence of an ovarian cycle; those at 30 C, with the most regressed ovaries, were most attractive. However, with few exceptions, only snakes kept in simulated hibernation for 16 wk or more were sexually receptive, and only those that mated became vitellogenic. Thus, copulation appears to be an important prerequisite for the initiation of vitellogenesis in this snake, although ovaries did not develop in all mated females: small or estrogen-treated females remained previtellogenic after mating.
3891784|The reproductive cycles of two narrowly sympatric lacertid lizards from the Namib Desert of Namibia (South-West Africa) were investigated. Aporosaura anchietae is capable of continuous reproductive activity for prolonged periods (Jan 1976-Feb 1977). Reproductive activity declined sharply in March 1977, but quickly increased in April. Recovery was completed by June 1977, and reproduction continued into December 1977 when the study was terminated. Continuous reproduction for more than 1 yr is typical of tropical lizards, but has not been reported previously for a desert species. Causes of the March 1977 reproductive decline are not totally clear, but appear to be related to decreased rainfall, to lower productivity of insects, and to lower levels of stored fat. The average clutch of 85 females was 1.3 eggs (range 1-2), and 2-4 clutches are produced yearly. Meroles cuneirostris has a reproductive cycle typical of temperate zone species, with spermiogenesis occurring May-February (spring-summer), followed by autumnal regression (March) and then recrudescence (April). Oviducal eggs were found over a 5-mo period (Sep-Mar). Clutch size of 29 females averaged 2.9 eggs (range 1-4), and females can produce two clutches each year. Both species have seasonal fat cycles typical of temperate zone lizards, in which fat bodies enlarge in autumn and are depleted by spring, but the relative amounts of fat stored by each species differ considerably.
3891324|The mechanisms that govern orientation in Bufo boreas were studied in the spring and summer of 1967. Toads were collected adjacent to the shores of several lakes in the vicinity of Moscow, Idaho. The compass direction of a line drawn perpendicular to the shoreline was recorded at the site of each collection. The toads were transported to the laboratory in closed containers and released in the center of a circular test pool. Their direction of movement was compared with the compass reading taken at the site of collection. The data from these tests indicate that B. boreas has a mechanism of orientation based on a sun-compass. There was no indication that either stellar or lunar cues are used by this species. The ability to use this system of orientation develops after metamorphosis. In order to use the sun as a compass, the animal must possess a "biological clock." Our data indicate that this clock is based upon the photoperiod. Experiments in the field demonstrated that B. boreas is capable of homing to a particular breeding site. Only toads with normal vision homed successfully.
3893416| We observed lizards in artificial crevices to examine behaviors that make them harder for predators to dislodge from crevices or burrows. We used four focal species and made additional observations of 13 cordyliform species. There were pronounced differences in defensive behaviors within crevices among species. Within crevices, representatives of several lizard taxa pressed some portions of their dorsal surfaces against crevice roofs, pushing upward with their legs, and used the tail to block access to their bodies. Two species of cordylids also tilted their heads down, bringing the lower jaw into contact with the floor and pressing the neck and posterodorsal head against the roof. Additionally, Uromastyx aegyptius and Sauromalus ater wedged themselves into crevices by inflating their bodies. We discuss interspecific differences in within-crevice defenses in relation to the unique defensive repertoires of each taxon. /// Examinamos las conductas que hacen que las lagartijas sean difciles de extraer de las grietas de rocas por los depredadores, tanto en especies que usan las grietas como refugios en otras que no le dan ese uso. Dentro de las grietas, varias especies de lagartijas presionan alguans pociones de su superficie dorsal contra el techo de la grieta, empujando de abajo hacia arriba con sus piernas, y usan sus colas para bloquer el acceso a los depredadores. Dos especies de cordlidos tambin orientan su cabeza hacia abajo, poniendo la mandbula inferior en contacto con el piso presionando el cuello y la regin post-dorsal de la cabeza contra el techo. Adicionalmente, Uromastyx aegyptius y Sauromalus ater usan inflacion para calzar sus cuerpos dentro de grietas. Discutimos differencias interspecficas en componentes particulares de defensa dentro de grietas de roca y madrigueras en relacion a los repertorios nicos de cada taxn. 
3893247| We studied female snapping turtles at two shallow lakes on the Crescent Lake National Wildlife Refuge from 1990-1994, most intensively during the nesting seasons of 1993 and 1994. Females matured at 28-29 cm carapace length (CL), 22-23 cm plastron length (PL), 5.5-6.5 kg body mass, and 10-12 winters of age. Nesting was recorded from 1-28 June, but in a given year season length was 13-18 days and its start may be inversely related to spring temperatures. Nesting began between 0400 and 0930 h and between 1800 and 0100 h. During the warm June of 1994, nesting was equally divided between morning and evening, but during the relatively cold June of 1993, smaller females apparently shifted predominately to evening nesting. It was not determined whether all females reproduced every year. Reproducing females produced one clutch per year of 20-73 eggs (x = 46.8) weighing 6.4-19.1 g each (x = 11.4). Egg size, clutch size, and clutch mass were each positively correlated with female size. However, relative to female body size, large females produce smaller eggs and smaller clutches, but the same total clutch mass, as small females. No differences in reproductive output were detectable between 1993 and 1994. Geographic variation in female size across the species range is significant. In temperate regions, mean female size is correlated with latitude, longitude, and elevation, with the largest females found in Nebraska and South Dakota. Females in the tropics are as large as the largest temperate females. Egg size does not vary with average female body size across populations or with latitude. Eggs in the tropics average nearly twice the mass of those in temperate regions, but relative to female body size, egg size in the tropics is not significantly different. Clutch size is positively correlated with female body size within and among populations, as well as with latitude. However, relative to body size, clutch size does not vary among temperate populations, although it is larger there than in the tropics. No trade-off between average egg size and clutch size was evident among populations. Clutch mass was correlated with female body size and varied geographically along with body size. However, relative to body size, there was no significant geographic variation in clutch mass. Variation in growth rate to maturity among temperate populations suggests that at northern, western, and high elevation locations a greater selective advantage accrues from maturing at a larger body size than from maturing at an earlier age, perhaps because of the strong body size-clutch size correlation. 
3893285|Mountain Lake Biological Station has many opportunities for research on amphibians and reptiles of the Appalachian Mountains. The National Science Foundation's Research Experience for Undergraduates program supports a vigorous atmosphere for independent research for undergraduates. Local funds provide partial support for new projects by graduate students and faculty.
3891820|Critical thermal maxima (CTM) were determined at acclimation temperatures of 10, 20, and 30 C during larval development and metamorphosis in the frog and toad species Rana sylvatica, Pseudacris triseriata, Bufo americanus, Bufo woodhousei, and Gastrophryne carolinensis. Correlations were observed between geographic distribution and CTM, and breeding time and CTM for these species. In each species there was a significant decrease in CTM during metamorphosis. This was usually followed by an increase in CTM in adults. Adults usually had lower tolerance than larvae. The decrease in CTM during metamorphosis may reflect an adjustment downward in the thermal regime of a species so that metamorphosed young will be able to tolerate the low temperatures of winter. Tadpoles of B. americanus that were starved for 12 days had significantly lower CTM than those that were fed. Intraspecific differences in CTM were observed in tadpoles of G. carolinensis from different localities and in tadpoles of B. woodhousei collected from the same locality at different times. These differences may be due to differences in early thermal experience of embryonic stages.
3893260|I experimentally studied the effects of speed and directness of approach by a human simulated predator and of female presence on the escape behavior of the skink Eumeces laticeps. Lizards that were approached rapidly fled while farther away from the predator than lizards that were approached more slowly. Skinks approached indirectly permitted closer approach than those approached directly. Approach distance increased more with directness of approach for individuals exposed on the ground than for those on trees. Eumeces laticeps responded to threat cues related to speed and directness of approach and distance from refuge. Males near females allowed closer approach than isolated males. Males with females have greater escape cost because they may lose fertilizations to other males and must search to relocate females. Risk may be at least as great for males with females as for males alone, because two lizards are more likely than one to attract the attention of a predator, and females usually flee before males, leaving the males exposed alone. Eumeces laticeps adjusts escape behavior to both risk and cost. My results exclude simple risk-minimization and all but exclude use of a fixed maximum risk threshold for escape. Optimality was not tested, but results are consistent with it.
23254552|Recent discussion in the life-history literature has examined "adaptive maternal effects," defined as maternal effects that benefit offspring, and concluded that this definition is too narrow, because maternal effects may not always benefit current offspring fitness, but can still be adaptive to female lifetime reproductive success. The "maternal manipulation hypothesis" suggests that females modify their physiology and behavior when gravid to increase offspring fitness, an example of adaptive maternal effects in the narrow sense. The maternal manipulation hypothesis has been tested almost exclusively using studies of reptiles, especially viviparous species. We argue that interpretations of modifications of female reptile behavior and physiology while gravid are hampered by the maternal manipulation hypothesis' exclusive focus on offspring fitness. We suggest broadening the approach of such studies to attempt to determine whether behaviors benefit fitness of the current batch of offspring, or benefit female lifetime reproductive success, or both. Using this approach, researchers acknowledge that females may modify physiology and behavior when gravid to benefit their own lifetime reproductive success, which may, or may not, also enhance fitness of the current batch of offspring. We recommend tests of benefits in reptiles to include the idea that females may increase their lifetime reproductive success by engaging in specific behaviors while gravid, independent of (or in addition to) benefits to offspring. We conclude that a broader view of maternal effects, less focused on offspring fitness and including both mothers and offspring, is the way forward for understanding maternal effects.
23352104|Frogs and toads have species-specific repertoires of vocalizations that function in contexts related to reproduction. Although some 6000 anuran species have been described to date, we have comparatively few descriptions of their vocalizations, which are among their most conspicuous behaviors. Statistical descriptions of vocal repertoires are key to understanding the evolution of frog communication systems and play potentially important roles in anuran conservation and systematics. The primary objective of this study was to describe the vocal repertoire and calling behavior of the Ponmudi Bush Frog, Raorchestes graminirupes, a recently described species endemic to the Western Ghats of India. A secondary objective was to investigate patterns of individual variation in calling behavior and several potential sources of that variability, including temperature, body size, and physical condition. We analyzed 1000 calls from 25 males near Ponmudi in the State of Kerala. Males produced two distinct, pulsatile call types that were temporally organized in a hierarchical structure of short call groups and longer call bouts. The two call types differed primarily in call duration, amplitude envelope, and the number of pulses per call. The dominant frequency of both call types was significantly negatively correlated with body length, mass, and condition. Temporal properties were generally unrelated to male phenotype, and few call properties were related to temperature in our sample of recordings. Based on coefficients of variation (CV), dominant frequency exhibited less variability within and among individuals (CV  4%) compared with temporal properties (e.g., 10% < CVs < 30%). We discuss these results in relation to previous studies of vocal repertoires and call variability in other anurans.
3893462|We describe a new species of rainfrog of the Eleutherodactylus fitzingeri species group from central Panama. This species is most similar to members of the E. melanostictus subgroup and can be distinguished from other members of the E. fitzingeri group from Lower Central America by a combination of characters, including a large supraocular tubercle, barred thigh pattern, a granulate venter, marked sexual dimorphism in the tympanic membrane, and basal toe webbing. We analyzed a data matrix of 24 allozyme, morphological, and karyological characters, following the phylogenetic analysis of Miyamoto (1986), and included four additional characters. The 12 species of the E. fitzingeri group are included, in addition to the new species. The relative phylogenetic position of two species, E. emcelae and E. phasma, are proposed for the first time. The new species is hypothesized to be a member of the E. melanostictus subgroup, which contains the predominantly montane species E. melanostictus, E. rayo, E. emcelae, E. monnichorum, and E. cuaquero.
3891993| Several populations and life history stages of the tiger salamander, Ambystoma tigrinum, from elevations above 2890 m were studied in the field and laboratory. All groups selected the warmest water available in the ponds regardless of the actual temperature which rarely exceeded 25 C in the shallows. At night they moved into deeper water as the shallows cooled. In the laboratory aquatic thermal gradient, first year and older larvae tended to choose warmer temperatures (x = 23.0-25.5 C) than metamorphosed adults (x = 18.4-23.7 C). Furthermore, larvae and neotenic adults exhibited a narrower thermal preferendum than did metamorphosed adults. Behavioral thermoregulation may be particularly important in high altitude areas where the active growing season is short. 
3892849|The genetic diversity and spatial distribution of selected genes of the Red Hills salamander, Phaeognathus hubrichti, were estimated by examination of variation in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and proteins of 14 individuals collected across the entire range of the species. Digestion of mtDNA with each of 22 restriction enzymes resulted in fragment patterns that did not vary among these individuals. Nine of 35 protein loci were polymorphic; four of these showed a geographic pattern to the variation and suggest the existence of two forms in this threatened species. Preserves to protect the genetic diversity of this animal should include areas representing both forms.
3892089| A new species of Abronia is described from the cloud forest of Cerro Bal, Oaxaca, Mxico. The closest relative of this species appears to be A. reidi of the Sierra de los Tuxtlas in southern Veracruz. The discovery of this species provides additional evidence of past faunal interchange of cloud forest species across the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. The lowlands of the Isthmus region have been considered to be one of the major barriers to the dispersal of highland faunas in Middle America. Nevertheless, examples of species or closely related species displaying a disjunct pattern of distribution on either side of the Isthmus are relatively numerous. The various regions that share portions of their herpetofaunas with the southeastern Oaxacan highlands appear to be in order of similarity, the highlands of northern Chiapas, the Pacific highlands of Nuclear Central America including the Sierra Madre de Chiapas and southern volcanic highlands of Guatemala, the Sierra de los Tuxtlas, and the northern Oaxacan highlands including the Sierra Jurez and Sierra Mixe. /// Una especie nueva de lagartija, Abronia ornelasi (Sauria: Anguidae) se describe de las tierras altas del sur oriente de Oaxaca. De las dems especies del gnero Abronia la nueva forma se distingue por las siguientes caractersticas: las escamas supranasales muy grandes, sin ser separadas por otras escamas; escamas cantales presente; escama frontoparietal en contacto con la escama temporal superior; ausencia total de escamas supra-auriculares alargadas; 6 escamas nuchales; 3 escamas temporales anteriores, todas alcansando las postoculares; 4 temporales anteriores en total; la zona de contacto entre las escamas supralabiales y la rbita del ojo termina con la escama supralabial antepenltima; la postmental divida; 30-33 hileras transversales de escamas dorsales; normalmente 14 hileras longitudinales de escamas dorsales, ocho de las cuales mostrando quillas fuertes; 38-41 hileras transversales de escamas ventrales; 12 hileras longitudinales de escamas ventrales; coloracin pardo verdusco uniforme, sin fajas algunas. Aparentemente la especie ms similar es A. reidi de la Sierra de las Tuxtlas del sur de Veracruz. El hallazgo de A. ornelasi aumenta la evidencia de un antiguo intercambio faunstico de especies habitando bosques nublados a cada lado del Istmo de Tehuantepec. Una anlisis de la herpetofauna conocida de las tierras altas del sur oriente de Oaxaca revela ms similaridades a la del norte de Chiapas. A la vez tal anlisis muestra que la herpetofauna mencionada en Oaxaca comparte elementos importantes con los bosques al norte del Istmo de Tehuantepec. 
3892093|Fourteen Desmognathus ochrophaeus females each laid a complete clutch of fertilized eggs in the laboratory. The spermatheca of each female was examined histologically to determine whether stored sperm were retained after ovulation. All 14 females retained apparently viable sperm which were histologically indistinguishable from spermathecal sperm observed in pre-ovulatory females. Multiple mating and sperm storage are necessary criteria for sperm competition within a single oviposition period, but the storage of viable sperm even after oviposition creates the potential for long-term sperm competition from one oviposition period to the next.
3892524| Rates of cutaneous evaporative water loss (CWL), skin resistances ( r
3892522|A natural pond in the Sandhills Region of the Upper Coastal Plain of North Carolina was sampled for 3 yr to document variation in density and reproductive phenology of adult and larval Notophthalmus viridescens dorsalis. Adult densities were highest in late winter and spring when transforming efts were entering the pond and adults were reproductively active. Adult populations in the shallow areas of the pond declined to low levels in the summer. The timing of this decline varied among years. Emigration out of the pond rather than mortality or movement to deep regions of the pond is the most likely explanation for this decline. Larval populations of Notophthalmus increased rapidly in May and June and then declined from July through autumn due to mortality and metamorphosis to the eft stage. The density of adult newts and newt larvae was high in 1982 and 1983, but low in 1984. Size at metamorphosis in newts was inversely associated with larval density between years, in agreement with density-dependent growth observed in experimental populations. Larvae were spatially segregated by size in 1983 but showed less segregation in 1984. The temporal overlap in occupancy of the pond by adult newts and larval newts varied between years.
3891828| Pigment patterns, morphological traits, mating call, and osteological characteristics were studied in F
27669744|Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) is widespread in a variety of vertebrate taxa, and its presence has been associated with a range of evolutionary and ecological factors. Turtles, as a lineage, have been shown to include species that exhibit both forms of SSDmale-biased (male larger) and female-biased (female larger)as well as species that do not exhibit SSD (male size  female size). Previous work has suggested that factors affecting the direction and magnitude of SSD in turtles may include habitat preference and fecundity; these correlations, however, have not been tested in a phylogenetic context. To provide a framework for evaluating potential correlates with the magnitude and direction of SSD in turtles, we examined the phylogenetic distribution of SSD in this clade. Published sources were surveyed for data on the direction and magnitude of SSD, carapace length, clutch size, egg size, and preferred habitat (terrestrial vs. nonterrestrial). Phylogenies were compiled from multiple published sources to develop a phylogeny for all taxa (n = 82) for which SSD data were assembled. The phylogenetic distribution of SSD was then evaluated using parsimony-based methods. These analyses indicated that the ancestral condition for extant turtles was female-biased SSD. Phylogenetic analyses conducted on subsets of the data (concentrated-changes tests, independent contrasts) indicated that changes in SSD state were not correlated with changes in habitat preference. Both male and female carapace length were found to be correlated with traits related to fecundity (egg size, clutch size), but the degree of dimorphism was not found to be correlated with these traits. A significant negative correlation between egg size and clutch size was also evident in turtles, as predicted by life-history theory.
3891842|Zones of intergradation and variation in the three subspecies of Florida Kinosternon subrubrum are analyzed. Ratios of plastral length/carapacial length, bridge length/carapacial length, posterior plastral width/posterior plastral length, and the presence of a divided nasal scale and head striping were used to analyze intraspecific variation. Previously recognized zones of intergradation are modified. Kinosternon s. subrubrum and K. s. hippocrepis intergrade in the Florida Panhandle west of Apalachee Bay. A second zone of intergradation between K. s. subrubrum and K. s. steindachneri occurs in northern Florida east of Apalachee Bay south to central peninsular Florida. Kinosternon s. steindachneri occurs in southern Florida.
3891619|The hemipenial morphology of the microteiid lizards Gymnophthalmus plei, Gymnophthalmus speciosus, Bachia intermedia, Bachia trisanale, Euspondylus rahmi, Anadia metallica, Proctoporus striatus and Proctoporus columbianus is described and figured. Comments on the hemipenis of Bachia monodactylus and Proctoporus guentheri are included. Support for the observations that hemipenial structures do show variation and therefore should not be assigned undue taxonomic importance is presented. There is no correlation between hemipenial surface morphology and the necessity to improve retention mechanisms during copulatory activity in limb-reduced forms of microteiids.
3892738|We recorded the antipredator responses of 24 common garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis) in the laboratory at 10, 20, and 30 C. The approach and contact of a human finger were used as the "predatory" stimuli. Several measures of antipredator behavior showed effects indicating increased passiveness and/or decreased aggressiveness with decreasing temperature. These shifts may represent an adaptive response to situations in which the snakes' movements are slowed to such an extent that aggressive striking is not an effective defense. Snakes also showed decreased aggressive defense after being touched, suggesting that initial aggressive displays were a bluff.
25621917|We describe a new species of scincid lizard of the genus Brachymeles from montane forests (1400-1450 m) of Mt. Palali, Caraballo Mountain Range, in central Luzon Island, Philippines. The new species is the second known species of Brachymeles that has only three digits on both the forelimb and hindlimbs. Additional morphological characters include unique scale pigmentation and absence of a pineal eyespot and an auricular opening. The new species is the eighth known Brachymeles from Luzon Island and the twelfth non-pentadactyl species. With this new discovery, the Luzon Faunal Region holds the greatest diversity of species of the genus Brachymeles in the world.
3893583| Temperature is a crucial factor in the development of oviparous organisms. Under natural conditions, the eggs of many species are subjected to changing thermal environments, but most laboratory studies have incubated eggs at constant temperatures. To evaluate the phenotypic effects of different thermal means and variances and to separate temperature effects from maternal effects, eggs from 10 clutches of smooth softshell turtles (Apalone mutica) were equally distributed among six temperature treatments that reflect thermal conditions observed in natural nests: two eggs each at a mean of 28.5 or 32.5 C, with ranges of  0, 2, and 4 C. In addition to embryonic traits (change in egg mass, hatching success, and incubation length), we measured and evaluated body size, swimming performance, and righting time of the hatchlings. The interaction between mean temperature and temperature fluctuation exerted a significant influence on eight of the ten traits we measured, indicating that fluctuating temperatures do not have equivalent phenotypic effects at different mean temperatures. Clutch of origin also was responsible for explaining a large fraction of the variation for nearly all of the traits. Altogether, these results suggests that clutch effects are pervasive and that thermal effects during embryonic development are complex and deserve further investigation. 
41238999|Herbivory is the dominant feeding strategy in tortoises, and dietary shifts are common in response to changes in resource availability. We conducted the first large-scale study of the diets of wild Hermann's Tortoises (Testudo hermanni hermanni) and found that the study population in central Italy was strictly herbivorous. The tortoises ate primarily legume leaves and grasses in the spring, and switched to flowers and unripe fruit of Ruscus aculeatus as these became available in the autumn. There were no significant differences between the diets of males and females. Although tortoise diets included both rare and abundant plant species, they consumed abundant plant species in a higher proportion than those species occurred in the study area. However, some rare plants made up relatively large fractions of the diet, and one of the few nonnative plants (Conyza canadensis) at the study area was eaten frequently by tortoises in all seasons, despite its relative rarity. Ruscus aculeatus berries may be particularly valuable to tortoises that are about to enter hibernation; hence, T. hermanni habitat should be managed to maintain this important plant species.
41238998|Africa's Gulf of Guinea, a major nesting ground for the critically endangered Leatherback Sea Turtle (Dermochelys coriacea), is experiencing rapid economic development. This study reports on the plasma biochemistry and packed cell volume (PCV) of turtles (55 samples collected from 23 individuals) nesting on Playa Moaba, Bioko Island, Equatorial Guinea. Because energy reserves and other resources in an individual are finite and turtles may not feed between nesting episodes, decreasing trends are expected in certain plasma biochemical concentrations and PCV values, as well as maternal investment in reproductive output (clutch size and egg mass). Calcium, potassium, sodium, phosphorous, plasma total protein, albumin, and globulin concentrations changed significantly with increasing number of nesting events, but remained within reported intervals in reptiles. Packed cell volume decreased significantly as the number of nesting events per individual increased. Although clutch size did not change, egg mass decreased significantly with increasing number of nesting events. The observed trends may be due to depletion of energy reserves and other resources during reproduction in a possible fasting state, and to the associated physiological stress.
23254554|Anthropogenic stressors, such as contaminants or pollutants, can change the outcome of competition in a variety of communities. We examined potential competitive interactions between American Toad (Anaxyrus americanus) and Gray Treefrog (Hyla versicolor) tadpoles by manipulating the presence and absence of each species and overall tadpole density and how they may be affected by anthropogenic nutrient enrichment by manipulating the presence and absence of nitrate and phosphate. Interactions with Gray Treefrogs did not affect American Toad survivorship, mass at metamorphosis, or time to metamorphosis. Nutrient enrichment reversed the relative effects of interspecific and intraspecific conditions on Gray Treefrog survivorship. Namely, in enriched mesocosms Gray Treefrog tadpoles living with American Toad tadpoles had higher survivorship than those in Gray Treefrogonly communities, whereas the opposite was true in no-enrichment mesocosms. Nutrient enrichment accelerated metamorphosis in American Toads but did not affect Gray Treefrogs. Overall tadpole density had no effect on Gray Treefrogs, but American Toads metamorphosed earlier and at a larger size at high tadpole densities. Our results provide further confirmation that the alteration of the environment by humans can have a variety of effects, both directly through their effects on each species and indirectly by altering the interactions among species.
3891566|Feeding data are presented on 21 specimens of Micruroides euryxanthus from Arizona. These include stomach contents, feeding behavior, and feeding preferences. Leptotyphlops humilis was the preferred prey species as indicated by behavioral responses. Information concerning tail decoy display behavior is presented and placed into functional context. Of the individuals studied, 14.3% of the coral snakes had tail scars suggesting effectiveness of the display.
3892051|Using features of morphology and recently published biochemical data, we show that the snake "Leptodeira" latifasciata represents a monotypic genus allied with the night snakes, Eridiphas and Hypsiglena.
3892745|I studied size-dependent vulnerability and behavioral responses of tadpoles to predaceous diving beetle larvae (Dytiscus pisanus) in two anuran species (Bufo calamita and Pelobates cultripes) that breed in temporary ponds. Experiments revealed that large tadpoles of B. calamita were preferentially selected by the beetle larvae. Moreover, the average number of strikes to grasp a small tadpole was higher than for large tadpoles. However, in P. cultripes, large tadpoles were less likely to be captured than were small tadpoles. Both species differed in growth history; B. calamita has a short growth period and a small tadpole that is unable to avoid predation, whereas P. cultripes grows to a large size that reduces predation rate. Tadpoles of B. calamita show a reduction in mobility in the presence of the predator, whereas tadpoles of P. cultripes do not show it. Phylogenetic constraints restricting size at metamorphosis for B. calamita may lead to the adoption of alternative antipredatory strategies, such as a reduction in activity or habitat segregation.
3892293| The unusual karyotypes of Phymaturus palluma (Molina), based on specimens from Cordillera de Los Andes (Cordillera de Curic, Chile), are described. The male diploid number is 35 with 32 autosomes plus X
41238988|Few studies have examined the spatial ecology of the Eastern Hellbender (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis alleganiensis). We used radiotelemetry to examine the seasonal home range, movement patterns, and habitat use of 21 individuals within the Blue River drainage of southern Indiana, USA. Individuals were located up to three times weekly from July 2008 through October 2009. Mean 100% minimum convex polygon (MCP) home-range sizes were much larger than previously reported and largest during the summer. Male MCPs were significantly larger than those of females. Mean linear home-range sizes were also significantly longer in the summer, but did not differ between the sexes. Hellbenders moved very little throughout the year (X = 14.1 movements per individual) and over relatively short distances (X = 27.5 m) to nearby shelter rocks. Most Hellbenders were routinely located under large, flat shelter rocks; however, five individuals periodically used bedrock, downed trees, and submerged tree root masses along the riverbank. Habitat use of Hellbenders was similar to that found in other studies, with 79.5% of our locations found on a gravel substrate. Our results provide essential information about a declining, low-density population of Hellbenders in need of management.
3891821| Data on the reproductive biology, growth, and population structure are presented for Dermophis mexicanus, a tropical, burrowing, viviparous caecilian. Males undergo spermatogenesis at one year of age, but may not reproduce until two years when numbers of spermatogenic lobules are much greater and lobe fusions have occurred. Age at maturity in females is one year and most breed at the beginning of their second year. Ovarian clutch size is 13-36 ova (x = 19.6); ova are 1.5 mm in diameter when fully yolked. Oviducal clutch size is 4-12 (x = 7.0). Fertilization occurred from late April to early June and the gestation period was one year. Fetuses grow at a decelerating rate through the year. Birth was from May through June at the beginning of the rainy season. Size at birth is 108-155 mm total length. Juveniles compose a large proportion of the population. The adult sex ratio of female to male is 1.3:1. There is no apparent external sexual dimorphism. Counts of primary annuli of clutches of fetuses are correlated with the maternal count, but secondaries show great range. Growth during the first year is considerable, and decelerates through life. Adaptation for viviparity in this tropical, early maturing species, its single broods, long developmental period, and long adult survivorship constitute an evolutionary mosaic when compared to other amphibians and reptiles. 
3893406|We describe a new species of Xenorhina from the Bewani and Hunstein Mountains of northwest Papua New Guinea. Unlike the six currently recognized species of Xenorhina, which inhabit leaf litter on the forest floor, the new species is remarkable in being arboreal. It differs from its congeners in possessing greatly expanded terminal discs on the fingers and toes, but lives in leaf litter that gathers in bird-nest ferns (Asplenium) and in moss encrusting trees and epiphytes, thus retaining the fossorial habits of its presumed ancestors. The new species is morphologically most similar to X. oxycephala and the calls of these two species are very similar.
3893590|A new species of the Hypsiboas benitezi group is described from the western Amazon Basin. The new species is characterized by its medium size (SVL 24.4-31.2 mm in adult males, 26.0-36.0 mm in adult females), absence of nuptial excrescences, palpebral membrane lacking golden reticulation, and a mental gland in males. The dorsal surfaces of living frogs are bright yellowish green to tan, and frequently bear an X-shaped mark; the parietal peritoneum, pericardium and sclera are covered by guanophores. The new species differs from other members of the Hypsiboas benitezi group (H. benitezi, H. lemai, H. microderma, H. pulidoi, H. rhythmicus, and H. roraima), by the combination of a dorsal X-shaped marking, absence of golden reticulation on palpebral membrane, and central portion of abdominal parietal peritoneum, pericardium, and sclera covered by guanophores. The new species has been confused with Hyloscirtus albopunctulatus (as Hyla albopunctulata) in the past, but the study of the type series of the latter indicates that they represent different species. Hypsiboas hutchinsi is excluded from the H. benitezi group and transferred to the H. semilineatus group, as it shares with H. geographicus and H. semilineatus the absence of a projecting spine in the prepollex (the only known species of Hypsiboas with this character state), presence of pigmented nuptial excresences, reticulated palpebral membrane, and finely tuberculated skin.
3891194|Rana pipiens eggs and tadpoles were each reared in water treated with copper sulfate
3890748|Since the description of Hyla siemersi in 1937, there has been considerable confusion regarding the proper generic allocation of this species; it has been variously allied with the genera Hyla and Trachycephalus. Evidence is provided showing that siemersi should not be placed in either of the latter genera. Instead, a separate genus is proposed. The genus is characterized by exostosed cranial bones, reduced webbing, paired lateral vocal sacs, and prevomerine teeth situated on transverse ridges. This genus apparently is most closely related to Osteocephalus.
3890832|Analysis of variation in over 700 specimens of malachite and acanthine Sceloporus from Mexico and Central America revealed that acanthinus Bocourt, malachiticus Cope, smaragdinus Bocourt, and taeniocnemis Cope, all heretofore regarded as subspecies of the typical form malachiticus, must be disassociated subspecifically. The key to this conclusion lay in the identity of internasalis Smith and Bumzahem which is discussed at length but whose relationships still remain uncertain. No evidence of intergradation between any combination of the five forms was discovered and consequently all must be accorded specific status with the exception of acanthinus whose possible other relatives were not considered. No effort was made to treat the more southern populations (malachiticus) nor was consideration given to the evolutionary history of the several forms. A new race of taeniocnemis from the Mesa Central of Chiapas is described as S. t. hartwegi.
3893574|Proposed definitions of the states of the pectoral girdle architecture in anurans-viz., arcifery, firmisterny, arciferofirmisterny, and "almost arcifery" are evaluated with respect to their consistency with the most recent morphological observations. All previous definitions of the states of pectoral girdle architecture are invalid and new ones are proposed; the associated terminology of these definitions is formally defined.
3892919|Leopard frogs (Rana pipiens) showed no difference in their rates of heating and cooling in water whereas chuckwalla lizards (Sauromalus obesus) warmed 32% faster than they cooled in both water and air. The mean ratio of heating to cooling rates in leopard frogs (1.02) was significantly different from that for chuckwallas (0.76), and the ratio of heating to cooling rates in chuckwallas is very similar to those reported in a replete literature on many other species of lizards. The current data, including that from the literature, indicate that amphibians may have less (or no) control over their rates of temperature change.
3891415| Python molurus (Indian python) embryos of mixed subspecific parentage show temperature dependent expression of subspecific diagnostic scale characteristics. Embryos developing at suboptimal temperatures exhibit abnormalities of skin pattern and of the vertebral column. The latter character influences selection for   that maintain eggs at optimal developmental temperatures. 
3893081| Frillneck lizards (Chlamydosaurus kingii) are large (0.75 m total length) agamid lizards from tropical Australian savannas. We incubated 56 eggs from six clutches of C. kingii at four thermal regimes in the laboratory: constant temperatures of 26, 29 and 32 C, and a diurnally cycling regime (33  5 C) designed to mimic extreme natural nest temperatures. Incubation temperatures determined hatchling sex; all hatchlings from the hottest and coldest thermal regimes were female, with males produced only at intermediate temperatures. Thermal regimes also determined incubation periods and significantly affected hatchling sizes. The sexes differed in size (mass, snout-vent length, tail length) at hatching, but the influence of incubation temperature on hatchling morphology was similar in the two sexes. Several attributes of C. kingii suggest that it offers an ideal opportunity to investigate the adaptive significance of temperature-dependent sex determination in reptiles. 
3890761|Homing ability of the painted turtle, Chrysemys picta, was studied. Turtles returned from a displacement of one mile with the current and one and two miles against the current. A discussion of orientation in Chrysemys picta is given.
3891214|Hyla carnifex is named from Tandapi, Pichincha Province, Ecuador. The brightly colored new species, characterized by a bright yellow venter, yellow spots on the lips, and orange markings on the flanks and thighs, is from the Pacific slopes of the Andes and is a member of the Hyla parviceps group, which is distributed principally in the Amazon Basin. The external and cranial morphology of the adults, structure of the tadpoles, and nature of the mating call definitely associate Hyla carnifex with the parviceps group.
3893295|Development and survival of reptilian embryos are affected by the temperature and moisture within the nest. Moreover, thermal and hydric conditions during incubation also affect phenotypes of hatchlings. Thus, females should select nest sites that enhance hatching success and produce hatchlings with phenotypes fit for the local environment. The objective of this study was to determine the substrate temperature and moisture conditions selected by eastern fence lizards (Sceloporus undulatus) for nesting. In the laboratory, gravid females were housed in a large enclosure that provided suitable nesting substrate. Gradients of temperature and moisture within the substrate were established to provide a wide range of conditions from which females could choose. Fifteen (65%) females selected nest conditions within the moisture and temperature range that results in successful embryonic development. Two females (9%) nested in extremely dry conditions, and six females (26%) oviposited on the substrate surface. Females that nested in the field selected nest sites with similar conditions as females that nested in the laboratory. In general, we provide support for the idea that females choose nest sites with thermal and hydric conditions that are associated with positive hatching success.
25209103|A new species of Cyrtodactylus is described from Sulawesi and the adjacent island of Kabaena, Indonesia. This new species is the largest Cyrtodactylus known from Sulawesi and differs from all other congeners by the absence of precloacal and femoral pores, enlarged femoral scales or pubic groove; medium to large size (up to 113.6 mm snout-vent length) and dark purple dorsum with irregular dark bands and yellow spots. Only two other species of Cyrtodactylus are currently described from Sulawesi and surrounding islands. Current taxonomy of the genus does not accurately reflect the diversity of Cyrtodactylus in Sulawesi. This species is one of several taxa new to science currently being described from the region.
3891789|The African clawed frog, Xenopus laevis, was studied in experiments designed to examine the effect of daily repetition of a locomotor task on the time required to perform that task. Frogs forced to swim a 1.5 m sprint on 18 consecutive days decreased the time required to swim that distance during the first few days of training to 70% of the initial value. Frogs forced to swim 51 m on 56 consecutive days decreased the time required to swim that distance an average of
3891670|Turtle fossils from southern Arizona identified as Terrapene sp. (cf. T. ornata) in the late Pliocene and Terrapene ornata in the late Pleistocene are the first fossil records of the genus west of the Continental Divide.
3890630|The temperatures at which iguana eggs were incubating in natural nests were measured and found to be 31-32 C. This approximates the optimum incubation temperature of 30 C as determined in laboratory experiments by Licht and Moberly (1965). Comparison with soil temperatures suggest that this temperature is important in determining both nesting site and season, and these factors may influence iguana distribution.
3892896| A new species of the Eleutherodactylus rugulosus Group is described from moderate elevations of the Cordillera Occidental in northwestern Colombia. Eleutherodactylus cheiroplethus is the largest species known in the group and is proposed as the sister species of the lowland E. anomalus. /// Se describe una nueva especie del grupo Eleutherodactylus rugulosus de la Cordillera Occidental del noroeste Colombia. Eleutherodactylus cheiroplethus es la especie ms grande del grupo y se propone como la especie hermana de E. anomalus habitante de las tierras bajas del Choc. 
25209091|Phalotris nigrilatus Ferrarezzi, 1993 is a poorly known species described from a single specimen from Paraguay. Two new specimens make possible a more detailed description of the species, including a description of the hemipenis, and support the validity of the species. Hemipenial morphology provides another character that further supports the inclusion of the species in the nasutus group. We describe variation within the species, probable sexual dimorphism, and the known distribution. It will be necessary to do further work in Paraguay to establish the conservation status of this apparently rare and endemic species. /// Phalotris nigrilatus Ferrarezzi, 1993, es una especie poco conocida, descrita en base a un nico ejemplar procedente de Paraguay. Dos nuevos especimenes, hacen posible una descripcin mas detallada de la especie, incluyendo la descripcin de hemipene y apoyando la validez de la especie. La morfologa del hemipene aporta otro caracter que apoya la inclusin de esta especie en el grupo nasutus. Describimos la variacin dentro de la especie, probable dimorfismo sexual y distribucin conocida. Ser necesario realizar un trabajo mas intenso en Paraguay con la finalidad de conocer el estado de conservacin de esta aparentemente rara y endmica especie.
3893044| The Australian leptodactylid frog Kyarranus loveridgei deposits its eggs in a flask-shaped depression in moist soil, where they hatch and undergo metamorphosis within the jelly mass. The average non-foamy egg mass occupies 10.35 cm
3892598|Egg size (length, width, and mass) was highly variable in a population of Hemidactylus turcicus from southern Texas, both for eggs collected from the field and for eggs removed from gravid females. This variation was largely due to differences between females, as eggs were similar in size within a female for a particular clutch. Egg mass did not differ from year to year, and the range of variability in egg mass was similar among years. Egg mass also was not related to the time of the year when eggs were produced, indicating that egg size did not change between successive clutches. Clutch mass was not correlated with female snout-vent length (SVL), fat-free carcass mass, or carcass lipid mass. However, clutch lipid mass was positively correlated with female carcass mass and SVL, revealing that larger females put more lipid into their eggs. Thus, larger females may produce better quality eggs, even though their eggs are not larger. Egg mass was positively related to both hatchling mass and SVL, indicating that larger eggs result in larger hatchlings. The high degree of egg-size variation is inconsistent with the suggestion that offspring size of geckos has been optimized. Variable egg size may be advantageous for H. turcicus by allowing flexibility in clutch frequency (i.e., fecundity).
3890961|Acris gryllus exposed to normal diel cycles reoriented to new shorelines in 7 days. Frogs denied nocturnal celestial cues, but able to see the sun, also reoriented. Directional choices of both groups were similar in night and day tests. Frogs denied view of the day sky for 7 days scored randomly when tested at night; in daytime tests they moved toward their former shoreline.
3893003|Frequent wandering of prebreeding male Hynobius nigrescens was monitored experimentally; salamanders moved in and out of the water many times regardless of the type of treatment (i.e., saline or prolactin), suggesting flaws in the theory of water drive. The number of submerged animals in the saline-injected group varied in approximate coincidence with the air temperature. Prolactin (PRL)-injected animals remained submerged longer than saline-injected ones, exhibiting a preference for an aquatic habitat but not a movement into the water. Cornified epidermis and dermal mucous glands filled with mucus were the characteristics of winter-dormant, terrestrial phase animals, but in all of the PRL-injected animals, the cornified epidermis disappeared and the mucous glands were empty regardless of habitat (i.e., terrestrial or aquatic). The hypodermic connective tissue was dense in both hibernating animals and PRL-injected animals kept in a terrestrial habitat, which were free of water, but loose in some of the individuals in an aquatic environment. These results of cutaneous changes do not support the hypothesis presented by Moriya that PRL induces a remarkable enlargement of hypodermic tissue, causing the animals to migrate from land to water.
3893089|Tailed frogs (Ascaphus truei) occur in permanent, cold streams in northwestern North America. Their tadpoles reportedly undergo metamorphosis after 2-4 years. Coastal populations that we examined transformed in 2 yr from the Olympic peninsula in Washington to northern Oregon, but in 1 yr from central Oregon to northern California. One inland site in northern California had a 2-yr period. Age at metamorphosis was consistent over different years. We suggest that total length and developmental stage accurately define cohorts for larval Ascaphus. Hind-leg length indicates whether metamorphs are a separate age class from tadpoles. Age at metamorphosis (1-4 yr) appears to reflect broad differences in climatic conditions. However, at a regional scale, variation is low and suggests a lack of sensitivity to local environmental conditions. This may be due to seasonal constraints on the time when metamorphosis occurs (late summer).
3891712|Two Miocene formations in western Nebraska, the Harrison (early Miocene) and the Marsland (middle Miocene) have yielded noteworthy fossil snakes. The Harrison has yielded 2 erycinine boid genera, one a new form. Geringophis yatkolae, sp. nov. and an unidentifiable Colubrinae. The Marsland has yielded an extant erycinine boid genus and extinct and an extant Colubrinae genus.
3891578|Some relationships of three calls (diphasic, monophasic, trill) to behavior in Hyla regilla were investigated in the field and in a laboratory observation chamber. Results of observations and experiments indicate that the trill is frequently given after male-male claspings and is repulsive to other males. The monophasic call is usually given in response to the closeness of another frog. Male frogs are attracted to the diphasic call. The different calls may represent a complex vocal communication system in which the diphasic call plays a role in bringing males together and is the major female attracting call, while the trill and monophasic calls function to space males.
3891413|Both the external and internal features of the tadpole of Phrynomerus annectens favor its inclusion in the Microhylidae. The tadpole is exclusively a midwater filter feeder. Therefore it has a large filter apparatus and it lacks masticatory beaks and denticles. While feeding, which it seems to do continuously, the tadpole swims slowly forward with its head pointing slightly downward. This behavior is periodically interrupted by rapid visits to the water surface for lung ventilation. Both oral inflow and outflow through the spiracle (branchial outlet) are intermittent. At the onset of inspiration, the pharynges are constricted and pharyngeal water is driven through the gill clefts, gill cavity and spiracle. Simultaneously, or immediately afterward, the buccal floor sinks, and water enters the buccal cavity through the mouth alone, the nares being closed to the outside. No reflux occurs at the spiracle because velar valves occlude the buccal cavity from the rest of the irrigation system. The spiracle may also itself act in a valve-like fashion. During expiration, the mouth is closed, the buccal floor elevates, and buccal water flows into the bilateral pharynges. It also flows into the gill cavity through the gill clefts, and then leaves via the spiracle. Occasionally, the interhyoideus posterior (H3b) muscle contracts to expel inhaled irritants through the mouth or spiracle or both.
3892106|Male red-spotted newts (Notophthalmus viridescens) prefer to court large, fecund females. Using a Y-maze olfactometer, it was found that males preferred the odor of large over small females. Using proximity to restrained females as an indicator of choice, in which only visual cues were available, males preferred large over small females. These results indicate that male red-spotted newts use either olfactory and/or visual cues in assessing the size and thus fecundity of potential mates.
25209115|The structure and composition of forest-floor anuran diversity in the biologically rich rain forests of southern Western Ghats were studied. The study was carried out in the relatively undisturbed rain-forest tract of Kalakad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve. A quadrat search method was used to estimate species richness and density of the forest floor anuran community. Sample locations were distributed across three distinct watersheds in the reserve. In total, we captured 509 individuals belonging to 20 species. The density of anurans was 149 individuals ha on the rain-forest floor, and along streams their densities exceeded 300 individuals ha. Total diversity across all watershed locations was partitioned into within and among watershed components, corresponding to alpha and beta diversity. We found high levels of species turnover (high  diversity) among watersheds, a process that may partly explain the high species richness and large number of endemic anuran species known to occur in the rain forest of the Western Ghats. Anurans density was low and comparable to other studies conducted in South-East Asian forests. A re-examination of the reports on anuran densities revealed that Central American anuran densities were an order of magnitude higher than South Asian and South American anuran densities. Existing hypotheses do not adequately explain the differences in anuran densities in different parts of the world.
3892802| A new salamander of the genus Oedipina is described from Volcn Santa Mara in western Guatemala. This new species is in the uniformis group and appears to be most closely related to O. igena Stuart of south-central and southeastern Guatemala, but these species are easily distinguished from each other by adult body length and relative foot size. The distribution of the Guatemalan species of Oedipina is discussed. /// Se describe una nueva especie de salamandra, Oedipina stenopodia del Volcn Santa Mara en Guatemala occidental. Esta nueva especie pertenece al grupo uniformis (sensu Brame, 1968) y tiene afinidades cercanas con O. ignea de Guatemala meridional. No obstante, se distinguen facilmente por el tamao del cuerpo y por el tamao relativo de los pies. Los rangos geogrficos de las especies Guatematecas de Oedipina estn delimitados. 
3892755|We compared rates of evaporative water loss and body temperatures between an ontogenetic series of green tree frogs (Hyla cinerea) and their water-saturated plaster models to identify the stage of development during which skin resistance to evaporative water loss first appears in this species. Rates of water loss and body temperatures of live frogs matched those of their models through Gosner stage 42 of development (emergence of the forelimbs), but water loss of live frogs was significantly lower and body temperatures significantly higher from stage 43 (beginning of tail resorption) through the adult stage. An index of cutaneous resistance to water loss (ICR) was formulated in this study to provide a relative measure of cutaneous resistance without requiring measurement of exposed surface area, with an ICR of 0 indicating a complete absence of skin resistance. Mean ICR was -0.006 prior to stage 42 and 1.61 after stage 42. These results indicate that skin resistance appears abruptly at stage 43, the stage during which metamorphosing individuals of Hyla cinerea emerge from the water. Examination of skin sections using light microscopy revealed that by stage 42 a distinct stratum corneum is present and that both serous and mucous glands are producing secretions. Thus, neither of two existing hypotheses which propose that these structures function in providing skin resistance can be refuted based on these results.
3893048|Although reptiles of many species are often found in aggregations within retreatsites, there is little quantitative information on the size and composition of such aggregations. Such data may clarify the processes that stimulate aggregation, and that determine patterns of co-occurrence of individuals with respect to sex and body size. We gathered data on diurnal aggregations (under rocks) of two species of nocturnally-active gekkonid lizards (the gekkonine Christinus marmoratus and the diplodactyline Nephrurus milii) from two widely-separated localities in southern Australia (central Victoria and an island off the southern coast of Western Australia). Both species occurred at these localities, but geographic variation was evident in mean adult body sizes and in sexual size dimorphism. Both species actively aggregated, and the composition of groups differed significantly from that expected under a model of random assortment. For example, adult females of N. milii were rarely found with juvenile conspecifics, whereas pairs of juveniles were common. Most groups of C. marmoratus contained only a single adult male. In N. milii, members of an aggregation tended to resemble each other in body size. These significantly non-random patterns within aggregations of gekkonid lizards are suggestive of the kinds of processes that determine group size and composition, but experimental studies are needed to verify the causal factors involved.
3892261| Critical thermal minima (CTMin) were determined for three species of Hyla acclimated to 25.0  1.0 C. The CTMin increased approximately 1.5 C among sympatric H. chrysoscelis, H. cinerea and H. gratiosa respectively. This trend is consistent with the northern limit of distribution for each species. The mean CTMin of H. cinerea was significantly greater in a southern than a northern population sample, but no difference existed between a northern and southern populations of H. chrysoscelis. Natural hybrids between H. cinerea and H. gratiosa had CTMin values that were intermediate to the parental species. Overall, the CTMin in these treefrogs changed parallel to the constraints of the natural thermal environment. 
3892682| A new species of treefrog, Hyla luctuosa, is described from the Serra do Jap in southeastern Brazil. The new species is a member of the Hyla circumdata group characterized by large size, large tympanum, and rounded subarticular tubercles on the fingers. Descriptions of the tadpole and advertisement call and information on natural history are provided. 
3891589| First generation crosses between the spadefoot toads, Scaphiopus bombifrons and S. hammondii were artificially induced in the laboratory. Reciprocal F
3893280|Because science currently tends toward reductionism, taxon-oriented courses such as herpetology require a multidisciplinary, concept-oriented perspective. Such an approach encourages integration of ideas rather than a focus on details. One must learn to ask and answer questions and to make mental connections rather than merely to acquire facts. Few career opportunities exist for a "herpetologist", and undergraduate students are better off acquiring a diversity of intellectual skills and tools. Nonetheless, organisms and their particulars continue to motivate and stimulate us.
3892639|We evaluated the burrowing behaviors and capabilities of four species of caecilians (Dermophis mexicanus, Gymnopis syntrema, Ichthyophis kohtaoensis, and Schistometopum thomense) in relation to soil compaction in laboratory studies. Burrowing abilities were assessed by monitoring the percentage of caecilians able to burrow and the length of time required to burrow in soils of different compactions. The ability to choose among different soils and the use of existing tunnels in preference to new tunnel construction were assessed for each species. The burrowing capabilities of all species were strongly limited by soil compaction. In addition, members of all species showed clear preferences for burrowing in the least compact soil available and for using existing tunnels rather than constructing new burrows. There were significant differences among species, with Dermophis being the most rapid and capable burrowers of those tested. However, the hypothesized general burrowing superiority of caeciliaid species over ichthyophiids was not supported by comparisons of Gymnopis and Schistometopum with Ichthyophis.
3893580|The thesis of this heuristic discussion is that the frog morphotype arose via a regulatory mutation that truncated vertebrae-forming somitogenesis and not via selection on structural genes. This truncation, along with many collaborative events (e.g., other skeletal elements, viscera, jaws, and mouthparts) required to maintain a viable organism, produced the essence of a prototadpole. With the presumed confines of metamorphosis, only something resembling a frog could metamorphose from such a highly paedomorphic larva. Larvae and adults were further altered by other less deep regulatory changes and subsequent selection to produce characters correlated with systematics and ecology.
3892621|Previous field studies of squamate reptiles have shown that many life history traits show a significant amount of phenotypic plasticity, especially in response to prey availability. These results were recently supported by laboratory studies on a viviparous garter snake, which showed that clutch size and clutch mass were plastic in response to changes in energy intake, but that relative clutch mass and offspring size were relatively canalized. To determine if these results extend to oviparous reptiles, we conducted an experimental study of phenotypic plasticity in the corn snake, Elaphe guttata. Female corn snakes on a high energy diet produced larger clutch sizes, larger clutch masses, and larger relative clutch masses than did females on a low energy diet, but egg mass did not differ between the feeding regimens. Our data support earlier studies suggesting that much of the observed intraspecific variation in life-history traits of squamate reptiles may be the result of phenotypic plasticity.
3891994| A study of sympatric populations of the salamanders Desmognathus ochrophaeus and D. monticola in mountainside seepages showed that the most significant factor influencing seasonal activity was monthly variation in soil temperature. The most significant diel factor was light conditions. Patterned adults (  and  ) of D. ochrophaeus were more nocturnal than dark adults ( ). D. monticola was more aquatic and less nocturnal than D. ochrophaeus. These conclusions were supported by multiple regression analysis. No apparent seasonal migration to or from streamside habitats occurred, nor was there any evidence of inherent seasonal cyclic activity (including hibernation) apart from direct environmental influences. 
3892555|The correlations of tail morphology, tail loss frequency and position at which tails are autotomized relative to the tail base with foraging mode and predator escape tactics are examined in 12 species of sympatric tropical lizards. Species that are widely foraging habitat generalists, and use their running speed for escape, have relatively longer tails than most species that are sit-and-wait predators, habitat specialists, and use crypsis to escape detection by predators. There were, however, no significant differences in tail loss frequency or position at which tails are lost between sit-and-wait and widely foraging lizards.
3893614|Hoplocercidae is a small (10 species, 3 genera), poorly known but pivotal family of Central and South American iguanian lizards that has never been the subject of a focused phylogenetic study or systematic revision. We undertake the first rigorous phylogenetic analysis of hoplocercid lizards. We also use our analysis to demonstrate how meristic, morphometric, and polymorphic morphological characters can be coded and combined for phylogenetic analyses using step matrices, which allow continuous variation to be treated as continuous. Parsimony analysis of 46 informative external and skeletal characters (17 qualitative and fixed, 19 qualitative and polymorphic, 8 meristic, and 2 morphometric) yields very different topologies, depending on how the meristic characters are scaled (weighted). Use of between-state scaling yields a phylogeny in which Hoplocercus is at the base of the hoplocercid tree, and Morunasaurus is paraphyletic with respect to a monophyletic Enyalioides. Scaling between characters produces a tree in which Enyalioides is paraphyletic with respect to a clade containing Morunasaurus and Hoplocercus, and Morunasaurus is paraphyletic with respect to Hoplocercus. We also propose a third, "mixed" approach to scaling, which we marginally prefer over the other two methods. This method yields a tree in which Hoplocercus and a monophyletic Morunasaurus make up the sister group to a monophyletic Enyalioides. We discuss the implications of these results for hoplocercid biogeography and evolutionary ecology, tropical speciation, and the phylogenetic analysis of morphological data.
3892434|The mating behavior of wild-caught speckled kingsnakes, Lampropeltis getulus holbrooki, was analyzed in a laboratory situation over a 3-yr period. Mating bouts were recorded on videotape and were divided into three phases for analysis: tactile-chase, tactile-alignment, and intromission and coitus. The behavioral motor patterns performed by the males include Touch, Mount, Chase, Chase-Mount, Dorsal-Advance Movement, Forward-Body Jerk, Writhe, Biting, Tail-Search Copulatory Attempt, and Intromission. The mean duration, relative frequency, relative duration, and the sequence of these actions were analyzed. The relative frequency and duration of Forward-Body Jerk and Writhe differed significantly between Phases I and II. The major behavioral motor patterns were performed in a sequential pattern with Writhe being performed most frequently. Male tongue-flick and Forward-Body Jerk rates increased from Phase I to Phase II. The percent of body contact and specific dorsal contact between the mating pair increased from Phase I to II, then decreased during Phase III. The average durations of phases and specific actions performed are compared with other forms of Lampropeltis and other species of snakes. The durations of the three courtship phases of L. getulus holbrooki are relatively longer than those observed in other colubrid snakes.
3892125|Forty-eight adult and 17 immature male lined snakes (Tropidoclonion lineatum) were collected in St. Louis, Missouri, during the active seasons of 1978-1980. Testis mass was lowest in early spring and reached a peak in late July. In early spring, seminiferous tubule diameter was smallest and spermatogonia were the most prevalent cell type. Tubule diameter increased during the summer and reached a maximum size by late July, corresponding to peak spermatogenesis. The most prevalent cell types at this time were spermatids and spermatozoa. Spermiation began in mid-July, with mating in late August. Seminiferous tubule diameter and rate of spermatogenesis decreased significantly by September. Sperm was stored in the ductus deferens throughout the winter and early spring, indicating a possibility of spring mating. By mid-June, sperm was absent from the ductus deferens. The diameter of the tubules within the sexual segment of the kidney increased significantly from May to September with a reduction in tubule diameter by late September. Males born in August showed advanced spermatogenesis by September with some spermiation in early October. This, however, was considered to be abortive. All male lined snakes began spermatogenesis in the spring. Therefore, males are capable of mating at 1 yr of age. Coelomic fat mass increased significantly in early spring, reached a maximum by mid-June, and remained at this level throughout the summer.
3893637|The effects of prey size on prey-handling behavior for 60 ingestively naive hatchling Elaphe helena were studied in the laboratory. Hatchlings were randomly assigned to one of three diet categories in which prey (Mus musculus) varied by relative mass differences of 20-35%, 40-46%, or 50-59% of an individual snake's own body mass. The effects of prey size on capture position, direction of ingestion, condition of prey at ingestion (dead/alive), feeding duration, and prey-handling tactic were observed and recorded for each feeding episode. Results indicated that prey size significantly affected the prey-handling behavior of hatchling E. helena. In the largest relative mass category, hatchlings captured prey by the anterior end more often than in the smaller two relative mass categories. Prey from the smallest relative mass category were simply seized whereas, in the medium and large categories, pinion and constriction behaviors were observed. Time to subdue and ingest the prey item increased with prey size categories.
3892586| We collected Nerodia rhombifer on the Papaloapan River and nearby lagoons, near Tlacotalpan, Veracruz, Mexico. Females reach maturity at a snout-vent length (SVL) of 670 mm. Reproduction is aseasonal with some females undergoing vitellogenesis throughout the year, but the majority of females ovulate in May and June. Litter sizes (x = 17.1), based on vitellogenic follicles and embryos, are significantly correlated with SVL. Based on sperm in the vas deferens, males reach maturity at a SVL of approximately 475 mm. The spermatogenic cycle is prenuptial. In the majority of snakes, spermatogenesis begins in September and progresses to the spermatid stage by October. Peak spermatogenesis occurs from November to early January. Hypertrophy of the sexual segment of the kidney begins in January, and the sexual segment remains hypertrophied into early June. The staining intensity of the granules in the sexual segment of the kidney is most intense from late January through June. Clutch size in the population from Veracruz was significantly smaller than in temperate populations. To examine if this trend existed in other species, we compared clutch sizes for 17 oviparous colubrid snakes from tropical regions with 15 species of roughly equivalent temperate species. Our analysis indicated that tropical species did not differ from temperate species in mean clutch size, the mean frequency of reproduction, or the overall net annual fecundity (clutch size  frequency). 
25209078|We used microsatellite loci to examine rangewide population structure and interpopulation gene flow in the federally threatened Coachella Valley fringe-toed lizard (Uma inornata). Our results indicate low population differentiation consistent with high gene flow, recent colonization and range expansion, and/or frequent local extirpation/recolonization events. Given high historical gene flow among populations and current isolation of remaining populations, conservation planning for this species should include monitoring of potential deleterious effects that may result from reduction in gene flow, such as inbreeding and loss of genetic variation, to ensure maintenance of ecological and evolutionary population processes adequate for long-term survival of the species.
3892145|A preliminary analysis of genetic variation of Eurycea bislineata suggests that it comprises at least three species. I analyzed electrophoretically 450 Eurycea from 66 populations. Sample sizes from each population ranged from 1-25 individuals. Twenty-two proteins were analyzed using both Nei's measure of genetic distance and UPGMA phenograms. The previously recognized subspecies, E. b. bislineata, E. b. cirrigera, and E. b. wilderae, are elevated to specific status. Eurycea aquatica and E. junaluska are found to be genetically similar to one another as well as to E. cirrigera. Sever's "Morph A" shows little genetic difference to sympatric and allopatric E. wilderae and is therefore considered conspecific with it.
3891766|In southern Grenada, 10 species of birds in 7 families were observed feeding upon Anolis lizards. No avian species consumed only anoles, but 40% of all bird species (n = 25) found in the study site fed occasionally on these lizards. Raptors and large insectivorous birds are more likely to prey upon anoles than are small insectivores, seedeaters, and snail eaters. A comparison of the proportion of anoles versus insects in the diets of Mangrove Cuckoos (Coccyzus minor), Smooth-billed Anis (Crotophagus ani), and Carib Grackles (Quiscalus lugubris) indicates that avian predation upon anoles is more intense during the dry season than during the wet season.
3891734| The reproductive cycle of Sceloporus scalaris at an elevation of 2600 m in the Chiricahua Mountains, Cochise County, Arizona, USA was determined from mark-recapture studies and autopsy of 129   and 47  . Females were oviparous. Vitellogenesis began in early April and oviposition was complete by mid-August. Corpora adiposa became progressively smaller during ovarian follicle and oviducal egg development. Females matured in 8-9 months at  47 mm snout-vent length, and produced a single clutch of about 6 eggs. Older (and larger)   produced a single clutch of about 11 eggs but began reproductive activity slightly earlier in the season than yearling  . Such marked differences in fecundity in 1st and 2nd-year oviparous   have not been previously reported. Egg size in yearling and older   was similar. Sceloporus scalaris retain eggs within the oviduct at least 50 days. Most   probably hold their eggs somewhat longer. This phenomenon may represent a condition intermediate to oviparity and viviparity. The  reproductive cycle was determined by gross and histological examinations of testes. Males were in full breeding condition in April and May (seminiferous tubule lumina contained sperm) but became reproductively dormant by mid-June. Spermatogenic activity resumed in August and September. Corpora adiposa during May and June represented < 1% of the total body wt in   but increased to a high of 5% in February prior to sperm production. Maximum testicular and ovarian activity occurred at the same times. Sceloporus scalaris, although early maturing, possess several life history characteristics similar to those of late maturing species such as a higher reproductive effort per clutch, single broodedness, and a reduced courtship, aggressive, and territorial behavior. 
3892029|The microteiid lizard genus Iphisa is redefined, based upon external squamation and osteology. All available specimens have been examined (50) except the holotype. A new subspecies is described from south-central Peru, based upon the absence of prefrontal scales. Pertinent natural history notes are included wherever possible.
3892308|Biochemical characters were used to investigate the evolutionary relationships among 12 species of Rana native to North America: R. aurora, R. boylii, R. catesbeiana, R. clamitans, R. grylio, R. heckscheri, R. palustris, R. pipiens, R. septentrionalis, R. sylvatica, R. utricularia and R. virgatipes. Data were obtained from the electrophoretic analysis of soluble proteins encoded by 16 genetic loci. Cladistic analyses indicate that R. palustris, R. pipiens and R. utricularia form a natural group. The currently accepted composition of the catesbeiana group (R. catesbeiana, R. clamitans, R. grylio, R. heckscheri, R. septentrionalis, R. virgatipes) is not supported. Instead, a paraphyletic catesbeiana group is indicated. An association of R. sylvatica with the Old World brown frogs (R. temporaria) and the boylii group of western North America is supported.
3891837| The large upland arboreal Atlantic slope Costa Rican frog usually called Eleutherodactylus palmatus is shown to be without a valid name. It is redescribed and named Eleutherodactylus andi sp. nov. based on a type from Costa Rica: Provincia de San Jose: 0.8 km N juncture Rio Clara and Rio La Hondura, 1500 m. The names Hyla grisea Hallowell, Craugaster pulchrigulus Cope, and Leiyla gntherii Keferstein are shown to have been based upon examples of E. andi's lowland ally Eleutherodactylus fitzingeri. Because the holotypes of these four names are lost or destroyed, a single specimen (LACM 76859) is designated as the neotype of each name to insure absolute and objective nomenclatural stability. The name Hylodes palmatus Boulenger is a composite, originally based upon examples of Eleutherodactylus fitzingeri and E. rugulosus. Action in this paper makes H. palmatus a strict synonym of the latter species. 
3893283|Natural history museums function in graduate education as centers of research on the evolutionary history and biotic diversity of our planet, repositories of samples of species that serve as the focus of this research, sources of academic advisors and expertise, and funding for research, publication, and postgraduate and postdoctoral education. A number of the funding sources are identified and the scientific culture of museums is discussed.
3892890|Allozyme electrophoresis was used to delineate species boundaries among 46 specimens of Rana from seven locations in the Chimbu and Central provinces of Papua New Guinea. The study revealed five genetic groups, most of which are sympatric. These correspond to a minimum of five biological species. Discriminant function analysis of external meristics differentiated these species and provided a means of identifying further specimens from the Chimbu Province.
3892122|Males of two species of garter snakes with contrasting natural histories exhibited changes in mate preference during the breeding season both in the field and in the laboratory. Male Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis from a population with strongly seasonal activity limits in Manitoba, Canada, initially courted untreated females, ovariectomized females, mated females, and estrogen-treated females equally. As the breeding season progressed, male T. s. parietalis discriminated untreated females from mated females and from ovariectomized females. In contrast, male Thamnophis melanogaster from a population with relatively aseasonal activity patterns in Michoacan, Mexico, initially did not court untreated females. Only if male T. melanogaster were first exposed to estrogen-treated females, would these males begin to court both untreated and ovariectomized females.
3893021|We studied variation in advertisement calls, release calls, and calling behavior in three populations of Bufo alvarius in central Arizona over a 3-yr period. Of advertisement call variables, pulse rate was the only variable significantly (positively) related to temperature, and no variables were correlated with male snout-vent length. For release calls, only pulse rate was significantly (negatively) related to temperature, and no variables were related to male size. Mean advertisement call pulse rate was approximately 30% of average release call pulse rate; such dramatic differences in temporal structure of advertisement and release calls are previously unreported in the genus Bufo. These results support the hypothesis that B. alvarius generates advertisement calls without passive vibrations of the arytenoid cartilages. Overall patterns of call variation in B. alvarius more closely parallel the valliceps rather than the boreas species group. Preliminary discrimination trials indicate that females are attracted to male advertisement calls. Within relatively low density choruses, some large males produced advertisement calls consistently, and active-searching behavior was size-related. Male advertisement calls may play an important role in mate selection by females under some conditions, but an adequate test of this hypothesis awaits additional study.
3890640|Ecological aspects of two agamid lizards, the ground dwelling Sitana ponticeriana and the arboreal Calotes nemoricola, were studied from 1964 to 1966 under natural conditions at Kapilathirtham, Tirupati and in the laboratory at Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati, India. Juvenile and adult C. nemoricola acted as ecologically separate populations because of different habitats, i.e., living in bushes and on small trees in gardens respectively. Lizards of all ages classes tended to be solitary in habits. There was no center of activity. Movements were found to be restricted to areas as small as 1.8-18.5 m
41406804|We conducted a genetic study of the largest cluster of US federally threatened Gopher Tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) colonies. Our objectives were to (1) identify genetic variation within and among colonies across the landscape; (2) determine which factors are important in affecting genetic variation, including land use, habitat quality, and population size; and (3) determine whether genetic partitioning among populations exists and how this relates to (a) geographic distance between sites, (b) Gopher Tortoise natural history and spatial ecology, and (c) land-use history. We studied genetic variability of nine microsatellite DNA loci for 340 adult tortoises from 34 colonies separated by 1.3-45.1 km across a 56,000-ha military installation. Overall genetic variation was low across the landscape and within colonies. Observed heterozygosity (H o ) of tortoise colonies was 49% and allelic richness was 52% of that found in populations located in the eastern portion of the species distribution where habitat is naturally more continuous. Our single colony with highest genetic variation had H o that was 57% and allelic richness that was 60% of eastern colonies. Genetic variation was greatest in sites with suitable habitat. We found weak to no genetic structure across the 45-km landscape (F St = 0.031; Dst = 0.006) and evidence for only one genetic group (K).Although landscape reconfiguration to create sites for military activity has redistributed tortoise colonies and home ranges, we concluded that weak population structure is natural across our study area. Comparison to similar results from a cluster of connected eastern colonies suggests this is a general characteristic of tortoises across large, continuous landscapes and that populations are composed of multiple colonies across the landscape and are naturally large in spatial extent. To alleviate the tortoise-human land use conflict on Camp Shelby, Mississippi, USA and to ensure these created areas continue to benefit tortoises in the long term, maintenance of forest habitat surrounding these created open areas is required. We recommend managing tortoises at Camp Shelby as one unit.
23352181|There are currently eight described species in the lizard genus Xenosaurus. However, given their restricted habitat use (primarily limited to crevices or holes in rocks) and the limited ability to disperse among isolated populations, it is likely that more species of Xenosaurus await discovery and description. Herein we describe a new species of Xenosaurus from the Sierra Madre Oriental in the State of Hidalgo, Mexico. This new species differs from previously described species in lacking a neck band and in having two pale lines that angle up from the jaws and extend parasagittally along the neck. Actualmente hay ocho especies de lagartijas descritas en el gnero Xenosaurus. Sin embargo, dado el uso restringido del hbitat (limitado principalmente a grietas y oquedades de rocas) y limitada habilidad de dispersin entre poblaciones aisladas, es probable que ms especies de Xenosaurus sean descubiertas y descritas. Describimos una nueva especie de Xenosaurus de la Sierra Madre Oriental en el estado de Hidalgo, Mxico. Esta nueva especie difiere de las especies previamente descritas por la ausencia de un collar nucal y por tener dos rayas claras que corren paralelamente a lo largo del cuello.
40602632|We describe a new species of Pristimantis (Anura: Strabomantidae) from the Pacific coast of the Darin Province, Panama. The type locality is on Cerro Pia, in the Serrana de Sapo, at 700-800 m elevation. This new species is readily distinguished from all other known congeners from the region based on external morphology. Despite the small size of the two type specimens, histological analysis of the gonads shows these individuals were potentially reproductive males. Molecular phylogenetic analyses based on the ND2-WANCY mitochondrial gene region reveal that this new species is genetically distinct. Molecular and morphological data place the new species in the Pristimantis (Hypodictyon) ridens species series, and suggest that P. cerasinus be moved to this group as well. Molecular analyses also reveal a potential synapomorphy of the genus Pristimantis relative to the other five genera sampled here: the loss of the D-stem of the tRNA CYS gene. Our finding of another endemic frog from eastern Panama lends further support to the concept of the Darin as a center of endemism and not just a conduit between continents. Describimos una nueva especie del gnero Pristimantis (Anura: Strabomantidae) de la costa del Pacfico de la Provincia de Darin en Panam. La localidad tipo es Cerro Pina a 700-800 metros sobre el nivel del mar. Con base en la morfologa externa esta nueva especie es fcilmente distinguible de todas las otras especies conocidas en la regin. A pesar del pequeo tamao de los dos especmenes tipo, anlisis histolgicos de sus gnadas muestran que estos individuos eran machos potencialmente reproductores. Los anlisis de filogenia molecular basados en la regin de ADN mitocondrial ND2-WANCY revelan que la especie nueva es genticamente distinta. Los datos moleculares y morfolgicos sugieren asignar tentativamente a la nueva especie dentro de la serie de especies "Pristimantis (Hypodictyon) ridens" y que la especie, P. cerasinus, debe ser incluida en este grupo tambin. Los anlisis moleculares tambin revelan una posible sinapomorfa del gnero Pristimantis en comparacin con los otros cinco gneros incluidos en este anlisis: la prdida de la "rama D" del gen ARNt CYS . El descubrimiento y descripcin de otra especie endmica del oriente de Panam da ms apoyo a nuestro concepto del Darin como un centro de endemismo y no slo como una va entre dos continentes.
3892020|The ovarian cycle of a lowland population of the oviparous iguanid lizard Sceloporus occidentalis was investigated. Oviducal females were present over a 3 1/2 month period (April to mid-July). Onset of yolk deposition is positively correlated with lizard size. It may begin as early as February in large females (> 70 mm SVL) and is sometimes delayed as much as 3 months in small females. Yolk deposition requires about 7 weeks for completion. Large females possess potential for producing three clutches per season. Smaller females lay one to two. Clutch sizes decrease as the breeding season progresses. Seasonal occurrences of follicular atresia were noted. It is occasional prior to and during the reproductive period, increasing after conclusion of breeding in mid-July. Histological evidence that multiple clutches are produced is presented.
3891862|The life histories of the skinks Mabuya striata and Mabuya quinquetaeniata were studied from 1975 to 1977 near Livingstone, Zambia. Mabuya striata is viviparous and reproduces throughout the year. Reproduction is inversely related to temperature and rainfall, but positively related to photoperiod and relative humidity. Males are larger, being 108% the length of females. Mabuya quinquetaeniata is oviparous (not viviparous as previously reported) with oviposition beginning in September and lasting until March. Reproductive activity of females is positively related to photoperiod, temperature, humidity, and rainfall. Males are larger, being 105% the length of females. Early attainment of sexual maturity occurs in both species with recruitment into the breeding population occurring at the age of 12-18 mo. Mature males have spermatozoa throughout the year. Nutritional states of both species improve rapidly before the reproductive season. Abdominal fat deposits in Mabuya quinquetaeniata are significantly larger during the reproductive season than during other parts of the year. Mabuya striata possesses small amounts of fat the entire year as expected for a year-round breeder.
3892513| The nomenclatural and taxonomic history, and variation and distribution of Dendrophidion dendrophis (Schlegel) and D. nuchalis (Peters) are discussed. A lectotype is designated for D. dendrophis; Herpetodryas poitei Dumril, Bibron and Dumril is an objective synonym for D. dendrophis. A neotype is designated for Herpetodryas nuchalis Peters, a valid species removed from the synonymy of D. dendrophis; D. clarkii Dunn, in current use, is a junior synonym of D. nuchalis. Relationships with other species are discussed, and a taxonomic synopsis and key to all species of Dendrophidion are provided. 
3893006|The Australian sleepy lizard, Tiliqua rugosa (previously Trachydosaurus rugosus), is a large, mainly herbivorous skink. Individuals of this species occupy overlapping home ranges. We conducted four experiments at Tickera, South Australia, in different seasons in 4 yr. We located individuals daily on two plots over 20 days, to estimate short term home ranges and mean daily distance between locations. In the second half of each experiment, abundant food was added to one of the plots while the other was left as a control. Home ranges were significantly influenced by season, being larger in the spring than in the summer or autumn. There were no differences between sexes. The change in home range size between the first and second halves of the experiments was no different on the experimental plots where food was added than on the controls. Food levels did not appear to influence home range size of Tiliqua rugosa at the time and place of these experiments.
3890774|Defensive displays in two Australian elapid snakes, Denisonia maculata devisii and D. daemelii, are described from field and laboratory observations.
3892523|Several species of plethodontid salamanders of the tribe Bolitoglossini have high levels (80% or more) of enucleated erythrocytes in the adult circulation. This condition is found in members of the diverse genera Batrachoseps, Oedipina, Nototriton, Thorius, and Bolitoglossa, but only in species with extremely diminutive (attenuated or miniaturized) body features and relatively large cells. This condition has apparently evolved several times independently within the tribe. Irregular size and shape of the enucleated RBC's and the presence of numerous free nuclei in the blood suggest that enucleation is the result of random cell breakage in circulating blood.
3892773|We measured non-polar lipids in juvenile, male, and gravid and non-gravid female eastern cottonmouths, Agkistrodon piscivorus piscivorus, during a 2-yr period. Lipids in carcass, liver, fat bodies, and gonads differed among the four groups, although all stored over 55% of their total lipids in fat bodies. Total lipids declined in males and non-gravid females the first year of the study, and a gradual increase in lipids occurred during the second year. Lipid levels in juveniles were lowest during winter and increased each summer. Gravid females had highest lipid levels prior to ovulation, after which both total lipids and fat body lipids declined throughout the gestation period. During April, total lipid levels were significantly greater in gravid females than in all other groups. A large portion of the variation in total lipids was due to unexplained differences between years, as evidenced by females with 10% lipids that were non-gravid in the first year compared to females with 6% lipids that were gravid in the second year.
3891979|Observations of certain ecological parameters during breeding and larval development were made on the salamanders Ambystoma opacum, Ambystoma texanum, and Ambystoma maculatum during 1971 in central Kentucky. Dates of breeding, egg deposition, length of egg incubation periods, and sizes at hatching were observed for A. texanum and A. maculatum. Sizes and dates at transformation were noted for A. opacum and A. texanum larvae. The habitat utilized for breeding and subsequent larval development by A. texanum was distinctly different than that utilized by the other two species. A temporal sequence of breeding times, differential rates of larval development, and differences in size at transformation were also observed among the three species. Comparison of the information obtained during this study with that previously reported for other areas confirms the variation in ecological parameters found among and within species of Ambystoma.
3891873|Movements of marked male Centrolenella fleischmanni were monitored for 1.5 months along a small stream on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Males were territorial and most occupied no more than two sites during the study. Females laid eggs at calling sites of males and males obtained 1-11 matings. Mating success of males was positively correlated with the number of days males occupied calling sites. Sites more than 0.6 m high were occupied on more days and used for oviposition more frequently than sites below 0.6 m. Males at high sites obtained matings at a faster rate than those at low sites. Males showed no parental care. There was relatively little predation on eggs and overall survival of eggs to hatching was 61-71%.
3891653| The few descriptive accounts of populations of the common snapping turtle, Chelydra s. serpentina, uniformly indicate a low density and an equal sex ratio. Capture-recapture data for a 0.81 ha pond revealed estimates of densities an order of magnitude greater than previous accounts. Differential use of space by different sized turtles was indicated. Adult   were larger and more abundant than adult  . The differences between our results and other accounts indicate that a "typical" description of snapping turtle population parameters does not adequately express the variation which may exist between populations. This variation may, in fact, be confounding in studies of variables involved in population dynamics. 
3891947|Genetic variation was analyzed in populations of the cave salamander Eurycea lucifuga throughout its range. This salamander has a continuous range between Ozark and Appalachian regions with no morphological differentiation. This lack of differentiation has been taken by some to be indicative of a postglacial invasion of the Ozarks, while differentiated forms in the 2 regions represent earlier invasions. Twelve biochemical loci examined by electrophoretic techniques revealed that all populations of this species are genetically very similar with similarity values of .900 or higher. Three loci however showed regional localization. An esterase and a malate dehydrogenase locus showed allelic variants restricted to the Ozark region, while a variant at a glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase locus was prevalent south of the Ohio River. These data suggest that 3 zones of at least partial isolation have existed in this species. These zones of isolation were presumably established prior to or during glaciation, and therefore this species has probably been in the Ozarks as long as other differentiated forms.
3891897| Courtship and aggressive behavior in desert striped whipsnakes, Masticophis t. taeniatus, were observed on three spring days near communal hibernacula in northern Utah. A  courted a  by rubbing portions of the female's body with his head and neck. A  defended a small area around a , sometimes engaging in physical combat with an intruding . In the absence of a ,   were usually not intrasexually aggressive. The significance of these sexual behaviors is briefly discussed. 
27669741|I used paint to manipulate the coloration of first-year collared lizard males in the field to test whether conspicuous coloration increases risk of predation and/or aggression from dominant same-sex conspecifics, or resulted in decreased activity as a consequence of either or both increased attention from predators or socially dominant conspecifics. First-year collared lizard males are a good system for this study because their coloration is less developed than that of older males, they may suffer significant predation pressure, and instead of defending territories, they use stealthy tactics to avoid aggression from older socially-dominant males. To test these potential costs, I enhanced the coloration of first-year males in a conspicuous group by painting them similar to older territorial males, used brown paint similar to that of conspecific females to alter coloration in an inconspicuous group, and painted a control group with water. I then recorded census and focal observation data on these males for 40 d to examine survivorship, receipt of aggression by dominant males, and two indices of their activity; the number of censuses when first-year males were emergent, and their rates of travel. Both rates of predation and the frequency of aggressive acts received from territorial males were low overall and did not differ among the three treatment groups. Moreover, males in the three treatment groups did not differ in either the number of censuses when they were sighted or their rates of travel. These results are not consistent with the hypothesis that conspicuous coloration increases risk of predator attack or aggression from dominant conspecific males, suggesting that other costs may explain the observation that conspicuous coloration develops gradually in first-year collared lizard males.
3891679|An experiment was carried out to determine whether the fossorial chorus frog Pseudacris streckeri can feed underground. This species is quite unusual in that it burrows forward using its forelimbs rather than backwards using hind limbs like most other fossorial frogs. The experimental methods involved subsurface confinement of 9 frogs with 500 Tenebrio larvae in each of 2 aquaria containing sand. A control aquarium was set up in a similar manner, except that it lacked frogs. At the termination of the experiment, the sand in each of the experimental aquaria had a smaller number of Tenebrio larvae than the control, and 10 of the 18 frogs had Tenebrio larvae in their stomachs. It is likely that burrowing with the forelimbs facilitates the capture of subterranean prey.
3892054|The technique of skeletochronology was used to determine the age structure of adult Pseudacris crucifer in Maryland. Individuals of both sexes appear to enter the reproductive population during their third spring (as 2-yr-olds). Reproductively active adults ranged in age from 2-4 yr. This range was the same for both sexes and between populations. Females were significantly older than males, suggesting that they may occasionally delay sexual maturity until their third year. ANOVA testing demonstrated that among spring peepers, older frogs are larger frogs. Body size (snout-vent length) is reported to exhibit a significant inverse correlation with frequency of the male mating call. We generated a coefficient of determination to address the question: can a female judge the age of a male by the frequency of his advertisement call? We think not!
3892207|The hemipenis of Sistrurus ravus is described and illustrated. Illustrations of the hemipenes of S. catenatus and S. miliarius are also provided. The hemipenis of S. ravus does not exhibit the diagnostic characteristics that have been used to distinguish Sistrurus from the genus Crotalus. Instead, the hemipenis of S. ravus shows a resemblance to those of Crotalus pusillus and several other closely related species of montane Crotalus and suggests that the generic taxonomy of the rattlesnakes is unsettled.
3893333| Since 1967, the name Cnemidophorus tesselatus (Say, 1823) has been in use for a hybrid-derived complex of whiptail lizards known to include both diploid and triploid parthenogenetic populations distributed in parts of Colorado, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Arizona, Texas, and Chihuahua (Mxico). Application of new binomial nomenclature to additional populations in the complex has long been delayed by philosophical disagreement among workers as to what constitutes a parthenogenetic species of Cnemidophorus in addition to the daunting operational challenge of constructing workable diagnoses for arguably different populations. We concur with a body of opinion that, presently, C. dixoni Scudday, 1973 is the appropriate name for certain disjunct diploid populations of lizards in Hidalgo County, New Mexico, and Presidio County, Texas, despite the fact that some workers continue to allocate these populations to C. tesselatus. We have redefined the remaining diploid populations derived from hybridization between C. marmoratus marmoratus (=C. tigris) and C. gularis septemvittatus (=C. septemvittatus) as an evolutionary species for which the name C. tesselatus was available. To affect stability in the assignment of this name, we designate a neotype and rediagnose the taxon which is geographically distributed in the states previously noted for the complex. We allocate triploid populations derived from hybridization between normally parthenogenetic C. tesselatus and gonochoristic C. sexlineatus to a cytogenetically and morphologically distinct new species restricted to parts of four counties in southeastern Colorado. We found no evidence that the triploid population of lizards in and near Ninemile Valley of the Purgatoire River, Otero County, Colorado should be assigned to a second triploid species as was recommended by some previous authors. All specimens of C. dixoni, C. tesselatus, and the new triploid species were identifiable by highly diagnostic features of dorsal color and/or pattern (i.e., configuration of the stripes on the body and pattern of spots and/or bars on the body, posterior surfaces of the thighs, and base of the tail) evident under both field and laboratory conditions. Each of these species includes either distinctive classes of color pattern or morphological variants subject to further evaluation for taxonomic recognition. Sympatry between C. tesselatus and the triploid species was noted only in and near Ninemile Valley, Colorado; sympatry between C. tesselatus and C. dixoni has been reported only in Pinto Canyon, Presidio County, Texas. 
3892368|Eggs of oviparous reptiles can be assigned to one of three broad categories on the basis of structure of eggshells and sensitivity of eggs to variation in the hydric environment. The eggs of most lizards and (presumably) all snakes are characterized by relatively thin, highly extensible shells with little or no calcareous layer; these eggs are tightly coupled to the hydric environment, with eggs exposed to favorable hydric conditions exhibiting higher hatching success and producing larger hatchlings than eggs exposed to less favorable conditions. In contrast, eggs of many chelonians have somewhat flexible eggshells with a well-defined calcareous layer; these eggs are relatively independent of the hydric environment in that hatching success is not unduly reduced by exposure of eggs to dry conditions, but eggs in more favorable hydric environments nonetheless give rise to larger hatchlings than eggs exposed to less favorable conditions. The hard shells of eggs produced by all crocodilians, some chelonians, and a few lizards are rigid and non-compliant, thereby precluding uptake of large quantities of water by these eggs and also minimizing the potential for water loss; such eggs are effectively independent of the hydric environment, for neither hatching success nor size of hatchlings is influenced by varying the hydric conditions to which eggs are exposed.
3891497| Callisaurus draconoides was studied from March through November 1973 on the lower Colorado River. Callisaurus employs the sit-and-wait foraging strategy and feeds on a variety of insects associated with aerial portions of overhanging vegetation, in addition to some terrestrial insects. Seasonal differences were apparent in the diet, apparently a function of seasonal fluctuations in insect abundance. April, May and June represent the peak breeding season and there is an inverse relationship between testes and fat body size in  . Mean clutch size was 4.6 (1-8) and hatchlings were observed in July and again in early September. No distinct fat body cycle was discernable in  , presumably due to differences in reproductive condition among individuals. Fat bodies of immatures were small or absent, suggesting that most energy is used for somatic growth. 
3892564|Allozyme data are used to examine the taxonomic validity and phylogenetic relationships of the three species of North American five-lined skinks. All three species are found to be electrophoretically distinguishable. A cladistic evaluation of the allozymes leads to the conclusion that Eumeces laticeps, E. inexpectatus and E. fasciatus form a monophyletic group with the former two species sharing the most recent common ancestor.
40602606|We describe a new species of Sibon from the Reserva Forestal La Fortuna, Chiriqu Province, Panama. The new species is distinguished from all species presently assigned to Sibon by having 17 rows of dorsal scales at midbody and 15 rows one head length anterior to cloaca (vs. 13 or 15 rows of dorsal scales at midbody without reduction on posterior portion of body in all other species of Sibon), and dorsal scale rows that change orientation from the sides of body toward middorsum (vs. maintaining more or less the same orientation). A key to the Lower Central American species of Sibon is provided. Describimos una nueva especie de Sibon procedente de la Reserva Forestal La Fortuna, Provincia de Chiriqu, Panam. La nueva especie se diferencia de todas las especies actualmente asignadas al gnero Sibon por tener 17 hileras de escamas dorsales en la mitad del cuerpo y 15 hileras una longitud de cabeza anterior a la cloaca (13  15 hileras de escamas dorsales en la mitad del cuerpo sin reduccin en la parte posterior del cuerpo en todas las dems especies de Sibon), as como hileras de escamas dorsales que cambian su orientacin desde los flancos del cuerpo hacia el centro del dorso (conservan su orientacin longitudinal en todas las dems especies de Sibon). Presentamos una clave para las especies de Sibon que ocurren en el sur de Centroamrica.
3891515| The courtship and copulatory behavior of the aquatic chelid turtles Emydura macquarii, Elseya latisternum, and Chelodina longicollis was studied in captivity. Precoital and coital behavior in Em. macquarii and El. latisternum included the following elements: approach, signaling, frontal contact for alignment of gular barbels, stroking bout, and mounting. In Em. macquarii and El. latisternum, males approached females with a series of dorsoventral head-bobs, engaged in cloacal touching, attempted to align their barbels with those of the females, and began extended stroking of the barbels and snout with the forefeet and claws. Mounting and attempted intromission were observed in Em. macquarii, but were not observed in El. latisternum. The functional usage of the barbels, which was thought to be sensory primarily for prey location, also constituted a portion of the courtship of Em. macquarii and El. latisternum and may suggest a sexual purpose. The mating behavior in C. longicollis differed markedly from the other species insofar as head-bobs, frontal alignment, and stroking by the male were not observed. After a varying period of cloacal touching, the male attained the mounting position by placing his lower jaw upon the postvertebral marginal scutes of the female, then commenced rapid swimming to follow the vertebral groove of her shell anteriorly. The male arched his neck, aligned his plastron over the carapace of the female, juxtaposed the vents and extruded his penis vigorously. The interval between alignment of the vents to full extrusion of the penis was remarkably short, lasting about 1 s. Detumescence and retraction of the penis required 3-5 s. During intromission, the male rested upside down with his carapace on the substratum, thus creating an angle of approximately 150 between the long axes of the pair. Copulation lasted 3 min. 
3891551|The sex of immature green sea turtles (4.8 yr old) was accurately predicted using a sensitive radioimmunoassay for serum testosterone. Because only males had detectable levels of testosterone in serum, they were readily distinguished from females. Injecting immature males with bovine Follicle Stimulating Hormone induced a significant increase in testosterone levels. This procedure may be useful for predicting the sex of even younger animals whose endogenous testosterone levels are below those detectable by radioimmunoassay.
3892331|In the behavioral regulation of the hydration state of the toad Bufo arenarum, different degrees of water deprivation enhanced or attenuated different responses: (1) Activity-at 10% dehydration, activity shows a 215% increase but afterwards a rapid decrease appears; (2) Readiness to take up water-mean running time decreases according to the degree of dehydration; (3) Time in water-it increases with the dehydration level. When deprived of water, toads incorporate and store more water in their bladder than those normally hydrated. Water uptake is performed during the day by dehydrated animals whereas under normal conditions this response is displayed during the night. We conclude that dehydration, biological rhythms, and external stimuli interact to control the different responses.
3893192|We studied sea kraits (Laticauda colubrina) on a small Fijian island during the mating season (September-December) in two successive years. These snakes forage at sea but return to islands to mate (and to lay their eggs, slough their skins, and digest their prey). On land, many females are accompanied by one or more courting males. The males align their bodies with that of the female and occasionally twitch spasmodically. These groups may remain together for days, with overt courtship by males much less frequent and intense than in most previously-studied snake species. Experimental trials in outdoor arenas showed that larger females attracted more intense courtship than did smaller animals. Females containing recently-ingested prey items were no more or less attractive to males than were unfed females. The intensity of courtship did not vary significantly among different times of day, nor was it consistently correlated with ambient temperature or with group size (operational sex ratio). Male sea kraits did not interact with each other in any overt way during courtship, and larger body size did not enhance male reproductive success. In several respects, the courtship of L. colubrina differs from that reported for other snake species.
3893312| The islands in the Gulf of California provide an important natural laboratory for ecological and broad-based evolutionary studies using herpetological models. These studies are potentially compromised by the absence of an evolutionary classification for this fauna. Typological classifications may misrepresent phylogenetic history and render evolutionary studies based on them dubious. Therefore, a reclassification of the herpetofauna on islands in the Gulf of California using an evolutionary species concept is presented based on data in the literature, examination of museum specimens, and field observations. This classification relegates 16 subspecies and six species to synonyms of their peninsular counterparts and elevates 26 subspecies to species status. /// Una clasificacin revisada de la herpetofauna de las islas del Golfo de California basada en un concepto de especie evolutiva, ha resultado en la elevacin de 26 subespecies al nivl de especie y la sinonima de 19 subespecies y siete especies insulares con taxa continentales. Esta clasificacin est basada en linajes y es consistente con la teora evolutiva y la recuperacin de la historia de sus componentes. 
3893424|Based on the discovery of nine specimens from central Brazil, we present new data on the rare gymnophthalmid lizard Bachia bresslaui. The analysis of stomach contents revealed the presence of insect larvae, scorpions, ants, beetles, and spiders, suggesting that the species may feed above the ground. No gravid female was obtained, and the clutch size of the species remains unknown. In two localities, B. bresslaui was associated with sandy soils, but the distributional data are still insufficient to determine microhabitat preferences. The opinion that the species is exceedingly rare may be a result of inadequate collecting methods, and population densities may be much higher than currently thought. Little variation was observed in meristic characters and the maximum snout-vent length recorded is 106 mm. We postulate that all known records are consistent with a widespread distribution of B. bresslaui within the Cerrado ecosystem and that the geographic distribution of the genus should be extended to the whole central Brazilian region.
3893449|Organisms may reduce the risk of predation by responding to chemical cues from predators. Recent research shows that many species vary their antipredator response depending on the diet of the predator. We examined the responses of three plethodontid species of salamander (Plethodon cinereus, Eurycea bislineata, and Desmognathus ochrophaeus) to chemical cues from a shared snake predator (Thamnophis sirtalis). At the time of the study, Eurycea bislineata showed overlap in habitat with Plethodon cinereus and Desmognathus ochrophaeus, but Plethodon cinereus and Desmognathus ochrophaeus showed no overlap with one another. Each salamander species was presented with chemical cues from snakes fed Desmognathus ochrophaeus
3891753|The holotype of Stenostoma signatum Jan, 1861, is shown to be conspecific with Leptotyphlops amazonicus Orejas-Miranda, 1969. Accordingly the valid name for the species is Leptotyphlops signatum (Jan).
3892918| Males of Eleutherodactylus coqui, the Puerto Rican coqu, use multinote aggressive calls extensively at dawn and dusk and sporadically during the day. In April, most aggressive calls counted in a population were heard between 0545-0630 h and between 1800-1845 h. More aggressive calls were given per time period in the morning (maximum of 345/15 min period) than in the evening (maximum of 87/15 min period). Aggressive calls are used most frequently at times when frogs move into or out of diurnal retreats. 
3891491| The volume of packed erythrocytes for all turtle species is 
3890628|Two mud turtles (Kinosternon subrubrum) that moved away from a Carolina bay in South Carolina were located and found to spend the winter on land burrowed 2-11 cm below the surface. Overland movement ceased in November although vertical movement in the burrow continued through December. Turtles commenced moving in early March when temperatures exceeded 21 C.
3892181|We have analyzed the karyotypes of two species of the lizard genus Corytophanes of the family Iguanidae. The karyotypes of C. cristatus and C. hernandesii are very similar to each other and to the closely related Basiliscus vittatus. They consist of 2N = 36 chromosomes, including six pairs of metacentric macrochromosomes and 12 pairs of microchromosomes. Our karyological data are compared with those reported for other iguanids, and the significance of karyological change in the evolution of lizard morphology is discussed.
3892737|The accuracy with which females of Afrixalus delicatus localized conspecific calls was examined under increasingly complex sonic and structural environments. The complexities characteristic of natural anuran choruses do not appear to influence the precision of female approaches.
3890661|Litoria nigropunctata, hitherto inadequately known from a few specimens collected on the West Irian islands, is redescribed to include examples from the north coast of the New Guinea mainland. A new and closely related species is described which appears to replace L. nigropunctata in the southern lowlands of New Guinea. These two species, with the possible addition of the montane L. iris, form a natural group which is defined here. The origin of the group and evolution of its members are discussed.
3892868| A new species of Abronia is described from western Chiapas, Mexico. This elongate species represents the third member of the species group containing A. bogerti and A. chiszari. This group has an unusual distribution, with members occurring both west and east of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec and on both the Atlantic and Pacific versants. Members of the bogerti group possess a distinctive morphology compared to other species of Abronia and may represent a basal or sister lineage to the rest of the genus; alternately, the relationships of this group may lie with Coloptychon of lower Central America. In contrast to other species of Abronia, which inhabit temperate pineoak or cloudforest, the bogerti-chiszari-ramirezi group is found in relatively lowland tropical forests (<1500 m). Presently, these three species are represented in museum collections by a total of four specimens. As additional material becomes available, future study of the relationships of this group may require elevation of the subgenus Scopaeabronia to generic rank. /// Una nueva especie de lagartija gerrhontino, tentativamente asignada al gnero Abronia, se describe del oeste de Chiapas, Mxico. Esta especie representa el tercer miembro del grupo de especies alargadas que contiene a A. bogerti y A. chiszari. Este grupo posee un distribucin inusual ya que sus miembros ocurren tanto al este como al oeste del Itsmo de Tehuantepec y en ambas vertientes, Pacfica y Atlntica. Los miembros de este grupo poseen una morfologa distincta al ser comparados con otras especies de Abronia y podran representar un linaje basal or hermano de este gnero; alternativamente, podran estar relacionados con Coloptychon del Sur de Centro Amrica. A diferencia de otras especies de Abronia, que habitan bosques nublosos o de pino y encino, el grupo bogerti-chiszari-ramirezi vive en bosque tropical relativamente bajo. En la actualidad estas tres especies se encuentran representadas en museos por solamente cuatro especmenes. El subgnero Scopaeabronia fue sugerido para este grupo por Campbell y Frost (1993). Con la adquisicin de mas ejemplares, estudios futuros sobre las relaciones evolutivas de este grupo podran requerir la elevacin de Scopaeabronia a rango genrico. 
3893135| We present new molecular data (mtDNA sequences and allozymes) for several species of South American "triad" coral snakes. We present a phylogenetic hypothesis for the group based on analysis of molecular characters using both maximum parsimony (MP) and maximum likelihood (ML) optimality criteria. Results from both methods are generally congruent and suggest a basal position for the morphologically and ecologically unique Micrurus surinamensis. The M. frontalis complex is shown to be paraphyletic with respect to several other species in the parsimony and likelihood trees, but a topology constraining this group to monophyly cannot be statistically rejected compared to the best MP or ML trees. All analyses provide strong support for polyphyly of M. "lemniscatus", and in this case, the alternative monophyly topology is strongly rejected under both optimality criteria. These results underscore the need for a more detailed analysis of populations currently assigned to M. lemniscatus. /// Este estudo apresenta novos dados moleculares (seqncias do mtDNA e alozimas) para vrias espcies das serpentes corais de tradas da Amrica do Sul. Apresentamos uma hiptese filogentica para o grupo com base na anlise de caracteres moleculares sob os critrios de otimizao de mxima parsimnia (MP) e mxima verosimilhana (ML). Os resultados so concordantes com ambos os mtodos, e sugerem uma posio basal para a espcie Micrurus surinamensis, a qual  morfologica e ecologicamente distinta. O grupo "Frontalis" apresenta-se como parafiltico com respeito a vrias outras espcies nas rvores de parsimnia e verosimilhana, mas a topologia restringindo esse grupo como monofiltico, no pde ser estatisticamente rejeitada quando comparada s melhores rvores de MP ou ML. Todas as anlises revelam um forte suporte para considerar M. "lemniscatus" como polifiltico, e nesse caso, a topologia alternativa de monofiletismo para o grupo  fortemente rejeitada sob ambos os critrios de otimizao. Esses resultados enfatizam a necessidade de uma anlise mais detalhada das populaes atualmente designadas como M. lemniscatus. 
25209099|Three species of aquatic frogs of the genus Telmatobius (T. ceiorum, T. laticeps and T. pisanoi) were historically present in montane streams of Tucumn Province (Argentina). We conducted exhaustive surveys between 2001 and 2005 in three types of environments: (1) streams in mountain forests (Yungas) from 1300 to 1900 m above sea level, (2) streams in montane grasslands 2000 to 4000 m, and (3) streams in Prepuna shrublands from 2000 to 3500 m. Small numbers of T. pisanoi were found at the edge of its original distribution area, but were absent from the sites where the species was originally abundant. The other two species were absent from the surveyed streams, including historic localities, and are presumably extinct. Several factors are suggested as possible causes of this decline, including (a) an unusual dry and warm period that preceded the last record for T. laticeps and T. pisanoi, (b) the presence of exotic salmonids in the forest streams where T. ceiorum historically lived, (c) the expansion of the trout stockings in the historical distribution area of T. laticeps, (d) an increase in erosive processes and debris flowing events in montane streams, and (e) the presence of chytrid fungus. /// Tres especies de ranas acuticas del gnero Telmatobius (T. ceiorum, T. laticeps and T. pisanoi) estuvieron histricamente presentes en arroyos montanos de la provincia de Tucumn (Argentina). Entre 2001 y 2005 realizamos muestreos exhaustivos en tres tipos de ambientes: (1) arroyos en selva de montaa (yungas) desde 1300 hasta 1900 metros sobre el nivel del mar; (2) arroyos en pastizales montanos entre 2000 y 4000 m; y (3) arroyos en monte y prepuna desde 2000 a 3000 m. Solamente Telmatobius pisanoi fue encontrado en pequeos nmeros en el lmite de su rea de distribucin, pero est ausente en otros sitios dnde antes era abundante. T. latices y T. ceiorum estn ausentes en todos los arroyos monitoreados, incluyendo localidades con registros previos, y probablemente estn extintas. Se proponen varios factores como posibles causas de estas declinaciones, incluyendo (a) un periodo inusualmente seco y clido previo a los ltimos registros de T. laticeps y T. pisanoi; (b) la presencia de truchas en los arroyos de yungas dentro del rea de distribucin de T. ceiorum; (c) la expansin de la siembra de trucha en el rea de distribucin de T. laticeps; (d) un aumento en los procesos erosivos y en la frecuencia de eventos de remocin en masa en arroyos montanos; y (e) la presencia del hongo quitridio.
3892652|I conducted a test of the hypothesis that life-history traits would be similar in sympatry for two species of gray treefrogs, Hyla chrysoscelis and H. versicolor, by examining larval growth and development for full-sib families from four populations: each species in sympatry and H. chrysoscelis from near allopatry and far allopatry. Tadpoles of the two species from sympatric populations did not differ in growth trajectories in the two years of the study. In the first year, the sympatric populations and the near allopatric population of H. chrysoscelis did not differ in mass at metamorphosis or length of larval period. Tadpoles from the far allopatric population metamorphosed at a significantly smaller mass and had a somewhat shorter larval duration than the other three populations. In the second year, tadpoles of H. versicolor were significantly larger at metamorphosis and had a significantly shorter larval period, but the magnitude of the difference between the two species in this year was considerably less than the difference observed for these traits between these populations and the far allopatric population in the previous year. These results support the hypothesis that larval life-history traits are more similar for the two species of gray treefrogs where they occur in sympatry under common environmental conditions.
25621910|We performed a two-part experiment in 2007 and 2008 to investigate the effects of externally affixed radio transmitters on the locomotor performance and survival of green iguana (Iguana iguana) hatchlings. Using sprint and climb speeds as locomotor performance variables, we tested in the laboratory the initial speed, maximum burst speed, and overall speed of iguana hatchlings affixed with radio transmitters of 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, 10.0, and 15.0% transmitter-to-body-mass (BM) ratios. We then released iguana hatchlings into a Costa Rican lowland forest to record the survival of free-ranging iguanas affixed with transmitters of 5.0, 7.5, and 10.0% transmitter to BM ratios. Sprint speeds were not reduced significantly with transmitters of up to 15.0% body mass. Climb speeds, however, were reduced for two of three performance variables at the 10% BM ratio. We found no differences in survival probabilities between telemetered treatment groups released into the forest. The probability of survival over two field seasons for telemetered iguanas ranged from 52.2-65.2% over a 24-30 day assessment period. For telemetered iguanas, percentage BM growth was significantly less for animals affixed with 10.0% BM transmitters than for control iguanas without transmitters. We suggest transmitter-to-body-mass ratios for cryptic arboreal lizard species should not exceed 7.5% based on lower climb performance in the laboratory and lower relative mass gain for free-ranging iguanas with 10.0% BM transmitters. Because lizard life histories vary substantially, researchers should be proactive in evaluating the energetic expenditures, foraging strategies, and escape responses of focal species to minimize effects of transmitter and attachment techniques.
3892975|Oviducts of adult female turtles (Chrysemys picta) were flushed at various times throughout the year to determine the time of insemination. Large quantities of sperm were recovered only during October. Much smaller quantities of sperm were recovered from the oviducts in the spring, and these were derived from the sperm storage tubules. Electroejaculation of male turtles yielded sperm only in the autumn, coinciding with the time of sperm appearance in the oviducts of females. We conclude that sperm may be transferred to females during fall copulations.
3891189|Lacerta portschinskii and L. raddei co-occur at two localities north of Lake Sevan in the Armenian S. S. R. Electrophoretic patterns of hemoglobin, mannosephosphate isomerase, glucosephosphate isomerase, lactate dehydrogenase, and peptidases specific for leucyl-tyrosine and leucyl-glycyl-glycine distinguish these taxa and reveal no evidence of hybridization where the taxa are sympatric. The two taxa thus are not conspecific, although both are usually considered races of Lacerta saxicola.
3891434| A 31-month mark-recapture study of a ribbon snake population was conducted in Brazos County, Texas, USA. Trapping success was positively correlated with rainfall 3 months earlier. Ribbon snakes depended on amphibians, particularly metamorphosed anurans, for food. Larger size was associated with greater vagility in adult   and  . Immature   were distinctively sedentary compared to other sex and age groups. Sperm in cloacae of   indicated spring mating. Parturition occurred in July and August with some broods produced as late as mid-October. Snakes of similar size produced fewer young in Texas than in Louisiana. At an age of about 1 year, minimum mature snout-vent length of   was 515 mm. Females probably first gave birth at age 2 years. Minimum mature snout-vent length of   was 400 mm (age 7-9 months);   may mate during their first spring. Estimates of population density ranged from 61-16 snakes/ha in 1969-1971. In 1969, 373 young were produced by 38 mature  , a pre-reproduction increase factor of 4.6. There was a correspondence between population size and total rainfall during the preceding November-February. 
3892249| Lepidoblepharis miyatai sp. nov. is a unique sphaerodactyline gecko which occurs in dry coastal thorn forest of the Department of Magdalena, northern Colombia. It is related most closely to L. sanctaemartae, the only other Lepidoblepharis with flattened, overlapping dorsal and lateral scales, and it shares with L. microlepis, L. peraccae and L. sanctaemartae the trait of having 10 or fewer subdigital scales on toe IV. /// Una especie nueva de geco, Lepidoblepharis miyatai (Sauria: Gekkonidae) se describe de la costa rida norte del Departamento de Magdalena, Colombia. La especie ms similar es L. sanctaemartae de la cual la nueva forma se distingue por un mayor nmero de escamas subdigitales de la pata posterior, y por un mayor numero de escamas ventrales. Junto con Lepidoblepharis sanctaemartae, L. miyatai comparte otra caracterstica nica para el genero: la presencia de escamas dorsales grandes, lisas, e imbricadas. 
3891648|The current taxonomic status of the Clemmys complex of freshwater turtles places the Old World genera Mauremys and Sacalia in the subfamily Batagurinae, and the New World genus Clemmys in the subfamily Emydinae. These three genera were previously considered to be congeneric. Starch gel electrophoretic techniques were used to examine relationships within and between these genera. Representatives of 10 of the 11 taxa were examined for 17 different protein bands including general proteins, esterases, lactate dehydrogenases, malate dehydrogenases, indophenol oxidase, leucine aminopeptidase, sorbital dehydrogenase, and glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase. Biochemical similarities support both the generic and subfamilial revisions of the Clemmys complex; bands from only five different proteins are shared between the New and Old World forms. Lactate dehydrogenase -2 is the only protein to distinguish the genera, though the composite pattern of all proteins examined also reflects the generic distinction. Based on these similarities, the following relationships were indicated. Within Clemmys, C. guttata and C. muhlenbergi demonstrate the greatest similarity, with C. muhlenbergi next most similar to C. marmorata. C. insculpta appears to be the most primitive member, sharing the fewest number of protein bands with other taxa in the genus. Mauremys and Sacalia appear biochemically very similar which suggests they arose in the Orient, and that Mauremys secondarily spread to Europe. Mauremys caspica leprosa appears to have sufficiently differentiated in isolation from the main stock of M. caspica to suggest specific status; further work is needed to substantiate this hypothesis.
3890972|Information from 17 interspecific hybrid combinations is now available. The thicker jelly of the eggs of some species may prevent or retard fertilization by sperm of other species. Genetic compatibility ranges from uniform failure at blastula to nearly normal viability and fertility in the F
4497955|A new species of aquatic snake in the genus Pseudoeryx is described from the Lake Maracaibo Basin in northwestern Venezuela. The new species differs from P. plicatilis, the only other species in the genus, by having a nuchal band, a distinctive ventral coloration, the relative size of the genial plates and having different maxillary dentition. This discovery further supports paleogeographic reconstructions of the course of a proto-Orinoco/Amazon river.
3892291|Electrophoretic analysis of proteins coded by 19 loci in the hybrid parthenogenetic lizard C. neomexicanus and its parental species, C. tigris marmoratus and C. inornatus, revealed two clones which differ in genotype at one enzyme locus, malate dehydrogenase-1. One clone occurred at six of seven localities and the other was present at only one locality. A comparison of C. neomexicanus with another parthenogenetic species, C. tesselatus, suggests that the extent of the geographic and ecological distributions of parthenogenetic species of Cnemidophorus is directly related to the degree of clonal diversity.
3892053| Acoustical signals of six species of Telmatobius from the Andean Cordillera in Chile are described. These frogs do not emit advertisement calls. Adult males, females, and juveniles of Telmatobius marmoratus, T. peruvianus, T. pefauri, T. zapahuirensis and T. halli from the Andean region of northern Chile (Lat 18 S-23 S) respond when a slight pressure is applied to their back or flanks with a prolonged vibration of the thoracoabdominal musculature which is accompanied by a succession of notes here referred to as a contact call. When roughly handled, these frogs also emit a high pitched distress call with the mouth widely open. Most of the energy in this signal is concentrated between about 5-8 kHz which is unusually high for anuran vocalizations and could conceivably constitute an effective response to predators. The contact call is very similar in the different species of Telmatobius from northern Chile, which suggests that they are closely related in their origin. Telmatobius montanus, an Andean species from the central region (Lat 33 S), emits a two-note call in absence of stimulation, a trait which is consistent with placing this frog in a separate taxon. 
3891739|The 26-chromosome (2n) karyotype of the microhylid frog, Otophryne robusta confirms its primitiveness and relative distinctness from other New World microhylids.
3892900|Microhabitats identified by current speed, position in the stream, depth, and the substrate were evaluated in streams supporting populations of Eurycea tynerensis. Variables included substrate particle size, embeddedness, temperature, dissolved oxygen, current velocity, depth, and the relative abundance of isopods, ephemeropterans, plecopterans, amphipods, sculpins, and crayfish. Depth and velocity were negatively related to salamander occurrence and were the best indicators of suitable microhabitats. Substrate particle size, embeddedness, and presence of mayfly nymphs also were important predictors of salamander microhabitats. Salamanders were most commonly found in shallow (< 10 mm), slowly moving (usually < 10 cm/s) water with medium-sized rocks (65-256 mm diameter), moderate degrees of embeddedness (about 50%), and with high densities of aquatic invertebrates.
3892472|Cloacal anatomy was studied in males of all currently recognized species of desmognathine salamanders. These species can be divided into three categories based upon inter-specific variation of cloacal structures. One category contains Phaeognathus hubrichti which differs from other plethodontids examined in that it lacks dorsolateral and caudal pelvic-glands. Another category comprises the typical desmognathine pattern consisting of the remaining species except Desmognathus quadramaculatus and Leurognathus marmoratus. The typical desmognathine pattern is characterized by dorsolateral recesses in the posterior cloacal chamber. Otherwise, the typical desmognathine pattern is similar to that of non-neotenic Eurycea and Plethodon cinereus, which lack such dorsolateral recesses. D. quadramaculatus and L. marmoratus differ from the typical desmognathine pattern by shortening of the cloacal tube, extension of the anterior ventral-gland inferiorly and caudally, and reduction of the dorsolateral recesses and of the posterior ventral-gland.
3891573|One egg of R. altamirani collected in a heavily vegetated spring seep near La Marquesa, Mexico, on 25 March 1971, developed in captivity and the resulting larva transformed in 6 months at 70 mm SVL. Eleven of 12 neotenic adults collected with it transformed in captivity. Six eggs of R. rivularis were found attached to the bottom of a rock in a small stream on Nevado de Toluca, Mexico, on 26 March 1971, and 19 more in two developmental stages were collected beneath an overhanging bank of the same stream on 25 May 1972. Four embryos developed in captivity and three resulting larvae were reared for 9 months before they died at a length of 50 mm SVL. Hatchlings of both species had moderately large yolk sacs, a pigment pattern of dark dorsal bands on a yellowish ground color and a pale midlateral stripe, moderately long front limb buds, and lacked balancers.
3892416|A large number of independent losses of cloacal bones and sacs in gekkonoids diminishes the importance of these characters in diagnosing monophyletic groups. Gekkonoid cloacal bones are probably not homologous with the postanal bones found in xantusiid lizards and in the extinct prolacertiformes Tanystropheus and Tanytrachelos. While Aristelliger lacks typical subcutaneous cloacal bones and cloacal sacs, it appears to be unique among gekkonoids in possessing one or two pairs of bones within each hemipenis.
3893520|We describe a new species of Eleutherodactylus from the lowlands of the western Amazon Basin. The new species is referred to the Eleutherodactylus unistrigatus group, lacrimosus assemblage. It differs from other members of the group by having a dorsal olive-green coloration with an interorbital creamy yellow stripe that extends posterolaterally and reaches the level of the sacrum, and low ulnar and tarsal tubercles. The new species inhabits western Amazon tropical rainforests and has been found in arboreal bromeliads by day and on vegetation by night. We discuss the effect of lack of sampling in the forest canopy in our understanding of tropical amphibian communities. Based on work conducted at two localities in Ecuadorian Amazonia, we find that even limited sampling effort in the canopy can greatly improve efficiency of biological inventories.
25621896|Measures of performance are used to quantify the ability of an individual to execute specific activities. In lizards, sprint speed is the most commonly evaluated measure of performance due to its relationship with biological fitness, presumably via increased effectiveness of foraging and escaping predators. Some lizards also use the aquatic environment and dive underwater as an effective means of foraging and/or escaping predators. We tested the usefulness of diving as a measure of performance in a small, diurnal lizard that frequently dives into intertidal water. Adults of Oligosoma smithi were encouraged to dive and the maximal duration of their dive as well as their behavior were recorded. Eighty-three percent of the 46 individuals dove in the six trials, with the longest dive time recorded at 6 min 36 s in a pregnant female. The diving ability of O. smithi was not related to pregnancy, whether an individual had eaten, or any of the morphological measures taken. We also searched for records of duration of diving in other lizards as a means of determining whether diving in water is widespread. Few data are available on duration of diving for other lizards. Our data suggest that, for species that submerge in water to forage and/or escape predators, diving ability should be considered as a measure of overall performance.
41406800|Much attention has been given to the conservation of small populations, those that are small because of decline, and those that are naturally small. Small populations are of particular interest because ecological theory suggests that they are vulnerable to the deleterious effects of environmental, demographic, and genetic stochasticity as well as natural and human-induced catastrophes. However, testing theory and developing applicable conservation measures for small populations is hampered by sparse data. This lack of information is frequently driven by computational issues with small data sets that can be confounded by the impacts of Stressors. We present estimates of demographic parameters from a small population of Boreal Toads (Anaxyrus breas) that has been surveyed since 2001 by using capture-recapture methods. Estimates of annual adult survival probability are high relative to other Boreal Toad populations, whereas estimates of recruitment rate are low. Despite using simple models, clear patterns emerged from the analyses, suggesting that population size is constrained by low recruitment of adults and is declining slowly. These patterns provide insights that are useful in developing management directions for this small population, and this study serves as an example of the potential for small populations to yield robust and useful information despite sample size constraints.
3891326|Temperatures within 23 egg masses of Rana sylvatica and 33 masses of Rana pipiens were measured and compared with temperatures of the surrounding water. The masses of Rana sylvatica averaged 1.60 C higher than the surrounding water; those of R. pipiens averaged 0.63 C higher. Higher temperatures within masses were attributed to the absorption of solar radiation by the darkly pigmented eggs, and to the insulation of eggs by their jelly coats. Higher egg temperatures may protect eggs from the harmful effects of low environmental temperatures, and may permit more rapid development.
3893554|Thresholds for evoked advertisement calling for 18 males were measured in a temperate forest in southern Chile, in order to relate this behavior to the intensities of neighbors' calls that males of this species encounter in nature. Stimuli used were bouts of natural single-note advertisement calls played back at increasing intensity in steps of 6-12 dB. Male frogs responded with single-note advertisement calls to stimulus bouts at average sound levels of about 60 dB peak SPL (range: 39-85 dB peak SPL), measured at the subjects' position. Frogs increased their call rates in response to increasing stimulus intensity, reaching a plateau at about 24 dB above threshold. At intensities above threshold, 11 frogs also responded with double-note calls, and two of these frogs occasionally gave triple- and four-note calls. The average thresholds for advertisement calling are low enough so that males respond to their nearest neighbors in low-density aggregations, thereby sustaining the chorusing activity.
3891886|An electrophoretic comparison of 15 proteins is used to evaluate genetic relationships of turtles in the genus Sternotherus. Samples of S. odoratus were highly heterozygous, but relatively little heterogeneity was seen among populations. Results confirm the previously reported affinity between S. minor and S. depressus. The genetic position of S. carinatus does not agree with ecological and morphological data placing it in a species complex with S. minor and S. depressus. Based on shared alleles and genetic distances, it appears that S. odoratus and S. carinatus are closer phylogenetically than either is to S. depressus or to S. minor.
3892058| The nesting of Crocodylus novaeguineae in Lake Murray District, Papua New Guinea is described, based on observations of 121 nests during 1980-1981. Cryptic nest location and wariness of adults inhibited nest discovery. Most nests (68.7%) were built on land, the remainder on floating mats of herbaceous vegetation. The breeding season was protracted, but 95% of nesting occurred in the November-May wet season. Sexual maturity, as evidenced by copulation in captivity, was attained at 1.4 m in females and 1.5 m in males. Oviposition by a captive individual occurred 68 days after mating. Estimated incubation period was 83-91 days. Mean clutch size (21.8  6.9 SD, n = 44) did not differ between nests on land and floating mats, although mean egg mass (103.5 g  5.6 SD, n = 426) differed between nest types. Clutch size was highly correlated with female size
3892014|The behavior of a female alligator at her nest was observed in the Everglades of southern Florida. Maternal behavior discussed includes nest guarding, nest opening, and the transport of juveniles by mouth.
3892669| Two new species of Arrhyton are described from Cuba. Arrhyton supernum occurs in extreme eastern Cuba (Guantnamo Prov.), and is a dark species with occipital spots. It is placed in the vittatum group, which includes other moderate-sized species with relatively short tails. Arrhyton procerum occurs near Playa Girn (Matanzas Prov.) and is a slender species with a very long tail. It is placed in the dolichura group with other long-tailed species. The status of A. redimitum Cope is reviewed, and it is determined that the specimen currently designated as the holotype is not, and that the original holotype cannot be located. Although A. redimitum now is removed from the synonymy of A. taeniatum, the holotype description is insufficient to associate A. redimittum with either A. landoi or A. supernum. The genus Arrhyton now comprises 12 species, eight of which are endemic to Cuba. 
3891270|Samples of 7 species of Galapagos Island lava lizards (Tropidurus) from 12 different islands were compared. They were sexually dimorphic. Proportional tail lengths were similar. Incubation periods were long (over 100 days) when compared with eggs of other iguanids under the same temperature regime. Average cloacal temperatures of active lava lizards were similar (33.5 to 35.5 C) for all island forms. Tests indicated little discrimination by males between different island forms, male or female, but a preference for orange or red color was indicated. They were attracted to areas where insects abound. The large percentages with injured tails (62% in one form) may relate to mockingbird harassment. Captive specimens survived over three and one-half years. Lava lizards exhibited sand burying retreat behavior similar to some other iguanids.
3893205|I examined the effect of experimentally increased prey abundance on home range and core area size, overlap, and location, and on levels of aggregation in the widely foraging, unisexual lizard Cnemidophorus uniparens. Food supplementation had no effect on home range size but resulted in a significant decrease in core area size. Supplemental feeding caused a repositioning of home ranges and core areas. Individuals visiting supplemental food sites (= fed) shifted both home range and core areas toward regions with supplemental food. Lizards not observed visiting the feeding areas (= unfed) tended to move home range and core area locations away from those regions. Overlap of core areas and levels of aggregation also increased for fed animals.
3893227|We investigated breeding activity of a community of desert anurans at two sites in north-central Phoenix, Maricopa County, Arizona, during 1990-1995. Four species used these sites for breeding during the summer monsoon season: Colorado River toad, Bufo alvarius, Great Plains toad, B. cognatus, red-spotted toad, B. punctatus, and Couch's spadefoot toad, Scaphiopus couchii. Breeding activity was restricted primarily to 1990 and 1992 when significant rainfall events (>25 mm of rainfall within 24 h) occurred repeatedly. No breeding (i.e., oviposition) occurred during 1991 or 1993, and only S. couchii bred on a single night in 1994 and B. alvarius on a single night in 1995. We undertook a skeletochronologic analysis of lines of arrested growth in digits and femurs with all four study species. Conservative estimates of age based on lines of arrested growth (LAG's) suggest that populations of all four taxa were relatively young (average age between two and four years) at both sites in 1994 and 1995. Growth, as indicated by the amount of bone deposited between LAG's, was greatest during the second year in B. alvarius and B. cognatus, but not B. punctatus or S. couchii. These results indicate rapid growth to maturity but do not support the notion that these anuran amphibians are long-lived organisms that exhibit an extended reproductive lifespan as adults in response to a highly variable, harsh desert environment.
3892678|Anniella pulchra was filmed while traversing plane surfaces, fields of pins and nails at different spacings, and channels of different diameter. In traversing plane surfaces of varied roughness, Anniella does not use slow lateral undulation but rather continuous or intermittent variations of slide-pushing, as well as a curious surface concertina. It undulates through fields of pins, swinging the regular curves past changing points d'appui and moving the anterior head and neck along a different path than that of the body. However, among tight pin spacings, it exerts forces at a limited number of sites of the body, pushing and pulling the anterior and posterior trunk (and tail) among these. Only amid 2 cm spacings do adults perform lateral undulation in which the entire animal passes along a single track. Channels are passed by continuous bend concertina; the initial bend is formed anteriorly and subsequent ones added, generally only to the level of the cloaca and not onto the tail. The head is bent sharply on the craniovertebral joint. Tight curves commonly form on the neck which curves more rapidly and sharply than does the more posterior zone. The cloacal region forms a site of discontinuity; propulsive curves rarely form posterior to it in any of the locomotor modes; however, the distal portion of the tail (20-30%) often bends laterally, and specimens with intact tails attempt to curve this caudal portion of the tip downward during slide-pushing. Whereas in concertina, the posterior trunk and part of the tail may be in curved contact with the walls of a channel, the postcloacal region seems stiffened and retains its shape as it is pulled forward. Average velocities of adults are relatively low, 1.8 cm/s for slide-pushing, 6.0 cm/s for lateral undulation, and 1.4 cm/s for concertina. A finite element analysis of displacements and kinetic energy for the three locomotor patterns documents substantial differences among them. The analysis documents that Anniella is a sand-swimmer that can traverse all of the substrates, although being relatively ineffective in tunnels and using simple undulation rather than lateral undulation in open peg spacings.
3892581|A new species of salamander of the montane Bolitoglossa dunni group is described from northern Honduras. The closest relative of the new taxon appears to be B. conanti. Statistical analyses (ANCOVA) demonstrated significant differences between the two taxa in numbers of maxillary and vomerine teeth, relative head widths, and female relative tail lengths. Differences in color pattern and adult sizes also exist between the two taxa. Bolitoglossa conanti and the new species are presently isolated from one another by the subhumid and low elevation Sula Plain.
3891548|A fossil assemblage from the Bijou Hills local fauna (Fort Randall Formation) in south-central South Dakota has yielded the remains of at least one salamander, two frogs, two turtles, one lizard, and seven snakes. The herpetofauna is similar to those of the Egelhoff and Norden Bridge local faunas of the lower part of the Valentine Formation in north-central Nebraska (late Miocene: Barstovian).
3892601|The mean temperature selected by post-absorptive Nerodia s. sipedon in a laboratory thermal gradient was 27.7 C (SE = 1.42, n = 5). The mean temperatures selected by the same snakes following the ingestion of natural food items and model transmitters were 36.0 C (SE = 2.33, n = 5) and 36.4 C (SE = 2.31, n = 5), respectively. A repeated measures ANOVA indicated that the substrate temperatures selected after ingestion of either food or transmitters were significantly higher than those selected when post-absorptive. These results suggest that studies using ingested transmitters may bias their observations in favor of post-ingestion behavior.
3893612| We redescribe Hyla pulchella joaquini and describe its tadpole and vocalization. The taxonomic status of this subspecies is reevaluated; and on the basis of morphology, geographic distribution, and vocalization, we propose the elevation of this subspecies to specific level with the name Hyla joaquini B. Lutz 1968. We also discuss the relationship of H. joaquini within the species groups of H. pulchella Dumril and Bibron 1841 and H. circumdata (Cope 1871). /// Neste trabalho redescrevemos Hyla pulchella joaquini e descrevemos seu girino e vocalizao. O status taxonmico desta subespcie  reavaliado e; com base em morfologia, distribuio geogrfica e vocalizao, propomos a elevao desta subespcie ao nvel especfico com o nome de Hyla joaquini B. Lutz 1968. Tambm discutimos o relacionamento de Hyla joaquini com as espcies dos grupos de Hyla pulchella e Hyla circumdata. 
3893268|The brown tree snake, Boiga irregularis, is an introduced pest species on the island of Guam where it has caused significant economic and ecological damage. Despite the need for basic biological information about this species to manage it effectively, little is known about its reproductive behavior. We report here the repertoire of reproductive behaviors displayed by this species. The courtship behavior of the brown tree snake parallels that of other colubrids, adhering to the triphasic schema developed to standardize descriptions of colubrid courtship; nonetheless, there are differences in the specific behaviors displayed. Unlike most other colubrids, female brown tree snakes employ courtship behaviors normally displayed only by males. In addition, females can inhibit male courtship through the use of a pheromone released in a liquid secretion from the cloaca. Male brown tree snakes show ritualized combat behavior similar to that observed in other colubrid species. Longer and heavier males always won combat events in the study.
3892670|Using starch gel electrophoresis, we examined allozyme variation at 24 presumptive loci in specimens of Tylototriton andersoni collected from three islands of the Ryukyu Archipelago: Amami-Oshima, Tokunoshima, and Okinawajima. Levels of genetic variability within island samples (H = 0.050-0.082, P = 0.21-0.38, A = 1.25-1.58) are within the intrapopulational range previously reported for other salamandrids. The sample from Okinawajima is different from the Amami-Oshima and Tokunoshima samples with Nei's genetic distance (D) of 0.09-0.12, whereas the level of differentiation between the latter two is lower (D = 0.02). This pattern of genetic differentiation within T. andersoni coincides well with the geological history of the three islands.
3891971|Eight hatchling Chelonia mydas were tested in an optokinetic drum to determine if they would perform optokinetic responses. Optomotor responses, head nystagmus, and eye nystagmus were elicited from each hatchling the first time it was exposed to a stimulus pattern of vertical black and white stripes moving horizontally. In one test, optokinetic responses were elicited from a turtle only 30 min after its departure from the nest. Stabilization of moving stripes on the retina was accomplished primarily by means of optomotor responses by all subjects. These results and those of earlier experiments with insects, fishes, birds, and mammals suggest that an innate capacity for, or the early development of, optokinetic behaviors may be common to most if not all animals that see.
3893256| The reproductive cycle in Anolis nebulosus at Chamela, Jalisco, Mxico varied between years, among months, and between sexes. Males reached sexual maturity at 32 mm snout-vent length (SVL) at age 7 mo. Females reached sexual maturity at 35 mm at age 9 mo. Testes of males began to increase in size in early spring (March), maximal testes size occurred between May-July, and testes began to decrease in August, reaching minimum size in October. Females contained oviductal eggs from June-November. Most females simultaneously had three classes of eggs (non-vitellogenic follicles, vitellogenic follicles, and oviductal eggs) in late June, and all females had the three classes of eggs during July-October suggesting rapid egg production. Maximal testicular growth was positively correlated with increasing photoperiod and temperature, but not with precipitation. Egg production, however, occurred primarily during the wet season. The estimated mean number of eggs laid by individual females during the reproductive season was 15.4  0.4 (range 12-18). Egg mass was positively related with SVL of females. Variation in RCM with season resulted from variation in female mass; egg size did not vary seasonally. /// El ciclo reproductivo en Anolis nebulosus de Chamela, Jalisco, Mxico, vari entre aos, entre meses y entre sexos. Los machos alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 32 mm de longitud hocico-cloacal (LHC) a una edad de 7 meses; las hembras alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 35 mm a una edad de 9 meses. La actividad reproductive de los machos empez a principios de la primavera (marzo), la mxima actividad testicular ocurri entre mayo-julio, y comenz a decrecer en agosto, alcanzando el mnimo tamao en octubre. La actividad reproductiva de las hembras ocurri entre junio-noviembre. La mayoria de las hembras tuvieron tres clases de huevos (folculos no-vitelogenicos, folculos vitelognicos, y huevos en el oviducto) en Junio, y todas las hembras presentaron las tres clases de huevos durante julio-octubre. El mximo crecimiento testicular estuvo correlacionado con el incremento del fotoperodo y temperatura, pero no con la precipitacin. Sin embargo, la produccin de huevos, ocurri durante la estacin de lluvias. El nmero promedio de huevos puestos por cada hembra durante la estacin reproductiva fue de 15.4  0.4 (12-18). La masa del huevo estuvo relacionada positivamente con la LHC de las hembras. La variacin en la MRN con la estacin, result de la variacion en la masa de las hembras. El tamao del huevo no vari estacionalmente. 
3892960|Nucleotide sequence data from a 556 bp segment of the mitochondrial 16S ribosomal RNA gene support the partition of emydid turtles into two distinct subfamilies. Phylogenetic analysis identifies two major clades and corroborates previous morphological assignments of genera to the subfamilies Deirochelyinae and Emydinae. Within the subfamily Deirochelyinae, Deirochelys appears to be the sister taxon to all other genera in the subfamily, and support is found for a clade that includes Trachemys, Graptemys, and Malaclemys. However, the other generic relationships within this subfamily are not well resolved. Within the Emydinae, the genus Terrapene is monophyletic. Conversely, the genus Clemmys is paraphyletic, necessitating a new generic arrangement of the species now considered to be in Clemmys, Emydoidea, and Emys.
3890768|The number and arrangement of the scleral ossicles in the sceloporines are discussed and figured. Fourteen scleral ossicles are present in Sator, Sceloporus, Uta, Urosaurus, and Petrosaurus; twelve are present in Uma, Callisaurus, Holbrookia, and Phrynosoma. On the basis of the number and configuration of the ossicles, the sceloporines are divided into two groups: (1) Sceloporus, Sator, Uta, Urosaurus, and Petrosaurus; (2) Uma, Callisaurus, Holbrookia, and Phrynosoma. Group 2 can be further subdivided by the position of the eighth ossicle: (2A) Callisaurus, Holbrookia, and Uma; (2B) Phrynosoma.
3891838| Hematological variation in the large tropical lizard Iguana iguana was investigated. Erythrocyte counts, hemoglobin contents and hematocrits were determined. Hematological values for   and   are higher during the reproductive season, and suggest that a significant relationship exists between these blood changes and occurrence of the breeding season. 
3891199|Continuously recording thermometers were used to determine the temperature inside three alligator nests and the air temperature at each nest site. Differences in nest and air temperature were compared between years, periods of the nesting season, and hour of the day. Significant differences were found in practically all comparisons. The nest material provided excellent insulation for the eggs. Although the mean hourly air temperature fluctuated 9.3 C daily, the mean hourly nest temperature fluctuated only 1.2 C daily. Nest temperatures averaged 1.4 C warmer than air temperatures. The nests were constructed of plant material and the mean difference in nest and air temperatures probably resulted from the heat released with the decomposition of the nest material.
27669743|Signaling plays a critical role in social behavior, particularly in polygynous systems where males compete with rival males and use signals to attract mates. We quantified visual signals and social behavior in two previously unstudied species of chameleons in Madagascar, Furcifer labordi and F. verrucosus. Females of both species displayed distinct color patterns that signaled either nonreceptivity or potential sexual receptivity. Nonreceptive females rejected all male courtship. Potentially receptive F. verrucosus females mainly allowed males to attempt copulation, whereas potentially receptive F. labordi females were selective. We found that the fleshy, paddle-like rostral appendage in F. labordi was used only during courtship, whereas other studies showed that hard, keratinized appendages were used for male combat. During male-male contests, F. labordi had much more physically intense encounters, possibly to assess opponent quality more accurately since adult male F. labordi were significantly more size-matched than adult male F. verrucosus. Our study elucidated the role of social signals in these species, illustrated the atypical social behavior of chameleons compared to other lizards, and provided testable hypotheses to further delineate sexual selection in this understudied group. Sexual selection, especially intersexual selection, appears more likely in F. labordi than in F. verrucosus.
41238990|With the historical and continued fragmentation of Longleaf Pine (Pinus palustris) forests, an increasing need emerges to identify remaining Black Pine Snake, Pituophis melanoleucus lodingi, populations and understand species-environment correlations so that conservation efforts for this taxon are properly directed and appropriate. This study had three main objectives: (1) to use radiotelemetry data in conjunction with GIS modeling to assess multiple scale resource selection for P. m. lodingi; (2) to use occurrence data to validate our habitat suitability model; and (3) to quantify microhabitat characteristics of P. m. lodingi locality records and evaluate differences in land cover between historical and recent records. At the landscape scale, P. m. lodingi selected evergreen forests in upland areas lacking cultivated crops, pasture and hay fields, developed areas, and roads. Within home ranges, P. m. lodingi were found closer to scrub/shrub habitat and open areas than expected. Our Boolean model reduced the area deemed suitable for P. m. lodingi by 84.3%, while accurately categorizing 75% of recent P. m. lodingi occurrences, demonstrating the potential for robust model development despite small sample sizes. We found significant habitat differences between recent and historical P. m. lodingi locality records, which corroborated the findings of our Boolean model. Recent sites of occurrence were, on average, 597 m from areas with a model score of "optimal," whereas sites with no recent records were, on average, 1582 m from areas with an optimal score. Recent sites were characterized by significantly less canopy cover, less basal area, less midstory cover, greater percentages of grass, bare soil, and forbs in the ground cover, less shrubs and litter in the ground cover, and a more recent burn history than sites with no recent records. Areas containing historical P. m. lodingi populations are simultaneously becoming unsuitable at both the landscape and microhabitat scales. Our Boolean modeling approach represents a costeffective way to plan for informed management actions for snake taxa of conservation concern.
25209100|The species diversity of Taiwan Hynobius salamanders has long been debated. In this study, we analyzed morphological and molecular data from these taxonomically problematic salamanders. Our results show that, based on mitochondrial sequence data, there are five distinct clades of Taiwanese Hynobius. This result is consistent with morphologically-based analyses. Three of the clades have been described as distinct species, and our results corroborate their recognition, while the other two are described as new species in this paper. The first new species described is a moderately large, five-toed species. Coloration of dorsum is yellowish brown with irregular, black, short stripes and a gray ventral surface. This species is found in the northern Central and Syueshan Mountain Range at elevations above 3000 m, and has an average cytochrome b sequence divergence from other Taiwanese species ranging from 5.2% to 10.1%. The second new species described is small but robust, has a short tail and limbs, and has four-toes on each foot. Its dorsal color is dark brown with white spots and it has 11 costal grooves. This species is distributed in the northern and central part of the Syueshan Mountain Range. The average cytochrome b sequence divergence between this new species and other Taiwan species ranges from 9.8% to 11.1%.
3892814|Variation in scutellation and coloration in snakes of the genus Ninia from Costa Rica and western Panama is analyzed to determine the systematic status of named forms. Pacific lowland, upland, and Atlantic lowland Ninia maculata show consistent differences from one another in dorsal coloration. The Atlantic lowland population, variously regarded as a distinct species (Ninia tessellata) or as a subspecies of N. maculata by previous workers, has substantially lower total segmental counts (x = 181.5) than other populations (x = 195.8). However, examples from geographically intermediate areas show intermediate conditions, and only a single species, N. maculata is recognized. The nominal montane species of 17-scale-row Ninia (Ninia cerroensis, Ninia oxynota and Ninia psephota) are part of a population system showing clinal variation in segmental counts and differ only in details of coloration. Only a single species, N. psephota, appears to be involved, ranging from the Cordillera de Guanacaste of Costa Rica south to western Panama. Data for the two other valid species of the genus found in the region, Ninia atrata from upland areas of central Costa Rica and Panama and Ninia sebae of the lowlands and adjacent slopes of Costa Rica, are summarized in a key. Ninia sebae does not occur in western Panama.
3892716|Sperm storage glands, spermathecae, occur in the cloacae of females in the seven families of salamanders comprising the suborder Salamandroidea. The spermathecae are simple tubuloalveolar glands (simple spermathecae) except in the Plethodontidae in which spermathecae are compound alveolar glands (complex spermathecae). Using specimens prepared for light microscopy, the spermathecae of 71 species of salamanders were stained for the presence of neutral carbohydrates (periodic acid-Schiff's reagent, PAS) and glycosaminoglycans (alcian blue at pH 2.5, AB). Simple spermathecae are AB+ and PAS- in 25 of 30 species, and secretory activity is uniform throughout the glands. Thirty-one of 41 plethodontids show no differences in staining reactions in different regions of complex spermathecae. Four species, however, have secretory activity in the common tube and neck tubules but not in the distal bulbs. Six additional species show differences in staining reactions among regions of the spermathecae. No consistent trend in staining reactions occurs among plethodontid taxa except for Aneides and Plethodon, in which all regions of the spermathecae are typically AB+ and PAS-. Salamanders are the only vertebrates with internal fertilization in which cloacal glands produce spermatophores in males and store sperm in females. This mode of reproduction clearly is a derived state within caudates. The hypothesis based upon sperm morphology that internal fertilization is plesiomorphic for Lissamphibia is not supported by other anatomical evidence. Within the Caudata, however, a hypothesis of polyphyly for sperm storage glands is viable.
3892165|In order to test previous hypotheses of relationships among the species in the anguid lizard genus Mesaspis, a phylogenetic analysis of allozyme variation was conducted among four of the six known species, using the genera Elgaria, Barisia, and Abronia as outgroups. Mesaspis monticola and M. moreleti are sister taxa, with M. viridiflava the sister taxon to the clade containing both. Mesaspis gadovii is the outgroup to the remainder of the genus. Mesaspis antauges and M. juarezi were not included, but on the basis of morphological information, they are probably sister taxa and together form the sister group to the clade containing M. viridiflava, M. moreleti, and M. monticola.
3891858|Loggerhead sea turtle nests in a natural hatchery suffered complete and partial mortality following an excessive rainfall event on the Georgia coast. All developmental stages were vulnerable to rain-induced suffocation. Eggs in flat poorly drained areas were more susceptible to mortality than those situated in elevated dunes. No evidence exists that adult females time their nesting activity to avoid excessive rainfall events in September. The preference of females to nest on high sloping beaches backed by dunes is presumably an adaptation to the sporadic occurrence of drowning rains and poorly drained sands.
25621887|Competition between closely related species can affect behavioral interactions. Intense interspecific competition may favor the evolution of elevated levels of interspecific aggression, termed alpha selection. Salamanders of the genus Plethodon exhibit territorial aggression, and in some cases interference mechanisms may have evolved under the process of alpha selection. Throughout Ohio, two closely related and ecologically similar species of salamander, Plethodon cinereus (red-backed salamander) and P. electromorphus (northern ravine salamander), occur in similar habitats and can be found in sympatry. However, the occurrence of syntopic areas is infrequent compared to the range overlap of each species and seems to be limited by factors other than broad geographic factors. Here, we used salamanders from allopatric and sympatric locations to examine the behavior of both species toward interspecific intruders. We hypothesized that animals in sympatry would exhibit heightened aggression compared to salamanders from allopatric areas. We found support for this hypothesis, indicating that intense interference competition may occur between P. cinereus and P. electromorphus in sympatry. Further, our results are consistent with the hypothesis of alpha selection at the level of behavioral aggression. These results suggest that sympatry may represent an unstable equilibrium where neither species can gain a competitive advantage.
3891071|The M. cutaneous pectoris is a thin muscle communicating between the skin and the pectoral muscles of anurans. A survey of many families and genera has established that it is unique to the Ranidae. It is considered to be a character that will assist determination of phylogenetic relationships.
3893130| We describe a new species of wide-disked ranine frog from Aurora National Park and possibly Mt. Cetaceo, two montane localities within the geologically distinct Sierra Madres coastal mountain range, eastern Luzon Island, Philippines. This endemic differs from Philippine congeners in the R. everetti species group by the combination of a relatively small body size, the presence of densely distributed asperities throughout the skin of most males, a translucent tympanum in females and most males, an iridescent green dorsum with black spots or faint reticulum in males and an iridescent green to golden dorsum with distinctive brown reticulum in females. In addition to the new species, we support the designation of Rana everetti, R. luzonensis, and R. albotuberculata as distinct evolutionary species, and we resurrect R. igorota from the synonymy of R. everetti luzonensis. /// Isinasalarawan ang isng bagong urin ng palaka na kabilang sa pangkt ng mga ranine na tagly ang malalapad na disks sa duluhan ng mga dalir ng kamy at pa. Ang katutubong palak, na ito ay mtatagpuan sa Pambansng Parke ng Aurora at Bundk Cetaceo, dalawng lugar matas na kabubatan na saklw ng bukd-tanging bulbundukin ng Sierra Madre sa hilagang-silangan ng Luzon, Pilipinas. Ang kaibhn ng palakng ito sa mga kahalintulad na palakng kabilang rin sa pangkt ranine ay ang pagkakaron nito ng mas malit na sukat ng katawn, ang pagkakaron ng mga matutulis na butol sa balt lalo na sa mga palakng may kasariang lalaki, at ang tympanum nito ay napagllagusn ng liwanag lalo na sa mga palakng lalaki. Bukd sa rito, ang mga palakng lalaki ay maningnng na luntiang kulay ang likod ng katawn ng na may batik na itim at may guhit-guhit; maningnng na luntian o kaya'y malagintng kulay na may kayumanggng guhit-guhit naman ang likod ng katawn ng mga palakng babae. Bukod sa pagsasalarawan ng nabanggit na bagong urin, palaka, ang mga palakng Rana everetti, R. luzonensis, R. albotuberculata (itinas sa ants na species), at R. igorota (muling ipinanunumbalik mula sa pagkakasap sa R. everetti luzonensis) ay kinikilalang mga ebolusyonaryong urin. 
3891688| Evidence is presented to show that the Hispaniolan colubrid snakes Uromacer frenatus and Uromacer dorsalis are conspecific, and that U. f. wetmorei and U. f. chlorauges are members of a species (Uromacer wetmorei) distinct from U. frenatus. Uromacer frenatus and U. wetmorei overlap geographically for a distance of about 50 km between Soliette, Haiti, and Puerto Escondido, Repblica Dominicana. Thus, the long-snouted species of Uromacer are Uromacer oxyrhynchus, U. frenatus, and U. wetmorei. The first of these is regarded as monotypic, whereas each of the other species has two subspecies. The status of the Ile--Vache and Ile Grande Cayemite populations of U. frenatus remains unchanged. 
3892278|Three measures of foraging intensity-speed, frequency of movement, and area utilized-were used to rank four sympatric lizards on a scale of intensity of foraging. Species were ranked as follows: Ameiva ameiva > Cnemidophorus lemniscatus > Kentropyx striatus > Anolis auratus. The first three species are teiid lizards and generally are regarded as wide-foraging. Four characteristics (activity temperatures, relative clutch mass, amount of termites in the diet, and amount of active insects in the diet) that have been found to differentiate wide-foraging lizards from sit-and-wait lizards in previous studies differed among the teiids in a manner predictable from the intensity of their foraging. Three other characteristics (relative tail length, mean size of active prey, and food intake) did not correlate with intensity of foraging of the teiids. We suggest that quantification of foraging mode allows more detailed analysis of the correlates of foraging by allowing intra- as well as interfamilial comparisons.
3890763|The relative ability of several species of anurans (Bufo americanus, B. cognatus, Hyla cinerea, Rana pipiens, Scaphiopus couchi, and S. hammondi) to absorb water from the soil was examined. Fossorial species from xeric habitats, S. couchi, S. hammondi and B. cognatus had absorption thresholds between 2.5 and 3 atm. In decreasing order of ability to absorb moisture from the soil were B. americanus, H. cinerea and R. pipiens. The ability of anurans to absorb moisture from the soil is probably a factor determining their distribution.
3892580| Two undescribed species from the eastern slopes of the Peruvian Andes exhibit synapomorphies indicating that they are sister taxa and members of the family Bufonidae. These are small toads that lack parotoid glands and digital webbing, and have partially fused epicoracoid cartilages. The clade formed by these species is named as a new, phylogenetically defined, taxon within Bufonidae: Truebella. The phylogenetic status of the supraspecific taxa within Bufonidae is reviewed; of 33 genera, only 12 have evidence of monophyly. Therefore, a purely phylogenetic taxonomy of Bufonidae would require elimination or redefinition of many taxon names. Although we do not take such action at this time, we see use of phylogenetic definitions of taxon names as an important goal for the future if the rich diversity of bufonids is to be more thoroughly understood. /// Se describen dos especies nuevas de sapos de la vertiente oriental de los Andes peruanos. De acuerdo con las sinapomorfas encontradas, estas especies constituyen un grupo monofiltico dentro de Bufonidae. Se trata de sapos de pequeo tamao que carecen de glndulas parotoideas y de membranas interdigitales y que presentan los cartlagos epicoracoideos fusionados parcialmente. El grupo monofiltico constituido por estas dos especies se designa como un taxon nuevo dentro de Bufonidae: Truebella. Se revisa el estatus filogentico de los taxa supraespecficos incluidos en Bufonidae. De los 33 gneros conocidos, solamente 12 muestran evidencias de monofilia. Entonces, el establecimiento de una taxonoma de los bufnidos basada puramente en criterios filogenticos requerira o eliminaciones o cambios en las definiciones de muchas nombres de taxa en Bufonidae. Aunque no tomamos esta accin en estos momentos, pensamos que el uso de definiciones filogenticas para el establecimiento de taxa es un objetivo importante para llegar a conocer adecuadamente la gran diversidad que presentan los bufnidos. 
3892518|Male and non-gravid (non-courting) female red-backed salamanders (Plethodon cinereus) are known to defend individual territories in the laboratory during non-courtship periods, but it is not known whether gravid (courting) females maintain such territories. I compared the agonistic behavior of known territorial non-gravid females to that of gravid females. Gravid, non-gravid, and male intruders were introduced into chambers defended by gravid or non-gravid females, and the behavioral responses of residents were compared. Gravid and non-gravid females did not differ in aggressive behavior toward any of the three types of intruders but did show some differences in submissive behavior toward intruders. Male intruders faced with gravid and non-gravid residents showed differences in the time spent in the burrow and in escape behavior. Similar behavior patterns of both types of females provide evidence that gravid females maintain their territories throughout the breeding season. However, gravid females shared their burrows with intruding males more frequently than non-gravid females.
3891466| The mean cloacal temperature for Hemidactylus frenatus was 27.2  3.19C. Mean cloacal temperatures were higher than mean air or substrate temperatures and significant differences were obtained between cloacal and the environmental temperatures. Correlation between cloacal and environmental temperatures is very high and statistically significant. From the literature and the present study speculations are made concerning the diel thermal cycle of H. frenatus and generalizations are made about the thermal relations of geckos. 
3892938|Siren lacertina is an aquatic salamander capable of surviving long periods of drought by estivating in burrows. Individuals were induced to estivate in the laboratory and rates of water exchange with soil were measured. Bladder volumes and urine and plasma solute concentrations were measured in estivating S. lacertina. Siren lacertina stores dilute urine in its bladder in quantities that account for as much as 10% of its body mass. Plasma concentrations of sodium, potassium, and chloride were similar in aquatic animals and estivators; however, plasma urea concentrations were six times higher in estivators. The cocoon layer was composed of dead squamous epithelial cells. This layer does not completely block water movement, and estivating sirenids exchange water with the soil. The rate of water exchange with the soil increases with a decrease in body size.
3893402|Basking behavior of 27 male and 86 female adult painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) in Algonquin Park, Ontario was observed from 12 June-3 August 1994 and from 8 May-27 July 1995. We compared the frequency and duration of basking by individually marked male and female turtles. Based on the assumption that spring basking by turtles increases the catabolic release of energy by increasing metabolic rate, we predicted that females would bask more frequently and, or, longer than males prior to nesting to support egg development and during nesting to enhance aerobic activity. Females basked more frequently and longer than males from the end of May through June (nesting season). However, there was no difference in basking duration or frequency between the sexes either early in May or following nesting, and intrasexual differences in basking behavior had no detectable relationship to either the date of oviposition or whether females laid one or two clutches of eggs. Therefore, a correlation between basking behavior and egg development remained unsupported, but females may bask more during oviposition to raise body temperature and enhance aerobiosis.
3891834| A description of size, coloration, scutation, and sample composition is given for 338 specimens of the rubber boa, Charina bottae, collected from the Willamette Valley of western Oregon. Information from the collection data permitted speculations that the sex ratio at birth may favor  , greater  mortality occurring postnatally; that sexes are probably of equal size at birth; and, that the growth rate is greater in  . Observations on life history, a description of a mutant form, and a brief review of taxonomic considerations as it relates to this Oregon sample are presented. 
3893233|A new species of the genus Rana (subgenus "Nidirana"; Ranidae) is described from Yunnan, China. Rana lini is distinguished from the other species of "Nidirana" by a combination of relatively large size in females, dilated tips of digits, prominent vocal sacs, extensive toe webbing, dermal folds on inner margins of 2nd and 3rd fingers wider than those of outer margins, and a distinct dermal flap along the lateral edge of the 5th toe. The new species is currently known from the subtropical forests of southern Yunnan, China, at an elevation of 1400-1650 m. A key to the species of the subgenus "Nidirana" is provided.
25209085|Three new continental and one new insular species of the gekkonid genus Cnemaspis Strauch 1887 are described from southern Vietnam based on their unique combinations of morphological and color pattern characteristics. The presence of these species in small, isolated mountains in the Mekong Delta flood plain and on one of the many small islands in Rach Gia Bay indicates that additional new species are likely to occur in these and similar underexplored regions in southern Vietnam. The discovery of new species of Cnemaspis in southern Vietnam narrows a 630 km distribution gap across the Indochinese Peninsula to a hiatus of 315 km. This report demonstrates that continued systematic field research is necessary in southern Vietnam before its herpetofaunal biodiversity will be fully realized and effective conservation measures can be put into place to protect it.
3892488|Eight species of diplodactyline gecko Diplodactylus (subgenus Strophurus) are distributed over a pronounced environmental gradient in central and southwestern Western Australia; all are nocturnal and either arboreal or semiarboreal. Dissection of 908 museum specimens provides information on body-size, size at maturity, and seasonal reproductive pattern and diet. Three species, ciliaris, elderi and intermedius, have extensive extralimital distributions while five, michaelseni, rankini, spinigerus, strophurus, and wilsoni, are restricted to the region. Adult females are larger than adult males and generally are more numerous in collections. Maturity is reached around 82% of mean adult size in females and 87% in males. Vitellogenesis commences in late autumn to early spring in species occupying more variable arid inland environments; ovulation and oviposition extend the potential period of reproductive activity in these species to 9 mo. Species in southern areas of predictable winter rainfall commence reproductive activity later and finish earlier. Sequential clutches are recorded for most species. Male testes regress in early summer in southern species and late summer in others. The major dietary items of spiders, crickets, cockroaches, beetles, and larvae are similar in all species.
40931041|Intra- and interpopulational variation in the morphology of Ptychoglossus brevifrontalis Boulenger, 1912 were studied. Differences in scale counts and morphometric traits among populations and between sexes are evaluated and described. Sexual dimorphism is evident in number of precloacal and femoral pores, and to a lesser degree in body elongation. Hemipenial morphology is briefly discussed. Ptychoglossus nicefori (Loveridge, 1929) is again considered a junior synonym of P. brevifrontalis. Brief comments on the species taxonomy are provided. Estudamos a variao intra- e interpopulacional na morfologia de Ptychoglossus brevifrontalis Boulenger, 1912. Diferenas em contagens de escamas e na morfometria entre populaes e entre os sexos foram avahadas e descritas. Dimorfismo sexual  evidente no nmero de poros pr-cloacais e femorais e, em menor escala, no grau de alongamento do corpo. Morfologia hemipeniana  brevemente discutida. Ptychoglossus nicefori (Loveridge, 1929)  novamente considerada um sinnimo junior de P. brevifrontalis. Alguns comentrios sobre a taxonoma da especie so tambm fornecidos.
3890665|Pseudacris streckeri (Hylidae) from a relictual population in Illinois make exclusive use of their forelimbs for burrowing and are thus markedly different from other fossorial anurans that use their hind limbs. P. streckeri contrasts with the arboreal hylids in having stout forelimbs well adapted for burrowing and in lacking adhesive discs at the ends of its fingers. Substrate discrimination experiments indicate that P. streckeri shows a highly significant selection of sand for burrowing instead of sod, and this is probably a factor that restricts the distribution of relictual populations of the species to sand prairies in the midwestern United States.
3892886|Determinations of the amount of non-polar lipids were made on eggs and hatchlings of ranch-raised alligators from Florida. Eggs averaged 70% water by mass, and dry mass of whole eggs and egg yolks averaged 20.1 g and 13.0 g, respectively. Egg lipids averaged 26% and 40% of the total dry mass and yolk dry mass of the egg, respectively. The proportion of non-polar lipids in the egg that were left in the fully developed hatchling (74%) was used as a measure of preovulatory parental investment in care. Hatchling alligators averaged 38.4% lipids by dry mass. The level of pre-ovulatory parental investment for care of hatchling alligators was at least 12% higher than that found in turtles.
3890975|Fertilization rate of Hynobius tsuensis Abe is remarkably low, below 40% in 5 of 8 populations examined. It differs from population to population and from year to year. Low fertility is probably inherent in H. tsuensis itself and not due to external influences.
3893497| Nocturnal car traffic often results in amphibian casualties, especially during rainy nights. The behavior of amphibians presumably influences their vulnerability to mortality on the road, but this hypothesis remains untested. We investigated the behavioral response of individuals of six species of amphibians on roads when confronted by an approaching vehicle. We first conducted a field study consisting of 50 night-driving surveys over 4 yr during which we recorded the behavior (i.e., moving or immobile) of frogs, toads, tree frogs, and salamanders encountered on a 20-km stretch of road. In an effort to tease apart the effects of headlights and the sound of motors on amphibian behavior, we carried out a field experiment on a test road where we exposed individuals to different car-associated stimuli. Here, we tested the hypothesis that simultaneous exposure to headlights and the sound of a car motor would elicit a stronger response than exposure to a single stimulus or a control. Based on the observations of the 2767 individuals in the field survey, immobility was the most common response to the approach of a car (mean probability of 0.82 of remaining immobile); the response differed across species but depended on the season of the survey (May-June vs. July-September). Similarly, the 91 individuals included in the field experiment were more likely to move during the control treatment than during any of the car-associated treatments. The combined stimuli elicited the strongest response, followed by the headlights-only and the motor-only treatments. Spring peepers (Pseudacris crucifer) tended to move more often than the other species we tested in the field experiment, which suggests they spend less time on the road and are less vulnerable to traffic mortality than other species. Both the field survey and field experiment consistently indicated that amphibians tend to remain immobile at the approach of a vehicle. This behavior highlights the vulnerability of amphibians to road traffic and should be considered in measures to mitigate road impacts. /// La circulation des vhicules sur les routes rsulte souvent en mortalits d'amphibiens, particuliment pendant les soires pluvieuses. Afin de tester l'hypothse que le comportement des amphibiens influence leur susceptibilit  tre crass sur la route, nous avons quantifi la rponse chez des individus de six espces d'amphibiens face  l'approche d'un vhicule. Pour ce faire, nous avons effectu une srie de 50 suivis nocturnes de 2001-2004 pendant lesquels nous avons not le comportement (i.e., mobile ou immobile) des grenouilles, crapauds, rainettes et salamandres sur un segment de route de 20-km. Afin de sparer les effets des phares et du son du moteur, nous avons ralis une exprience de terrain contrle, sur un segment de route exprimental, o nous avons soumis des individus des groupes ci-mentionns  diffrents stimuli associs aux automobiles. Nous avons prdit que le traitement combinant les stimuli (phares et moteur) liciterait une rponse plus marque chez les amphibiens que l'exposition  un seul stimulus ou au traitement tmoin. Nos observations de 2767 amphibiens pendant l'tude de terrain ont rvl que les individus ont une probabilit moyenne de 0.82 de demeurer immobile sur la route  l'approche d'un vhicule. La rponse des individus diffrait selon les espces, mais dpendait de la priode de la saison (mai-juin vs juillet-septembre). Les 91 amphibiens inclus dans l'exprience de terrain taient plus mobiles lors du traitement tmoin que lors des traitements associs aux stimuli automobiles. L'exposition aux stimuli combins a provoqu la plus forte rponse, suivie de l'exposition aux phares seuls et au moteur seul. De plus, les rainettes crucifres (Pseudacris crucifer) bougeaient plus souvent que les autres amphibiens de l'exprience de terrain, ce qui suggre qu'elles passent moins de temps sur les routes et sont moins susceptibles d'tre crases que d'autres amphibiens. Nos travaux indiquent que les amphibiens tendent  s'immobiliser  l'approche d'un vhicule. Ceci souligne la fragilit des amphibiens  la circulation automobile et l'importance de tenir compte du comportement dans les efforts d'attnuation des effets des routes. 
23254553|Postrelease movements can determine the success of wildlife translocations. We monitored movements of 36 captive-reared Ozark Hellbenders (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis bishopi) released to augment wild populations at two sites on the North Fork of the White River (Missouri, USA). We used radiotelemetry to collect 3610 Hellbender locations from May 2008 to August 2009. We quantified movements at multiple spatio-temporal scales and made comparisons between two seasons of monitoring (1 = releaseDecember 2008; 2 = January 2009August 2009). At the finest (daily) scale, most Hellbenders (90%94% per season) were highly sedentary (50% of observations indicated no movement). Typical distances between daily locations when Hellbenders moved were <5 m in Season 1 (median = 3.08 m, n = 331; range = 0.19903.00) and <2 m in Season 2 (median = 1.80 m; n = 161; range = 0.2134.00). During the study Hellbenders rarely (35 of 492 movements) travelled >20 m between daily locations, and virtually all (34 of 35) such movements occurred in Season 1. At a broader scale, home ranges of Hellbenders varied widely in Season 1 (range = 0.66986.92 m 2 , n = 26), but in Season 2 averaged only 31.33 m 2 ( 11.81 SE, n = 8) and 11.08 m 2 ( 3.25 SE, n = 7) at respective sites. Among Hellbenders monitored long enough to exhibit settlement (estimation of a home range) 69% (18 of 26) dispersed 50 m from the point of release. We only noted mortality associated with dispersals >50 m at one site, when it coincided with abandonment of core habitat that was one-third as large as at the other site. At the broadest scale, 68% and 86% of Hellbenders settled in core habitat of respective release sites, and most had settled within 21 d postrelease (range = 049 d). Collectively, Hellbender movements indicated a short period of exploration followed by more permanent settlement and high site fidelity typical of wild conspecifics. Captive-reared juvenile Hellbenders may be well suited for translocation; however, the quality of habitat at fine scale (1030 m 2 ) and the extent of suitable habitat within release sites are important considerations.
3892409| An analysis of geographic variation of Elgaria in Baja California reveals that a population from the coastal strip of the northern Vizcano Region reported as E. multicarinata shares derived character states uniting it with E. cedrosensis and E. paucicarinata. Therefore, this population is synonymized with E. paucicarinata. Because of the similarity of E. cedrosensis to E. paucicarinata, it too is synonymized with the latter. The amount of geographic variation in E. paucicarinata is in accord with that of other taxa in Baja California having distinctive forms on opposite sides of the Isthmus of La Paz. /// Corrientemente, hay tres especies del gnero Elgaria reconocimiento ocurrir en Baja California, Mxico. Un anlisis de la variacin geogrfica revela que una poblacin de la franja costera de la regin nortea Vizcano reportado como E. multicarinata tiene caracteres derivdos con E. cedrosensis y E. paucicarinata. Por eso, esta poblacin est puesto en el sinnimo con E. paucicarinata. Debido a la cercaa similaridad entre E. cedrosensis y E. paucicarinata, E. cedrosensis se considera sinnimo con E. paucicarinata y rebajado a estado subespecfico. La variacin geogrfica de E. paucicarinata es de acuerdo con otros especies que se evolucionaron en Baja California en que hay formas distintas en lados opuestos del Istmo de La Paz. 
3893346|In this study, we provide the first report of an unisexual population of the lizard genus Cnemidophorus south of the Amazon forest and the first in South America not belonging to the C. lemniscatus complex. The population was found in a relatively small open sandy area (approximately 1.8 km in diameter) covered with herbaceous vegetation inside the Atlantic forest in southeastern Brazil. Collections made in four different years (1991, 1993, 1994, and 1995) contained only females (n = 42). Cytogenetic analysis showed a karyotype of 2N = 48 (five submetacentric; 19 telocentric and subtelocentric macrochromosomes; 24 microchromosomes). There are structural heterozygotes in the second, seventh, and thirteenth pairs of chromosomes. The absence of males in the samples and the karyotype pattern indicate that this population is another unisexual species of Cnemidophorus and the first case in South America belonging to the Cnemidophorus ocellifer complex. The new entity is described as a new species.
3891386|The ecology and behavior of two species of the iguanid genus Conolophus of the Galapagos Islands were observed in the field and in captivity. C. subcristatus from South Plazas Island C. pallidus from Barrington Island 17 miles to the east exhibit similar habitat preferences for raised basking sites near burrow or lava crevice retreats. The shallow burrows are in open areas with soil. Defense behavior was exhibited by posturing with open mouths. Activity was greatest in mid-morning and late afternoon. The aggressive displays of the two species were similar in the aggressive postures (figured), and these involved arching of the back, bloating the trunk and throat regions, lowering of the head and raising the longitudinal serrated mid-dorsal roach and crest. The display-action-patterns of both species involved only up and down movements of the head and neck. The depth, number, and cadence of these head nods differed between the two species. C. subcristatus performs a more rapid sequence (1.3 seconds vs. 1.7 seconds) of movements with greater depth and a more varied pattern of head nods. Two hundred sixty-one scats examined for both species contained predominately the remains of the fruits and pads of Opuntia cactus, with grass, leaves, and twigs being of less significance. C. subcristatus had a mean cloacal temperature of 31.98 C compared with 35.13 C for C. pallidus.
3892957| The tadpole of Atelopus balios Peters from the Pacific lowlands in southern Ecuador is described. Its morphology is similar to other larvae of lowland species of Atelopus. Tadpoles of Atelopus balios were found in low-gradient streams. /// Se describe el renacuajo de Atelopus balios de las tierras bajas de la regin Pacfica del sur de Ecuador. La morfologa del renacuajo es similar a la de otras especies de Atelopus de tierras bajas. Los renacuajos de A. balios se encontraron en habitats de agua poco corriente. 
3891517|Breeding activities, population levels, movements, and pond preferences were investigated for the Pacific treefrog, Hyla regilla, during two breeding seasons at five small ponds in northern Idaho. The number of males declined from approximately 360 in 1976 to approximately 160 in 1977. Individual males spent more time at the ponds in 1976 than in 1977, and the average snout-vent length for both sexes was less in the first year than in the second. The dominant coloration of males shifted from nongreen in 1976 to green in 1977.
3893314|From May 1996 to September 1997, we investigated population and reproductive characteristics of Cuora flavomarginata flavomarginata in the Feitsui Reservoir Protected Area, northern Taiwan. Of 288 turtles captured, 174 were females, 95 were males, and 19 were unsexed juveniles. The overall and adult sex ratios were significantly biased toward females. Whether by baited trap or by hand, the capture frequency was significantly female-biased. The population at Feitsui was mainly composed of adult individuals (78.1%). The average body size of adult females was larger than that of adult males. Radiographing revealed that females were gravid from mid-April through mid-July, with the highest percentage in May. Periodic radiographing of radio-tagged females suggested that C. f. flavomarginata laid one or two clutches between early May and mid-July. Carapace length of gravid females ranged from 138.0-174.8 mm (mean = 155.1). Clutch size varied from 1-3 and averaged 1.6. Egg size was positively correlated with female body size, but clutch size and annual clutch frequency were not. Turtles in the larger size classes (155.0-169.9 mm carapace length) were more likely to be found with shelled eggs than the smaller-sized turtles. Larger females were also more likely to lay eggs in both of the consecutive nesting seasons. We identified seven turtles that reproduced in both years.
3892052|After comparison with other species of the genus Elaphe and with other allied genera, a new generic name is proposed for E. triaspis. This species differs from all others in features of scutellation, osteology, and hemipenial morphology, and differs biochemically from American ratsnakes and several Old World species.
3891714|The first reported clutch of Lineatriton lineola (Cope) embryos and egg-capsules is described. The clutch was found on Cerro Chicahuaxtla, Veracruz, Mexico. The egg-capsules are stranded and adherent, in this respect resembling the egg-capsules of Batrachoseps major. The egg-capsules of other bolitoglossine species so far described are either stranded or adherent, but not both. Lineatriton lineola egg-capsules are composed of two membranes and a fluid layer. Judging from the developmental stage of the embryos, hatching would have occurred during the dry season, suggesting that reproduction in L. lineola is nonseasonal.
3893290|Oral presentation of results at scientific meetings plays an essential role in the culture of scientists, allowing results to be shared without the delay of scientific publication and allowing scientists to become acquainted, fostering productive discussions and collaborations. Graduate students in particular benefit from presenting their work in this medium, because young scientists can introduce themselves and their work directly and quickly to their future colleagues. I provide suggestions and guidelines for making oral presentations both successful and enjoyable. I discuss the processes of preparing the talk, preparing the slides, giving the talk, and handling questions. I also provide some tips for making the mechanics of the presentation as easy and fool-proof as possible.
4497962|Hellbenders are large aquatic salamanders. The Ozark subspecies is in decline through its range. This is the first comprehensive report on hematologic and serum chemistry for both Ozark and eastern hellbenders. Blood samples were analyzed for 25 parameters in 33 Ozark hellbenders from the North Fork of White River and the Eleven Point River in Missouri and 45 eastern hellbenders from the Davidson River-Looking Glass Creek in North Carolina and the Cooper Creek in Georgia. Each river was considered a population. In general, the majority of the blood parameters analyzed were similar between populations and subspecies for same-sex individuals, although a few significant differences were identified. The baseline data we acquired are important for future monitoring of hellbender populations, particularly as Ozark hellbender populations continue to age.
3891829| A small population of 12-17 Great Basin rattlesnakes was studied for 4 years (1969-1973) at a hibernaculum in northern Utah. Overwintering mortality was negligible, totaling 3.6% for 4 winters. Summer mortality averaged 17.8%/year.   generally had proportionately higher overwintering weight losses than  . Mean winter weight losses were between 4-9% of original body weight. Data on summer and annual weight gains, individual growth rates, age at maturity, and dispersal are also presented. The age structure of the population has shifted toward older age groups and lacks representatives younger than 5 years old. A simulated life table and demographic traits of rattlesnakes lead us to predict that extinction of the population, which numbered over 300 in the 1940's, is likely. 
41239002|A new species of puddle frog (Phrynobatrachus) is described from the Obudu Plateau in Cross River State of eastern Nigeria. The new species is distinguished from Phrynobatrachus species that are either closely related or occur in Nigeria or nearby countries by the combination of its larger body size (larger than the closely related P. chukuchuku, P. danko, P. manengoubensis, and P. werneri) and more extensive degree of development of male traits such as the nuptial pad and gular spines. The new species is also distinguished by a pale or white line along the anterior edge of the supratympanic skin ridge. A molecular phylogenetic analysis reveals that this morphologically distinct taxon is conspecifc with a juvenile specimen from the Obudu Plateau previously referred to as P. werneri, and that this new species forms a clade with three other small species from the mountains of Cameroon and Nigeria (P. danko, P. werneri, and P. manengoubensis). The description of this species adds to the diversity of amphibian species of the Obudu Plateau, many of which have disjunct distributions with other populations located in the mountains of neighboring Cameroon.
25209081|We sampled the distribution of northern dusky salamander (Desmognathus fuscus) nests at randomly selected 15 m stream reaches throughout a third-order watershed in eastern Maryland. Our goal was to investigate the distribution of nests in relationship to physical habitat variables at three spatial scales: (1) watershed, (2) reach (15 m of stream), and nest-site (bank and adjacent channel within 1 m up and downstream of the nest). At the watershed scale there was a high probability (&gt;0.75) of nest-site occurrence at reaches with watershed sizes &lt;70 ha and gradients &gt;2%. Among reaches with a high probability of nest-site occurrence, reaches with narrow channels located at the head of streams supported the largest number of nests. At the nest-site scale, females located nests adjacent to wider and deeper portions of stream. Overall, our results suggest that the headwater terminus of streams is important habitat for D. fuscus, and their dependence on these habitats may be responsible for their sensitivity to channel degradation resulting from watershed development.
3891805|Coral snakes (Micrurus fulvius) collected in northern peninsular Florida from 1972-1980 were examined by dissection. Females attain larger body size and possess proportionately shorter tails than males. Females undergo rapid vitellogenesis from March-May and lay a single clutch of eggs in June or July. Testicular recrudescence in males occurs during the autumn and regression in the spring, but males retain mature sperm in the epididymides throughout much of the year. Males mature at approximately 11-16 months of age and 450 mm SVL and females at approximately 26 months and 560 mm SVL. Seasonal patterns of surface activity are related to age and sex. Contrary to some published reports, diurnal surface activity is common. The diet consists almost entirely of elongate, limbless reptiles-principally other snakes and attenuate lizards.
3891830|An investigation of the spermatogenetic wave and cycle in anurans has not been previously reported. Histological analysis of the spermatogenetic wave and cycle in the toad Bufo woodhousei produced the following conclusions: (1) A spermatogenetic wave in the seminiferous tubules does not exist in this species, (2) There is no specific region of the testis (cranial, medial, or caudal) that can be considered most active or characteristic of the described spermatogenetic cycle, (3) However, a seasonal spermatogenetic cycle throughout the testes does exist.
41238987|Males of Tornier's Forest Toad, Nectophrynoides tornieri, were observed to perform a peculiar display posture, the 'push-up': the males raised themselves from a substrate (always a plant structure) by first stretching their fore legs into a ' sit-up' and then their hind legs to assume the position. We examined possible functions for the push-up position in manipulative behavioral experiments. In a majority of the tested males, the introduction of a conspecific male only evoked the less conspicuous sit-up display, whereas a playback of male vocalization more often triggered the full push-up position, usually followed by a vocal response. We found no association between the sit-up and the push-up display and the presence of a female N. tornieri near a male's calling perch. Our findings support the hypothesis that the push-up posture is a display in response to other calling males; whilst being the usual calling posture, it might also be important in visual communication. We describe in detail the characteristics of the call for the first time; vocalizing males were found at more elevated positions than previously reported and there were no common distinctive microhabitat features between calling sites.
3892649|We studied larvae of the four-toed salamander, Hemidactylium scutatum, to determine the ability of individuals to discriminate between related and familiar conspecifics. An assay of agonistic behaviors was used as a measure of recognition. To distinguish between direct recognition and recognition of conspecifics through familiarity (indirect recognition), we used a two factor design yielding four treatments: familiar siblings, unfamiliar siblings, familiar non-siblings, and unfamiliar non-siblings. Larvae of Hemidactylium did not show statistically significant kin recognition ability or the ability to recognize conspecifics based on familiarity. These results are consistent with the larval ecology of these organisms, which is characterized by a low population density and no schooling behavior.
3892035|Food habits of sympatric and allopatric populations of the salamanders Plethodon glutinosus and P. jordani were compared. Generally, both species were euryphagic. Diplopoda and insect larvae were the most important food items to both species during spring and fall seasons and in all areas examined. Seasonal differences in diets were noted. Geographical differences in utilization of certain items probably reflected altitudinal differences in availability. One case of vertebrate predation by P. glutinosus was noted. In sympatric P. glutinosus and P. jordani there appeared to be no qualitative differences in diet; however, quantitative differences were indicated by mean food item size being significantly larger in P. glutinosus than in P. jordani during the spring. These quantitative differences lessened during the fall and there was no significant difference in mean food item size between the salamander species at that time. This observation suggested that competition for food might be occurring during the late summer or fall. Possible consequences of this competition are discussed.
3893386| The Liolaemus elongatus group currently includes eight species (including the species described herein) of mid-sized, long-tailed, primarily saxicolous lizards. Members of this lineage are distributed in northwestern Argentina along the Andean Cordillera south to the Patagonian Steppe (27-44 S) and over a wide range of elevations (350-3900 m). Here we describe two new species belonging to the northern radiation of the elongatus group. The four currently recognized members of this northern subclade (including the two species described herein) have fewer midbody scales than other members of the elongatus group, brown to black heads, and lack the distinct dorsal body or tail patterns found in adults of other species belonging to the elongatus group. Additionally, pregnant and recently spent females exhibit crimson red color in the cloacal region-a trait known only for members of this northern lineage and L. buergeri. The first new species, L. dicktracyi from the Sierra de Famatina of La Rioja Province, differs from all other members of the elongatus group in several meristic characters and in its unique dorsal coloration: black heads, shoulders, and tails, with blue torsos and hind limbs. The second new species, L. umbrifer from the Quebrada de Randolfo in northeastern Catamarca Province, is morphologically similar to L. capillitas, but differs from this and other species in the elongatus group in several meristic characters, the presence of black shoulders and upper arms, and crimson red coloration of the cloacal region in both males and females. The natural history of both of the new species is similar in many respects to L. capillitas and L. heliodermis, which further supports the phylogenetic affinities of members of this subclade within the elongatus group. Finally, we provide comparisons of recent phylogenetic hypotheses and discuss the content of the elongatus group. /// El grupo de especies de Liolaemus elongatus actualmente incluye ocho especies (incluyendo las especies que aqu se describen) de lagartos de mediano tamao, con colas largas, y primariamente saxcolas. Los miembros de este linaje se distribuyen desde el noroeste de Argentina hacia el sur, a lo largo de la Cordillera de los Andes hasta la estepa Patagnica (27-44 S) y sobre un amplio rango de elevacin (350-3900 m). Aqu nosotros describimos dos especies nuevas que pertenecen a la radiacin nortea del grupo elongatus. Los cuatro miembros actualmente reconocidos de este subclado norteo (incluyendo las dos especies que aqu se describen) se diferencian de los otros miembros del grupo elongatus, por contar con un menor nmero de escamas alrededor del cuerpo, cabezas marrn a negras, y por carecer de los distintos patrones dorsales de cola o cuerpo encontrados en adultos de otras especies que pertenecen al grupo elongatus. Adems, las hembras que recientemente han parido exponen color rojo vivo en la regin cloacal, una caracterstica nica conocida para miembros de este linaje norteo y L. buergeri. La primera especie nueva que se describe, L. dicktracyi, de la Sierra de Famatina de la Provincia de La Rioja, difiere de todo los otros miembros del grupo elongatus en varios caracteres mersticos y en su coloracin dorsal nica: posee cabeza, hombros y cola negros, y el torso y extremidades posteriores azules. La segunda de las especies nuevas que se describen, L. umbrifer de la Quebrada de Randolfo en el noreste de la Provincia de Catamarca, es morfolgicamente parecido a L. capillitas, pero difiere de sta y otras especies en el grupo elongatus en varios caracteres mersticos, la presencia de brazos y hombros negros, y en la coloracin roja viva de la regin cloacal en ambos, machos y hembras. La historia natural de ambas especies nuevas es similar en muchos aspectos a L. capillitas y L. heliodermis debido a sus afinidades filogenticas de los miembros de este subclado dentro del grupo elongatus. Finalmente, nosotros proveemos comparaciones de recientes hiptesis filogenticas y discutimos el contenido del grupo elongatus. 
3892828|Eggs of painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) were incubated in the laboratory on wet and dry substrates (water potentials of -150 kPa and -1100 kPa, respectively) at constant temperatures of 25.7, 26.7, 27.7, and 28.7 C. Hatching success was slightly lower at high temperatures than at low temperatures, and fewer eggs hatched on dry substrates than on wet ones. However, the reduction in hatching success on dry substrates was more pronounced for small eggs than for large ones, which indicates that embryos in large eggs have a better chance than embryos in small eggs for surviving to hatching in stressfully dry environments. All of the turtles emerging from eggs incubated at 25.7, 26.7, and 27.7 C were males, and similar proportions of males (and females) emerged from eggs on wet and dry substrates at 28.7 C. Incubation was longer in cool, moist conditions than it was in warm, dry environments. Hatchlings were larger at the high water potential than at the low water potential, but size of emergent turtles was unaffected by temperature during incubation. Thus, our findings reaffirm the importance of the hydric environment to hatching success, duration of incubation, and size at hatching in painted turtles, but do not support earlier findings that moisture affects the pattern of sexual differentiation in this species.
3892390|The six species of this monophyletic assemblage of large terrestrial proteroglyphous snakes are widely distributed through Australia and southern New Guinea. Data on cytogenetics, scalation, general morphology, and electrophoretic patterns of blood proteins were used to investigate relationships within this group. Chromosomally, P. australis (2N = 38) differs from other Australian taxa (2N = 36), but it is most similar to P. butleri in detailed morphology of the sex chromosomes. P. colletti and P. guttatus also are closely related whereas P. porphyriacus is divergent. The same groupings are apparent from electrophoretic studies of 18 protein systems (representing 27 presumed genetic loci) and in morphological analyses. Morphological data ally the New Guinea species, P. papuanus, with P. colletti. Results from the various techniques are congruent, and they shown an ancestral stock differentiated into two groups: (1) P. porphyriacus, a viviparous diurnal species from cool and mesic habitats in eastern Australia, and (2) the other five species, which are oviparous, primarily crepuscular or nocturnal, and restricted to warm (often arid) environments throughout Australia and southern New Guinea. Within the oviparous radiation, two species of extreme xeric areas (P. australis, P. butleri) are closely related to each other. Pseudechis guttatus is intermediate between this group and another species-pair (P. colletti and P. papuanus). Despite their widely different habitats, the Pseudechis species are conservative in morphology, karyology, and general ecology. Subdivision of the genus is not recommended.
3891190|Populations of Hypopachus occurring on plateaus and upland regions of Guatemala, El Salvador and Chiapas, Mexico, have been variously assigned to as many as five nominal forms which have been regarded as forming a species group distinct from lowland populations. The upland populations were compared using 11 linear measurements (and ratios among them), extent of webbing, pustularity, several features of coloration, mating call, and habitat. Characters previously suggested as providing distinctions between populations are invalid. No other differences worthy of taxonomic recognition were found. Consequently, the upland populations are all regarded as conspecific and referred to H. barberi Schmidt. An older name H. inguinalis Cope has sometimes been applied to upland populations from Alta Verapaz, Guatemala, but it is properly applied to lowland populations. H. globulosus Schmidt, named from a lowland population in Honduras, has sometimes been included in the upland group but has characters typical of lowland Hypopachus.
3891751|The reproduction of seven species of aquatic snakes was investigated in the Atchafalaya River Basin of south-central Louisiana. Reproductive systems of 162 females were examined. Nerodia rhombifera ovulate from early May through the third week of July, and bear young from early August through the third week of October. Nerodia cyclopion ovulate from late April through June, and bear young from late July through September. The gestation period of N. cyclopion is 3 mo or less, and the female reproductive cycle occurs annually. The average number of young per litter of Nerodia cyclopion is 18. Nerodia fasciata, Nerodia erythrogaster, and Regina rigida ovulate during May and June. Regina grahami ovulate from late April through the third week of June. Data suggest that most Agkistrodon piscivorus in south-central Louisiana reproduce annually.
3892788|The monotypic scincine genus Pseudoacontias Barboza du Bocage was known until now from only a single specimen, the holotype of P. madagascariensis described more than 100 years ago. That specimen, from an unknown specific locality, was lost in the fire that destroyed the Museu Bocage, Lisbon. Recently a second specimen of the genus was collected in Marojejy Reserve in the northeastern rainforests of Madagascar. This specimen represents a new species of the genus and differs from P. madagascariensis mainly in having small, toeless hind limbs; P. madagascariensis was described as completely limbless. Herein, the meager literature on Pseudoacontias is summarized, the new species described in detail, and the genus rediagnosed.
3891899|A relatively diverse North American middle Miocene snake fauna is detailed from the Black Bear Quarry II (early Hemingfordian) of Bennett County, South Dakota, USA. Boid genera outnumber colubrid genera four to three, but the boids are all small forms of the subfamily Erycinae. A new boid genus has elaborate winglike vertebral processes and was evidently highly specialized. Two other boids of the genera Ogmophis and Calamagras are related to Oligocene forms. The fourth boid is an extinct species of the living genus Charina. The colubrid fauna consists of an archaic natricine, a new genus of archaic colubrine, and an extinct species of the living genus Salvadora.
3892271|A new species of colubrid snake, Liophis atraventer, is described from the rain-forests of southeastern Brazil.
3892333|Three kinds of heterotopic skeletal elements occur in the tarsal segment of the hindlimb of frogs. The Cartilago plantaris occurs in the subarticular region of the foot of arthroleptine ranoids, Pipa, Rana esculenta and probably others, and the Cartilago sesamoides is found in the Ligamentum calcanei of a wide variety of frogs. The third element, herein named the Os sesamoides tarsale, occurs in the proximal end of the Aponeurosis plantaris (Achilles tendon) of the three known sooglossid species, five species of Pipa, and a few southern African microranids of the subfamily Phrynobatrachinae (sensu Poynton, 1964), including Arthroleptella hewetti, Cacosternum (boettgeri, capense, namaquense), and Natalobatrachus bonebergi. The O. s. tarsale does not occur, at least in the calcified form, in other phrynobatrachines, nor does it occur in numerous other species representing a broad range of genera and families. The form of the O. s. tarsale is uniform among Pipa species, consisting mainly of a pars articulata, whereas the O. s. tarsale of sooglossids and phrynobatrachines is a two-part structure (pars articulata + pars distalis). The O. s. tarsale of Pipa presumably is unrelated phylogenetically to that of the two other taxa. The O. s. tarsale of sooglossids and phrynobatrachines may or may not have a common origin.
3893499|Among frogs endemic to the Colombian Andes, the dendrobatid Colostethus palmatus has an exceptionally wide geographic distribution. We examined the patterns of variation in calls and genetic properties to determine whether this variation is associated with geographic barriers and distances between populations. We analyzed variation in advertisement calls and RAPD products in seven populations along a 346-km transect from south to north throughout the Cordillera Oriental covering an extensive part of the geographical range of C. palmatus. Populations of this species inhabit both slopes of the Cordillera Oriental, and are separated by a continuous ridge along these mountains. We found more inter- than intrapopulational variation. Four call variables and male snout-vent length exhibited clinal variation, generating a predictable geographic pattern which coincided with a climatic gradient of increasing moisture and seasonality. The genetic relations between populations are explained by their location on the Andes, particularly by the side of the slope. Differences between populations in four call characteristics and genetic distance were significantly correlated with linear geographic distances between populations on the same slope. We found evidence for genetic and bioacoustic differentiation between populations living on opposite slopes.
3891225|Cnemidophorus tigris mundus was studied in the North Coast Range of California from 1966 to 1968. Some aspects of the range, distribution, habitat, and activity are discussed.
3892156|Although intraspecific aggression has been reported for a number of plethodontid salamanders, only two species from the family Ambystomatidae have been tested previously, and only one species (Ambystoma maculatum) showed such behavior. In this study, I tested four other species of Ambystoma (A. opacum, A. macrodactylum, A. tremblayi, and A. talpoideum) for aggression toward conspecifics during encounters staged in the laboratory. I also tested A. opacum and A. macrodactylum for long-term avoidance of conspecifics when housed in pairs and for responses to introduced substrates on which conspecifics had lived. Each species showed at least some forms of intraspecific aggression. Some individuals from all species bit conspecific intruders. Touching of the snout to substrates or directly onto conspecifics was also widespread. Ambystoma macrodactylum showed long-term avoidance of conspecifics, but A. opacum showed neither avoidance of conspecifics nor significant responses to conspecific substrates.
3892722|The plethodontid salamanders Desmognathus ochrophaeus and D. fuscus fuscus are completely sexually incompatible at a locality in Virginia where populations are sympatric. I tested the role of experiential factors in the maintenance of sexual incompatibility by collecting juveniles of D. ochrophaeus and raising them to maturity, in the laboratory in isolation from all other salamanders. Sexually naive, laboratory-reared males were as unresponsive toward female D. fuscus fuscus on their first encounter as were field-collected males. That these laboratory-reared males were truly sexually competent was demonstrated by their positive responses toward conspecific females. I conclude that experience of males with conspecific and/or heterospecific females after the attainment of sexual maturity may not be necessary for the maintenance of sexual incompatibility between these two species in sympatry.
3891696|Female reproductive cycles of sympatric Arizona elegans and Crotalus viridis in New Mexico were examined. Mean adult size and potential fecundity were not significantly different in these species. In both species vitellogenesis was divided into two distinct periods. The first (Primary Vitellogenesis) occurred in follicles from microscopic size to 4-6 mm in length. Upon reaching this length the follicles appeared dormant with respect to yolk deposition. Then at a particular time of the year, depending on the species, vitellogenesis resumed (Secondary Vitellogenesis) and continued until ovulation. Two patterns of seasonal Secondary Vitellogenesis are described and all species of temperate zone snakes appear to conform to one or the other pattern. The type of Secondary Vitellogenesis appeared to correspond to phylogenetic relationships but not mode of parity, or adult size. Annual and biennial reproductive cycles are discussed.
3892749|We compared activity and rates and distances of movements between adult male and female snapping turtles, Chelydra serpentina, to test the hypothesis that their differential use of space would reflect differences in reproductive strategies. Turtles ended hibernation in late April, and most breeding activity occurred from then until nesting ended in mid- to late June. Females were largely inactive and stationary during May. Their activity and movement increased dramatically as they began to move to nest sites in late May and early June. Males were highly active and mobile throughout May, and they appeared to be engaged in extensive patrolling and search activity which sometimes culminated in copulatory or agonistic encounters. When females began moving towards nesting sites, some males moved into "bottlenecks" along migration routes. In July, after nesting, females were more active than were males, whereas during August, males and females exhibited similar levels of activity. We conclude that resources associated with reproduction led to differences between the sexes in use of space and activity, especially during the breeding season.
4497932|Concepts of vertebrate succession in terrestrial habitats are based mainly on studies of birds and mammals. To provide a broader understanding of vertebrate succession and the organization of species assemblage, we studied the development of a herpetofaunal assemblage in a reforestation project. We sampled herpetofauna monthly between February 2001 and March 2002 and between June and September 2003 in a reforested limestone valley, and compared the composition and structure of the species assemblage in this valley with three reference sites and a deforested valley in a limestone region of Puerto Rico. In the reforested valley, the increase in vegetation heterogeneity and the decrease in microclimate variability facilitated herpetofaunal succession. Species richness increased rapidly from three to eleven species in 13 mo, with predatory species colonizing the reforested valley by the end of the study. The trophic structure changed more slowly with the density of individuals of (1) arboreal species increasing with increased woody vegetation cover, and (2) predatory species increasing with increased prey density. The pattern of herpetofaunal succession can be described by an assembly rule that considers microclimate as an important controller for the development of the species assembly. We suggest that including microclimate in assembly rules can help us broaden our understanding of factors that determine vertebrate succession in terrestrial habitats.
3893355|Using microsatellite analysis, we investigated the reproductive success and genetic structure of a translocated colony of the Bahamian iguana (Cyclura cychlura inornata) 10-yr post introduction. We investigated the reproductive success of the founder males to determine if all were contributing equally to the descendant gene pool. We compared the genetic diversity in the founder population with that in the incipient, translocated population to determine if the number of translocated individuals was sufficient to retain the genetic diversity derived from the source population. In 1999, the estimated population size for the translocated colony was between 75 and 90 individuals. Blood was taken from 35 iguanas (16 males, 18 females, and 1 juvenile) of mixed age, including the four original translocated males and three of the four original translocated females. Of the eight polymorphic microsatellite loci in C. cychlura, only five were polymorphic in C. c. inornata. With two exceptions, the low average allelic diversity and heterozygosity among these loci (2.4 and 0.45, respectively) hindered accurate determination of parentage among the founders. Nevertheless, the data indicated that the potential parental contributions appear equal for the founder males and that, at 10-yr post introduction, the small amount of genetic diversity at the amplified loci in the founding population was retained. The low level of genetic variation appears to have no negative short-term effects on the translocated or other populations of C. cychlura inhabiting the Exuma Island chain, making them excellent candidates for translocation and repatriation programs if physiological and environmental requirements are met.
3891599|Lectotypes and paralectotypes are designated for two of Gray's names, Baikiea elegans (= Cyclanorbis elegans), 1869, and Tetrathyra baikii (= Cyclanorbis senegalensis), 1865.
3893196| We describe a new species, Telmatobius fronteriensis, from the Puna region of La Cordillera de los Andes, northern Chile. This new species is characterized by the combination of the following characters: premaxillary and maxillary teeth present, tympanum absent, stapes absent, vomerine teeth vestigial, skin of dorsum granular, flanks with spicules, and nuptial spines on the chest and inner forearm of males. This new species also is characterized by its small size (maximum SVL = 43.20 mm), by the extreme environmental conditions of its type locality, and by diagnostic morphometric and allozyme evidence presented in an earlier study. /// Se describe una nueva especie, Telmatobius fronteriensis, de la Regin de Puna, de la Cordillera de los Andes, en el Norte de Chile. La nueva especie puede ser distinguida de otros miembros del gnero Telmatobius por una combinacin de caracteres que incluye: presencia de dientes maxilares y premaxilares, tmpano ausente, dientes vomerianos vestigiales, piel del dorso granular y flancos con espinas corneas, asi como espinas nupciales en el antebrazo de los machos. Esta nueva especie puede tambin ser diagnosticada en base a su reducida talla (SVL mximo = 43.20 mm) y las condiciones ambientales extremas de la localidad tipo. Finalmente, un trabajo anterior identific caracteres diagnstico de tipo morfomtrico y aloenzimtico. 
3893572|Caudal growth is examined in the phrynosomatid Callisaurus draconoides ventralis and the agamid Calotes versicolor, both from a segmental point of view and from that of the entire tail. Growth of the entire tail relative to snout-vent length follows negative allometry in the former species and positive allometry in the latter. Despite this result, patterns of segmental growth are differential along the length of the tail in both species and follow a similar pattern in each. In both C. d. ventralis and C. versicolor, proximal caudal vertebrae grow with positive allometry, followed by an extensive transitional region of approximate isometry, and a distal region of highly negative allometry. The region of positive allometry is more pronounced in C. versicolor, resulting in overall positive allometry, whereas the negatively allometric region is highly pronounced in C. d. ventralis, resulting in negative allometry of the entire tail. Differential regional growth of the tail is similar to previous findings for the polychrotid Anolis grahami, suggesting limited influence of ecological and functional aspects such as caudal autotomy, bipedalism, and arboreality on segmental tail growth. Although rates of growth of the entire tail are highly variable in iguanian lizards, differential patterns of segmental tail growth appear to be conserved and are very similar among the three species.
3891087|Electrophoretic mobilities of several protein systems were compared among representatives of the six species of agamid lizards of Israel. Preliminary observations were made on chromosome cytology. The karyotypes and electrophoretic mobilities of a single enzyme system in three species of east African Agama were also examined. Agama savignii and Agama pallida are closely related. They have indistinguishable karyotypes and share identical electrophoretic mobilities for hemoglobin, serum albumin, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) isoenzymes. Agama stellio and Agama sinaita have common LDH's but differ from each other at all other biochemical loci and in karyotypes. The latter two species share none of the examined characters in common with the first pair. Uromastyx aegyptius and U. ornatus have electrophoretically identical hemoglobin, serum albumin, and LDH. They differ from Agama at virtually all loci examined. The karyotype was incompletely analyzed but resembles that of A. stellio. Agama atricollis from Tanzania has a karyotype similar to A. stellio and is indistinguishable from A. stellio in the electrophoretic mobility of the LDH isoenzymes. Agama agama from Uganda and Agama planiceps from Tanzania differ from each other and all other species examined in karyotypes but show similarities to A. savignii and A. pallida. These two African species are identical to the two Israeli species in LDH mobility.
3892032|Eight larval salamanders from North Carolina were identified by Schwartz and Etheridge (1954) as Ambystoma cingulatum. These specimens have been compared to known larvae of Ambystoma cingulatum and Ambystoma mabeei. On the basis of several distinctive pattern characteristics and the extent of toe development relative to size, they are now identified as Ambystoma mabeei. The range of Ambystoma cingulatum should therefore be restricted northward to the coastal plain of South Carolina.
3893244|We investigated nightly and seasonal variation in trunk-muscle and liver glycogen stores in males of two species of frogs that breed in cold weather, the wood frog (Rana sylvatica) and the spring peeper (Pseudacris crucifer). Wood frogs have an explosive breeding period that begins soon after ice clears from their breeding ponds and lasts only 3-5 days. Males call at low rates (500-600 call notes/h) and move about the pond in search of females. They began the breeding season with large glycogen reserves in their trunk muscles (14-22 mg/g), but these were significantly depleted by the end of the breeding period. Males collected late in the evening consistently had lower trunk muscle glycogen reserves than those collected early in the evening. Liver glycogen stores were unchanged on either a nightly or seasonal basis. Wood frogs do not feed during the breeding season and cannot replenish depleted glycogen reserves. They also lack substantial lipid reserves and appear to depend entirely on carbohydrates to support call production and other reproductive activities. Spring peepers begin breeding at about the same time as wood frogs, but they continue for up to two months. Males call at very high rates (3000-4000 call notes/h) for several hours each night. They began the season with very little glycogen in the trunk muscles (2 mg/g), but the muscles have enormous stores of lipids. Glycogen contents of both trunk muscles and liver increased late in the season when the frogs began to feed, but also were depleted on some nights when males were calling. Spring peepers derive approximately 90% of their energy for call production from lipid reserves and only 10% from glycogen. This pattern is similar to that seen in other frogs with very high calling rates.
3892202|Sphaerodactylus ladae and S. perissodactylius are described from xeric habitats on the south slope of the Sierra Martin Garcia in Hispaniola. The affinities of S. ladae are unclear. Pattern and dorsal scale structure ally S. perissodactylius with S. streptophorus and its relatives: S. cryphius, S. omoglaux, S. armstrongi, and S. nycteropus.
25621919|A new species of tree frog from the Scinax catharinae species group is described, discovered in the Municipality of Ouro Preto, southeastern Brazil. The new species is related to Scinax flavoguttatus, but differs from this species mainly by the light green color on its inguinal regions and hidden portions of flanks and thighs, by its subovoid snout, by its developed nuptial pad, and by its smaller males and females. Additionally, we describe the tadpole which is characterized by: dorsal position of nostril; dorsolateral eyes; gold spots between nostrils and eyes, short spiracle; spiracle opening on the midline of dorsal and ventral surface of body; absence of tail flagellum; oral disc with a short dorsal gap, surrounded by a uniseriate marginal papillae; M- shaped upper jaw sheath; tooth row formula 2(2)/3.
3891711| Aggressive behavior is relatively uncommon among anurans. However, as a response to mechanical or visual stimuli Caudiverbera caudiverbera, the large Chilean leptodactylid frog, demonstrates both aggressive behavior and an aggressive call distinct from the mating call. Observations of this behavior and recordings of the call were made of 29 individuals (juveniles and adults of both sexes). Acoustic signals were analyzed by oscillograms and sonograms. Behavioral responses, together with other morphological and physiological characters that are peculiar to this monotypic genus, suggest that C. caudiverbera has had a long and independent evolutionary history among the telmatobine leptodactylids. /// En Anfibios ceratophrynos y leptodactylinos de la familia Leptodactylidae se ha sealado la existencia de un comportamiento agresivo. Caudiverbera caudiverbera, la "Rana Grande" chilena, es la nica especie que presenta este comportamiento como respuesta a estmulos de naturaleza mecnica y/o visual dentro de los telmatobiinae. Se estudi el comportamiento agresivo de esta especie en el laboratorio sometiendo una serie de 29 ejemplares adultos y juveniles a una rutina de estimulacin mediante pulsos elctricos. La respuesta agresiva consiste en un inflamiento mximo de los pulmones seguido por la violenta expulsin de aire almacenado y la emisin de grito. Los animales saltan y atacan objetos mviles en las vecindades. La ausencia de mordida y la estructura modulada del grito agresivo en esta especie diferencian este comportamiento de aquel que ha sido sealado para Ceratophrys ornata, Lepidobatrachus llanensis y Leptodactylus ocellatus. El grito agresivo de Caudiverbera fue grabado y luego analizado mediante oscilogramas y sonogramas; este grito agresivo es una caracteristica comn a ambos sexos y tambin se presenta en ejemplares recientemente metamorfoseados. Esta seal acstica difiere del canto nupcial tanto por sus componentes peridicas como energticas. La estructura del grito es modulada, diferencindose su contenido armnico por la acentuacin de algunas frecuencias. La frecuencia dominante sufre modificaciones de acuerdo con el peso de los ejemplares de la muestra. A mayor peso, corresponde una menor frecuencia dominante expresada en ciclos por segundo. Se descarta la influencia del peso en las modificaciones observadas en la frecuencia fundamental y en la duracin de la emisin acstica. El comportamiento acstico de Caudiverbera se discute en conjunto con antecedentes cromosmicos, osteolgicos, serolgicos y ecolgico-adaptativos que presenta esta especie, y se insiste en su independencia evolutiva en telmatobiinae. Se sugiere que el significado adaptativo de este comportamiento es una respuesta a la presencia de predadores y/o canibalismo. Las modalidades de comportamiento agresivo en las diversas especies de Leptodactylidae se consideran el resultado de una larga evolucin independiente de ste carcter. 
3892205|Sooglossus gardineri, S. sechellensis, and Nesomantis thomasseti were examined electrophoretically to investigate inter- and intraspecific genetic diversity. Variation was detected at 29 of 30 assayed isozyme loci. The majority of loci exhibited three or more allozymic variants. Sooglossus gardineri was extremely variable and ranks among the most genetically polymorphic of vertebrates. Less variation was found in S. sechellensis and less still in N. thomasseti. These results negatively correlate with the relative adult sizes of these species and with their relative abundances. Nei's genetic distance between S. sechellensis and N. thomasseti was 0.978 while these two species were an average Nei distance of 1.416 from S. gardineri. These genetic relationships are congruent with chromosomal, life history, and behavioral evidence which suggest that S. gardineri is the most divergent of the three sooglossid species.
3892903|Nesting ecology was studied in arboreal green snakes, Opheodrys aestivus, by monitoring the behavior of nine gravid females bearing implanted radiotransmitters. Prior to ovipositing, activities of females were restricted to small ranges within a narrow band of edge vegetation at the shoreline of a lake. As the time of oviposition neared, snakes descended from their arboreal habitats and moved terrestrially away from the shoreline. Snakes nested in small chambers within the hollowed interiors of living trees. Some nest chambers contained eggshells of Opheodrys from previous years. Moisture levels of nest substrates were within the range supporting normal development as determined in laboratory studies. The behavior of some individual snakes suggested that nesting individuals returned to a specific tree each year.
41238993|Herein we describe a new species of the gekkonid genus Cyrtopodion from Dadun, a town between Toksun County and Turpan City, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Western China. It differs from congeners in China and adjacent countries by the combination of nostril bordered by rostral, first supralabial, one supranasal, and two subequal postnasals; dorsal tubercles arranged in regular longitudinal rows; 23-26 ventral scales across mid-abdomen; 97-108 scales along the ventrum of body from postmental to cloaca; 18-22 subdigital lamella beneath fourth toe; 8-10 precloacal pores in males; caudal tubercles broadly in contact laterally with each other; a single row of transversally enlarged subcaudals; dorsal bands in waving shape, much thinner than interspaces.
3893238| We describe a new species of Leposoma from Serra de Baturit, a forest enclave in the semiarid Caatingas of the State of Cear, in northeastern Brazil. The new species has a single frontonasal scale, elongate dorsals, lanceolate ventrals in transverse and diagonal, rather than longitudinal, rows, conical granules on the side of the neck, and strong sexual dichromatism. Leposoma annectans is considered a synonym of L. scincoides. /// Uma nova espcie de Leposoma  descrita para a Serra de Baturit, um enclave de florestas nas Caatingas do Estado do Cear, Brasil. A nova espcie apresenta frontonasal inteira, escamas dorsais alongadas, ventrais lanceoladas em fileiras transversais e diagonais, grnulos cnicos nos lados do pescoo e acentuado dicromatismo sexual. Leposoma annectans  considerado sinnimo de L. scincoides. 
3892642|Home ranges of desert iguanas, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, were compared during the breeding season at three localities that differed in adult population density. The abundance, richness, and diversity of plant resources varied across sites. Although home range size was not correlated with population density, increasing density was associated with greater home range overlap and a tendency for activity to be restricted to the home range interior. For both males and females, the level of home range advertisement, measured as the frequency of push-up displays, increased with increasing population density. The lack of a reciprocal relationship between population density and home range size may be a consequence of the non-uniform distribution of plants at the three sites. When increases in home range size do not produce linear increases in resources, as is the case for many herbivorous species, patterns of space use may be less related to population density per se than to the distribution of conspecifics and plant resources at a particular site.
3892003|The histological aspects of oviducal cycles and the influence of steroid hormones on ovaries and oviducts of Cnemidophorus inornatus and C. neomexicanus were investigated. Cyclic changes in oviducal weight and mass were found to correlate with enlargement and multiplication of glandular tissue in each of the three oviducal regions but not to involve significant change in muscular or supporting tissue. Changes similar to those of the natural reproductive cycle were induced with large dosages of estriol, estrone, and estradiol and to a small degree with testosterone and testosterone propionate. Estrogens have no effect on ovarian follicles but cause increase in ovarian vascularity and interstitial fluid resulting in increased ovary weight. The parthenogenic species is identical to the normal species in both the natural histological changes of the oviduct and those induced by hormones.
3891672|Two new species of stream-breeding hylid frogs are inhabitants of the cloud forests on the Amazonian slopes of the Andes in Colombia and Ecuador. Hyla lindae sp. nov. is most like the sympatric Hyla larinopygion, which also occurs at higher elevations in the Cordillera Central in Colombia. Hyla torrenticola sp. nov is a member of the Andean Hyla bogotensis group and is sympatric with 1 species in that group, Hyla phyllognatha.
3892130|Daily administration of salmon calcitonin to adult male Rana cyanophlyctis induced hypocalcaemia and rendered the ultimobranchial body inactive. After seven days, hypocalcaemia decreased as activity of parathyroid increased. Prolonged calcitonin treatment also increased calcium deposition in the paravertebral lime-sacs.
3891871|The cordylid lizards appear to be a karyologically homogeneous and conservative group. Most of the species studied (9 of 11) have similar karyotypes with 12 bi-armed macrochromosomes and 22 microchromosomes, a complement that is probably basic for the family. Cordylus giganteus is the exception with a karyotype of 2n = 44 (2 bi-armed and 20 uni-armed macrochromosomes, 22 microchromosomes). One individual of Cordylus cataphractus had a karyotype identical to that of C. giganteus; the other five individuals had 45 chromosomes (1 bi-armed and 22 uni-armed macrochromosomes). The karyotypes with 2n = 44-45 are the most differentiated and may have arisen by centric fissions from the general cordylid karyotype. The DNA values range from 5.67-7.86 pg/N. Some species of cordylids have the highest amounts of DNA known for lizards.
25621884|The "Point of View" by Gregory Pauly, David Hillis, and David Cannatella misrepresents the motives and activities of the anuran subcommittee of the Scientific and Standard English Names Committee, contains a number of misleading statements, omits evidence and references to critical literature that have already rejected or superseded their positions, and cloaks the limitations of their nomenclatural approach in ambiguous language. Their "Point of View" is not about promoting transparency in the process of constructing the English Names list, assuring that its taxonomy is adequately reviewed, or promoting nomenclatural stability in any global sense. Rather, their "Point of View" focuses in large part on a single publication, The Amphibian Tree of Life, which is formally unrelated to the Standard English Names List, and promotes an approach to nomenclature mistakenly asserted by them to be compatible with both the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature and one of its competitors, the PhyloCode.
3891795|Shell dimensions and the anal notch of adult female gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) were significantly larger than those of adult males. The degree of plastral concavity, width between the posterior tips of the anal shields, thickness of anal shields, and length of gular projections were significantly greater in males. Sexual dimorphism in these characters is independent of sex-related body size, and apparently is a result of selection to aid in breeding and successful reproduction. A discriminant function based on the ratios plastral concavity/body volume, anal width/anal notch, and anal thickness/body volume was developed which accurately classified individual tortoises by sex.
3893445|Closely related species often vary considerably in the degree of sexual size dimorphism and in the expression of secondary sexual characters. Relatively little is known about the proximate mechanisms underlying among-species variation in sexually dimorphic traits. I examined the influence of exogenously administered testosterone on body growth and on the expression of two possible secondary sexual characters (blue ventral coloration and femoral pore secretion) in the striped plateau lizard, Sceloporus virgatus. Male and female hatchlings were given testosterone-filled or empty (control) implants at approximately 40 days of age. Testosterone-treated females experienced a significant reduction in the rate of growth of body mass and body length over the six-month period following implantation. A similar but non-significant trend for reduced rate of body growth was detected in testosterone-implanted males. Testosterone had no effect on the final size or intensity of the blue throat patch, but the testosterone-implanted males increased in patch size more slowly than control males. Both males and females greatly increased their femoral pore secretions in apparent response to the dose of testosterone. Testosterone-implanted males had greatly enlarged tail bases relative to those of control males. In this species, then, the lack of extensive blue ventral coloration is apparently not due to a corresponding reduction of testosterone secretion in early life.
3893415|I tested the predictions that the intensity of guarding behavior by males is greatest around the fertile period of females (prediction 1) or when a higher number of males are available (prediction 2) in a population of common chameleons, Chamaeleo chamaeleon. I studied guarding intensity (measured as the percentage of net observation time that a female was within 4 m of a male) in 26 radio-tagged females during two years in a population of southern Spain. To test prediction 1, the days in the female reproductive cycle were synchronised according to the mating day (this day being given the value 0). I compared the mean guarding intensity during four seven-day periods of the female reproductuve cycle (defined as pre-Fertile II and I, Fertile, and Post-Fertile). To test prediction 2, I examined the relationship between guarding intensity and the number of males, females, and pairs surrounding (distance <20 m) a guarded female during the seven-day Fertile period of each female. Guarding intensity varied significantly between years and among periods of the female reproductive cycle. As expected, guarding intensity was highest during the Fertile period of females and when a greater number of males was surrounding a female. Number of unpaired males (but not number of pairs or operational sex ratio) was positively correlated with guarding intensity, suggesting that males were probably preventing the access of unpaired males to guarded females. Results suggest the importance of internal (female reproductive stage) and external (number of available males) factors in determining the intensity of guarding behavior in this species.
3892704|Specimens of a rock-dwelling species of Mabuya were collected at four sites in southern Madagascar. This species is similar in scalation and general color pattern to another Madagascan species, Mabuya aureopunctata, but differs from the latter species in having reddish bronze coloration on the posterior half of the body and tail (grayish brown in M. aureopunctata), in details of the color pattern on the anterior half of the body, and in being much smaller (55 mm maximum snout-vent length compared to 82 mm maximum for M. aureopunctata). Direct comparison of the rock-dwelling form to the holotype of M. aureopunctata and to other freshly collected M. aureopunctata confirms that the rock-dwelling form represents a new species of Mabuya, which is described and compared to the six other Madagascan species of the genus. Brief notes on the life history and ecology of the new form are included.
3893020|The results of three experiments on behavioral mechanisms in predator-prey relations between newly metamorphosed American toads (Bufo americanus) and eastern garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis) are reported. Toads responded with stereotypical antipredator behavior (crouching and lowering rates of motion) to the sight of any live snake, including known toad predators (garter snakes) and non-predators (ringneck snake, Diadophis punctatus, and green snake, Opheodrys vernalis). Toads did not respond to snake odors, to a non-moving garter snake, or to an adult toad, but they responded to an adult leopard frog. Actively hunting snakes were observed, and the posture and movement of toads within 10 cm of the predator were recorded before and after contact between predator and prey. Toads that did not move and remained crouched during the sequence were less likely to be captured than those that moved and/or were upright. Tongue contacts were much more likely to lead to capture than trunk or head contacts. Hungry toads moved more frequently than non-hungry toads and were more likely to be captured by garter snakes.
3892770|We analyzed data from 26 yr of spatially extensive mark and recapture studies on slider turtles (Trachemys scripta) to describe the effects of mark-recapture effort and study duration on metapopulation size estimates. Estimates were constructed for a metapopulation that encompasses aquatic habitats exhibiting interchange of individuals with Ellenton Bay, a 10 ha wetland on the Savannah River Site near Aiken, South Carolina. Disjunct populations were included in the Ellenton Bay metapopulation (EBMP) if recaptures of marked slider turtles indicated interchange of individuals between that population and the slider turtle population at Ellenton Bay. Recapture data indicated that the EBMP encompasses habitats 3.5 km from Ellenton Bay. Of 1660 slider turtles originally marked in Ellenton Bay, 65 (3.9%) were recaptured in disjunct aquatic habitats, suggesting that detection of interchange of individuals requires high marking effort. New aquatic habitats in the EBMP continued to be recognized 22 yr after the onset of mark-recapture efforts. The results of this analysis suggest that identification of metapopulations requires spatially extensive sampling, high marking effort, and studies of sufficient duration to allow time for detection of movements to distant populations.
3891825|The immunological techniques of Ouchterlony double-diffusion and quantitative micro-complement fixation were used to estimate similarities in albumin structure of the Mexican burrowing toad Rhinophrynus dorsalis (Rhinophrynidae) and species representing nine other families of frogs. A slight cross reactivity was detected only to albumin of Ascaphus truei (Ascaphidae); no reactivity was found to any other species. This evidence is used to assess current systematic hypotheses concerning the monotypic family Rhinophrynidae. We believe R. dorsalis is the only survivor of an ancient, independent lineage, perhaps derivative of an ascaphid line during the Cretaceous. We find no evidence to support the commonly hypothesized relationship of the Rhinophrynidae to the Pipidae or Discoglossidae.
40931021|We examined the question of whether an apparently restricted diet qualifies the Florida sand skink (Plestiodon reynoldsi) as a dietary specialist. We gathered diet data from the three existing sources, added new data from individuals that we collected, and used these data to calculate measures of dietary diversity. We compared the diet of P. reynoldsi with those of 25 species of skinks, nine species of fossorial squamates, and six species of lizards and snakes found in habitats similar to those occupied by P. reynoldsi. We estimated diet choice indirectly and applied standards of specialization drawn from the literature. In every regard, the Florida sand skink did not seem to have a restricted diet. Dietary diversity values for the species are near the center of the distribution of values for skinks and for the species found in similar habitats. The species has a higher than expected H' value, based on the identity of its main prey, and the highest or nearly highest dietary diversity values among the fossorial species examined. The diet of the species did not stabilize over the course of four diet studies; rather, the cumulative number of prey types taken nearly doubled. We suggest that the apparently restricted diet of P. reynoldsi reflects the restricted prey choices provided by its foraging sites. A major problem in studying dietary specialization is the lack of data on prey availability and therefore a lack of solid information on diet choice.
3893452|We performed intrusion experiments and observed the course of 13 male-male agonistic interactions to gather information on the communicative role of visual signaling in the Amazonian tree frog Hyla parviceps. To obtain information on the ecological context potentially associated with visual signaling, we performed nightly censuses of calling activity and tested whether males differentially used microhabitats in relation to properties that affect both acoustic and visual communication. Among seven behaviors performed by males, two were visual displays. Foot-flagging displays and advertisement calls were used at a similar rate and at similar distances between interactants. Arm-waving displays were less common and used at a closer range than foot-flagging displays. The analysis of a dyadic transition matrix revealed that foot flagging significantly elicited foot-flagging displays by the opponent frog. Furthermore, resident males produced more arm wavings and calls than intruders, although the latter difference was not significant. We conclude that male H. parviceps respond to intruders by combining advertisement calls and visual displays, and that visual signals may serve functionally as a spacing mechanism. Comparing the properties of perches used by calling males with a random sample of available perches indicates that males prefer perches surrounded by denser and higher vegetation. Furthermore, calling activity occurred during or shortly after heavy rains and coincided with calling activity of several co-occurring species of hylid frogs, which probably decreases the locatability of calling males. We suggest that, under these conditions, the simultaneous production of auditory and visual signals may momentarily increase a sender's locatability when a conspecific receiver is detected.
3891426| The reproductive cycle of the Texas horned lizard, Phrynosoma cornutum at San Angelo, Texas was determined from examination of 116   and 48  . During 1968 and 1969, reproduction began in April and ceased during mid-July. Females apparently do not mature until their second season after birth at a size of about 70 mm snout-vent length. It appears a single clutch averaging 29 eggs is produced each year. No geographic variation in clutch size was evident upon examination of 96 additional specimens from North to South Texas and East Texas to eastern Arizona. 
3891649|Data on morphological variation and distribution of the boid snake, Epicrates chrysogaster, are presented along with notes on littermates born in captivity, and a description of a new subspecies E. ch. schwartzi. Comparisons are drawn between E. chrysogaster and other faunal and floral elements with reference to patterns of distribution and degrees of differentiation in the southern Bahamas. E. chrysogaster is interpreted to be most closely related to E. striatus of Hispaniola and the northern Bahamas. The distinctiveness of E. chrysogaster suggests a long period of isolation from its ancestors.
3891650| The following lizard species are included in the Sphaerodactylus argus group: S. argus Gosse (including S. a. andresensis Dunn and Saxe) of Jamaica and Isla San Andrs, S. oxyrhinus Gosse of Jamaica (including S. o. dacnicolor Barbour), a new species described herein from Jamaica, and S. argivus Garman of the Caymans (including S. a. lewisi Grant and S. a. bartschi Cochran). The introduced and possibly introduced population of S. argus (Florida, the Bahamas, Cuba, and the Islas del Maz) are discussed. The variation and distribution of the argus group forms are analyzed and postulates made of their relationships. Sphaerodactylus continentalis Werner is discussed as a possible mainland relative of the argus group. A possibly aposematic function of the ocellate color pattern of the new species is briefly discussed. 
3893338|Courtship behavior in the spring salamander Gyrinophilus porphyriticus is described for the first time. This species is a member of the family Plethodontidae, and is generally acknowledged as exhibiting the largest number of primitive characters in the family. Like all plethodontids, it exhibits a tail-straddle walk that usually leads to spermatophore deposition. The early stages of courtship are characterized by extensive head-sliding (rubbing the snout over the nares, head, and body of the female) by the male. Later, during the tail-straddle walk, the female often rubs her snout laterally over the base of the male's tail. During the period immediately preceeding spermatophore deposition, the male undulates his tail beneath the female's chin. That males lack a mental gland (that secretes courtship pheromones) and yet perform extensive head-sliding suggests that this behavior serves a tactile function in G. porphyriticus, rather than to administer courtship pheromones. Given the large number of primitive characters exhibited by G. porphyriticus, headsliding is viewed as a precursor to the behaviors used in pheromone-delivery seen in other plethodontids. The mental gland of other species may be secondarily derived and may have evolved subsequent to tactile stimulation.
24634328|A new species of the colubrid genus Geophis from northern Puebla, Mexico, is described. The new species possesses most of the diagnostic characters of the G. dubius group but differs from all other species of Geophis by having the loreal shorter than the combined prenasal and postnasal length, one postocular scale, one supraocular scale, the fifth supralabial and parietal in contact, dorsal scales in 17 rows, dorsal scales smooth throughout the length of the body or, if keeled, not anteriorly to the posterior fourth of the body, 129140 ventrals in females and 125139 in males, 2631 subcaudals in females and 3439 in males, 159170 ventrals plus subcaudals in females and 161174 in males, 9 maxillary teeth, anterior tip of the maxilla toothless, an overall dark dorsum, a predominantly cream venter, and a short tail in males. A Bayesian phylogenetic analysis of mtDNA sequences of the cytochrome b and tRNATrn genes, including representatives of the new species, G. carinosus, G. dubius, and G. juarezi supported the distinctness of the new species. Se describe una nueva especie del gnero de colbridos Geophis del norte de Puebla, Mxico. La nueva especie posee la mayora de los caracteres diagnsticos del grupo G. dubius, pero difiere de todas las dems especies de Geophis por presentar la loreal ms corta que la longitud combinada de la prenasal y postnasal, una escama postocular, una escama supraocular, la quinta supralabial y la parietal en contacto, las escamas dorsales en 17 hileras, escamas dorsales lisas a lo largo de todo el cuerpo o, de ser aquilladas, no anteriormente al cuarto posterior del cuerpo, 129140 ventrales en hembras y 125139 en machos, 2631 subcaudales en hembras y 3439 en machos, 159170 ventrales ms subcaudales en hembras y 161174 en machos, 9 dientes maxilares, extremo anterior de la maxila sin dientes, un dorso mayormente oscuro, un vientre predominantemente crema y una cola corta en los machos. Un anlisis filogentico Bayesiano de secuencias mitocondriales de los genes que codifican para Citocromo b y tRNATrn que incluy a la nueva especie, G. carinosus, G. dubius y G. juarezi apoy la distinctin de la nueva especie.
3893124|The bullfrog, Rana catesbeiana, is a predator of the gray treefrog, Hyla versicolor. Recent research with a variety of taxa has demonstrated that females may be sensitive to changes in their risk of predation and may respond behaviorally during mate choice in ways that reduce this risk. In a three-speaker female choice experiment, we tested whether gravid female treefrogs would avoid approaching a source of conspecific advertisement calls when it was adjacent to a speaker broadcasting bullfrog calls. We also assessed the hearing sensitivity of female gray treefrogs to bullfrog calls with neurophysiology and tested whether calling male bullfrogs would attack a simulated treefrog. A final playback experiment tested whether males would reduce their calling in response to bullfrog calls. Because calling male bullfrogs often attacked our model frog, the calls of this ranid might be a useful indicator of predation risk to H. versicolor. Nevertheless, we found that neither female phonotaxis nor male calling was influenced by broadcasts of bullfrog vocalizations. While auditory thresholds of H. versicolor were about 17 dB SPL higher to the heterospecific than to the conspecific call, thresholds to the bullfrog call were well below sound pressure levels used in the tests of phonotaxis. Possible explanations for our behavioral findings are discussed.
3891929|Fossil snakes from the Split Rock Formation of central Wyoming are identified as three erycinine boids, one natricine and five colubrine colubrids, and one (?) crotaline viperid. Ameiseophis robinsoni n. gen. et. sp., a very distinctive colubrine form, is described. There is an apparent break in the snake fauna between the lower (Second Bench Locality and below) and upper (Third Bench Locality and above) beds. The lower beds contain an assemblage of three boids, three colubrids, and no viperids, a composition similar to the early Hemingfordian Black Bear II Quarry fauna of the Rosebud Formation of South Dakota. The upper beds contain an assemblage of one boid, five colubrids, and one viperid, a composition similar to an assemblage from temporally equivalent sites from the lower-most part of the Valentine Formation (late Barstovian) of Nebraska. The composition and greater diversity of the snake fauna indicate a warmer, moister climate than is found in the area today.
3891417|Representatives of the salamander families Salamandridae, Ambystomatidae, and Plethodontidae became immobile when subjected to stimuli simulating the attack of a predator. These stimuli ranged from uncovering a salamander in the field to pinching or restraining it in the laboratory. Immobility in response to these stimuli and more lengthy immobility in the field support the fear hypothesis for explaining immobility. The basic posture associated with immobility varies between families but in all three is associated with another line of defense in the form of noxious skin secretions or tail autotomy or both.
41238997|While unpalatability in general is well-known to provide prey protection against predators, the role of unpalatability as an antipredator mechanism in larval anurans and more specifically, Lithobates catesbeianus (American Bullfrog) larvae remains contentious. There are three major problems associated with the majority of the studies done to date: (1) failure to incorporate the existence of a range of relative preferences or palatability, (2) failure to effectively control for predator hunger levels, and (3) failure to consider confounding variables such as prey behavior and prey appearance. We sought to alleviate these problems by first training Lepomis gibbosus (Pumpkinseed Sunfsh) to consume a standardized food ration for 1 wk and then spiking that food ration the following week with only the skin of three different larval anurans that have been hypothesized to range in palatability (namely, L. catesbeianus, L. clamitans [Green Frog], and L. sylvaticus [Wood Frog]). The results of this experiment revealed that a range of palatability does in fact exist, with L. catesbeianus being least palatable, L. clamitans being somewhat unpalatable, and L. sylvaticus being highly palatable. This study was the first to show evidence, devoid of any confounding variables, that L. catesbeianus and, to a lesser extent, L. clamitans tadpoles are unpalatable to sunfsh predators.
3891735|Anolis extremus, an endemic species on the island of Barbados, was discovered to be introduced on to the island of St. Lucia in 1956. The species is successful in places, but it has not spread widely. Its known distribution on St. Lucia is mapped. The solitary endemic anole of St. Lucia, A. luciae, apparently competes directly with A. extremus. The introduced form has apparently eliminated the native from several small areas. Both species are interspecifically territorial. It is not clear how A. extremus gains a competitive advantage, nor is it clear, given an advantage, why its spread is so slow.
41406815|Previous studies showed that Fejervarya cancrivora tadpoles were salt-tolerant (up to 24 parts per thousand [ppt] in the field and 35 ppt in the laboratory) but metamorphosed only at or below 6.6 ppt. We hypothesized that the discrepancy in salt tolerance of tadpoles is due to a mixture of results drawn from shortand long-term experiments and different acclimation procedures, which needed to be re-examined. We compared the salinity tolerance of acclimated and nonacclimated tadpoles and assessed salinity effects on growth, development, and metamorphosis among tadpoles of F. cancrivora throughout larval period. In Experiment 1, we determined 48-h tadpole survivorship by assigning 40 tadpoles to one of the 24 treatments ranging from 3-ppt to 30-ppt salinity. In Experiment 2, we assigned tadpoles to 3-15-ppt salinity at intervals of 3 ppt and monitored tadpole growth and development through metamorphosis. In Experiment 3, we exposed 15 tadpoles to a stepwise increase of salinity (i. e., 2 ppt every 3 d) and monitored the tadpole survivorship and metamorphic success. From Experiment 1 we estimated an LC50 (defined as the salt concentration that kills 50% of tadpoles within 48 h) of 13.7 ppt and tadpoles survived for 48 h at salinities as high as 16 ppt, suggesting that saline tolerance of F. cancrivora tadpoles is greater than all anuran species studied to date. Results of Experiment 2 showed that only tadpoles in 3, 6, and 9 ppt survived and reached metamorphosis. Tadpoles at 9 ppt grew and developed slower than in lower salinities during the first 7 wk, but the time to and size at metamorphosis were similar among treatments, suggesting that tadpoles were stressed at 9 ppt early, but they probably were able to maintain physiological homeostasis and to catch up growth after a period of adjustments. Results of Experiment 3 showed that all tadpoles survived through 18 d as the salinity was increased stepwise from 3 ppt to 15 ppt, and 6 out of 15 tadpoles were able to metamorphose at high salinities (17-21 ppt). This finding contradicts earlier results suggesting tadpoles could metamorphose only at salinities 6.6 ppt. Overall, our results showed that F. cancrivora tadpoles not only tolerate salt well, but also are capable of acclimation to higher salinities. This ability to acclimate could free tadpoles from dependence on the occurrence of rain to facilitate metamorphosis and thus, represents an adaptation to the unpredictable nature of salinity variation in brackish habitats.
3891280|This study of the reptiles and amphibians inhabiting the barrier chain of St. Vincent, St. George, and Dog islands, Franklin County, Florida, is based on collections made from 1964 through 1968. A discussion of the biogeography of the Apalachicola region in relation to the southeastern herpetofauna and to geologic history is presented. Evidence for the use of a Pleistocene Gulf Coast migration route by Coluber constrictor, Masticophis flagellum, and Terrapene carolina is given. An analysis and discussion are presented of 30 species of reptiles and amphibians, and probable relationships of the insular fauna to the mainland populations are suggested. Taxonomic problems in Acris gryllus, Hyla squirella, and Elaphe obsoleta are discussed. Range extensions for Acris gryllus dorsalis, Chrysemys floridana peninsularis, and Ophisaurus compressus are presented. Evidence of multiple breeding seasons in Rana pipiens is shown. Terrapene carolina putnami Hay is relegated to the synonymy of T. c. major (Agassiz).
23254558|Yellow-lipped Sea Kraits (Laticauda colubrina) are tropical amphibious snakes that divide their time between land and sea. When moving between habitats, the kraits experience rapid and sometimes extreme shifts in body temperature that can have profound metabolic effects. We quantified cutaneous and pulmonary oxygen uptake in sea kraits from Hoga Island, southeast Sulawesi, Indonesia, at temperatures commonly encountered in aquatic (27.6C) and aerial (35.2C) habitats. Total oxygen uptake rate was 49.14 mL Kg -1 h -1 at 27.6C and 115.27 mL Kg -1 h -1 at 35.2C. Pulmonary and cutaneous uptake rates were 44.58 and 104.70, and 4.56 and 10.57 mL Kg -1 h -1 , at 27.6 and 35.2C, respectively. Sea kraits had a temperature coefficient (Q 10 ) of approximately 3, suggesting that metabolic rates triple with every 10C temperature increase. High Q 10 values may minimize time on land by increasing digestion and nutrient absorption rates as well as promoting faster healing and injury recovery times. Cooler reef temperatures would decrease metabolic demand, thus increasing submergence and foraging times.
3891879|A mark-release-recapture study of individual yellow-bellied toads (Bombina variegata) was carried out along a semi-isolated 1 km segment of a small stream in the Balkan Mountains. Movements during spawning activity, seasonal migrations, movements from year to year, abundances, and sex ratios were estimated. Males moved an average of 63.8 m between captures during the spawning season while females and juveniles moved 20.0 and 17.4 m, respectively. Movement upstream was not different from that downstream during the spawning season. The animals moved several hundred meters at the end of the spawning season. Thirty animals marked in 1977 were recovered in 1978; 15 moved upstream and 14 downstream but the movements downstream were almost three times as far as those upstream. The sex ratio was 3 males to 1 female during the spawning season but dropped to 2:1 later in the summer. The approximately 480 adult animals along the stream were clustered slightly at the upper end and in pools along the stream.
3890635|Optimal habitat for Carphophis amoenus in Alabama is mesophytic forest dominated by hardwood trees. The species occurs in all major provinces above the Fall Line and locally in the Red Hills, Lower Coastal Plain, and Upper Coastal Plain provinces below the Fall Line. Worm snakes have not been recorded from the Black Belt or from the lower Piedmont and lower Coosa Valley Region. The Coastal Plain portion of the range and most of that in eastern Alabama above the Fall Line are inhabited by C. a. helenae. Carphophis a. amoenus occurs in most of the remainder. Carphophis a. helenae from the Coastal Plain have the highest average ventral count, C. a. amoenus are the lowest, and C. a. helenae from the Fall Line northward are intermediate.
3891462| After acclimation to 5, 15, and 25C (AT) hellbenders had corresponding mean preferred temperatures (PT) in a laboratory thermal gradient of 11.6  0.12C, 17.7  0.18C and 21.7  0.21C. At the same AT the corresponding PT of mudpuppies were 9.1  0.07C, 16.1  0.12C and 20.21  0.19C. Increased AT thus resulted in significant elevations of PT in both species. Previous studies showed either no significant increase of PT with increased AT in salamanders or an inverse relationship. The generally low PT of Cryptobranchus and Necturus may reflect their strictly aquatic habitats. 
3891195| In 1971, during a period of drought, the reproductive season of Urosaurus ornatus in central Texas extended from March through August. Ovulation began in late April. Females became mature at approximately 39 mm snout-vent length. Clutch size was larger earlier in the season (x = 6.3, May) than later (x = 4.5, June; 3.7, July; 4.2, August) and averaged 5 eggs per clutch overall. Individual females possessed multiple clutch potential; sufficient time was available to permit at least three clutches per season. Weights of oviducal egg complements averaged 23% of total body weight. 
3892381|Terrestrial salamanders in the family Plethodontidae are poor dispersers and so tend to form isolated populations. Evolutionary rates of salamanders are slow, but isolated populations diverge and in some cases can be considered separate species. These populations reestablish contact with other species and in some cases reproductive isolation is complete. I examined mechanisms of species recognition and reproductive isolation of sympatric pairs of Plethodon species. Male and female salamanders were tested for the ability to discriminate between conspecific and heterospecific odors using an olfactometer. Males always preferred the odors of conspecific females over heterospecific females. Males always initiated courtship with conspecifics first, suggesting that species recognition occurs before courtship, probably through olfaction. Courtship sequences of the different species appear to be identical. Females probably are attracted to male conspecifics only during the courtship season. Heterospecific odors are ignored or avoided. These data indicate that chemical cues could be used by plethodontid salamanders as a premating isolating mechanism.
3892095| The life history and demography of a population of Yarrow's spiny lizard, Sceloporus jarrovi, was studied in the Pinaleo Mountains of southeastern Arizona from 1972-1974. Size-specific clutch sizes and maximum female body size were smaller in the Pinaleo Mountains than in a population at similar elevation in the Chiricahua Mountains. A female of average snout-vent length (72 mm) in the population studied here had 5.6  1.9 (SE) offspring. Males grew faster than females at all ages and were significantly larger. Survivorship of young and adults varied between years with average adult female survivorship being 36%. Winter (October-May) survivorship was higher than summer (June-October) survivorship. Adult population densities were highest in the spring and steadily declined through the summer. Sex ratios among yearlings, but not other age classes, differed significantly from an expected 1:1 ratio. Life tables based on average age-specific fecundity and mortality rates resulted in net replacement rates ( R
3891956| Frequencies of autotomized tails in Yarrow's spiny lizard from the Pinaleo Mountains diverge markedly in   but not in   sampled between 2 elevations. Frequency of autotomy also increases with age class in   but not in   in both the Pinaleo sample and in S. jarrovi sampled from the Chiricahua Mountains. Elevational differences in longevity may partially explain the observed elevational divergence in autotomy frequencies, which occurs even within a single age class in   but not in  . Factors such as reproductive behavior, habitat structure and length of gestation are considered for their potential effect on predator pressures. 
3893360| We describe a new species, Telmatobius vilamensis, from Ro Vilama, near San Pedro de Atacama, Chile. Previously confused with Telmatobius halli Noble, 1938, this new species is diagnosed by distinct characteristics of the adult and larval morphology and chromosomes. The new species is the southernmost representative of the genus Telmatobius in Chile. Telmatobius halli Noble, 1938 is redescribed, and both taxa are compared with eight Chilean congeners that occur in the Andes. /// Describimos una nueva especie; Telmatobius vilamensis del Ro Vilama, cerca de San Pedro de Atacama, Chile. Previamente confundida con T. halli Noble, 1938, esta nueva especie es descrita en base a caracteres de la morfologa externa de las larvas y adultos, osteologa y cromosomas. La nueva especie es el representante ms sureo del gnero Telmatobius en Chile. Adicionalmente, se redescribe T. halli y se comparan ambos taxa con las restantes especies del gnero reportadas para Chile. 
3893121|We collected eggs of the common snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina) over two consecutive years both from gravid females hormonally induced to oviposit and from newly (<12 h) constructed nests. Eggs were incubated in the laboratory under wet and dry conditions to determine whether the method of procurement influenced egg viability. Net gain in egg mass during incubation and hatching success (egg survivorship) were used as measures of egg viability. Hatchling body size was also analyzed for effects due to egg procurement method. Eggs collected from nests gained significantly more mass during the incubation period than did eggs collected from females hormonally induced to oviposit. This difference may have resulted from the particular way that eggs were collected. Females were induced to oviposit directly into water and, therefore, their eggs may have had higher water potential at the start of incubation than eggs collected from nests. Our analyses were unable to detect differences in hatching success and hatchling body size between the egg procurement methods.
3892462|We reanalyzed the relationship between home range and lizard body size. Our analysis includes home ranges estimated with the convex polygon technique and a recently proposed method for eliminating sample size bias. When analyzed separately, neither insectivorous, carnivorous nor female herbivorous lizards had a significant regression of home range size against body mass; male herbivores had a marginally significant regression. Combining data for the different foraging types resulted in significant regressions for both males and females; the regression for the pooled data set (males plus females) was also significant. Our regression equations differ significantly from previously published equations derived from home range estimates adjusted for sample size bias. Except for the intercepts of the female regressions, our equations do not differ significantly from earlier equations derived from unadjusted home range estimates. Our analysis showed that home range size for the side-blotched lizard, Uta stansburiana, could be accurately determined, without sample size bias, with an average of 13 resightings per lizard.
3893136|We describe a new species of Hydrophis using external and internal morphological characters. The new species was found more than 1000 km up-river from the coast in the River Sibau, an affluent of the River Kapuas, West Kalimantan, Indonesia. We compare the new species with its congeners and discuss various aspects of the biology.
3892303|The nutritive function of caudal lipid in the lizard Phyllodactylus marmoratus was investigated. Starved geckos possessing tails lived significantly longer than starved tailless geckos at 10 C. Starved or cold geckos retained their tails longer than well-fed or warm geckos when subjected to pressure to autotomise. Adults, which possessed relatively more tail lipid than juveniles, also resisted autotomy pressure longer. Geckos under suboptimal conditions tend to retain their tails, preserving the caudal lipid so important for survival.
3891822|In the Salientia the M. cutaneus dorsalis is a thin sheet of muscle arising from the ventral surface of the pelvic girdle and attaching to the dorsal skin. A survey of several families and genera established that this muscle is found only among the Microhylidae, the families comprising the Ranoidea, and some members of the Leptodactylidae. A previously unreported muscle, here named the M. rectus abdominis pars anteroflecta, arises from the pubis as a broad lateral slip. A survey of several families and genera indicates that this slip is restricted to the Microhylidae. This muscle is cutaneous in the subfamilies Asterophryinae, Microhylinae, and Sphenophryninae. Only in these subfamilies is there a cutaneous slip from the M. pectoralis abdominalis. The cutaneous muscles of microhylids may aid in the adoption of a defensive posture and in the secretion of fluids from epidermal glands. The sharing of the M. cutaneous dorsalis by ranoids and microhylids is seen as not necessarily indicating a common origin, but the unique possession of the M. rectus abdominis pars anteroflecta by adult microhylids emphasizes their distinctness from adult ranoids. The non-cutaneous condition of the M. pars anteroflecta in the Brevicipitinae is seen as derived.
3892596|Female Afrixalus delicatus occasionally display polyandrous breeding behavior in which up to three males fertilize a single clutch of eggs. Selection has favored multiple nests in this species and would preadapt females for polyandrous behavior in which up to three days may elapse between the deposition of egg batches from a single clutch.
3893166| The frog genus Telmatobius represents the radiation of 49 recognized species confined to high elevation aquatic habitats in the Andes Mountains of South America. The genus has not been shown to be monophyletic, and issues of species boundaries and relationships are poorly resolved. In this study, we sampled the four recognized subspecies of T. albiventris from Lake Titicaca, and other species (T. crawfordi, T. culeus, and T. marmoratus) from within the lake and the greater Titicaca Basin. We used allozyme characters and multivariate assessments of morphometric variation to test species boundaries in this complex. Our results suggest that four evolutionary species can be recognized: T. culeus (which includes T. albiventris and T. crawfordi), T. marmoratus, T. affinis halli, and T. sp. nov. Unique combinations of allozyme and morphometric variables can distinguish these, but only the sample of T. culeus is large enough, relative to the proportion of fixed characters, to evaluate distinctness of diagnostic characters with a high degree of statistical confidence ( = 0.05). Phylogenetic analysis of 10 polymorphic allozyme loci revealed weak support for monophyly of Lake Titicaca Telmatobius. All taxa from Lake Titicaca examined here (under the name T. culeus) are interpreted as a single evolutionary species, but differences in body sizes and microhabitats provide circumstantial evidence for adaptation along ecological resource gradients. The possibility of ecological speciation among different morphs within the lake is considered, along with evidence needed to test this hypothesis. /// Las diversidad especfica del gnero Telmatobius es el resultado de una radiacion adaptativa que actualmente alcanza a 49 especies, confinadas en ambientes acuticos de altura en la Cordillera de los Andes. El gnero carece de una hiptesis filogentica que sustente su monofilia y en general, las relaciones y lmites interespecficos han sido escasamente abordados. En este trabajo, colectamos las cuatro subespecies reconocidas de T. albiventris del Lago Titicaca, ms ejemplares asignados a T. culeus (Lago Titicaca), T. crawfordi y T. marmoratus de la cuenca circundante. Estas poblaciones han sido comparadas mediante caracteres aloenzimaticos y a travs de un estudio multivariado de variables morfomtricas para determinar su estatus especfico. La delimitacin propuesta est basada en la utilizacin de un concepto evolutivo de especie y en el uso de un criterio de concordancia entre caracteres independientes como mtodo explcito de reconocimiento de especies evolutivas. Nuestros resultados fundamentan el reconocimiento de cuatro especies evolutivas; T. culeus (que incluye a T. albiventris y T. crawfordi), T. marmoratus, T. affinis halli y Telmatobius sp. nov. Los cuatro taxa anteriores pueden ser discriminados por combinaciones nicas de caracteres morfomtricos y aloenzimticos. Sin embargo, slo T. culeus cuenta con un tamao muestral suficiente en relacin al nmero de caracteres fijos como para evaluar con un grado de confianza significativo ( = 0.05) los caracteres diagnstico propuestos. Los tres taxa considerados como parte de una sola especie evolutiva muestran diferencias significativas en la talla corporal y microhabitat que pueden ser interpretadas como evidencia circunstancial de adaptacin a un gradiente ecolgico continuo. Finalmente, se discute la posibilidad de un fenmeno de especiacin ecologica y las predicciones que deben ser testeadas para comprobar tal hiptesis. 
3890629|A new subspecies of the Antillean gecko Sphaerodactylus decoratus Garman is described from the Ragged Islands, which lie on the southern portion of the Great Bahama Bank and close to Cuba. A brief analysis of variation within the species is presented in an attempt to account for distribution of the various Bahaman subspecies in reference to the parent Cuban populations.
3893455|The smallest tortoise, Homopus signatus, is inadequately protected, and information on its reproductive ecology can facilitate effective conservation. We combined X-ray radiography and ultrasonography to assess the reproductive status of free-ranging female Homopus signatus signatus during August-September 2000 (n = 30) and September-October 2001 (n = 29). Females produced only single-egg clutches but can produce more than one clutch in a season. Most (ca. 75%) of the females were gravid each spring, so H. s. signatus probably has a seasonal pattern of egg production. This pattern may be related to the seasonal climate; summers are hot and dry, yet winter rainfall is moderately predictable. Females were gravid from August through October, but further analyses are necessary to characterize the entire reproductive season and quantify clutch frequency. Large females produced large eggs, compared to eggs of small females. The smallest gravid female had a straight-line carapace length of 84.1 mm while the largest female measured 110.0 mm. Compared to gravid females, nongravid females were in poorer body condition (body mass and mass relative to carapace length) only in 2000, when there was lower rainfall and plant availability than in 2001. The difference in body mass approximated the mass of one egg. The low clutch size and fecundity suggest that populations have low intrinsic rates of natural increase. This plus their limited range and specific habitat requirements make H. s. signatus vulnerable to anthropogenic impacts.
3892497| This study evaluates the nesting pattern of individual leatherback turtles, the fate of individual nests, and the seemingly maladaptive nesting strategy involved in high nest loss. Sandy Point, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, is a high-energy beach characterized by deep, unobstructed access. Gravid leatherbacks deposit as many as 10 clutches (x = 4.9) annually and exhibit a high degree of nest dispersal along the length and width of the beach. Short-term erosion and accretion cycles result in the annual loss of 45-60% of the nests laid. The zones of greatest instability vary from year to year. Wide nest dispersal may reduce the prospect that a high proportion of reproductive effort will be lost with the destruction of any particular zone of habitat. I suggest that nest dispersal should occur whenever nest survival is not strongly correlated with available environmental information. The predictability of perturbation (i.e., stable vs. unstable nesting habitats) may serve as a control determining the nesting strategies of sea turtles. 
3892985|We analyzed lines of arrested growth (LAGs), presumably annual, in cross sections of the femoral diaphysis of three species of desmognathine salamanders from the southern Appalachian Mountains (Wolf Creek, Cowee Mountains, North Carolina). For 100 of 101 Desmognathus quadramaculatus of all size groups, including larvae, LAGs were clearly defined. In our sample, the largest larva showed three LAGs, confirming that in this population larvae may spend at least 3 yr before metamorphosis. There is no clear LAG linked to this event, but in adults some of the first LAGs may be resorbed, requiring a back calculation for the final age estimation. Growth reached a plateau at about 9 or 10 yr. The largest individual was at least 13 yr old. Taking into account the pattern of deposition of LAGs, we concluded that sexual maturity is not reached before 6 yr for males and 7-8 yr for females. In D. monticola, but especially in D. ochrophaeus, LAGs are more difficult to read. In both species, larvae spend one winter before metamorphosis, corresponding to one LAG in most of the smallest juveniles examined. No metamorphic LAG could be identified and no more than two LAGs had been resorbed in adults. Of 90 individuals of D. monticola, 83 were accurately aged. Growth reached a plateau at 7 or 8 yr and the oldest, a male, was 11 yr old. Although age of sexual maturity was not obvious from growth mark patterns, it was estimated to be at least 5 yr in males and 5-7 yr in females. For 76 of 87 individuals of D. ochrophaeus that could be aged reliably in our sample, the maximum age observed was 10 yr. Sexual maturity was estimated at 3-4 yr in males and 4-5 yr in females. Skeletochronology is more difficult to apply in Plethodontidae than in Salamandridae. Nevertheless, in desmognathines, analysis of bone growth marks can be used to separate age groups; it is especially valuable for age mixtures of adults that overlap in body size, and it provides estimates of longevity in natural populations.
3892008|A group of 8 recently hatched Graptemys barbouri and two clutches numbering 8 and 9 eggs were found on 27 August 1967 buried in a small sandbar on the Flint River, Dougherty County, Georgia. Eggs were ellipsoidal and dull white with somewhat flexible shells. Average egg measurements were: length, 39.4 mm; width 29.5 mm; weight 18.9 g. Average hatchling measurements were: length 34.8 mm; width, 34.9 mm. Hatchlings possessed large, firm spherical yolk sacs which were absorbed in 8-12 days. Caruncles were shed 14-18 days after hatching. Data and observations suggest that all three clutches were laid by a single female.
3890951|The nesting sequence of green turtles on Heron Island is described and divided into nine stages. Behavior of the Heron Island turtles differs from that described for other populations in 1) the absence of "smelling" behavior in new arrivals at the nesting ground and individuals ascending the beach, 2) minor details of digging activity, 3) taking longer to excavate body pits and egg chambers and to lay eggs.
40602602|Gopherus polyphemus has experienced severe population declines, especially in the western portion of its range. As a consequence, G. polyphemus may have experienced population bottlenecks that resulted in a decrease in genetic diversity and an accumulation of deleterious aleles. The importance of genetic diversity has been well-documented for several fitness parameters (e.g., survival, disease resistance, growth and developmental rates, and developmental instability). Western populations of G. polyphemus in south Mississippi (USA) have lower hatching success (16.7-48%) than that found in eastern populations (67-97%). Even under laboratory conditions, approximately 40% of the eggs still failed to hatch, suggesting that intrinsic (egg quality) factors may be affecting development. Using nine microsatellite loci, we genotyped individuals from four populations in south Mississippi and one eastern population (Fort Benning, GA) and compared several genetic diversity indices (e.g., allelic richness, expected heterozygosity, and percent polymorphic loci) with published data from populations in the eastern portion of the range, such as populations east of the Mobile and Tombigbee rivers. We found significantly lower genetic diversity in the four Mississippi populations than in the eastern populations. However, these findings only demonstrate that these populations have low genetic diversity, and establishing any causal relationship between low genetic diversity (or other intrinsic factors; e.g., female condition) and reduced reproductive success should be further investigated.
4497935|Amphibian populations in several regions of the world appear to be declining due to infectious diseases. While many studies have attempted to identify the pathogens associated with specific declines, very few studies have attempted to identify the natural microflora that is present on amphibian skin. Knowledge of the natural flora that healthy individuals carry may, in some cases, provide valuable information for understanding disease outcomes. In this study, we isolated the natural bacterial flora found on the skin of apparently healthy adult eastern newts (Notophthalamus viridescens), larval bullfrogs (Rana catesbieana) and redback salamanders (Plethodon cinereus) living in natural field sites in Virginia. We positively identified five bacterial species from newts, three bacterial species from bullfrogs and four bacterial species and one yeast from redback salamanders. In a parallel study, we examined the physiological profiles of bacterial communities at six sites with newt and bullfrog tadpole populations. A cluster analysis resulted in two main groupings: one for all the water samples and one for all the skin swab samples from the amphibians. This result suggests that only a sub-set of bacteria in the environment are able to successfully colonize amphibian skin.
3893596| The Flint Hills of Kansas and Oklahoma are the largest remaining tracts of tallgrass prairie in North America. This area has undergone major changes in land management practices in the past 30 years. Traditional season-long cattle stocking with variable burn schedules has diversified to include intensive-early cattle stocking accompanied by annual burning. To understand how different land management practices affect the herpetofauna of a tallgrass prairie, we used mark-recapture statistics to analyze herpetofaunal community dynamics. We analyzed survey data collected over a 15-year time span (1989-2003) from a rangeland site in Cowley County, KS, USA. A modified Jolly-Seber open population model, POPAN-5, was used to estimate four community parameters: probability of species loss (), probability of detection (p), probability of entry (
3891290|An electric fence, used as the principal collecting method in a study of terrestrial vertebrates in Sinaloa, Mexico, is described. The technique has proven successful for collecting a wide range of sizes and species of mammals, reptiles, and amphibians in a variety of vegetation types, terrain, and climates. It is a non-selective technique especially useful for relative density estimates. The fence, which is both inexpensive and easily portable, has unique potential for capturing rare or secretive animals.
3890617|Significant daily cycles in critical thermal maxima were found in lizards acclimatized at 25 C and a photoperiod of LD 12:12 and to a 15-25 C daily cycle at LD 12:12. Parietalectomized lizards acclimatized to a 15-25 C cycle and LD 12:12 had a significant daily cycle of temperature tolerance. Animals acclimatized to 25 C, or to a 15-25 C cycle and LD 16:8, did not show significant daily cycles of CTM; the combination of these unnaturally low temperatures with a long photophase may have prevented the expression of the rhythm. Phase shifting of the cycle under different acclimatization conditions appears to be governed more by photoperiod than by temperature, but the parapineal does not appear to be essential in phasing the cycle. Parietalectomized animals had significantly lower tolerances than controls. Exposure to the 15-25 C daily cycle resulted in a significantly higher daily mean CTM than acclimatization to a constant 25 C at both experimental photoperiods.
3893587|Newly discovered populations of Rhyacotritonidae were investigated for taxonomic identity, hybridization, and sympatry. Species in the genus Rhyacotriton have been historically difficult to identify using morphological characters. Mitochondrial (mtDNA) 16S ribosomal RNA sequences (491 bp) and allozymes (6 loci) were used to identify the distribution of populations occurring intermediate between the previously described ranges of R. variegatus and R. cascadae in the central Cascade Mountain region of Oregon. Allozyme and mitochondrial sequence data both indicated the presence of two distinct evolutionary lineages, with each lineage corresponding to the allopatric distribution of R. cascadae and R. variegatus. Results suggest the Willamette River acts as a phylogeographic barrier limiting the distribution of both species, although we cannot exclude the possibility that reproductive isolation also exists that reinforces species' distributions. This study extends the previously described geographical ranges of both R. cascadae and R. variegatus and defines an eastern range limit for R. variegatus conservation efforts.
3892785| A new species of Ischnocnema is described from high elevations in the Andes of central Bolivia. The new taxon occurs at the highest elevation reported for the genus and is allopatric from other species of Ischnocnema; it is separated from its geographically closest congener, I. quixensis, by more than 800 km. The new species differs most notably from congeners by the presence of subconical to round subarticular and supernumerary tubercles on the feet, terminal discs, a flesh-colored tympanum and coccygeal stripe, and a high head width to length ratio. Males of I. quixensis and the new taxon have relatively larger tympana than females. Frogs of the genus Ischnocnema share distinctive hand morphology, many morphometric characteristics, eye morphology and coloration, and banding of the lips and limbs. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Ischnocnema de los Andes del centro de Bolivia. El nuevo taxn vive a la ms alta elevacin registrada para el gnero y es aloptrico con respeto a las otras cuatro especies, estando separado de su pariente geogrficamente ms cercano por ms de 800 km. La nueva especie difiere notablemente de los taxa relacionados por la presencia de tubrculos subarticulares y supernumerarios de forma subcnica o redondeada en los pies, cojinetes expandidos en la punta de los dedos de los pies, tmpano y lnea coccigea color carne, y la razn entre el ancho y el largo de cabeza bastante alta. Los machos de I. quixensis y el nuevo taxn parecen poseer un tmpano ms grande que el de las hembras. Las ranas del gnero Ischnocnema comparten una peculiar morfologa de la mano, caractersticas morfomtricas, morfologa y coloracin del ojo, y bandas en los labios y las extremidades. 
3892540|This paper represents a survivorship curve for adult female loggerhead sea turtles, Caretta caretta, nesting on Little Cumberland Island, Georgia, USA, from 1964-1981. A method is described by which information on interseasonal nesting cycles may be used to adjust survivorship calculations for the high incidence of tag loss common to all marine turtle studies. Estimated annual survivorship is significantly higher after adjustment for tag loss. Adjusted data reveal that annual survivorship of adult females in the wild is apparently constant at 0.81, indicating a calculated maximum reproductive life span of 32 yr.
3893110|Growth rates of free-living juvenile painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) in Algonquin Park, Ontario, were positively correlated with air temperature during growing seasons between 1990 and 1996. To test whether this positive correlation was directly due to temperature or indirectly due to increased food availability in warmer years, we experimentally separated the effects of temperature and food on growth of 90 hatchlings from Algonquin Park. Hatchlings were provided with varied opportunities to thermoregulate through basking for 0-5 out of five days and were fed either to satiety or to about 60% of the amount required for satiety. Growth in the laboratory was positively correlated with basking frequency but not with quantity of food provided. Presumably, in this experiment, we did not restrict food sufficiently in the lower food group to reduce growth. Turtles that never had basking opportunities ate significantly less (37.5%) than the amount eaten by turtles allowed to bask daily and 46.7% of the amount eaten by turtles allowed to bask four out of five days. Passage rate of food was faster in turtles that were allowed to bask. Passage rate may be one of the factors that contributed to the relationship between temperature and growth observed both in the laboratory and in the field.
3892299|The number of germ cells, inclusive of degenerative ones, in the testes of Hyla japonica varied throughout the year. There was an annual cycle of spermatogenetic activity with a temporal activation of meiosis in spring (breeding season) and pre-spermiation in autumn (non-breeding season).
3892607|The biological species concept, long entrenched in herpetological taxonomy, has been seriously challenged conceptually and operationally over the past decade. We review alternative concepts and operational approaches as they apply in herpetology, and argue for a concept of species that is consistent with recovered phylogenetic history. We further argue that the entities whose names should be placed in the Linnaean species category can be either largest recovered biparental lineages or uniparental tokogenetic arrays. We also show that any method used for the identification of species is bound to fail with some frequency, and that invoking a particular arbitrary level of genetic distance or morphological divergence as a "species criterion" is neither appropriate nor fruitful. Finally, we present some examples of application of the evolutionary species concept to amphibians and reptiles.
3891931|Although Ambystoma dumerilii is not known to transform in nature, 32% of wild-caught adults maintained in a laboratory colony and 35% of first generation laboratory-bred animals underwent spontaneous metamorphic changes. Metamorphosis began after wild-caught animals had been in captivity 7 to 18 mo and in the laboratory-bred animals when they were 11 to 36 mo old. No animal survived > 5 mo after metamorphosis began; nearly half died within 1 mo. Nine 4-mo-old and three 6-mo-old laboratory bred larvae and three wild-caught animals all transformed when treated with L-thyroxine at concentrations between 0.5 and 4.0 ppm. None lived > 48 days after metamorphosis began.
3892658|Chelodina rugosa is a fast-growing, carnivorous turtle that occupies seasonally ephemeral habitats, whereas Elseya dentata is relatively slow-growing, largely herbivorous, and confined to permanent water. The relationship between carapace length and growth rate for each species was modeled using "split-stick" regression. The regression procedure estimated the carapace length at which the slope of the growth rate-body size relationship changed from rapid juvenile growth to slow adult growth. This estimate of body size at maturity compared favorably with estimates of size at maturity based on independent criteria. The von Bertalanffy growth model provided the best fit to recapture data, and the age-size curve closely matched individual ages obtained by counting plastral annuli. Both species are sexually dimorphic in body size at maturity and at maximum size, with females being the larger. On average, males of C. rugosa mature at 3.9 yr and 165 mm in carapace length and reach a maximum size of 250 mm, whereas females mature at 6.5 yr and 210 mm and reach a maximum size of 300 mm. Males of E. dentata mature at 8.6 yr and 220 mm and reach a maximum size of 280 mm, whereas females mature at 13.5 yr and 276 mm and reach a maximum size of 330 mm. The rapid growth and early maturity of C. rugosa reflects its high protein diet and occupancy of highly productive ephemeral environments where selection for rapid growth may be intense. The slower growth and late maturity of E. dentata, despite year-round warm temperatures, suggests that its growth may be energetically limited by a largely herbivorous, protein-poor diet.
3892905|Home range and seasonal habitat use of 14 desert tortoises (Xerobates agassizi) were monitored from April 1982 to September 1983 in the Picacho Mountains of Arizona. Tortoises limited their home range movements to the palo verde-cacti-mixed scrub vegetation on rocky slopes, bajadas, and associated washes. Average home range size for all monitored tortoises was 19 ha (range 3-53 ha). Home range size was not significantly different between sexes and was not correlated with carapace length or number of observations. Tortoises used an average of eight dens each and reused previously occupied dens. Tortoises occupied larger dens in summer than in other seasons and moved to steeper rocky slopes in winter. Habitat use in the Picacho Mountains corroborated that previously reported for the Sonoran Desert but differed greatly from that reported for the Mohave Desert. Moreover, habitat use differences between the two deserts complement the geographic trends observed in mitochondrial DNA and morphometric surveys of these regions.
3890675|A putative tadpole of G. elegans has a rounded tail tip and is uniformly black except for a short lateral stripe at the base of the tail. Tadpoles of G. usta, when sufficiently large, are characterized by two metatarsal tubercles; the coloration of this species is extremely similar to that of G. carolinensis and G. olivacea.
3890739|A key to the tadpoles of the continental United States and Canada in developmental stages 25 through 40 of Gosner is presented. A standard terminology is suggested, and methods of preservation and storage are discussed. Generic synopses and a bibliography concerning identification of tadpoles are included.
3890949|The ventricular myocardium of Ambystoma differs from that of mammals in several respects: the simpler structure of the intercellular junctions, the absence of a transverse tubular system (T system), the sparseness of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, and the peripheral arrangement of the myofibrils.
3893535|The eastern newt, Notophthalmus viridescens, is widely distributed in eastern North America and has been divided into four subspecies. These subspecies differ geographically in morphology and life history, suggesting that the subspecies represent locally adapted and differentiated entities between which gene flow is significantly reduced. We investigated the relationships among subspecies by assessing population genetic structure across the range of the species. We analyzed 18 allozyme loci to examine the evolutionary relationships among the four subspecies of eastern newts: N. v. viridescens, N. v. dorsalis, N. v. louisianensis, and N. v. piaropicola. Despite moderate amounts of genetic variation, phylogenetic and phenetic analyses of the relationships among 12 sites resulted in trees that were inconsistent with the current subspecific classification. Cluster and phylogenetic analyses of allele frequency variation confirmed this, indicating an absence of significant differentiation among subspecies. Instead, populations of N. viridescens appear to cluster into groups representing geographic units that do not directly correspond to the currently recognized subspecies. The morphological and life history differences among the subspecies are not clearly associated with differentiation at allozyme loci. Recent divergence, gene flow, or phenotypic plasticity may explain the lack of correlation between genetic and morphological differentiation.
3892674|We measured the combined effects of variation in body temperature and hydration state on resting and active metabolism of the canyon treefrog, Hyla arenicolor. Skin resistance, body temperature, and rates of evaporation were measured at two temperatures. There was significant individual variation and a significant effect of temperature on oxygen consumption of resting animals. Individual variation, temperature, hydration state, and a temperature/hydration state interaction affected oxygen consumption of active animals. Hyla arenicolor had lower rates of evaporative water loss and higher body temperatures than expected for typical anurans at both test temperatures. Skin resistance was lower at higher temperatures. Reduced evaporative water loss, the lack of an effect of dehydration on resting metabolism, and the sedentary nature of this species may contribute to its ability to inhabit an environment with often stressful thermal and hydric conditions.
3892182|The karyotypes of Rana iberica and Triturus boscai are analysed for the first time. The karyotype of Rana iberica consists of 13 pairs of chromosomes (2N = 26) including five large and eight small chromosome pairs. A secondary constriction is localized in the long arms of the 10th pair. The karyotype of Triturus boscai consists of 12 pairs of chromosomes (2N = 24) in a series of gradually decreasing size.
3892964| We studied a population of Tropidurus flaviceps during the wet season in Amazonian lowland rain forest of eastern Ecuador. The lizards were strictly arboreal with activity occurring throughout much of the day on surfaces of trunks and limbs of the tree Macrolobium acaciaefolium within a large lagoon. Lizards retreated into cavities within the limbs and trunks, and the presence of cavities appeared to be a requirement for the presence of more than one lizard on a tree. Mean body temperature of active individuals was 31.2  0.6 C, and lizards in the shade had lower body temperatures than lizards in the sun. The diet consisted primarily of ants. There was a correlation between prey size and lizard size, but there was no difference in either prey size or the number of prey eaten between the sexes. Clutch size is two eggs, the reproductive season is extended, and there is evidence that females produce more than one clutch per season. Sexual dimorphism exists in morphological characteristics, and observations on the composition of social groups within single trees suggests that the breeding system is a resource-based polygyny. Sexual dimorphism in limb length does not translate into differences in performance. 
25209109|Males in group-breeding salamander species sometimes deposit spermatophores on top of other spermatophores during mating. Several adaptive hypotheses have been proposed to explain this behavior: a tactic used by males, making sperm from other males unavailable to females thereby reducing the intensity of sperm competition, or that females more easily find and obtain sperm from stacked spermatophores which are elevated from the substrate. I tested the following hypotheses in the small-mouthed salamander, Ambystoma texanum: (1) males adjust spermatophore capping behavior in the presence of a competitor; (2) males stack on top of spermatophores belonging to competitors more often than expected at random; (3) females pick up sperm from stacked spermatophores relative to single spermatophores more often than expected at random; and (4) females distinguish spermatophores they obtain sperm from with respect to the identity of the depositing male. I found that males stack spermatophores more often in the presence of a competitor and that they are more likely to stack their spermatophores onto those belonging to their competitor. I found no evidence that females obtain sperm preferentially from stacked spermatophores or that females discriminate between spermatophores deposited by different males. I found males behaviorally interacted more frequently with their competitors than with females during mating trials in the lab, suggesting a machanism males may use to preferentially stack their spermatophores on those belonging to their competitor. My results are consistent with the hypothesis that male spermatophore stacking is used to prevent sperm from rivals being available to females.
3891547|Samples of male and female Urosaurus graciosus were collected in 1974 and 1975 in south-central Arizona to elucidate seasonal and yearly aspects of reproductive and fat-body cycles. In both years, males had enlarged testes and produced sperm May-July, followed by rapid testicular and epididymal regression during August. Onset of reproduction by females was delayed in 1974, with greatest reproductive activity in July and August. All females in 1975 were reproductive in May and again in July. Many females in May 1975 contained both oviducal eggs and enlarged, yolking follicles, confirming seasonal iteroparity. In 1975, there was a correlation between snout-vent length and clutch size, but no similar correlation existed in 1974. Fat-body cycles of males and females were similar, both sexes containing small fat reserves during the reproductive season and large reserves thereafter. Females contained large fat bodies in April (prebreeding) and in late fall (postbreeding), suggesting little use of fat reserves during winter. Differences in timing and frequency of reproduction in U. graciosus between 1974 and 1975 presumably resulted from differences in resource availability, as suggested by weather data. Individuals are apparently able to respond reproductively to proximal environmental cues (probably resource levels), which presumably represents an adaptation to unpredictable conditions. We suggest that geographic comparisons of reproductive variables should stress variances rather than means, as variances should be inversely related to environmental predictability.
3890637|Recently-metamorphosed leopard frogs (Rana pipiens) showed an ability to orient along their Y-axis when able to view the sun, but appeared to move randomly under nocturnal skies. Froglets trapped moving away from their natal pond in the season's first dispersal wave oriented in the direction of their movement when tested immediately after capture with the sun visible; the directional choice gradually reversed over a period of five days. In later dispersal waves froglets preferred the homeward direction.
3893410|Several linear dimensions and body masses were recorded for larvae of four closely-related, similar species of lungless salamanders (family Plethodontidae) that occur over a broad gradient of elevation and habitat in the southeastern United States. The species were Gyrinophilus porphyriticus, Pseudotriton ruber, P. montanus, and Stereochilus marginatus. The goals were to evaluate the usefulness of morphometrics in species identification and to examine trends in variation in relation to habitat utilization in the four species. To remove the effect of variation in body size,
3891694|All specimens of the colubrid snake Tretanorhinus nigroluteus lateralis from Belize in United States collections were examined including 37 specimens from the New River at Orange Walk Town, Orange Walk District. Tretanorhinus n. lateralis and T. n. mertensi are most likely synonymous as they agree closely in lepidosis, color, and pattern. Adult male Tretanorhinus from the New River develop tubercles seasonally. These are especially well-developed on the infralabials, chin shields, gulars, and anterior ventrals. Most likely the tubercles are used for stimulating females during courtship or maintaining body contact during mating.
3893058| We describe a new terrestrial species of minute lungless salamander of the Mexican genus Thorius (Plethodontidae) from montane pine-oak forests in the Sierra de Jurez of north central Oaxaca, Mxico. The new species is distinguished from congeners by a combination of body size, external morphology, osteology, and dental traits, and it is well differentiated genetically from other named species for which data are available. This is the seventh endemic species of Thorius reported from the Sierra de Jurez, and known localities are geographically isolated from those of all other species. Discovery of another new species of plethodontid salamander from Oaxaca enhances the state's standing as a preeminent center of herpetological diversity within both Mxico and Mesoamerica. /// Se describe una especie nueva de salamandra de la familia Plethodontidae del gnero Thorius del bosque de Pino-Encino de la Sierra de Jurez en el Estado de Oaxaca, Mxico. Esta salamandra se diferencia de sus congneres por una combinacin de caracteres morfolgicos que incluyen tamao total del cuerpo, osteologa y caractersticas de la denticin. Asimismo esta especie est bien diferenciada genticamente. Esta es la sptima especie endmica de Thorius de la Sierra de Jurez, aunque sta se encuentra geogrficamente aislada de las otras especies de la regin. El descubrimiento de una especie nueva de salamandra de la familia Plethodontidae para el Estado de Oaxaca, incrementa la relevancia del Estado como un centro importante de diversidad herpetolgica para Mxico y Mesoamerica. 
3893595|We studied the composition and richness of local tadpole assemblages in several streams at a forest site in southeastern Brazil. We initially focused on species distributions within streams, comparing the relative availability of microhabitats with the relative use of each microhabitat type by tadpoles of different species, in order to assess the existence of preference patterns. Then we assessed the role of features assumed to influence species distributions among streams, which may influence breeding site selection by adult frogs and, consequently, tadpole distribution. These features were stream size, tadpole predator abundance, structure of marginal vegetation, and microhabitat availability for tadpoles. We looked for gradients of species richness along gradients of the variables noticed to influence tadpole assemblage composition. Tadpoles of all species showed selectivity in microhabitat use. Species distribution among streams was influenced mostly by number of potential tadpole predators present, stream volume, arboreal vegetation cover at stream margins, and tadpole microhabitat diversity, though only the first two variables accounted for gradients in species richness. Even though smaller streams tend to shelter more anuran species than larger ones at sites in southeastern Brazil, we recommend the conservation of streams of a range of sizes and structural features, since anuran assemblages associated with streams vary in species composition along gradients in these characteristics.
23352178|Dispersal is a key factor in shaping the genetic structure and population dynamics of species; thus, its understanding is a fundamental requirement in formulating appropriate conservation strategies. Higher rates of dispersal in one sex than the other are widespread in vertebrate species and often attributed to the genetic advantages of reduced inbreeding. This is well documented in birds and mammals but has rarely been reported in other vertebrate taxa. Here, we use 12 microsatellite loci to detect signatures of sex-biased dispersal in the Hot Spring Snake, Thermophis baileyi. This colubrid species is endemic to the Tibetan Plateau and strongly linked to habitats with hot springs. It is one of the world's highest altitude snake species, reaching up to 5000 m above sea level, and it is considered as endangered because of its limited range and the reduction of its natural habitat. Former studies have revealed a restricted gene flow and a high degree of population structure in this species. Here, we find a significantly higher variance of the assignment index and a significant heterozygote deficit in males. Accordingly, first-generation dispersers are identified only in males using frequency-based assignments with prior population information. Spatial autocorrelation analysis suggests a higher level of relatedness among females at smaller geographic scales compared with males. Mate-searching activities and female natal homing are suggested as major traits explaining greater female philopatry in T. baileyi. Our findings are important in the scope of conservation and management planning for the Hot Spring Snake in the future.
3892685|The geographic pattern of variation in Cnemidophorus tigris septentrionalis Burger was determined from 17 samples (664 specimens) drawn from populations distributed throughout its range. Principal components analysis and canonical variates analysis identified three groups of populations whose morphological differences coincide with three geographic areas: (A) north of the Colorado and Dolores rivers in northwestern Arizona, east-central Utah, and western Colorado; (B) south of the Colorado and San Juan rivers and east of the Little Colorado River in southeastern Utah, northwestern New Mexico, and northeastern Arizona; and (C) west of the Little Colorado River in northeastern Arizona. The latter population is of evolutionary interest because its morphological distinctiveness is extraordinary for an intrasubspecific group (93% correct jackknifed assignments in a canonical variates analysis). We hypothesize that this population has undergone divergence as a peripheral isolate. The diagnosis of C. t. septentrionalis does not characterize adequately the morphological variation found among populations allocated to this taxon.
3892983|Data on 128 adult male dark green snakes (Coluber viridiflavus) were gathered in the wild in western central France. We describe the reproductive cycle of the males, which serves as basis for examining changes in body condition and plasma levels of testosterone. Males emerged from hibernation in late March to early April; indications of mating (obtained on females) were found in May and June, and snakes returned to hibernation in late October-November. Blood samples (n = 69) were taken by cardiac puncture, and plasma testosterone values were measured by radioimmunoassay. There was a peak in plasma testosterone levels before and during the mating season. This suggests that the sexual behavior could depend on plasma testosterone levels. We dissected 49 males, killed accidentally, to investigate the relationship between body condition index (BCI) and the mass of different organs (fat bodies, liver, muscles, skin, testes, and viscera). In males of C. viridiflavus, BCI was an indicator of the mass of the fat bodies and muscles while body length correlated strongly with the mass of the other organs studied. BCI did not correlate with the mass of the liver or with the mass of the viscera or testes. As the BCI is a good estimator of body reserves in wild-caught individuals, we compared means of BCI between months. The mean BCI was very high in April and decreased strongly in May and June (the mating period). This study provides the first empirical results suggesting that in male snakes, most of the body reserves are invested in reproduction.
3892373|Basiliscus basiliscus in two neighboring populations were marked and studied from 1971 to 1975. Females matured at about 135 mm SVL and 20 months of age. Seasonal reproductive activity began with the rainy season and remained at a high level for 7-8 months, followed by heightened activity at the beginning of the dry season and reduced activity late in the dry season. In 1973-1974, females in one population produced two extra clutches of large size. Survivorship of eggs was low at both sites, and life tables indicated declining populations with R
3891094| Studies were conducted on the blue granite lizard, Sceloporus cyanogenys to determine the relationship, if any, of the parietal eye with oxygen consumption. Lizards were acclimated to long-day and short-day photoperiods at either 15 or 25 C in each of the photoperiods. Under each light and temperature regime, four categories of animals were used: normal, blinded, parietalectomized, and blinded-parietalectomized. Oxygen consumption was determined hourly over 24-hr periods. Significant variations in oxygen consumption occurred in every experimental condition. Generally, high levels of metabolism occurred concomitantly with or at about the beginning of the scotophase. Removal of the parietal eye did not significantly affect the mean rate of metabolism or rhythms of oxygen consumption. However, blind animals with the parietal eye intact had a consistently higher mean oxygen consumption than the other animals. Enucleation of the lateral eyes and the parietal eye did not affect metabolic rates or rhythms. Animals under the same temperature regimes, but reciprocal photoperiods, had a higher mean oxygen consumption under the short-day photoperiods than animals under long-day photoperiods. The differential may indicate adaptations to daily and seasonal light changes and illustrates the necessity of considering photoperiod effects and diel rhythms when reporting mean metabolic rates. Mean oxygen consumption for this species under the respective regimes were: LD 8:16, 25 C, 79.89
3893182| We describe a new species of Colostethus that is unusual in that males have blue digits on the hands and blue toe discs; females have blue discs on the fingers and toes but lack blue digits. The new species occurs in lowland tropical rainforest south of Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil, in the municipality of Castanho, at km 12 on the road to Autazes. Six species of Colostethus occur in the vicinity of Manaus; two, C. stepheni and C. marchesianus, occur north of the Amazon River, and four, including the new species and three undescribed species, occur south of the river. Four of these six species have small body size; i.e., adult male SVLs are 18.0 mm. Two of the species, both undescribed, from south of the Amazon have adult male SVLs 19.5 mm. Calls of all six species are unique; calls are produced either continuously, as in the case of the new species, C. marchesianus, and one of the large undescribed species south of the Amazon river, or in bouts of varying lengths. The function of the blue digits in males of the new species is unknown but may be associated with visual communication during reproductive behavior. Blue toes or discs were present only in adults during the breeding season. /// Ns descrevemos uma espcie nova de Colostethus que  nica porque os machos tm dedos azuis nas mos e discos azuis nos dedos das mos e ps. As fmeas tm discos azuis nos dedos das mos e dos ps, mas seus dedos no so azuis. Esta espcie nova vive nas terras baixas de floresta amaznica ao sul de Manaus, Amazonas, Brasil, no municpio do Castanho, no Km 12 na estrada para Autazes. Cinco outras espcies de Colostethus vivem nas vizinhanas de Manaus: duas, C. stepheni e C. marchesianus, ocorrem ao norte do rio Amazonas, e quatro, incluindo a espcie nova e trs outras espcies ainda por descrever, ocorrem ao sul desse rio. Quatro destas seis espcies tm corpos pequenos: o comprimento da regio anterior  regio cloacal (CRAC) dos machos  inferior a 18,0 mm. Duas das espcies por descrever, ambas oriundas do sul do rio Amazonas, tm machos com um CRAC maior do que 19,5 mm. O coaxar de cada uma das seis espcies  nico. Um coaxar pode ser emitido ou episodicamente, em episdios de durao variada, ou continuamente como no caso da espcie nova, no de C. marchesianus e no de uma das espcies maiores ainda por descrever do sul do rio Amazonas. A funo dos dedos azuis dos machos  desconhecida, mas pode estar associado com comunicao visual durante o comportamento reprodutivo. A cor azul foi vista somente en adultos durante o perodo de reproduco, porm, nosso conhecimento  insuficiente para determinar em quais estgios de vida a espcie tem dedos azuis. 
3892495|Atmospheric basking of Emydura macquarii, a pleurodire, was very similar to basking on land by aquatic cryptodires. At Lake Boga, in northern Victoria, atmospheric basking occurred throughout the year but was uncommon outside the normal season of activity (October-April). Frequency of atmospheric basking was significantly positively correlated with operative environmental temperature (T
3891268| Oxygen uptake and thyroid gland activity of Hyla regilla tadpoles were measured during spontaneous metamorphosis. Oxygen consumption of individual tadpoles is directly correlated with wet weight. The maximum
3892143|Seasonal patterns of body temperatures and thermoregulatory behavior were studied in the temperate zone lizard Lacerta vivipara. Monthly mean body temperatures of free-ranging lizards varied seasonally. Body temperatures were positively correlated with corresponding mean air temperatures but were most elevated above ambient temperatures during the cool early spring months. In early spring, body temperatures recorded in the field were considerably lower than those that the animals maintained in a laboratory thermal gradient (selected temperatures). During the colder months, the time of activity was restricted, and lizards increased basking frequency and actively sought warmer microhabitats. A biophysical model was used to calculate equilibrium temperatures that a lizard could achieve by maximizing, respectively minimizing, its heat gain under the prevailing environmental conditions. Estimates of the "maximal operative temperature" demonstrate that environmental conditions often forced lizards from their selected temperatures during the cooler months. Calculated "minimal operative temperatures" seldom approached selected temperatures. Lizards regulated body temperatures near selected levels, or if these could not be achieved for physical reasons, they regulated near maximal operative temperatures. During the coolest periods, activity was highest in adult males. We suggest that a main benefit of thermoregulation under these suboptimal conditions may be the maximization of mating success, through an increase of the rate of sperm development.
3892110|Ctenotus taeniolatus is a common skink inhabiting eastern Australia. Lizards hatch at 33 mm SVL and reach sexual maturity at 52 mm (female) and 43 mm (male). Females are oviparous laying 1-7 eggs in a single clutch each summer. Spermatogenesis, ovulation and mating all occur in spring. Clutch sizes are related to body size.
3893374| I conducted experiments using naturally established neighborhoods of Anolis sagrei to examine interactions between neighboring territorial males. I observed the behavior of groups of lizards before and after the removal of one lizard from the group. I measured space use using x and y coordinates of a 20  20 m grid. Focal lizards moved farther from the former resident's activity area center following his removal from the territory. Both neighbors and non-neighbors took over the newly vacated territories, suggesting that some neighbors were able to gain space. The behavioral display patterns of focal lizards did not change following the removal. These data indicate that neighboring males may pose a significant threat to territorial residents by taking space and resources. Additionally, these data provide no evidence that removal of one resident causes general social instability that harms neighbors. These findings have theoretical implications for studies of the "dear enemy" phenomenon and other relationships that are based on social contexts found in territorial neighborhoods. 
3892105|Sex ratio, population size, age structure, and survivorship of an Opheodrys aestivus population were studied by mark-recapture in Arkansas. Sex ratio varied monthly, favoring males in early season (60-80%) and females in midseason (60-80%). Females predominated in one year but the sex ratio was 1:1 in tow other vears. Population density (approximately 430/ha) was statistically constant over two years. Age structue of females varied little between years, but age structure of younger males changed from one year to the next. Age-specific survivorship, assumed to be constant in adults, was greater in females (49%) than in males (39%). Survivorship during the first year was low (21%). A life table yielded a net reproductive rate
3891183|Four blood parameters were studied in southern Appalachian specimens of Desmognathus monticola, D. quadramaculatus, D. ochrophaeus carolinensis, Gyrinophilus porphyriticus, Plethodon glutinosus, P. jordani (including jordani, melaventris, rabunensis, and shermani populations), Pseudotriton m. montanus, and P. ruber schencki. Quantitative data are presented on range, mean, and standard deviation. Hematocrits (volume % cells) averaged between 21.9 and 25.7. Hemoglobin concentrations varied in mean value from 5.78 to 7.65 g/100 ml blood. Mean erythrocyte numbers ranged from 81,300 to 152,000, and mean numbers of leukocytes varied from 2,373 to 4,666
3893362| Liolaemus azarai is described as a new species of liolaemid lizard from northeastern Argentina and Yacyret Island, Paraguary. It is a member of the wiegmannii species group and may be distinguished from other members of this group by its relatively small body size, fewer scales around the midbody, and dorsal color pattern. At the type locality, on Yacyret Island, L. azarai is restricted to isolated sand dune formations and is known only from two others localities in the Province of Corrientes, northeastern Argentina. The new species is the smallest member of the wiegmannii group and, like other members of the group, except L. wiegmannii, L. azarai appears to be a sand dune obligate, insectivorous, and oviparous. /// Liolaemus azarai es descripto como una nueva especie de lagartija liolaemida del nordeste de Argentina y la isla Yacyreta, Paraguay. Es un miembro del grupo wiegmannii, y puede ser distinguida del resto de las especies del grupo por us menor tamao, bajo nmero de escamas alrededor del cuerpo y el patrn de coloracin dorsal. En la localidad tipo, en la Isla Yacyreta, L. azarai esta limitada a formaciones aisladas de dunas. Esta especie es conocida solamente en otras dos localidades de la provincia de Corrientes, nordeste de Argentina. La nueva especie es la ms pequea del grupo wiegmannii, y al igual que otros miembros del grupo es una lagartija exclusivamente arencola, insectvora y ovpara. 
3892801|A new species of salamander of the genus Eurycea is described from Barton Springs, Austin, Texas, USA. The new species is known only from two hydrologically connected sets of springs in and adjacent to Austin's Barton Springs swimming pool. It is morphologically and biochemically distinct from all known species of plethodontids. The new species is endangered by its limited distribution in an environmentally sensitive ecosystem that is threatened by the direct and indirect impacts of human development, and population sizes appear to have been reduced significantly in the past two decades. Recent efforts to modify maintenance practices at Barton Springs Pool and to protect the Barton Springs Aquifer appear to have reversed this trend, but the species is still in critical danger of extinction.
3891501| Growth of bog turtles, Clemmys muhlenbergii, from Lancaster County, Pennsylvania was studied and compared with that of Clemmys guttata and Chrysemys picta from the same area. Growth is more rapid in juveniles and slowly decreases once maturity is reached (a pattern similar to C. guttata), but is not as affected by the attainment of maturity as in Chrysemys picta. The usual growth period is from late April to early September, or 140 days. Bog turtle   are larger than   at hatching and retain this size advantage throughout life. Sexual maturity is attained by both sexes at a plastral length of 70 mm. Cloacal temperatures of 99 adult bog turtles were recorded during various phases of their normal activities: basking, feeding, moving on land and water, and dormancy. The mean optimum activity temperature was calculated as 20.2C and the normal active range was 16.2-31.0C. The mean home range of 19 C. muhlenbergii was calculated as 1.28 hectares (  = 1.33 ha,   = 1.26 ha). 
3891910|Snakes of the Gering Formation (earliest part of the lower Miocene) of Nebraska represent five small henophidian species, all extinct at the generic level. Two species of Calamagras (Boidae:Erycinae) are present, but other forms are difficult to assign to previously described families. Geringophis n. gen. has the unusual combination of a depressed vertebra, but with a well-developed neural spine, and is tentatively assigned to the subfamily Erycinae. A distinct species of Anilioides is present, but it is pointed out that the genus Anilioides should be only tentatively referred to the family Aniliidae. Finally, Goinophis, n. gen., a tiny henophidian snake, is of uncertain familial relationships. Goinophis has the unusual combination of a flattened vertebral centrum, but with a vaulted neural arch and well-developed, thick neural spine.
3893306|We describe a new species of wolf snake of the genus Lycodon from the Cardamom Mountains of southwestern Cambodia. The new species differs from other species of Lycodon in Southeast Asia in the following combination of characteristics: dorsal scales feebly keeled, in 17 rows at midbody; 12 well defined, broad white bands across black body and six across the tail; presence of both a single preocular and a loreal, causing absence of prefrontal-eye contact; three postoculars, two anterior temporals. Visually, the new species is most similar to Lycodon subcinctus, and specimens labeled as L. subcinctus from eastern Thailand and elsewhere in Cambodia should be checked against the diagnosis of the new species.
3891494| Hyla chrysoscelis is absent in much of the northern half of Wisconsin, whereas Hyla versicolor is much more widespread in the state. Pulse rates of mating calls of both species were significantly and positively correlated with esophageal or calling-site temperatures. The regressions of pulse rate on temperature for the two species were significantly different (P < .001). There was no overlap of pulse rates for the two species at any temperature measured in Wisconsin (14.8-29.0/s for H. versicolor; 41.4-71.4/s for H. chrysoscelis). Calling H. versicolor   are significantly larger and tend to be darker than H. chrysoscelis  . Mean size of H. versicolor   was 42.6 mm (SD = 2.02); H. chrysoscelis   were 35.2 mm (SD = 3.69). 
3890845|Mating behavior in the spurred tortoise Geochelone sulcata is described and is shown to differ in several ways from that of G. gigantea. An account is given of the agonistic butting behavior exhibited by both sexes.
3893357| We describe adults, tadpoles, and vocalization of a new Amazonian species of Colostethus from a terra firme rainforest locality south of the Amazon River near Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil. This species is characterized by the absence of dorsolateral and ventrolateral stripes, the presence of a short, diffuse oblique lateral stripe, Finger III of male not swollen, and the presence of a black or gray throat in the male. In addition, the new species is larger than three other species in the Amazon region (C. caeruleodactylus, C. marchesianus, and C. stepheni) and its call, typically composed of long bouts of continuous notes, is distinct from these three species. This species is the fourth known Colostethus with an endotrophic tadpole; in three of these species, including C. nidicola, eggs are deposited and develop entirely in a terrestrial nest. Clutches of C. nidicola are composed of about three eggs and are placed in leaf litter on the forest floor. Whether C. nidicola is closely related to any of the other three species with endotrophic tadpoles is unknown at present. A phylogenetic analysis of this group of frogs will be necessary to detect whether endotrophy has evolved once or multiple times. Examination of tadpoles of C. nidicola and comparisons with characters reported for the other three species that have endotropic tadpoles revealed that tadpoles within each species have unique combinations of characters or loss of characters. Endotrophic tadpoles have not been reported for any other dendrobatids. /// Neste estudo ns descrevemos os adultos, os girinos e a volcalizao de uma nova espcie de Colostethus da Amaznia central, de uma localidade de floresta tropical de terra firme ao sul do rio Amazonas, prxima a Manaus, Amazonas, Brasil. Essa espcie  caracterizada pela total ausncia de faixas dorsolaterais e ventrolaterais, pela presena de uma curta e difusa faixa lateral oblqua. Os machos apresentam o dedo III no dilatado e colorao preta ou cinza na regio gular. Alm disso, a nova espcie  maior que as outras trs da regio amaznica brasileira, C. caeruleodactylus, C. marchesianus, e C. stepheni, da quais difere tambn quanto a vocalizao, com um canto, tipicamente composto de uma longa srie de notas contnuas. Essa  a quarta espcie conhecida de Colostethus com um girino endotrfico; em trs delas, incluindo C. nidicola, os ovos so depositados em um ninho terrestre onde se desenvolvem por completo. Ninhadas de C. nidicola so compostas de cerca de trs ovos, geralmente colocados no folhio do cho da floresta. Ainda no se sabe se C. nidicola  mais prximo de qualquer uma das outras trs espcies com girinos endotrficos. Uma anlise filogentica  necessria para detectar se a endotrofia surgiu uma ou mais vezes no grupo. A observao dos girinos de C. nidicola e sua comparao com caractersticas previamente atribudas s outras trs espcies com girinos endotrficos mostraram que os girinos de cada uma das espcies possuem uma combinao nica de presena ou ausncia de caracteres. Girinos endotrficos no foram encontrados em nenhum outro dendrobatdeo. 
41406807|A new species of the Bokermannohyla pseudopseudis group similar to B. alvarengai and B. itapoty is described from Serra do Cabrai, Espinhao Range, Minas Gerais, southeastern Brazil. It is diagnosed by having a medium size (male 47.3-54.8 mm; female 44.5-48.6 mm); short snout, truncate in lateral and dorsal views; head 1.01-1.07 times wider than long; tympanum 0.08-0.09 times snout-vent length (SVL); hypertrophied forearm; well-developed prepollex; nuptial pad small, with two separate areas covered with small keratinized spiculae, on medial and lateral edge of the base of the prepollex; dorsal color pattern composed of dark gray blotches of irregular shape on a light gray background, without a central light spot, resembling lichens incrusted on rocks; dark gray perpendicular bars covering the whole dorsal surface of thighs, rarely branched, without light spots, highly contrasted with the background color; and the lack of a white stripe over the vent.
3893432|Highton (1998) argued that published data warrant a taxonomic revision of the Ensatina complex. The complex comprises units that have varying degrees of phenetic and phylogenetic differentiation, but morphological/coloration, protein, and mtDNA data sets are less concordant than Highton believed. We employ different criteria to discover species than did Highton. His proposed species do not fulfill our criteria. Several are not diagnosable, nor do they have identity as evolutionarily independent lineages or as genetically cohesive units. Furthermore, he misinterpreted Stebbins' (1949) conception of a ring species, which was an evolutionary and biogeographic hypothesis. As observed as long ago as Stebbins' original work, taxonomic resolution of the complex is neither simple nor will a changed taxonomy solve the biological problems identified. The biological complexity of Ensatina argues against a simple taxonomic resolution, because the evolutionary realities of diversification in old and persistent complexes require compromises if Linnean taxonomies are to be used. We prefer a taxonomy that clarifies the evolutionary relationships among the components and that highlights, rather than obscures, the complex interactions of the past and present. Accordingly, while we recognize that a new taxonomy may be required when studies in progress are concluded, for the present we recommend continued recognition of the Ensatina complex as a single polytypic taxonomic species.
3892836| Male frogs of the Puerto Rican coqu (Eleutherodactylus coqui) attract mates by advertisement calling and, once they obtain a clutch, attend eggs at terrestrial nest sites for a 17-26 day period of direct development during which they reduce or cease calling. This study shows that the microhabitats used by male coques as calling sites and nesting sites differ significantly in physical characteristics and spatial distribution. Most calling sites were open surfaces or shallow depressions lacking close cover, such as the surfaces of leaves and tree trunks, and the axils of sierra palms. Most nest sites were enclosed, protected cavities in dead, curled leaves or rolled sierra palm frond petioles. Calling sites were usually elevated while most nest sites were on the ground. Although ground nests were about three times more frequent than elevated nests, available substrates on the ground were about 16 times more abundant than elevated substrates, suggesting that male coques preferred elevated substrates. In a field experiment to test the preference, ground and elevated substrates with similar characteristics were provided at equal densities. Significantly more males nested in the elevated sites. The preference for elevated sites had at least three consequences for male reproductive success. Males using elevated nest sites (1) called more often and from perches closer to their nests, (2) had a higher frequency of multiple clutches, and (3) realized higher hatching success than males nesting on the ground. These results suggest that males choosing elevated sites realize higher hatching success without sacrificing the chance to attract additional mates, thus reducing a fitness trade-off between male parental care and mate attraction in this species. 
3892736|We examined stages of embryonic development at the time of oviposition in 10 populations of seven species of lacertids from northern Spain, including one of the few species of lizards that exhibits reproductive bimodality (Lacerta vivipara). In the species studied, embryonic development at the time of oviposition ranges, as a whole, from stage 22-34 in the classification of Dufaure and Hubert, showing highly significant differences between populations. Lacerta vivipara (two populations; stages from 30-34) and L. monticola (28-31) are the species with a more advanced intrauterine embryogenesis, while at the opposite end one can find Podarcis bocagei (22-26) and P. hispanica (two subspecies: stages from 24-27). Lacerta viridis, L. schreiberi and P. muralis are in an intermediate situation (stages 25-29), without appreciable differences among species. Our data show that species with more advanced egg retention reach the highest elevations in the study area, and there also seems to exist a relationship between the egg retention level and the northern distribution limit for oviparous lizards in Europe. However, there is no evidence of intraspecific variability in that regard. No significant correlations were found between developmental stage at oviposition and female size, clutch size, or egg mass, but relative clutch mass (RCM) was significantly larger in species with a more advanced embryonic development at oviposition. This difference in RCM was mainly due to an increase in clutch size (adjusted for female size) and not to an increase in the mass of individual eggs, which tended to be lower in relation to female mass in those species with a more prolonged egg retention.
3893212|We conducted a karyological study of Iberian rock lizards by standard and C-, AgNOR-, DAPI-, and Alu I-banding methods. The results showed that Lacerta monticola monticola and L. m. cantabrica possess 2N = 36 uniarmed chromosomes. Lacerta m. cyreni differs from the other two subspecies of L. monticola in the NOR-bearing chromosome pairs and in the presence of the heteromorphic and heterochromatic W-chromosome. The Pyrenean species L. aurelioi and L. bonnali differ from L. monticola in having a karyotype rich in biarmed elements. In fact, L. aurelioi possesses a 2N = 26 karyotype with 10 biarmed + 16 uniarmed macrochromosomes. In L. bonnali, an intraspecific variability in diploid number due to Robertsonian translocations was found: the specimens of L. b. aranica have a karyotype similar to that of L. aurelioi while the specimens from nominal subspecies (population of Monte Perdido) possess a 2N = 24 karyotype with 12 biarmed + 12 uniarmed macrochromosomes. Our results confirm that Iberian rock lizards form a heterogeneous group in which at least five taxa can be distinguished karyologically.
3892134|Pre-1900 frog harvest data from California suggests heavy exploitation of California red-legged frogs (Rana aurora draytonii). A comparison with data collected from present-day, non-exploited, healthy populations of R. a. draytonii suggest that mostly female frogs may have been harvested. A low reproductive frequency and the probable female frog harvest bias suggest that historical populations could not withstand harvest at pre-1900 levels. The decline in frog harvest observed from 1899-1940 supports this idea. Population depletion and a persisting demand for frogs were probably the inducements to import and introduce bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana). The earliest dates of bullfrog introduction correspond well with these suppositions.
3892845|McIlhenny reported that the American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) vigorously shakes venomous (Crotalinae) but not nonvenomous (Colubridae) snakes during predatory attacks. He suggested that these snakes are discriminated by chemical cues. Juvenile and adult alligators in our study ingested whole carcasses or carcass pieces of crotaline and colubrid snakes without shaking them. Moreover, no significant differences were detected in the times spent by juveniles ingesting pieces of the carcasses of these snakes. Snake scent gland secretions, a source of chemicals to which alligators may respond, did not elicit vigorous head-shaking when presented on pieces of chicken; alligators generally disgorged chicken pieces treated with these exudates. Observations of staged encounters between juvenile alligators and live snakes indicated that alligators vigorously shake a variety of snakes, not just crotalines, during predatory attacks.
3892382|Courtship, amplexus and oviposition are described in the frog Eleutherodactylus coqui, a terrestrial-breeding, nocturnal inhabitant of Puerto Rico. A gravid female approaches and makes contact with a calling male and is led to a nest site by the male. There the pair enters preliminary amplexus with the male on the female's back, but not clasping her. After 5.5-7.5 h of preliminary amplexus, the female initiates a reverse hind leg clasp in which her hind legs come to rest on top of the male's legs. The male never clasps the female. Ovulation and insemination apparently take place after the reverse hind leg clasp is adopted. Oviposition occurs early the following day and requires 2-4 h to complete. The female leaves the nest site at dusk, while the male remains sitting on the new clutch. Pre-oviposition amplexus lasts 8.5-12 h and may provide time during which females can exercise mate choice. The unusual amplectic posture probably functions to increase the efficiency of sperm transfer and may be a behavioral correlate of internal fertilization in this species.
3891818|Specimens of the snake Pituophis melanoleucus explored a novel environment with a greater rate of tongue flicking (RTF) than could be accounted for by the handling and disturbance during transportation to the novel environment. When snakes were deprived of food for 1 wk (Experiment I) they did not exhibit a greater RTF when food (rodent) odors were present in the novel environment than when the environment was free of these stimuli. However, at 2 and 4 wk of food deprivation (Experiments II and III, respectively) snakes emitted higher RTFs in the presence of rodent odors. These results suggest that at low levels of food deprivation the snakes require visual cues arising from rodents to activate predatory behavior, while at higher levels of hunger, chemical cues may be sufficient for this purpose.
3892441| A new Eleutherodactylus, E. ernesti, is described from the peak (3900 m) of Volcn Sumaco, Napo Province, Ecuador. This species is characterized by a glandular, pitted dorsal skin with heavy, glandular dorsolateral ridges, densely-warted flanks, small circular patches of glands in the axilla, groin, and on the rear thigh, a concave canthus and loreal region, a snout in profile that is dorsally anteroventrally-sloping and ventrally rounded, and tubercles present on the eyelid, ulna, and heel (paired), and around the anus, but lacking from the tarsus. It is known only from the peak of Volcn Sumaco, and its relationships are unclear. 
3892600|Baits of small sponges soaked with tomato juice were offered to free-ranging whiptail lizards, Cnemidophorus arubensis, on Aruba and C. murinus on Bonaire, both in the Netherlands Antilles. Some baits contained quinine, an alkaloid, in concentrations varying from 1:250-1:267,000 by mass. Lizards readily approached baits, almost always feeding on those free of quinine but rejecting those with quinine even when concentration of the alkaloid was extremely low. Lizards approaching a bait sampled the quinine-treated and control baits differently, suggesting that they could detect quinine remotely. Tolerance for quinine differed between the two species and varied among sites and times of year on Bonaire. Reptiles are reputed to have poor ability to detect alkaloids in their foods, but these results contradict that suggestion.
3893158|Mediterranean chameleons (Chamaeleo chamaeleon) are known to use body color patterns as a signal of their dominance status, sex recognition, and sexual receptivity. Female chameleons show shifts in body colors throughout the mating season. From a given day onwards, females exhibit a conspicuous and easily distinguishable pattern of yellow spots. Here, I analyze ecological correlates of the first appearance of this pattern and corresponding changes in female mating behaviors. A total of 22 females were radio-tagged in a free-ranging population in southern Spain. Sexual behavior of these females was compared during the 10-day periods before and after the yellow-spots pattern was first observed for each female. Courting by males was consistently more intense once females exhibited the yellow spots. The number of males visiting or courting a female and the percentage of observed time devoted by males to courting was significantly higher once the yellow spots had developed. Also, the number of copulations, copulation attempts, and the movement rate of females were significantly higher once females exhibited the yellow spots. My results suggest that the yellow spots play an important role in communication between the sexes during the mating season, and this coloration may be considered as a sexual signal. Although the kind of information that this signal conveys is unclear, I hypothesize that females show to potential mates that they are sexually receptive.
3892885|The diet of a population of the Northern Pacific rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis oreganus) in southern British Columbia was determined by palpation of stomach contents and fecal material. Over a 3 yr period, 221 samples were obtained from 4227 captures of rattlesnake (captures and recaptures combined). Rattlesnakes were active between late March and early October. Heaviest feeding (17% of snakes with food or fecal material) occurred during June-August. Prey consisted of rodents (91% by occurrence, nine species), shrews (5%, one species), and birds (4%, four species). Neonates and small juveniles preyed on the smallest mammals whereas adults fed on larger prey and a greater diversity of species. Gravid females greatly restricted their summer movements and usually did not feed during gestation or after parturition. Body weight stability and higher survival of gravid females (compared to non-gravid females) suggest that their sedentary lifestyle minimizes weight loss during gestation and lessens the risks to predation.
3893229|Intraspecific aggression has not been reported for any of the 80+ species of the Australian scincid genus Ctenotus. During spring 1994, we made numerous observations of intraspecific aggression among captive and wild individuals of Ctenotus fallens, a species endemic to coastal Western Australia. Observed behaviors included aggressive displaying and biting. We subsequently conducted a laboratory and field study of social behavior between August 1995 and March 1996. Additional evidence for intraspecific aggression was obtained from staged encounters between neonates in outdoor enclosures. Observed aggression suggests that individual residents do not tolerate an intruder within the same enclosure. Results of a nearest neighbor analysis of adult male spatial patterns in the field revealed that males were regularly spaced, which is consistent with home range defense. A similar analysis on adult females also suggested regular spacing, but this result was not statistically supported. Incidence of fresh bite scars on individuals in the field depends upon reproductive status: 50% of sexually mature males and 50% of sexually mature females exhibited fresh bite scars whereas only 14% of juvenile lizards had fresh bite scars. Also evidenced by bite scars is that individuals of C. fallens, irrespective of cohort or sex, appeared to target the tail region for biting during intraspecific aggressive interactions. Tail autotomy from social interactions has potentially serious consequences, particularly for many Australian temperate-zone skinks, because the tail is the major lipid storage organ in species such as C. fallens that lack abdominal fat bodies. We therefore hypothesize that C. fallens may exploit an opponent's tail as an "Achilles' heel" during aggressive interactions, confounding interpretation of tail break frequencies as being primarily due to predation attempts.
3891405|Since the original description of Anotosaura by Amaral (1933), the name has appeared only once in the literature (Peters and Donoso-Barros, 1970). Five additional specimens of this rare lizard were taken in 1971-73, and these represent two new forms, and with the genotype, constitute the total number of individuals known for the genus. The relationship of Anotosaura to Bachia and Heterodactylus is confirmed.
3893468|To examine environmental effects on age structure, growth rate and body size, we studied three epigean populations (490-2350 m a.s.l.) and one subterranean (550 m a.s.l.) population of the Pyrenean newt Euproctus asper. The age structures were measured by skeletochronology of phalanges. In the three surface populations, where winter dormancy on land causes an annual growth stop, lines of arrested growth (LAGs) were observed. LAGs in the subterranean population, where individuals stay in the water throughout the year, indicate yearly (at least cyclical) periods of arrested growth even though animals occupy a relatively constant temperature/light environment. The age structures of adults did not differ between surface populations (5-28 yr) and the subterranean population (7-16 yr). Body lengths were highest for the surface population from the lowest altitude. The age, body size and growth traits of the subterranean population came closer to the values obtained for the surface population located at 490 m a.s.l. than for those living at higher altitudes. We hypothesize that LAGs in subterranean newts result from reduced feeding in winter and that the similarity of age and size structures of subterranean and low-altitude populations argues for a recent colonization of the hypogean environment, where populations can find remaining optimal environmental conditions favorable to these stenothermic and rheophilous animals.
3892504|Newly-hatched and metamorphic climax stages of Bufo americanus are unpalatable to vertebrate and invertebrate predators but intermediate tadpole stages are palatable. Acquired avoidance by predators of newly-hatched toads confers a survival advantage on later developmental stages that are otherwise palatable.
3891528|California newts, Taricha torosa, were observed to produce three types of sounds that are associated with specific behavioral postures or actions. Frequencies ranged from 1.4-8 kHz. Sound duration times varied from <0.1 s up to 0.4 s.
3892410|A cladistic treatment of osteological characters of Peltochelys duchastelli Dollo, 1884 indicates that it is the sister group of the Trionychia of Hummel (1929; the Trionychidae plus Carettochelyidae). Although Peltochelys retains a primitive scute pattern, it shares with trionychids and carettochelyids a reduced number of peripheral elements. Paired ventral processes of the nuchal are present only in Peltochelys and the Carettochelyidae. However, other derived features present in the Trionychidae and Carettochelyidae, but absent in Peltochelys, suggest that these processes are either independently derived in Peltochelys and carettochelyids or secondarily absent in trionychids. Carettochelyids and trionychids lack development of some or all of the shell scutes, never have more than one suprapygal bone, and have some posterior pleurals meeting on the midline. Peltochelys retains a complete set of shell scutes, has two suprapygals, and has the neural series complete to the suprapygal. The Carettochelyidae includes two previously recognized clades: the subfamilies Carettochelyinae and Anosteirinae. The phylogenetic position of Peltochelys has important implications for the resolution of relationships within the Trionychoidea. A brief review is provided of the genera that have historically been included in the Carettochelyidae.
3892068| Pseudohemisus is an endemic Malagasy frog genus that has been placed by some systematists within the family Ranidae and by others in the Microhylidae. Blommers-Schlsser (1975) described the Pseudohemisus granulosus tadpole and reported that it had a mosaic of ranid (e.g., sinistral spiracle) and microhylid (e.g., hard mouthparts absent) features. I have reexamined these larvae to see if additional characters could help determine whether Pseudohemisus is a ranid or a microhylid. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that the P. granulosus tadpole does, in fact, have keratinized mouthparts, like ranids. However, it also has several strictly microhylid features and-in overall agreement with Blommers-Schlsser (1975)-many features that are intermediate between the two families (e.g., structure and shape of branchial food traps; position of the glottis; shape of the ventral velum). Unexpectedly, the P. granulosus larva resembles certain direct-developing frog embryos, where evolution has recently truncated normal tadpole development. This suggests that the microhylid tadpole (Orton type 2) may have evolved from a ranoid-like (Orton type 4) larva through truncation of the normal type 4 developmental program. Based on the P. granulosus tadpole, there can be no doubt that the Ranoidea and Microhyloidea are closely related taxa. 
23255785|The Gopher Tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) is a keystone species whose burrowing activities are of critical importance for upland ecosystems. Perhaps no age class is as enigmatic or vulnerable as hatchlings, and understanding the survival dynamics of hatchlings is critical for the parameterization of population viability models that will help guide adaptive management of this threatened species. Meta-analysis is a particularly useful technique for integrating results of published studies that provide different estimates of a single parameter of interest. A summary value from multiple studies could therefore provide a more representative estimate of a vital rate across heterogeneous study populations. We estimated hatchling survivorship from a natural population in North Florida using hatchling cohorts from a 3-yr telemetry study. To provide continuous estimates of survival through time, we fit weekly telemetry data to Weibull survival curves. We then incorporated the least biased estimate of hatchling survival from the field study into a meta-analysis, which included values from four other published studies, to generate a single summary estimate of hatchling survivorship through the first year of life. With the field study, we found significant differences in survival among years (P = 0.0073), release months (P = 0.0022), and hatching months (P = 0.0053). Hazard ratios (HR) indicated that hatchlings released in November were approximately 70% less likely to die within the first year of life than were hatchlings released in September (HR Nov = 0.285, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.1480.549). After incorporating our field estimates of survival with published estimates from other studies, we estimated the overall annual survival rate of hatchlings at 0.128 (CI = 0.0400.340). Many factors, such as habitat and predator composition, may contribute to heterogeneities in hatchling survival among tortoise populations. Therefore, we suggest that the use of a composite estimate rather than a single estimate would provide for a more representative and less biased description of hatchling survival. We recommend the use of this summary estimate of hatchling survival for future parameterization of population projection models.
3893476| A new species of Bufo tentatively assigned to the Bufo veraguensis group is described from forests near Paucartambo de Pasco, Peru, at elevations of 2600-3000 m in the Cordillera Oriental of central Peru. The new species differs from all known bufonids by having numerous large glands with many keratinous tips on the dorsum, large glands on the tibia and forearm, and two large dorsal glands lying between the parotoids. The new species is most similar to Bufo chavin. Both species are compared to each other and B. veraguensis with respect to external characters and skull osteology. The tadpole and call of the new species remain unknown. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Bufo tentativamente asignada al grupo Bufo veraguensis procedente de bosques cerca a Paucartambo, Pasco, Peru a elevaciones de 2600-3000 m en la Cordillera Oriental de Per central. La nueva especie difiere de todas las especies descritas por tener glndulas grandes y numerosas con muchas puntas queratinizadas en el dorso, grandes glndulas en la tibia y antebrazo, y dos grandes glndulas dorsales que estn entre las parotoides. La nueva especie es muy similar a Bufo chavin. Se comparan ambas especies junto a B. veraguensis con respecto a los caracteres externos y osteologa del crneo. Se desconoce el renacuajo y canto de la nueva especie. 
3891085|The study is based on the material collected from various parts of the arid Jhangh District, West Pakistan. Seventeen species in 13 genera were recorded. Gonyocephalus subcristatus and Agama minor were collected for the first time in West Pakistan. A checklist and key are provided.
3891079|The Trimorphodon biscutatus complex, previously composed of five species, is redefined. One species, T. biscutatus, ranges from Costa Rica through Mexico into the southwestern United States, chiefly along the Pacific versant. Most variation is clinal, but modifications of coloration and incidence of a divided or entire anal plate characterize terminal populations in the rassenkreis-like distribution. Trimorphodon biscutatus is distinguished from T. tau by its lyre or chevron-shaped dorsal head pattern or modifications thereof.
4497946|It has long been accepted that amphibians can skip breeding in any given year, and environmental conditions act as a cue for breeding. In this paper, we quantify temporary emigration or nonbreeding probability for mole and spotted salamanders (Ambystoma talpoideum and A. maculatum). We estimated that 70% of mole salamanders may skip breeding during an average rainfall year and 90% may skip during a drought year. Spotted salamanders may be more likely to breed, with only 17% avoiding the breeding pond during an average rainfall year. We illustrate how superpopulations can be estimated using temporary emigration probability estimates. The superpopulation is the total number of salamanders associated with a given breeding pond. Although most salamanders stay within a certain distance of a breeding pond for the majority of their life spans, it is difficult to determine true overall population sizes for a given site if animals are only captured during a brief time frame each year with some animals unavailable for capture at any time during a given year.
3891078|In the desert tortoise Gopherus agassizi, the egg nest is urinated upon by the female as an aid to nest digging, repulsion of egg predators, camouflage of the egg nest, and as a compaction agent that makes nest excavation difficult. Experimental tests were run using zoo animals, and soil penetration and compaction tests were supportive of the above conclusions. No bacteriostatic agent was found in tortoise urine.
3890638|Geochelone carbonaria utters a "chirp" or "cluck" similar to the contact call of many other species of animals, Geochelone travancorica calls in "chorus" at night for unknown purposes, and young, brightly-marked Platysternon megacephalum utter a "squeal" when disturbed. This behavior is lost with maturity when the bright colors are lost. The acoustic behavior of Chelonians has received little attention in the past. The widespread occurrence of this behavior in this group and its similarity to the vocal behavior of other groups suggest that it deserves more attention by students of reptiles and of behavior.
3891681|A comparative study employing a variety of characters, including myological and osteological data, has been made of selected Australopapuan hyline and South American phyllomedusine frogs. The data indicate the existence of closer phylogenetic relationships within each group than between species of either group. The Australopapuan hylids can therefore continue to be regarded as a monophyletic series.
3893105|I assessed the effects of female-biased operational sex ratios (OSR) on timing of oviposition, fertilization duration, and any other behavioral interaction, and on fertilization success during spawning behavior of a hynobiid salamander (Hynobius nigrescens) with external fertilization. In female-biased OSRs in the absence of scramble competition from other males (one male:1-5 females), a monopolist male and each female engaged in successive pair spawns in which the monopolist folded himself over a pair of egg sacs from the female for insemination. The mean duration of fertilization was 206 s (SE = 10), and occupied one-third of that (633 s, SE = 58) in a group spawn with scramble competition (8-10 males:one female). Fertilization duration appeared to be constant within each OSR treatment and independent of the highly variable fertilization success, suggesting an adaptive tactic "optimized" in the pair spawn for economical sperm allocation. Thus, I hypothesize that scramblers adopt a conditional tactic for sperm depletion of a monopolist by forming a mating ball (sperm depletion hypothesis). I further propose a poor mate hypothesis that scramblers are allowed to fertilize many of the eggs by the presence of poor mating monopolists, exhibiting disadvantageous behaviors or low fertilization success. These two hypotheses seem to account for the adaptive significance of mating balls formed by scramble competitors.
3890738| Thirty species of Eleutherodactylus are currently reported from Mxico. E. bufonoides Lynch is herein considered a synonym of E. spatulatus Smith, and E. lineatissimus (Taylor) and E. oaxacae (Taylor) are considered synonyms of E. mexicanus (Brocchi). E. stuarti Lynch, heretofore recorded only from Guatemala, is reported from eastern Chiapas, Mxico. These alterations leave the Mexican fauna with 28 recognized species of Eleutherodactylus. The mexicanus group is briefly reviewed, and a key to the species of that group is presented. Additionally, Syrrhaphus omiltemanus Gnther and Hylodes calcitrans Gnther apply to the same frog, heretofore called Eleutherodactylus calcitrans. The law of priority requires that this species be called E. omiltemanus. 
3893504| We resurrect and redescribe Stenocercus torquatus from the Andes of central Peru in departamentos Junn and Pasco at elevations between 800 and 1800 m. This species was erroneously synonymized with Stenocercus crassicaudatus, which occurs allopatrically in the Andes of southeastern Peru, departamento Cusco. In addition to several scale counts, Stenocercus torquatus differs from S. crassicaudatus in having a black antehumeral collar, two black transverse bands anterior to the antehumeral collar, a shorter tail, the ability to change color, and an arboreal life-style. 
3891642|The homing ability of desert iguanas, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, was studied in Anza Borrego Dosert State Park, San Diego County, and in Thousand Palms, Riverside County, California. Eighty-three lizards were displaced distances ranging from 50-400 m. Twenty-two lizards successfully homed at least once. Two lizards homed from distances of 250 m, and one lizard from 274 m. These homing distances exceed the previously reported maximum homing distance for lizards. Similarities between the results of this study and previous studies are discussed.
3893111|A four-year (1991-1994) survey documented regular nesting by loggerhead turtles (Caretta caretta) on the narrow, discontinuous beaches of low-relief mangrove islands in the northern half of the Ten Thousand Islands in southwest Florida. The nesting habitat differed from that on beaches where loggerhead nesting has been well documented such as the barrier-island beaches of the southeastern United States. In the Ten Thousand Islands, turtles emerged and nested on open beaches, but they also crawled through mangroves to reach nesting sites that were within dense vegetation, sometimes 10-15 m within maritime forests. We estimate that at least 240-480 loggerhead nests were made each year along approximately 16 km of shoreline in the Ten Thousand Islands. This nest density (15-30 nests/km) was similar to that on nearby barrier-island beaches. Raccoons (Procyon lotor) depredated 80.1% of loggerhead nests in the survey area, and several patterns of depredation were noted. Among nests that were protected with screens or cages, 68.6% of eggs produced hatchlings that emerged from the nest. Sand temperatures at clutch depth were lowest at nest sites that were near the water or were shaded. Based on the results of previous research on loggerhead hatchling sex ratios and incubation temperatures, the mean incubation temperatures in the northern half of the Ten Thousand Islands from 1992-1994 (approximately 29 C) may have resulted in an overall hatchling sex ratio of about 1:1. Therefore, because many loggerhead nesting beaches in the southern half of Florida are believed to produce a highly female-biased hatchling sex ratio, the production of equal proportions of male and female hatchlings may make the nesting of loggerheads in the Ten Thousand Islands important in ensuring the production of some male hatchlings by the south Florida nesting population. On other loggerhead nesting beaches in south Florida, nests that are nearest the water may have the best chance of producing some male hatchlings. Conservation activities that involve moving loggerhead clutches from sites that are near the water (where hatching success and incubation temperatures are lower) to sites that are farther from the water (where hatching success and incubation temperatures are higher) may counteract the benefits of a nesting pattern that reduces the risk of overly skewed hatchling sex ratios by exposing clutches to a variety of incubation temperatures.
25209123|It is important to identify and understand the critical habitat components of organisms inhabiting landscapes that are increasingly altered by human activities to adequately predict the effects of habitat alteration on natural populations. Our study identifies terrestrial habitats that are important to the gray treefrog (Hyla versicolor) during the nonbreeding season using radiotracking and mark-recapture/release of individuals captured in artificial arboreal refugia. High humidity and rainfall were associated with decreased captures in artificial refugia, while high ambient air temperatures were correlated with increases in the number of treefrog captures. Refugia placed in small trees recorded more small individuals than those in larger trees, and refugia in white oaks (Quercus alba) contained females more frequently than expected at random. We found that space-use estimates encompassing foraging and overwintering locations of gray treefrogs were relatively small and typically included only a few adjacent trees during the nonbreeding season. We discuss the physical and biological aspects of habitat patches that may be important in determining the persistence of gray treefrog populations.
3891431| Monthly collections of the viviparous lizard Xantusia riversiana were made on San Clemente Island, California, USA. Populations on the nearby San Nicolas and Santa Barbara Islands were sampled during July 1972.   undergo spermiogenesis during March-May. Roughly half of adult   are reproductively active in a given year. Yolk deposition begins October-November, accelerates during February with ovulation occurring in late May to early June. Young are born during September after a gestation period of about 14 weeks. Mean number of embryos per gravid  on San Clemente Island was 3.76. Reproductive potential approximates that of Xantusia vigilis. 
3891924|Karyotypes of the parthenogenetic Cnemidophorus laredoensis and its presumed parental species Cnemidophorus gularis and Cnemidophorus sexlineatus are presented and compared. Cnemidophorus laredoensis is a diploid species (2n = 46) with a typical sexlineatus species group karyotype but with two pairs of heteromorphic chromosomes. C-bands of C. laredoensis show that constitutive heterochromatin is mostly confined to centromeric regions. The karyotypic data are consistent with the hypothesis that C. gularis and C. sexlineatus are the parental species of C. laredoensis.
3893628|Plethodon stormi and Plethodon elongatus are two closely related species of plethodontid salamanders that are restricted to the Klamath Province of northwestern California and southwestern Oregon. Discovery of three localities south of the Klamath River, in the Scott River drainage, not assignable to either P. elongatus or P. stormi, motivated closer examination of this complex. We describe molecular (mitochondrial DNA) and morphological variation among specimens collected from the three newly discovered populaltions and compare these to populations of P. elongatus and P. stormi from Siskiyou County, California and Jackson and Josephine Counties, Oregon. Analyses of mitochondrial sequence data from the ATPase 6 and cytochrome b genes recovered clades corresponding to P. elongatus, P. stormi and the Scott River populations. Multivariate analyses indicate that Scott River drianage animals are morphologically distinct from P. elongatus and P. stormi. Because both genetic and morphological data indicate that the Scott River populations are distinctive, we provide a description of a new species, Plethodon asupak, to reflect the evolutionary history of this group and facilitate species management.
3891665| The reproductive cycle of the eastern spiny softshell turtle, Trionyx spiniferus spiniferus, was studied using specimens collected from the Stones River, Rutherford County, Tennessee, from 1971-1974. Males and   matured at body weights of approximately 130 and 1500 g, respectively. Spermatogenesis began in the spring with an increase in the number of spermatogonia and peaked in late summer. Sperm then were passed to the epididymides where they presumably overwintered. Ovarian follicles enlarged throughout the year, with the possible exception of winter, and underwent ovulation in May-June. Egg-laying occurred in June-July. Evidence is given for 2 clutches of eggs/season in larger  . 
40931037|We describe two new species of Bryophryne from the Region of Cusco, Provincia de La Convencin in southern Peru, increasing the number of currently known Bryophryne to eight. One of the new species is the second known species of Bryophryne that has a tympanic annulus and tympanic membrane. Males of this species have vocal slits, a vocal sac, and call from inside moss. It is readily distinguished from all its congeners by having a blackish-brown venter with yellow, orange, or pale pink blotches. This species is found at elevations of 3800-3850 m in the puna along the road from Vilcabamba to Pampascona. The second new species has the venter orange and pale gray mottled in males, whereas the venter is black and pale gray mottled in the single female. It was found inside bunches of the Peruvian feather grass (Stipa ichu) in the puna of Abra Mlaga next to the road at an elevation of 4000 m. A map showing the type localities of all currently known species of Bryophryne is presented. Describimos dos nuevas especies de Bryophryne de la Regin de Cusco, Provincia de La Convencin en el sur de Per, incrementando a ocho el nmero de especies conocidas para este gnero. Una de las nuevas especies es la segunda especie de Bryophryne que posee membrana y annulus timpnicos. Los machos de esta especie tienen hendiduras vocales, un saco vocal, y cantan bajo musgos. Se diferencia fcilmente de otras especies del mismo gnero por su coloracin ventral marrn oscura con manchas amarillas, anaranjadas o rosadas. Esta especie se encuentra en la puna a elevaciones de 3800-3850 m a lo largo de la carretera entre Vilcabamba y Pampascona. La segunda especie nueva presenta una coloracin ventral moteada anaranjada y gris plido en los machos, y coloracin ventral moteada negra y gris plido en la nica hembra. Esta especie fue encontrada entre manojos de icchu (Stipa ichu) en la puna del Abra Mlaga, a una elevacin de 4000 m. Incluimos un mapa con las localidades tipo de todas las especies de Bryophryne conocidas.
3891781|Neck-biting behavior during copulation was frequently practiced by a captive male Yuma kingsnake (Lampropeltis getulus). The function of this behavior is discussed as are other aspects of the reproductive biology of this species.
3891803|Shielding the parietal eye of horned lizards (Phrynosoma douglassi) led to a significant elevation in the upper voluntary temperature associated with shuttling, eye bulging, postural changes, panting, and cloacal discharge. Removal of the shield caused a lowering of the upper voluntary temperature to the level of the control group. A time lag was observed in both the elevation and lowering of body temperature, suggesting that the changes involved a hormone, possibly melatonin.
25621892|Basic information, such as population size and density, is needed for conservation and management of many species, especially threatened species. Thus, well-designed population monitoring programs that use appropriate methods for estimating parameters of interest, including density and survival, are needed as well. Mark-recapture and distance-sampling are established methods for estimating density in wildlife surveys. The sand dune lizard (Liolaemus multimaculatus) is an endemic and vulnerable species that inhabits dune habitats in Argentina. At present, however, there are no accurate estimates of density of this species and no established monitoring programs. The objectives of this study were (1) to test the use of mark-recapture and distance-sampling methods and (2) to estimate density of this species in Mar Chiquita Reserve (37 37' S-57 16' W), an important area for the protection of this species. For distance-sampling surveys, we used a systematic line-transect design; for mark-recapture sampling, we performed exhaustive surveys and captured, marked, and recaptured lizards manually. Based on distance-sampling, populations were estimated at 3.6 and 5.4 individuals per ha in 2007 and 2008, respectively; corresponding estimates based on mark-recapture data were 5.2 and 4.1 individuals per ha in 2007 and 2008, respectively. Detection probabilities were 0.23 in both 2007 and 2008 distance-sampling analyses and capture probabilities were 0.02 and 0.05 in 2007 and 2008 mark-recapture analyses. Based on these estimates, the Mar Chiquita Reserve contains a population of at least 10,000 individuals. Both methods were adequate for estimating populations of sand dune lizards, given the facility with which individuals can be detected and captured. The distance-sampling method requires less effort, but the mark-recapture method allows estimates of survival as well as density. Results of this work provide the baseline for developing a monitoring program for this lizard, and we suggest that the distance-sampling method be used to monitor all populations of sand dune lizard.
3891604| Cloacae of 16 Plethodon cinereus and 14 Plethodon dorsalis   from seasonal samples were studied anatomically by light microscopy. Detailed descriptions are presented of cloacal structure including 5 types of cloacal glands-the pelvic, ventral and dorsal glands, and 2 new glands, Kingsbury's glands and vent glands. The arrangement of these glands is complex. The cloaca is partitioned into an anterior tubular portion, the cloacal tube, and a posterior region surrounding the vent, the cloacal chamber. In   the most cephalic portion of the cloacal tube is ciliated, and Kingsbury's glands secrete into this section. Posteriorly there is a ventral ciliated depression of the cloacal roof, the anterior depression. Caudal to the anterior depression, the dorsal half of the cloacal tube consists of small unciliated papillae through which pelvic glands secrete, and the ventral floor possesses thin ciliated rugae on which ventral glands secrete. Dorsal glands occur laterally between pelvic and ventral gland masses and line the dorsal half of the anterior cloacal chamber. The ciliated rugae terminate at the anterior end of the cloacal chamber. Posterior in the cloacal chamber, the epithelium grades into epidermis, and vent glands line the posterior angle of the vent. All of the cloacal glands but vent glands are most hypertrophied during the breeding season. Vent glands show little seasonal variation. Plethodon dorsalis   and P. cinereus   differ from one another primarily in shape of the cloacal chamber and in anatomy of the dorsal glands. In P. dorsalis   the anterior cloacal chamber widens dorsally, and there is a large dorsal papilla which contains 1 type of dorsal gland. In P. cinereus, there is neither widening of the cloacal chamber nor a papilla. The dorsal glands of P. cinereus empty into the cloacal chamber in 2 distinct groups, 1 of which is present sparsely in P. dorsalis. 
3893144|Temporal and spectral characteristics of vocalizations of a multispecies frog assemblage in the Queen Sirikit Botanic Garden near Chiang Mai, Thailand were examined during the beginning of the breeding season in May 1997. Calls of eight frog species were recorded to determine the extent of temporal, spectral, and spatial separation observed among heterospecifics. Results show that some of the frogs sampled displayed clear temporal separation from the group (e.g., Rana pileata), others exhibited spectral separation (e.g., Chirixalus doriae), and still others were spatially separated from or on the edge of the group (e.g., Microhyla butleri). In addition, all species studied exhibited site fidelity on successive nights over the sampling period. Our observations suggest that frogs in this Old World disturbed community produce a variety of calling patterns that often results in reduction of mutual acoustic interference.
3892075|Reproductive biology of the northern Pacific rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis oreganus) was studied in snakes from three hibernacula in northern Idaho from 1978 to 1981. More females than males were captured, but an analysis of unbiased samples showed a 1:1 sex ratio. Mature males captured from late March to October carried spermatozoa in at least the distal portion of the vas deferens. Upon first emergence, reproductive females had large yolked ova, up to 35 mm in length. Ovulation occurred from mid-May to mid-June. Parturition occurred over a 30-day period beginning in early September. Males longer than 52 cm snout-vent length (SVL) and with four or more rattles were sexually mature. Most females larger than 55 cm SVL and with five or more rattles were sexually mature. Mean clutch size was 5.5, and clutch size was significantly correlated with female body size. The mean proportion of females reproducing annually varied from 54-77% in the three populations of snakes. Reproductive females had the greatest percentage body fat, followed by nonreproductive females and males. The population of snakes with the highest mean proportion of females reproducing annually (77%) also had significantly larger fat bodies. We concluded that nutrition, as evidenced by the size of fat bodies, is the major factor controlling the frequency of reproduction in females.
3891775| Two nominal subspecies of Phrynosoma orbiculare, P. o. bradti and P. o. durangoensis Horowitz 1955, are considered synonyms. The name bradti is chosen to represent populations from the Sierra Madre Occidental of Mxico. Phrynosoma boucardi Dumril and Bocourt (1870) is relegated to a subspecies of P. orbiculare based on intergradation with P. o. cortezi in eastern Hidalgo. Alleged osteological differences between boucardi and orbiculare are invalidated by a re-examination of available material. Phrynosoma o. boucardi is believed not to be phylogenetically close to P. taurus and P. braconnieri. The name P. o. dugesi, once problematical, is now applied to specimens from Jalisco which compare favorably with the syntypes. 
3893063|Many species of lizards have skin invaginations that contain ectoparasites. These structures could concentrate ectoparasites and reduce their harmful effects, but experimental evidence supporting this hypothesis is largely lacking. We report here the first experimental test of this hypothesis which we conducted with the lacertid lizard Psammodromus algirus, a species that has a nuchal pocket on each side of the neck and is a regular intermediate host of the tick Ixodes ricinus. We manipulated circulating testosterone levels of males to increase tick infestation and blocked pockets to prevent tick attachment. When ticks had free access to pockets, ticks were attached mainly in pockets when tick load was low, but they were present in similar proportions in ears, pockets, and axillae in heavily parasited males. When tick pockets were blocked, infestation rates were comparable to those of unblocked lizards, but ticks were concentrated on the ears and in the axillae. The experimental group, with blocked pockets, was seen over a shorter period and in a smaller patch of habitat. This suggests that survival and home range were reduced. These data indicate that concentration of ticks in pockets may be beneficial for P. algirus and support the functional value of these structures.
3890839|Investigation of seasonal changes in the gonads of Phrynosoma douglassi indicates breeding takes place in the late winter to early spring in Arizona. Testes are at maximum sizes when the lizards emerge from hibernation. Regression is completed by mid-May and recrudescence occurs during fall. Ovulation occurs in May. Young are born in late July to early August after a gestation period of about three months. Females average 16.7 young.
3892917|We examined effects of body size and density on spacing of calling males and on frequency of alternative mating tactics of the terrestrial frog Eleutherodactylus johnstonei in Barbados, West Indies. Males employed three mating tactics: calling from territories, satellite behavior, and interfering in courtships of neighbors. All calling sites of a male were within a small area (monthly means
4497968|We describe a new species of forest frog (genus Platymantis) from 180-300 m above sea level on Mt. Lihidan in the northwestern part of Panay Island, Philippines. It is assigned to the Platymantis dorsalis species group and is distinguished from congeners by external morphology, various spectral and temporal components of the advertisement call, and a preference for terrestrial, limestone microhabitat. Unique morphological characters include a moderately large body (27.7-34.3 mm SVL for 15 males), slightly expanded terminal finger and toe discs, distinctly rugose dorsal and lateral skin, pronounced supratympanic fold, protuberant rictal tubercle cluster, hidden dorsal and posterior edges of tympanum, and unique coloration.
3893095|We describe a new species of salamander (Eurycea) from the Barton Springs segment of the Edwards Aquifer, Austin, Texas, USA. The new species is most closely related to Eurycea (Typhlomolge) rathbuni from subterranean waters around San Marcos, Texas, and like that species lacks external eyes and shows other morphological features associated with subterranean life. The new species is easily distinguished on the basis of morphology from all previously described species of salamanders, and in particular is easily distinguished from its closest relatives, E. (Typhlomolge) rathbuni and E. (Typhlomolge) robusta, as well as the sympatric E. sosorum. We used sequences of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene to infer the phylogeny of described species of central Texas Eurycea, and these data support the major groups reported previously on the basis of other DNA and allozyme data. We also define names for the major clades of central Texas Eurycea.
3893466| Several internal and external factors can influence escape behavior in lizards. We studied the escape behavior of four Phrynosomatid lizards (Urosaurus bicarinatus, Sceloporus gadoviae, S. anahuacus, and S. mucronatus) from Mxico. Each species exhibited a unique combination of escape behaviors. Urosaurus bicarinatus had short approach and flight distances, and used squirreling (running to opposite side of tree or rock) when approached. Sceloporus gadoviae had a short approach distance, a large flight distance, and often used squirreling. Sceloporus anahuacus had a short approach distance, an intermediate flight distance, and typically fled under a nearby rock. Sceloporus mucronatus had large approach and flight distances, and ran under large rocks when approached. Males and females of all species did not differ in approach or flight distance. Reproductive status had no effect on approach or flight distances for the species where reproductive status was assessable (S. anahuacus and S. mucronatus). Body size did not influence either approach distance or flight distance for any species. Temperature had little effect on flight and approach distance except for S. gadoviae where warmer lizards tended to have shorter approach distances. Lizards that escaped capture used warmer sites than those that did not escape. We caught >75% of U. bicarinatus and S. gadoviae, 67% of S. anahuacus, and only 38% of S. mucronatus. Catchability appeared to be influenced by temperature (intraspecifically) and by approach and flight distance (interspecifically). While escape behavior of these lizards was generally not affected by internal or external conditions, our results suggest the ability of lizards to escape capture potentially depends on internal and external conditions (e.g., temperature). 
3893234| Hyla albolineata is a green treefrog from Terespolis, Rio de Janeiro state, in the Atlantic rainforest of Southeastern Brazil, known so far from only two young specimens. Additional field work at and near the type locality resulted in the collection of four adult males and a brooding female, which gave birth to 16 froglets that she was incubating in a dorsal pouch. Based on this pouch, a synapomorphy of Gastrotheca, the species is treated herein as Gastrotheca albolineata comb. nov. It is a medium-sized species within the genus (snout-vent length to 60 mm) and seems most closely allied to the species complex synonymized with Gastrotheca microdiscus. 
3892535|A cladistic analysis of Anarbylus switaki and of all the species of Coleonyx was conducted using skeletal material. Based on this analysis, A. switaki is placed between the more primitive C. elegans and the more derived C. reticulatus.
3891256|The spermatophore of Ambystoma t. tigrinum is described and compared with that of A. t. californiense and other species of Ambystoma. The spermatophores are the largest reported in the genus. The base is proportionally very wide and the stalk relatively long. The sperm cap rests in a depression and is held in place by raised horns on the apex from which it is not easily detached. Females may pick up all or part of the stalk with the sperm cap. The spermatophore is generally similar to those described for A. macrodactylum and A. talpoideum and the structure of the apex resembles that of A. laterale.
3891570|Snake hibernacula along 4.5 km of the eastern foothills of the Stansbury Mountains are used by racers (Coluber constrictor mormon), whipsnakes (Masticophis t. taeniatus), gopher snakes (Pituophis melanoleucus deserticola), and rattlesnakes (Crotalus viridis lutosus). Seven hibernacula of two complexes 850 m apart yielded 1077 snakes in spring 1972. Masticophis and Crotalus seemed restricted to a specific den in a complex and were completely absent from several hibernacula. In contrast, Coluber and Pituophis occurred in all dens and were the only species in some. One particular den studied by earlier workers provided data on long term changes. In 1950, Crotalus and Masticophis (232 and 185) were the abundant species, but declined by 1966 to 55 and 82, and continued to decline through 1972 (12 and 40). Coluber and Pituophis increased from negligible numbers in 1950 to 67 and 10 in 1966, and 192 and 42 in 1972. Total snake biomass in this den has been reduced 63% from ca. 73 kg (1950) to 27 kg (1972). Human predation is probably responsible for the dramatic reduction in Crotalus and Masticophis since 1950. It is postulated that recent Coluber and Pituophis increases are correlated with increased precipitation and resultant larger supplies of herbivorous prey organisms. Hibernating space is apparently not a factor controlling maximum snake population densities at this locality.
3891086|A karyotypic analysis of all the species in two North American natricine snake genera is presented. Males and females of Natrix rhombifera, N. cyclopion, N. fasciata, N. erythrogaster, N. harteri, N. sipedon, Regina grahamii, and R. rigida, females of N. valida and N. taxispilota, and males of R. septemvittata and R. alleni were studied. All species examined have the same karyotype consisting of a normal diploid number of 36 macrochromosomes and a fundamental number of 72. There is no evidence of heteromorphism in either sex of any of these species, and no intergeneric or intrageneric differences can be identified by morphological analysis of the chromosomes.
3891708| The median border lengths of plastral growth rings were summed for 26 Blanding's turtles (Emydoidea blandingii) to estimate plastron length at the end of each growing season. There was a decrease in percent plastron growth per year from the 1st (81.4%) to the 11th (4.0%) growing season. Based on length frequency analysis,   apparently mature at a plastron length of 181-190 mm. It is suggested that maturation is correlated with age rather than size. The length-weight relationship is described by the equation:
3893032| A new species of the Andean genus Osornophryne is described from the cloud forests of Volcn Sumaco in central Ecuador. This species can be distinguished from all other members of the genus by the combination of its unique ventral coloration, rugose skin, and pustular dorsal ridges. Individuals of two other species of Osornophryne, O. guacamayo and O. antisana, were encountered at the same locality. I discuss some aspects of the microhabitat preferences and diets of these toads. Morphometric comparisons and notes on the status of digital reduction in the genus are included. /// Se describe una nueva especie del gnero andino Osornophryne de los bosques nublados del Volcn Sumaco en Ecuador central. Esta especie puede distinguirse de otras del gnero por el combinacin de su coloracin ventral, piel arrugada y cordoncillos dorsales y pustulados. Individuos de dos otras especies de Osornophryne, O. guacamayo y O. antisana, fueron en la misma localidad. Se discute unos de los aspectos de la ecologa de estos sapos. Incluyo unas comparaciones morfometricas y notas respecto a la condicin de reduccin digital en este grupo. 
3893073|We characterized four repetitive DNA families (Hsh 1, Hy/Pol III, Hsr 1, Hy500) in the lungless salamander Hydromantes (Amphibia: Urodela). These DNA components formed the basis for comparative studies of genome evolution; cloned repeats were used to study the conservation of these repeated DNA families among representative species of Hydromantes. Our molecular data support the close relationships among the European taxa and suggest an early evolutionary divergence between the European species of Hydromantes and their American relatives. Two of the DNA families that we characterized in Hydromantes (Hy/Pol III and Hsr 1) derive from two distinct RNA-mediated classes of transposable sequences. The high copy number of these sequences, as well as the nested and tandem arrayed organization observed in the Hy/Pol III units, suggest that retrotransposons are particularly important in shaping the large urodele genomes.
3892027| When a Bengal monitor (Varanus bengalensis) is offered a live mouse it is usually seized between the front and hind legs, violently shaken if large enough to struggle effectively, eaten headfirst if its diameter is  40% of the diameter of the lizard's head, and all is accomplished in 3 to 300 seconds, depending upon the relative size of the mouse. It was concluded that several features of the inertial feeding pattern of Varanus resemble features of the feeding pattern of rodent-eating snakes. 
3891716|Calamagras, an erycine snake (Boidae) abundant in the Tertiary of North America, has been found in the French lower Eocene. The French species is represented by trunk vertebrae and, of particular importance, by a caudal vertebra. The morphology of the caudal vertebra confirms the referral of Calamagras to the subfamily Erycinae. The French Calamagras may be the ancestor of Cadurceryx, an erycine snake of the middle and upper Eocene of Europe. The morphology of the caudal vertebra shows that Calamagras cannot be the ancestor of the living Lichanura. It is suggested that the Old World erycine snakes may have arisen from the same stock as Calamagras and Ogmophis or may be directly derived from the Calamagras-Ogmophis-Charina phyletic line.
3892700|The field metabolic rates and water fluxes of frillneck lizards, Chlamydosaurus kingii, were studied in the field during three seasons. In the wet season, energy expenditure and water influx rates were relatively high (83.7 kJ
3891915| Nesting success of the midland smooth softshell, Trionyx m. muticus, was studied in Kansas during two field seasons from individually marked nests. Supplementary information was obtained from eggs subjected to submersion experiments in the laboratory. Open areas on high ridges of sandbars were preferred nesting sites; apparently   recognized these areas from the water. The major cause of egg mortality was submersion resulting from extended rises in water level. Nesting success was lower in 1973, an unusually wet season, than in 1974 which was unusually dry. 
25621890|We examined whether embryos of the green frog (Rana clamitans) would adaptively alter hatching times in the presence of both egg predators (the crayfish Procambarus nigrocinctus) and tadpole predators (the dragon nymph Anax junius). Under laboratory conditions, we exposed eggs with developing embryos to four experimental treatments that varied in the type of caged predator: egg predator only, tadpole predator only, both predators together, or no predator. As predicted, the presence of an egg predator caused a significant reduction in time to hatching. However, contrary to our prediction, eggs also hatched sooner in the presence of a tadpole predator. Moreover, there was no significant interaction between the effects of the two predators and thus no evidence that R. clamitans embryos can distinguish between predator types. We also found significantly lower hatching success in the presence of an egg predator, despite the fact that the predator did not have direct contact with the eggs. These results suggest adaptive early and delayed hatching do not co-occur in this species with this particular predator regime.
3891065|Phasic water pumping normally occurs only during feeding in Xenopus tadpoles, but it can be induced in non-feeding tadpoles by light anesthesia and sometimes by restraining unanesthetized tadpoles from swimming. In comparison with other genera, the water pumping mechanism of Xenopus is simple. The jaws have neither two phases of opening nor the ability to protrude. The absence of a valvular ventral velum makes Xenopus (and probably other pipids, and perhaps Rhinophrynus) unique among the Anura in that it allows only a single force pump in front of the pharyngeal clefts. Xenopus also does not have a force pump in the opercular cavity, behind the pharyngeal clefts. The cyclic functioning of the passive narial and opercular valves is controlled by hydrostatic pressure alone. Hyperexpiration during anesthesia or when India ink is pipetted into the oral intake interrupts cyclic pumping, but no evidence was found of hyper-inspiration. Closure of the pharyngeal clefts is effected by special muscles during intermittent hyperexpirations. Contaminated water is expelled, first through the mouth and then (as the cleft constrictors relax) sometimes through the opercular outlets.
3892662| I describe a new species of Cochranella from semi-deciduous forests near Samaipata, Santa Cruz, Bolivia. It is the most southern, Andean member of the genus Cochranella. The new species is most similar to C. spiculata and C. tangarana, from which it differs in color, distribution of melanophores, spiculation, and prominence of the tympanum. Large series of males and females of Cochranella bejaranoi are reported from two localities near the border of Santa Cruz and Cochabamba, Bolivia. Reported differences between the holotypes of C. flavidigitata and C. bejaranoi are found to be the result of sexual dimorphism and individual variation. Cochranella flavidigitata is synonymized with C. bejaranoi. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Cochranella de bosques semi-deciduos cercanos a Samaipata, Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Esta especie es la ms meridional del gnero en los Andes. La nueva especie es ms parecida a C. spiculata y C. tangarana, de las que difiere en color, extensin de los melanforos en las manos, distribucin y tamao de espculas, y prominencia del tmpano. Se reporta una cantidad grande de hembras y machos de C. bejaranoi de dos localidades en Santa Cruz y Cochabamba, Bolivia. Las diferencias supuestas entre el holotipo de C. flavidigitata y C. bejaranoi parecen ser parte del dimorfismo sexual y la variacin individual de una misma especie. Se propone que C. flavidigitata es un sinnimo posterior de C. bejaranoi. 
3893405| Six species of the leptodactylid frog genus Phrynopus are recognized in the Andes of northern Peru. Three new species are described from the departamentos Amazonas, Ancash, and La Libertad. One of the new species appears to be a member of the Phrynopus flavomaculatus group and another to be a member of the P. simonsii group; however, the third species has some characters of each group. Two of the new species are known only from elevations >3000 m in the Cordillera Occidental, and one is from >3000 m in the northern part of the Cordillera Central. /// Se reconocen seis especies del gnero leptodactlido Phrynopus en los Andes del norte de Per. Se describen tres especies nuevas de los departamentos de Amazonas, Ancash, y La Libertad. Una de las especies nuevas parece ser miembro del grupo Phrynopus flavomaculatus y la otra del grupo P. simonsii; la tercera especie presenta algunos caracteres de cada grupo. Dos de las especies nuevas se conocen slo en elevaciones mayores a 3000 m en la Cordillera Occidental, y una vive a elevaciones mayores de 3000 m en la parte norte de la Cordillera Central. 
3892071| The taxonomic statuses of Emoia adspersa Steindachner, 1870, and E. lawesii Gnther, 1874, are reviewed. Re-examination of types, previous collections, and new material from Western Samoa and American Samoa, demonstrates that the two species are distinct, differing in color pattern, adult body size, number of and shape of subdigital lamellae beneath the toes, and number of infralabial scales. They also are distributed allopatrically along a chain of Micronesian and Polynesian islands. 
3892734|Population fluctuations, density, recruitment, and survivorship of five species of syntopic scincid lizards (Ctenotus) were studied for three years on a spinifex grassland site in central Australia. Lizards were captured in pit-traps covering an area of approximately 60 ha. The climate is arid and rainfall was variable with a sequence of dry, wet, and dry years. In response to dry conditions in the first year of the study, there was little reproduction and virtually no recruitment for any species except C. pantherinus. Adult survivorship over the first 12 mo of the study ranged from 25-40%. Reproductive activity was higher during the mesic conditions in the second year of the study and two cohorts of juveniles hatched; one in summer (December/January) and one in autumn (April). Most of the adults (>90%) of four species died after reproductive activity was complete in the second year. The exception was C. pantherinus in which only 70% of the adult population may have died. Juvenile survival during the first year of life ranged from 10-25%. Estimated longevity of adults based on growth rates over 3 yr was from 4-6 yr. Under normal conditions (arid), adult Ctenotus may not reproduce each year but during the infrequent favorable years individuals invest large amounts of energy in reproduction and consequently experience widespread mortality. The life-history strategies of most species of Ctenotus studied seem to be most consistent with predictions of demographic (bet-hedging) life-history models.
3891877| Reproduction of gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) was studied during 1978 and 1979 in southwestern Georgia. Mating was observed during April, May, and early June when females were most receptive, but courtship by males continued through fall. Nesting peaked during the first two weeks in June. Sixty-five of 73 unprotected nests were destroyed (usually by mammals) shortly after laying. Clutch size ranged from 4-12 (x = 7.0) and was correlated with plastron length of females. Eggs with above average mass had a greater probability of hatching and yielded larger young. The incubation period averaged 102 days. Body size of mature females, clutch size, and masses and dimensions of eggs were significantly larger than those reported from Florida. Each mature female nested no more than once annually and was successful in producing young an average of only once in about 10 years. The extremely low reproductive rate is probably a major factor limiting the recovery of depleted populations of gopher tortoises. 
3892709|A four-year capture-mark-recapture study of Arafura filesnakes (Acrochordus arafurae) in the "wet-dry" Australian tropics provided information on movement patterns in this species. Based on capture rates in fyke nets set in shallow water in Magela Creek (Kakadu National Park), these snakes showed a strong lunar cycle of activity, with less movement on moonlit nights. Trap sites under overhanging vegetation consistently caught more snakes than did trap sites in open water, and juvenile snakes were caught mainly in areas covered in floating vegetation. We interpret the preference of A. arafurae to move mostly on dark nights, and to travel mostly through heavily vegetated areas, as adaptive in terms of reducing their vulnerability to predators (especially, visually hunting birds). Marked filesnakes tended to move increasingly further from their sites of initial capture as time passed, suggesting that they may be nomadic rather than having fixed home ranges. Larger snakes moved greater distances. Males were more likely to remain at their initial capture site than were females, but dispersal patterns of males and females were similar in most respects. Filesnakes sometimes moved from one billabong to another during the wet season (when the billabongs are connected by large expanses of shallow water), with most such cases involving adjacent billabongs.
3892017|The effects of location and season on the level of aggressiveness in a free-living male collared lizard, and of season on the level of aggressiveness of three free-living female collared lizards were studied. The majority of the resident male's aggressive responses occurred within a small area of his home range. This area coincided with the area of overlap of the home ranges of several females. The resident male was most aggressive during June with the peak of his aggressiveness coinciding with oviposition and the peak aggressiveness of the females. Female aggressiveness increased markedly for a few days after egg laying and then subsided. Other social behavior was described.
3891901| A population estimate of whipsnakes, Masticophis t. taeniatus, utilizing communal hibernacula at Lone Rock, Tooele County, Utah, was made by taking samples in autumn 1973 and in spring 1974. The number of whipsnakes using this site was estimated by various methods to be 425-543. Confidence limits for the Lincoln Index were 276-618. Estimates of postdispersal density ranged from 0.15-0.22 whipsnake/ha and 17.7-26 g/ha. Whipsnakes used at least three separate dens at this location, differing from other sites where only one den per den complex is used. Age structure appeared equally balanced among various age groups older than 1 year old, and the latter was underrepresented. Sex ratios were significantly biased toward  . The future of this population is briefly discussed. 
3893035|I present allozyme data for five species of Lipinia (Reptilia: Scincidae) from the South Pacific. These data (1) support the resurrection of Lipinia rouxi as a distinct species in congruence with data from nontraditional morphological characters presented by Greer and Mys, (2) show a large degree of genetic divergence between species while data for traditional morphological characters show almost no differentiation, and (3) based on parsimony, support the phylogenetic hypothesis (((noctua, rouxi, pulchra) longiceps) leptosoma).
3893131| We describe a new species of the genus Pelodytes from the southern part of the Iberian Peninsula. The new species, the third known living species of Pelodytidae, is distinguished on the basis of external morphology, osteology, morphometrics, and allozymes. /// Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Pelodytes procedente del sur de la Pennsula ibrica. La nueva especie es la tercera especie viviente conocida de la familia Pelodytidae, y su descripcin se basa en rasgos de morfologa externa, osteologa, morfometra y anlisis gentico fundamentado en electroforesis de aloenzimas. 
3891836|Juvenile yellow-bellied racers (Coluber constrictor mormon) were presented with moveing (live) and nonmoving (dead) crickets. All subjects demonstrated a preference for moving crickets in a simultaneous choice situation. In a successive choice situation, nonmoving crickets were attacked as often as moving prey, but with longer latencies. Behavioral descriptions of prey attack are reported which indicate different patterns of predatory behavior to live and dead crickets.
4497938|A new species of arboreal Eleutherodactylus is described and assigned to the Eleutherodactylus unistrigatus Group from the Amazonian lowlands of northern Departamento de Cusco, Peru. The new species was found on vegetation 150-800 cm above ground, has a SVL up to 21.9 mm, and is distinguished from other species of the genus by having a green dorsum with white spots; a pointed, brown snout; and by lacking a tympanic membrane and annulus. Males lack vocal slits and nuptial pads; females are unknown.
3891790|Sceloporus aeneus is a lizard found at high elevations in southern Mexico. Monthly samples obtained during the reproductive period indicate that this species is reproductively biomodal with some populations exhibiting oviparity and others exhibiting viviparity. Data obtained during the observation of birth in the laboratory support this conclusion. Oviparity is exhibited by individuals in the taxon Sceloporus aeneus aeneus, whereas viviparity is exhibited by Sceloporus aeneus bicanthalis. Egg retention occurs in all females exhibiting oviparity. These findings support the hypothesis that egg retention is an intermediate stage in the evolution of viviparity.
40931032|Under low-resource conditions, the outcome of competition between a generalist omnivore and an herbivore may depend on whether one species can more efficiently use a limiting resource. I evaluated the levels of omnivory and competitive interactions between two abundant sympatric emydid turtles, Trachemys scnpta and Pseudemys floridana, that coexist across a productivity gradient in lakes in northern Florida. A foraging experiment indicated that both species were omnivorous in the juvenile stage, but P. flondana was more herbivorous and T. scripta consumed more insects and carrion. This low level of resource overlap was consistent with previous studies of gut contents and stable isotope analyses. In a 13-mo enclosure experiment in a natural pond under low-resource conditions, the generalist T. scripta grew more slowly with conspecifics than with P. floridana, and the more specialized P. floridana grew at the same rate with both T. scripta and conspecifics. Trachemys scripta with P. floridana exhibited the highest growth rate (3.5 mm/yr), slightly faster than P. floridana with conspecifics (2.3 mm/yr). Trachemys scripta was apparently unable to process macroalgae as well as P. floridana and the low abundance of invertebrate prey in the pond may have limited growth rates with conspecifics. Where only low-quality, basal resources are available, gut specializations in P. floridana allow for more efficient digestion and assimilation of plant nutrients and maintenance of equal growth rates with either conspecifics or T. scripta. Where intraspecific competition in one species is stronger than interspecific effects, this may influence the distribution of trophic generalists across a productivity gradient. A possible mechanism for competition among conspecifics may be aggressive interactions in habitats with limited resources.
3892944|Lengths and widths of 20 randomly selected erythrocytes were measured from each of 55 diploid Hyla chrysoscelis and 95 tetraploid H. versicolor. Cell length was used as a taxonomic character and properly differentiated 92.7% of treefrogs from Ohio identified a priori by audiospectrographic analysis of advertisement calls. No clinal or displacement variation was detected between allopatric and syntopic populations of H. chrysoscelis. Northern allopatric populations of H. versicolor had longer erythrocytes than southern populations and may exhibit a step cline between physiographic sections or drainage basins.
3892375|Long-term research on turtle populations on the Savannah River Plant in South Carolina has yielded information on certain facets of reproduction in long-lived animals that cannot be obtained in short-term studies. Age of turtles is shown not to be a direct determinant of clutch size. Variation in size of clutches produced by individual animals is as great as that observed among individuals in the population as a whole. Annual variation in mean clutch size apparently does not occur in the species examined, despite obvious year to year variation in measurable environmental factors. However, the frequency of producing clutches varies notably on an annual basis. Clutch frequency is the most important measurement to be made in studies of reproduction in turtles and, perhaps, other iteroparous animals.
3893534| We describe a new species of Tomodon from ridge tops and xeric scrub forests in the southern Andes of Bolivia. The new species most closely resembles T. ocellatus and Pseudotomodon trigonatus. It has more maxillary teeth than either species and also differs in color pattern and meristic characters. The number of maxillary teeth (10-12) in the new species approaches the number in Thamnodynastes, thus blurring the distinction between Thamnodynastes and Tomodon and lending support to recent suggestions that these genera should be synonymized. The geographic and ecological distributions of the new species and Bothrops jonathani overlap, and these species appear to form a Mllerian mimicry system. /// Describimos una nueva especie de Tomodon procedente de pastizales y bosque seco de los Andes del sur y central de Bolivia. La nueva especie se parece a Tomodon ocellatus y Pseudotomodon trigonatus. Sin embargo, tiene ms dientes maxilares que stas especies y adems, las tres se distinguen por carcteres de coloracin y nmeros de escamas. El nmero de dientes maxilares en la nueva especie es intermedio entre los gneros Tomodon y Thamnodynastes. De sta manera, se apoya la idea de que los dos son sinnimos. La especie nueva ocurre en simpatra con Bothrops jonathani, y las dos especies forman un complejo mimtico de tipo Mller. 
3891953|Vocalizations of Delma tincta and Lialis burtonis, both from Western Australia, were recorded when the animals were handled, then analyzed by oscillograph and sound spectrograph. In both species, call duration, pulse rate, sound intensity and frequency composition are highly variable. Noisy components (especially in Lialis) and (apparently) harmonic components (especially in Delma) occur in the calls, with energy content up to about 16 kHz. In both species modulation of pulse rate, frequency and, especially, intensity leads to segmentation of long vocalizations. Comparison is made with gekkonid lizards, Anura and Urodela.
3893132|We studied genetic variation in 107 individuals from 12 Italian populations of the crested newt, Triturus carnifex, by horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis to test the hypothesis of disjunction along the Central Apennine, as has been found in other animals. Twenty-eight presumptive loci were evidenced, 10 of which were monomorphic. Gene diversity was found to be high for salamandrids (mean percentage of polymorphic loci = 46.4, mean expected heterozygosity = 0.048, mean F
3892517|Aggressive basking behavior was a frequent and conspicuous part of the daily activities of free-living Chrysemys picta picta in northern Virginia. Inter- and intra-specific interactions included open mouth gestures, biting, and two previously undescribed behaviors: lateral and vertical displacement. Aggression was most frequent from 0900-1000 h, at water temperatures between 30-32 C. Basking turtles avoided potentially aggressive encounters by averting faces while basking and moving away from approaching turtles. Directionality of behavioral interactions was strongly influenced by relative body size. Aggressive behavior was positively correlated with the number of turtles basking, the frequency of emergences, and water temperature.
3892270|Aerial surveys over the entire United States shoreline from Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, to the Texas-Mexico border by a single observer team during the spring and summer of 1982 showed greatest sea turtle nesting in Florida (accounting for more than 85%) followed by South Carolina, Georgia, North Carolina, and Alabama, respectively. Almost all nesting activity was by loggerheads (Caretta caretta). Ground surveys in Georgia and Florida provided correction factors for aerial counts of fresh nesting crawls (tracks). No fresh nesting crawls in areas of ground survey were missed by the aerial team. Possible reasons for present nesting distributions include egg predation by native and feral domestic animals, habitat destruction by introduced animals, natural and human-induced changes in beach areas, and temperature regimes of past decades and centuries. Nesting sea turtles may shift to other beaches if natal beaches are no longer available; consequently, beaches presently supporting small nesting populations may become more important to the species in the future.
23352180|I describe a new species of hylid frog of the genus Nyctimystes from Fergusson Island off the southeastern peninsula of New Guinea. The new species is distinctive in being of moderate size, lacking a tubercle or lappet on the heel, and in having a vocal sac and slits, palpebral venation of vertically oriented lines with few cross-connections, basal webbing between the fingers, orange-yellow flash markings in the groin and hidden surfaces of the thighs, and a venter heavily flecked with brown. The new species is currently known only from the type locality, but it may range more widely across the D'Entrecasteaux Islands. It is morphologically most similar to N. persimilis from the mountains of the adjacent mainland of New Guinea.
41238994|The taxonomie status of Typhlops lumbrcalis is discussed. Populations of Typhlops lumbricalis (sensu stricto) are redescribed and restricted to the Bahamas islands. Two new Cuban species associated with T. lumbricalis are described. The new species are medium in size; rostral in dorsal view is a narrow to broad oval, preocular contacting third supralabial only, low middorsal scale count (< 300), 20 scale rows anteriorly and reducing to 18 posteriorly at around midbody. These can be placed within the T. lumbricalis species group and a key to the West Indian species is presented. La situacin taxonmica del nombre Typhlops lumbnealis es discutida. Las poblaciones de Typhlops lumbricalis (sensu stricto) son redescritas y restringidas a las Bahamas. Dos nuevas especies cubanas asociadas con T. lumbricalis son descritas. Las nuevas espcies son de mediano tamao, con rostral en vista dorsal desde estrecha a oval amplia, preocular contactando solamente con la tercera supralabial, bajo conteo de escamas mediodorsales (< 300), 20 hileras de escamas anteriormente, reduciendo a 18 posteriormente alrededor del medio del cuerpo. Estas especies pueden ubicarse dentro del grupo de espcies de T. lumbnealis y una clave para las especies antillanas y Bahamas es presentada.
3893225|We examined geographic variation of the advertisement call in 17 populations of Rana rugosa, which is widely distributed in Japan. The calls were recorded in a laboratory under constant conditions. All acoustic parameters examined (call duration, number of pulses per call, pulse rate, and dominant frequency) showed significant variations among populations. The former two showed clinal variations along the long axis of Honshu. In call duration, which was the most variable parameter, the longest duration (559.8 ms), measured in the population of Hakatajima, was about five times as long as the shortest one (116.5 ms) from the Murakami population. Canonical discriminant analysis showed that the geographic variation of the advertisement call was continuous, unlike the distinct divergence revealed by prior studies on sex chromosomes and allozymes.
3892297|We tested the hypothesis that individual differences in calling and searching behavior by males in a chorus of Bufo americanus were correlated with differences in aerobic capacity. Fifteen observers made focal animal observations of male behavior on the peak night of breeding activity, followed by replicate measurements of aerobic capacity during forced exercise for each animal. The toads exhibited significant variation among individuals in amount of calling, amount of movement, and number of clasping attempts. Males also differed in aerobic capacity, with nearly 90% of the total variance in a repeated measures analysis explained by differences among individuals. However, aerobic capacity was not correlated with any behavioral variable, and there was no relationship between behavioral or physiological measurements and male body size. Our results do not support the hypothesis that differences in the behavior of males in a chorus are due to differences in their physiological capacities to use energy.
3891859|Larval development of the spring salamander Gyrinophilus porphyriticus was studied through analysis of size-frequency distributions in sequential samples from a population in the southeastern Cowee Mountains of North Carolina. The results suggest highly variable growth rates and a variable larval period, the latter having a mode of nearly 4 years. Hatching occurs in late summer or early autumn with metamorphosis in late spring or summer. The size range at metamorphosis is narrow with no detectable variation in this trait. Factors contributing to selection for a lengthy larval period in G. porphyriticus may include (1) reliable aquatic habitats, (2) larval adaptations which minimize regulation by predators and competitors, and (3) differential feeding adaptations between pre- and post-metamorphic phases.
3891857|This report describes observations of courtship behavior and oviposition of Dendrobates pumilio in Costa Rica. Females approached calling males and followed them to oviposition sites. Pairs often inspected several sites before ovipositing. Males called to females, but there were few tactile interactions or special postures during courtship. Males deposited sperm on leaves and females then laid eggs in the same places. After tadpoles developed, they were carried by an adult to water. In this study, one female was observed carrying a tadpole on her back.
3893347| A new species of Leposoma is described from the Atlantic rainforests of the State of Bahia, Brazil. The new species has a single frontonasal scale, elongate dorsals, lanceolate ventrals in transverse and diagonal rather than in longitudinal rows, and conical tubercles on the side of the neck. It further differs from all congeneric species by having the lowest total number of femoral pores (six), and fourth finger, and fourth toe lamellae (seven and 10, respectively). The new species was obtained syntopically with Leposoma scincoides. /// Uma nova espcie de Leposoma  descrita para a mata atlntica do sul da Bahia, Brasil. A nova espcie apresenta frontonasal inteira, escamas dorsais alongadas, ventrais lanceoladas em fileiras transversais e diagonais e grnulos cnicos nos lados do pescoo. Ela difere de todas as demais espcies do gnero por apresentar as contagens mais baixas de poros femorais (6) e de lamelas do quarto dedo e artelho (7 e 10, respectivamente). A nova espcie  sintpica com Leposoma scincoides. 
3893469|Complete characterization of lizard foraging behaviors may require information about aspects rarely measured. Most studies record only number of movements per minute (MPM) and/or percent of time moving (PTM), but lizards differ markedly in average speed (AS) and speed while moving (MS) during foraging and in proportion of attacks initiated after detecting prey while the lizard is moving (PAM). We present data on these variables for nine lizard species and on foraging speed for several others, permitting first assessments of relationships between speed, PAM, and both phylogeny and foraging mode; examination of the effect of body length on foraging speed; and correlative analyses of relationships between foraging variables. Although sprint speed may increase with body size, foraging speed did not, presumably for two reasons. Because search speed is much lower than sprint speed, as is speed of movement between ambush sites, searching efficiency and stamina may be more important determinants of foraging speed than is sprint speed. Second, the body size range was small, allowing the possibility that foraging speed may vary with body length over the much larger size range between the smallest and largest species worldwide. Nevertheless, a large majority of lizard species are in the size range tested, suggesting that body length may not strongly affect foraging speed except when extremely short or long species are included in comparative analyses. High PAM, high AS, and low MS were characteristic of autarchoglossans and active foragers, whereas low PAM, low AS and high MS were exhibited by iguanians and ambush foragers. In independent species analyses, significant correlations were observed between several pairs of foraging variables. In analyses using phylogenetically independent contrasts, the only significant finding was a strong positive correlation between PAM and PTM. Although these findings suggest that foraging speed, MPM, and either PTM or PAM may provide independent measures of foraging activity needed to adequately describe interspecific variation, this conclusion is tentative due to the small sample size of limited taxonomic breadth.
3893040|We studied female reproductive and fat body cycles as well as annual variation in clutch size of Sceloporus virgatus in the Chiricahua Mountains from 1969 through 1993. Females mature at 50 mm snout-vent length (SVL). All females are reproductive after the second winter, but only a variable (small) proportion of first year females breed. Eggs are oviposited at the beginning of the rainy season (early July), and a maximum of one clutch is produced each year. Overall mean clutch size was just over 10 eggs per clutch. Clutch size was positively correlated with both SVL and body mass. Relative clutch mass increased with female body size, whereas relative egg mass decreased with female body size. Fat body mass is depleted over the winter and is not accumulated again until after the reproductive season. Mean clutch size differed by over three eggs among years. A stepwise regression revealed that unadjusted clutch size was influenced by winter precipitation, previous summer and fall precipitation, and mean previous summer and fall temperature. Size-adjusted mean clutch size was correlated with mean spring temperature and mean previous summer and fall temperature. The proportion of first-year females that reproduce was influenced by spring precipitation, mean previous summer and fall temperature, and mean winter temperature. We hypothesize that the variation among years is a proximate response to variation in rainfall and temperature, which influence a female's energy balance (interaction of activity, food, growth, and fat storage).
3893411|Many studies have addressed intraspecific variation in life history traits in vertebrates. We quantified differences in morphology and reproductive output of loggerhead sea turtles, Caretta caretta, nesting in Florida (temperate population), Brazil (tropical population), and Greece (Mediterranean population). Body size of nesting loggerheads, clutch size, egg size (diameter and mass), and nest dimensions were measured. Straight carapace lengths of nesting loggerheads in Florida and Brazil were not significantly different, but Greek turtles were smaller than those in the two Atlantic populations. Clutch size comparisons showed that Greek turtles produced the largest clutches relative to body size, followed by Brazil and Florida. Egg size varied significantly among the three populations. Nest dimensions were similar between Florida and Greece, whereas only depth of topmost egg and width of nest chamber were similar between Greece and Brazil. Differences among populations indicate that each population experiences and responds to a different combination of selective factors both at and away from the nesting beach. Morphological and reproductive data on other loggerhead populations were compiled from the literature and examined for latitudinal trends in all ocean basins and within the Atlantic-Mediterranean. A significant negative correlation was found between latitude and both body size and egg size in all ocean basins and within the Atlantic-Mediterranean. No correlation was found between clutch size and latitude. Correlations were not significant when Mediterranean data were excluded from the analyses, suggesting that sea turtles in the Mediterranean encounter environmental conditions significantly different from those experienced by oceanic populations. Reproductive output in loggerheads was found to support the optimal egg size theory. This study highlights important differences among populations and emphasizes the need for conserving genetic and phenotypic variation in marine turtle populations.
3892078|The choice of food types and the length of time food passed through the gastrointestinal tract were determined in free-ranging Conolophus pallidus on Isla Santa Fe, Galapagos throughout the year. Natural foods were analyzed for energy, percent cellulose, percent nitrogen, and calcium as indices of the quality of food. Foods of highest quality were found to be among the preferred foods, but not all preferred foods were of high quality with respect to the nutrients measured. Passage time of food through the gastrointestinal tract, digestive efficiency, and digestion of cellulose were determined on captive Conolophus subcristatus. Ability to digest cellulose and digestive efficiency varied among five caged iguanas. Intra- and interspecific variabilities in digestive capacities result from variability in ecological factors, and interspecific variability among iguanines probably reflects differences in colic anatomy and the ability to absorb nutrients from the hindgut.
3891460|Under experimental conditions, nocturnal utilization of ground litter by burrowing provided Thamnophis sirtalis infernalis with elevated nocturnal body temperature relative to ambient temperature. On two particularly cold nights during the experiment, a possible critical thermal minimum was avoided by ground litter utilization. It is concluded that Thamnophis may similarly utilize this and other microhabitats in the wild state.
3890626|Marked immature desert iguanas were studied from 1964-1966 in the Sonoran Desert. Mean distance between captures was 14.1 m. Hatchlings emerged during a period of less than one month in August. Mean growth rate of 22 juvenile and immature lizards was 2.7 mm/month. At this growth rate, the minimum adult size would be attained at an age of about 38 months and the first reproduction would occur at 45 months. Sympatric carnivorous lizards grew 50-150% faster than the herbivorous desert iguana. Spring density of immatures was about 11/hectare, and late summer density of juveniles was 20/hectare.
3892644|Because zoos have added Species Survival Plans and related conservation efforts to their traditional programs, new goals have emerged along with new interests in theoretical problems. We see the decade of the 1990's as a time that zoo-university collaborations must make significant progress in dealing with empirical and theoretical issues of mutual interest. It is not always obvious to both groups, however, that mutual interest exists. Consequently, we have described numerous problems that have both theoretical and applied components and that should be attractive to zoo and university herpetologists. Also, we have speculated about the combination of concepts and subdisciplines that is most likely to be successful in pursuing the husbandry, propagation, and conservation problems that must be solved in the near future. It is our hope that the zoo-university mutualisms that already exist within herpetology will grow, not only in numbers, but also in the contributions that they make to the science of herpetology and to the management of herps in captivity as well as in nature.
3893249|We studied Niveoscincus microlepidotus and N. metallicus in a habitat mosaic of alpine woodland, sub-alpine heath, and boulder fields in southern Tasmania. Ten habitat variables were used in a Principle Components Analysis (PCA) to provide a quantitative definition of microhabitat preferences, based on the use of basking sites. Discriminant function analysis of the PCA axes clearly separated the species on the PC 1 axis, which was based on vegetation and substrate characteristics. Niveoscincus microlepidotus is found in open situations, represented predominantly by boulder fields. Niveoscincus metallicus is strongly associated with relatively high, dense vegetation, thick litter layers, and damp soils, characteristics that are most commonly found in alpine woodland.
3891943|Absence of dorsal spotting occurs in two closely related species of leopard frogs, Rana pipiens and Rana sphenocephala. Dorsally unspotted R. pipiens (Burnsi mutants) occur in Minnesota and adjacent areas. Dorsally unspotted R. sphenocephala are reported from five localities in southern Illinois. In one population (Horseshoe Lake-Olive Branch) where the sample size of R. sphenocephala is large (N = 67), the frequency of occurrence of the dorsally unspotted condition was determined to be 4.48%. The adaptive value of lack of dorsal spotting in R. pipiens and R. sphenocephala may be associated with sand substrates.
3891282|Sternotherus Gray is the correct generic designation for the American musk turtles. The nomenclatural history of the two spellings is outlined and discussed in order to demonstrate the validity of this spelling.
3892357|Reproductive cycles of male snakes may be classified into four major types: (1) Aestival (summer) and postnuptial, which is found only in temperate and subtropical regions. Spermatogenesis occurs in the warm season and spermatozoa are stored throughout the winter in the vas deferens of the males, or occasionally in the oviducts of the females. The latter occurs when there is both a spring and fall mating. The sexual segment of the kidney has only one brief period of partial regression in July. (2) Mixed type, which is found only in temperate and subtropical regions, and is characterized by spermatogenesis beginning in late spring and being completed one year later. Two sub-types may be distinguished. In the first, there are two periods of spermiogenesis and mating (fall and spring), and the sexual segment of the kidney undergoes a brief period of partial regression in July. In the second sub-type, there is only one period of spermiogenesis and mating (spring), and the sexual segment of the kidney reaches full development only in April. (3) Prenuptial type, which is found everywhere except in cool and cold temperate regions. Spermatogenesis is completed towards the end of the mating period, and always occurs in the spring in temperate and subtropical regions but at any time in intertropical zones. The sexual segment of the kidney is usually completely regressed during the periods of sexual rest. In polyestrous species, male sexual activity may last through most of the year. (4) Continuous reproductive activity, found only in polyestrous species from intertropical regions without a very marked dry season. Of the climatic factors likely to influence reproduction, only temperatures low enough to require prolonged hibernation play any part in the determination of the reproductive cycle of the males, which then have a spermatogenesis of the aestival or mixed type. In regions where there is no prolonged hibernation, male sexual activity may occur at any time of the year, depending on the reproductive cycle of the females. The latter, however, is always dependent upon the climate. Storage of sperm in the vas deferens of males may be indispensable in the reproductive cycles of aestival type, but prolonged retention of sperm in the oviducts, while permitting fertilization in the absence of males, plays only a very minor role in the harmonization of the reproductive cycles of both sexes in the snakes.
3893568|Variation among vertebrates in the response to alarm chemicals released from injured conspecifics and heterospecifics may be caused by differences in phylogeny and/or ecology. To investigate the relative importance of phylogeny and ecology in the evolution of alarm responses, we tested five species of plethodontid salamanders (genus Eurycea) for whether they avoid chemicals from injured conspecifics and congeners of sympatric and allopatric populations. We also examined whether different methods of data collection and analysis produce equivalent results. All methods indicate that E. guttolineata, E. multiplicata multiplicata, and E. quadridigitata do not avoid chemicals from injured conspecifics or congeners. Some methods indicate that E. longicauda melanopleura avoids alarm chemicals from conspecifics and sympatric E. lucifuga and that E. wilderae avoids alarm chemicals from conspecifics and allopatric E. m. multiplicata. However, other methods indicate that these species do not avoid chemicals from injured conspecifics. We conclude that (1) only some species may avoid areas with alarm chemicals, (2) ecological factors may be more important than phylogenetic affinities in determining responses to alarm chemicals, and (3) differences in methodology can lead to disparate conclusions about the response of a species to alarm chemicals.
3891725| Florida populations of the pine barrens treefrog, Hyla andersonii Baird, are the first ones reported from the Gulf Coastal Plain,  750 km SW of the nearest known populations in South Carolina. The geographic distribution of the species appears to be fragmented into three disjunct enclaves (New Jersey, North and South Carolina, Florida) spanning 10 latitude and  1500 km in the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plain of the United States. Florida populations differ slightly from other populations in the quality of their color pattern, mating call, and in a discriminant analysis of 11 body measurements and 2 ratios. In Florida,   call from April to September; larvae were found from mid-June to early September. Laboratory reared larvae reached adult size in 1 year; 206 eggs from one  hatched in 72 hours at 25C. F
3892113|Two species of Galapagos land iguanas were compared with respect to population densities and energetics. The energetic expenditures of the populations were calculated from data on body masses of the iguanas, daily patterns of body temperature and activity, and population size. The estimated energetic expenditure per individual was higher for Conolophus pallidus from Isla Santa Fe because of their larger body size, but the high population density of Conolophus subcristatus on Isla Plaza Sur resulted in an energetic expenditure approximately six times greater than that of iguanas on Santa Fe when expressed per unit land area.
3893137| We describe a new species of Xenosaurus from the Sierra Madre del Sur in Oaxaca and compare it to all the other species in the genus. The new species differs from the others by having 2-6 white spots on the infralabial-labiomental region on either side of the head, as well as the following combination of character states: second chinshields usually in medial contact with each other, few lamellae under the fourth toe (19-22, x = 19.4), and a short tail (tail length/snout-vent length ratio 0.73-0.79). The new species was collected in the crevices of small boulders in oak forest at about 2000 m elevation and is most similar to X. rectocollaris from southeastern Puebla. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Xenosaurus de la Sierra Madre del Sur en Oaxaca y se compara con todas las dems especies en el gnero. La nueva especie difiere de las otras por tener 2-6 puntos blancos en la regin infralabial-labiomentonal en cada lado de la cabeza, as como la siguiente combinacin de caracteres: segundos escudos geniales usualmente en contacto medial uno con el otro, pocas escamas subdigitales en el cuarto dedo de la extremidad posterior (19-22, x = 19.4) y cola relativamente corta (proporcin longitud de la cola/longitud hocico-cloaca 0.73-0.79). La nueva especie se colect en grietas de rocas en bosque de encino a aproximadamente 2000 m de elevacin, y es ms similar a X. rectocollaris del sureste de Puebla. 
3891066|Sceloporus jarrovi, at elevations of 5000-7000 ft in southeastern Arizona, undergo a seasonal reproductive cycle in which young are born in late June after a gestational period of about 6.5 months. Testes are at maximum sizes in early fall when mating takes place. Ovulation and fertilization occur in late November to early December. Embryonic development is suspended at the blastoderm stage for 4 months until the end of March. Placental formation and rapid embryonic development commence in April with young born about 10 weeks later. Delayed development ensures an adequate food supply for the young at parturition and eliminates embryonic development during winter when adult food intake is limited.
3893217|I examined the times required for ovulation, the subsequent formation of egg sacs, and epithelial secretion of ventral glands in gravid females of Hynobius nigrescens that were in a preovulatory condition just before entering a breeding pond. In water at 8 C, ovulation was induced 14-18 h after a single injection of 600 IU human chorionic gonadotropin. By 32 h, almost all ripe ova (i.e., a full clutch) passed through the oviducts and into the ovisacs. The formation of egg sacs was completed in the ovisacs 50 h after the injection, after which each egg sac shifted to the distal part of the ovisac, a structure unknown in other families. I termed this part "dilatable ovisac". The epithelial cells of ventral glands discharged secretions into lumina between 18 h and 32 h after the injection.
3892011|Growth of mud turtles, Kinosternon subrubrum, from throughout Florida was studied. Plastral growth is more rapid in juveniles and slows once maturity is reached, but is not as affected by the attainment of maturity as it is in emydid turtles. Females have longer plastrons while males have longer carapaces. Florida K. subrubrum show external sexual characters earlier and may mature faster and grow larger than those from more northern localities. This is probably due to longer annual growing seasons.
3891749|A qualitative and quantitative study was made of food-initiated behavior of the African clawed frog, Xenopus laevis. Population densities of 1, 2, 4, and 6 individuals per 38-1 aquarium were used. Thirteen selected behavioral components were identified and described. Sequential transitions of these specific behavioral components indicate that an ordered sequence exists for all population densities observed. It was found that (1) both sexes aggregate, (2) food does not elicit stimulation among individuals in groups to the extent that activity increases, and (3) the behavioral patterns of this species are not significantly altered in frequency or sequence by increasing population densities.
40931036|We describe a new species of the Hypsiboas pulchellus Group from the eastern Andes of central Peru (Region Pasco). Calls of both H. melanopleura and the new species are described. The new species is more similar to H. melanopleura and H. palaestes but differs in morphological characters and in coloration pattern. The new species and H. melanopleura are included in a molecular phylogenetic analysis of the H. pulchellus Group that shows them to be sister species and forming a second, independent, Andean clade within the group. New collecting sites for H. melanopleura are provided with the first record in the Region of Junin and the distribution of H. melanopleura, H. palaestes, and the new species is illustrated in a map. Se describe una nueva especie del grupo de Hypsiboas pulchellus del Departamento de Pasco, en los Andes orientales de Per. Las vocalizaciones de H. melanopleura y las de la nueva especie son descriptos y comparados. La nueva especie es similar a H. melanpleura y H. palaestes pero se diferencia por caracteres morfolgicos y patrn de coloracin de adultos. La nueva especie y H. melanopleura son incluidas en un anlisis filogentico de secuencias de ADN, cuyo resultado muestra que estas especies son taxones hermanos y que conforman un segundo ciado andino independiente dentro del grupo de H. pulchellus. Por primera vez se reportan localidades de H. melanopleura en el Departamento de Junn y se presenta un mapa con la distribucin de esta especie, H. palaestes, y la nueva especie.
3891948| The functions of winter basking by the viviparous Yarrow's spiny lizard, Sceloporus jarrovi, were investigated. This species remains winter active while gathered in large aggregations. The sexes emerge and bask with nearly equal daily frequency although adult   may bask for shorter periods. Females are gravid November through May and length of gestation is inversely correlated with cumulative maximum daily winter temperatures. Early parturition increases the probability of offspring reaching maturity at 6 months of age. First year animals grow substantially (15-20% snout-vent length) during the winter. Groups of gravid   under constant cold laboratory conditions have higher mortality than groups under fluctuating (control) temperature regimes. 
3893413|The equilibrium freezing point for body fluids of hatchling Blanding's turtles (Emydoidea blandingii) is near -0.7 C, but neonates that are held in a dry, ice-free environment can be (super)cooled to approximately -6 C before they begin to freeze spontaneously (i.e., by heterogeneous nucleation). Unfrozen turtles recover from exposure to -4 C, so the limit of supercooling (-6 C) probably approximates their limit of cold-tolerance. When hatchlings come into contact with ice in frozen soil, however, ice crystals penetrate the integument and cause body fluids to freeze at temperatures only slightly below the equilibrium freezing point. Freezing is fatal except at temperatures above -2.5 C. Temperatures in the soil are likely to go below -2.5 C during winter, so the risk of freezing and dying affords an explanation for why hatchling Blanding's turtles seldom overwinter in the natal nest.
3891579|Tiger salamanders, Ambystoma tigrinum, from Oklahoma and hellbenders, Cryptobranchus alleganiensis, from Missouri were examined for helminth parasites. A. tigrinum was found to harbor the nematode Falcaustra mascula; and C. alleganiensis was infected with the nematode F. variabilis, the cestode Ophiotaenia cryptobranchi and the acanthocephalan Acanthocephalus acutulus. All helminths recovered constitute new distributional records and A. acutulus is a new host record.
40602629|We conducted a 12-month survey of anuran assemblages in two permanent lotie ecosystems (Preto and Boieiras rivers) and their adjacent habitats within the Cerrado biome in southeastern Brazil. The main goals were to understand patterns of spatial distribution, niche breadth, and niche overlap for syntopic anuran species, studying a large portion of the river longitudinal gradient (from first-to fourth-order sections). On the basis of microhabitat use by frogs, we tested the hypotheses that (1) spatial niche breadth would decrease or spatial niche overlap would increase in richer assemblages if competition for space was an important factor structuring the studied communities, (2) local species spatial niche breadth would relate positively to available microhabitat diversity in the riparian vegetation understory, and (3) species that were more plastic in microhabitat use would be able to occupy a greater number of river sections. Patterns of spatial niche overlap were not related to total number of coexisting species, possibly indicating that the spatial niche is not oversaturated, which makes competition for space unlikely. Microhabitat diversity along the riverside vegetation understory did not influence species spatial niche breadth. Species were plastic in microhabitat use but still did not use them randomly. Broader spatial niches were not indicative of a species ability to occupy a greater number of sites along the river's longitudinal gradient. These results corroborate those previously found for unconnected streams, indicating that anuran distribution is more influenced by specific preferences and plasticity than by migration opportunities.
3893478| The genus Proctoporus sensu stricto is a poorly known gymnophthalmid lizard clade distributed across the Andes of southern Peru and Bolivia. Recent collecting efforts in central and southern Peru recovered specimens and tissues of all known members of the genus, enabling the first complete phylogeny of the genus to be constructed. In addition, a new species was found in Puno, Peru and is described herein. We analyzed DNA sequences of three mitochondrial genes using maximum parsimony and Bayesian MCMC methods to reconstruct a phylogeny of the group. The phylogeny suggests an ancient split between a newly discovered lineage from Puno and the remaining species that coincides geographically with its isolated range. Proctoporus pachyurus and P. sucullucu form sister species; P. bolivianus forms a clade with P. unsaacae + P. guentheri. The elevationally restricted ranges of all known Proctoporus species likely have contributed to the high species diversity found in southern Peru. Both allopatric and parapatric modes of speciation are proposed to explain the diversification of Proctoporus species. /// El gnero Proctoporus sensu stricto es un clado gymnophthlmido poco conocido que est distribuido en los Andes del Per y Bolivia. Colecciones recientes en el sur y centro del Per registraron especmenes y tejidos de todos los miembros del gnero y permiten la primera filogenia completa del gnero. Adems, encontramos una nueva especie en Puno, Per y la describimos aqu. Analizamos las secuencias de ADN de tres genes mitocondriales con anlisis de parsimonia mxima y Bayesian MCMC para construir una filogenia del grupo. La filogenia indica que una divisin antigua occuri entre el linaje de Puno y el resto de las especies. Esta divisin coincide geogrficamente con su mbito aislado. Proctoporus pachyurus y P. sucullucu son especies hermanas; P. bolivianus forma un clado con P. unsaacae y P. guentheri. Los rangos altitudinales restringidos de todas las especies conocidas de Proctoporus probablamente han contribuido a la alta diversidad de las especies de Proctoporus del sur del Per. Ambos modos de especiacin aloptrico y paraptrico son propuestos para explicar la diversificacin del gnero Proctoporus. 
24634321|Disturbance caused by habitat restoration or urbanization can threaten populations of sensitive wildlife species. We examined the effects of habitat disturbance on the ecology of an urban population of Texas Horned Lizards (Phrynosoma cornutum), a species of conservation concern in several states as a result of range-wide declines. We quantified changes in spatial distribution, survival rates, and population size and density over 9 yr (20032011) for a P. cornutum population on an urban reserve. The project was divided into three, 3-yr stages based on level of habitat disturbance. Spatial analyses did not support the hypothesis that disturbance associated with restoration activities affected the spatial ecology of P. cornutum on our study site. However, these results were not entirely conclusive due to the logistical constraints of working on a single site with an uncommon species. Survival (n = 147 lizards) was affected by season (inactive-season survival was higher), stage (declining survival in later stages with more disturbance), an interaction of season and stage, and disturbance (covariate of proportion of an individual's home range in disturbed areas for a given year; small negative effect). Major causes of mortality included depredation and anthropogenic activity. We estimated a population size of 33  5 (95% CI of 2849) individuals (excluding hatchlings) with a corresponding density of 2.68 lizards/ha in 2011, which represented a 38% decline since 2005. This decline was likely a consequence of two factors: the 2008 translocation of 17 adult lizards from an area adjacent to our study site impacted by housing development and a decrease in the annual survival rate of adults over time. Our case study addressed recent calls to examine specific mechanisms by which habitat loss and degradation affect herpetofauna and revealed classic responses of an isolated population to stochastic events and anthropogenic activities.
3892112|We studied the male reproductive cycle of the Indian soft-shell turtle, Trionyx gangeticus, during 1979-1981. Spermatogenesis occurred from June through November. Testes size, seminiferous tubule diameter, and spermiogenic activity were maximum in August and minimal in December. A second, lesser period of testicular growth occurred from late February to early April, but its relationship to the spermatogenic cycle is unclear. The epididymides correspondingly attained peak enlargement in August, regressing to minimal size by January.
3890673| Hyla rhodopepla Gnther, 1859, is a member of the Hyla microcephala group and ranges from Ecuador to Bolivia along the edge of the Amazon Basin. Mating call, tadpoles, and other aspects of the life history are typical of those of the Hyla microcephala group. Hyla aluminiata Andersson, 1906, Hyla rufopunctata Andersson, 1906, and Hyla albida Melin, 1941, are placed in the synonymy of Hyla rhodopepla. 
3890838|Diurnal fall courtship in Aneides aeneus was observed in their natural habitat. The presence of a distinct circling pattern as a major part of the courtship was noted. The male was active in keeping the female in the circling pattern with nudging and biting. A double-peaked spermatophore base was observed. Males possessed a well-developed mental hedonic glandcluster and an instance of aggressive behavior between males occurred.
3892511| Analysis of geographic variation in Coleonyx switaki suggests that it may not exhibit simple clinal variation throughout its distribution along the Peninsular Ranges of Baja California and southern California. Intrapopulational variation in San Diego and Imperial counties, California, the Tres Virgenes region of Baja California Sur, and Isla San Marcos is small. In the geographically intermediate populations of Baha de San Lus Gonzaga and Baha de los ngeles, Baja California Norte, intrapopulational variation is much greater. The distinctiveness of the Isla San Marcos population warrants its subspecific recognition. /// El gecko Coleonyx switaki se distribuye a lo largo del lado oriental de las Cordilleras Peninsulares en las estribaciones rocosas del desierto de Santa Rosala, Baja California Sur al San Diego, California. Su morfolgia sujeta variacin geogrphica clinal y non-clinal. La poblacin de Isla San Marcos, Baja California Sur se descrito como una subespecie distintiva. Ms ejemplos se necesitan para determinar si la variacin de sta especie est representativa de una poblacin continua o una serie de poblaciones fragmentadas. 
3892496| Sea turtle nests are constructed in sand at the bases of sand dunes, and the distance between nests and the surf may exceed 30 m. Hatchlings must emerge from nests and traverse this expanse of beach before entering the surf, and they are frequently attacked by predators during this activity. Hatchlings exhibit a novel terrestrial locomotor behavior, the hatchling frenzy, that is characterized by rapid movement from nest to surf. Caretta caretta hatchlings rely substantially on anaerobic metabolism during both nest emergence and the hatchling frenzy. Mean whole-body lactate concentration of hatchlings found at intermediate depths, digging out of nests (0.617 mg lactate/g body mass; x hatchling depth = 8.5 cm) was significantly greater than that of hatchlings at rest in egg chambers (0.042 mg/g; x egg chamber depth = 54.2 cm). However, mean lactate concentration of specimens buried in sand at the tops of nests (0.041 mg/g; x hatchling depth = 0.8 cm) closely approximated values for individuals at rest in egg chambers. The hatchling frenzy (x frenzy time = 3.9 min; x frenzy speed = 6.5 m/min) resulted in a 22-fold increase in lactate concentration (x = 0.919 mg/g) over that at rest. Anaerobic metabolism during swimming behavior following the hatchling frenzy appeared to be of minimal importance; mean lactate content after 10 min of swimming (0.453 mg/g) was significantly less than that after the hatchling frenzy. Caretta caretta hatchlings exhibited a capacity for anaerobic metabolism that is twofold and a burst speed that is threefold that of hatchlings of a freshwater species (Pseudemys scripta) that does not exhibit the hatchling frenzy. The hatchling frenzy behavior in C. caretta may have evolved to reduce their exposure time to predators while on the beach, and, if so, the anaerobic metabolic characteristics of hatchling C. caretta may represent a physiological adaptation for energetic support of this predator-escape behavior. 
3893321|In a precedent paper (de Fraipont et al., 1996), we analyzed the transitions between oviparity, egg-guarding, and viviparity using McClade. These analyses were criticized on both the phylogenies and the methods used. We redid the analyses using only clades where the three modes of reproduction were present, and using a new maximum likelihood-based statistical technique. Although only relevant to the clades studied, the results supported our previous view that egg-guarding and viviparity are seemingly independent evolutionary events, and that oviparity may evolve back from viviparity.
3891411| Population structures of the insular tropical whiptail lizard Cnemidophorus arubensis were examined in a variety of habitat types. In zones with high lizard density, population structure was approximately 15% mature  , 70% mature   and immature  , and 15% juveniles. Habitats with marginal resources contained a higher percentage of small and juvenile animals. Adult lizards in high density areas apparently seldom moved far. An isolated vegetated patch when cleared of whiptails was quickly repopulated primarily by young animals. It is hypothesized that intraspecific competition forces juveniles to leave optimal areas and disperse long distances. Some circumstantial evidence is presented to support this contention. 
3893513|We examined reproduction over 3 yr using radio telemetry and X-rays in a South Carolina population of spotted turtles (Clemmys guttata). Spring courtship (March-April) coincided with aggregations of turtles; however, a second peak in courtship in the fall (September-October) did not coincide with such aggregations. Over 75% of the radio-tagged females were gravid in each year of the study. The nesting season lasted approximately two months (mid-May through mid-July). Nesting was primarily nocturnal, and most nests (17/21, 81%) were made in the woody debris of decaying logs and stumps. Incubation time (mean = 79 d) decreased as nest temperature increased. Clutch size was not correlated to maternal body size, and we found no evidence for a tradeoff between clutch size and egg size. However, all measures of egg size and most measures of hatchling size were independent of maternal body size. We also compared reproduction among three widely separated populations of spotted turtles. Clutch size varied with latitude: clutch size was largest in the north (Ontario, mean = 5.3 eggs), mid-sized in the central population (Pennsylvania, mean = 3.9), and smallest in the south (South Carolina, mean = 2.8). Variation in reproductive output among populations was attributable to both variation in number of eggs and to egg size. Most of this variation in clutch size and egg size was explained by differences in body size of females among populations. Because the spotted turtle is considered to be a Species at Risk throughout its range, the data provided in the current study will be useful in conservation planning and for directing future research on the reproductive ecology of freshwater turtles.
25621912|The taxonomic status of Atractus occipitoalbus is revised on the basis of concordance between quantitative and qualitative analyses of morphological characters (meristic, morphometric, color pattern, and hemipenis). Atractus duboisi and A. orcesi are herein resurrected based on the number of ventral and subcaudal scales, number of postocular scales, head shape in lateral view, relative tail length, distinct color patterns, and hemipenial morphology. Additionally, a new species, closely related to A. occipitoalbus, is described from the Andean piedmont of Colombia. The new species, represented by a single female, is diagnosed from the A. occipitoalbus female populations on the basis of number of subcaudals, number postocular scales, and dorsal and ventral color patterns.
27669732|On the basis of new characters, I reevaluated species groups of Dipsas. A new species described from the Serrana de la Macarena, Colombia, resembles species of the D. articulata and D. pratti groups. I redescribe D. temporalis based on new material and identify apomorphic characters shared between D. temporalis, D. pakaraima, and D. vermiculata. Dipsas incerta is a species distinct from D. copei, although it may be a synonym of another species, most likely D. praeornata. Neotypes recently designated for D. incerta and D. alternans violate qualifying conditions of article 75 of the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature and are invalid. Characters of visceral morphology improve our understanding of dipsadine relationships. Within Dipsas, I recognize eight species groups and propose a new key to the South American species.
3892850|An analysis of protein variation at 26 electrophoretic loci in the blindsnake Typhlops richardi inhabiting the Puerto Rico Bank revealed the presence of three cryptic species. One, T. richardi, is restricted to the Virgin Islands; the other two occur on Puerto Rico (and satellite islands) and are sympatric. The large and widely distributed Puerto Rican species takes the available name T. platycephalus. The small Puerto Rican species, known from northern and southeastern coastal localities and some satellite islands, is described herein as T. hypomethes. Except for body size, morphological differences distinguishing all three species are slight. Typhlops richardi catapontus from Anegada is raised to species level and T. r. naugus from Virgin Gorda is placed in its synonymy. Thus, the Puerto Rico Bank and adjacent Mona Island are inhabited by seven species of Typhlops: T. catapontus, T. granti, T. hypomethes, T. monensis, T. platycephalus, T. richardi, and T. rostellatus.
3890959|Phyllomedusa buckleyi Boulenger, 1882, is the earliest available name for a small generalized species of hylid frog inhabiting the Amazonian slopes of the Andes in Ecuador. Phyllomedusa loris Boulenger, 1912, and Hyla porifera Andersson, 1945, are junior synonyms. Two other closely related species (P. lemur and P. medina), together with P. buckleyi, comprise the Phyllomedusa buckleyi group. The species are distinguished from one another by the presence or absence of a calcar and prevomerine teeth and by the color of the iris in life.
3892970| A new species of lizard, Anadia hobarti, is described from the Pramo El Riecito, Estado Trujillo, in the Venezuelan Andes. The species belongs to the Anadia bitaeniata Group, an assemblage of high montane teiid lizards from the northern Andes. It is distinguished from other members of the group by the presence of interfemoral pores (located on ventral scales), its higher femoral pore count, the smaller number of scales between pore rows, the number of scales between adpressed limbs, and the presence of pale spots on its flanks. 
3893525|Although broad habitat preferences are known for many species of conservation concern, identification of key microhabitat elements critical to persistence and reproduction is a crucial and generally understudied aspect in conservation. In this study, we examined diurnal microsite selection in the five-lined skink (Eumeces fasciatus) to identify important microhabitat elements in its most northerly populations. Seven populations distributed across the southern edge of the Canadian Shield were sampled. To determine which microhabitat elements are important in diurnal microsite selection, ten microhabitat features were compared in occupied and unoccupied quadrats. A Classification and Regression Tree analysis showed that the best predictor of E. fasciatus presence in a meter-by-meter quadrat was proportion of cover rock. This finding will help in modeling or identifying potential historical, current or future habitat in these most northern E. fasciatus populations, and aid population managers in monitoring the habitat suitability of extant five-lined skink populations.
4497966| The dynamics of reptile populations in urban landscapes are poorly understood. We studied demography of an urban population of the Texas horned lizard (Phrynosoma cornutum), a species that apparently declines in abundance following urban development but may persist in localized areas. We located and captured lizards within an urban reserve at Tinker Air Force Base, Oklahoma, from June 2003 to October 2005. Lizards were monitored using radiotelemetry, and data were collected on morphometrics, survival, and reproduction. These data were applied to a life-table analysis that estimated the hatchling survival rate necessary to maintain a stable population. Females were larger than males in adult and juvenile cohorts. Mark-recapture sessions resulted in estimates ( 1 SE) of 53  11 individuals in the population and a density of 5.00  1.04 lizards/ha. Annual rates of survival were estimated to be 0.59-0.70 for adult lizards and 0.45 for juvenile lizards. Mean (1 SE) clutch size was 17.4  0.8 eggs, incubation periods ranged from 49 to 68 days, and 60% of nests survived to hatching. Assuming a single clutch per year, fecundity of adult females was 5.22 female hatchlings/female/year. From application of Euler's equation, the hatchling survival rate needed for population stability ranged from 0.19 to 0.25. Relative to other, more southerly populations of P. cornutum, our study population had higher survival but lower reproductive rates. Reduced reproduction was likely due to latitudinal trends associated with body size, but we could not separate confounded influences of urban environment and latitude on survival. Relative to other phrynosomatine lizards, Texas horned lizards in our study population were characterized by high survival, moderate reproductive output, and delayed maturation. 
3892485|The systematics of the genus Pipa is reviewed. Seven species are diagnosed and neotypes are designated for two of the species. Following a description and illustration of the diagnostic aspects of the morphology, a hypothesis of phylogenetic relationships of the species is presented. Two groups (clades) are present within the genus; one (weakly supported) contains the species myersi and parva; a second group is composed of carvalhoi, arrabali, pipa, and snethlageae (arranged here in phylogenetic sequence). Recognition of the genus Hemipipa for the species carvalhoi is not supported by the analysis.
3893012| Eleutherodactylus cacao sp. nov. is named from cloud forests on the western slopes of the Cordillera Occidental in southwestern Colombia. It has prominent cranial crests but appears allied to Eleutherodactylus sulculus, E. thymalopsoides, and E. vertebralis. It is peculiar in lacking a tympanum. /// Se nomina Eleutherodactylus cacao esp. nov. de los bosques noblados de la vertiente occidental de la Cordillera Occidental del sur de Colombia. La especie tiene crestas craniales marcadas pero esta emparentada con E. sulculus, E. thymalopsoides, y E. vertebralis. Se diferencia en que no posee tmpano. 
3891852|Analysis of 17 mensural characters in an ontogenetic series of 35 skulls of Nerodia rhombifera from southern Louisiana revealed a proportional increase in the dimensions of 11 characters, a proportional decrease in 2, and no significant change in the proportions of 4. The most marked increases are associated with the jaws and jaw suspension apparatus, and they provide the increase in the size of the gape needed for the ingestion of proportionately larger prey. To minimize the possible effects of ontogeny, taxonomists making interspecific comparisons are urged to use specimens from comparable size-classes.
25209129|We describe a new species of glassfrog assigned to the genus Cochranella (Amphibia: Anura: Athesphatanura: Centrolenidae) from the Foothill Evergreen forests on the southeastern Andean slopes of Ecuador and northeastern Andean slopes of Peru. The new species is characterized by its moderate-sized body (25.4-26.9 mm in adult males), medium-sized eyes (eye diameter/third disc width = 1.4-1.9), distinctive coloration in life (olive green with light spots) and in preservative (grayish lavender with pale spots), dorsal skin covered with flat warts and low tubercles, parietal peritoneum mostly white (covered by iridophores), thick ulnar folds, and extensive hand and foot webbing. In addition, we provide the first record of Nymphargus posadae from Peru, found in sympatry with the new species at the Cordillera del Cndor. /// Describimos una nueva especie de rana de cristal asignada al gnero Cochranella (Amphibia: Anura: Athesphatanura: Centrolenidae) de los bosques Siempreverdes Piemontanos de la vertiente Andina suroriental de Ecuador y nororiental de Peru. La nueva especie se caracteriza por su tamao corporal moderado, ojo de tamao medio, coloracin distintiva en vida (verde oliva con puntos amarillos) y en preservado (griscea lavanda con puntos plidos), piel dorsal cubierta con verrugas y tubrculos, peritoneo parietal completamente o casi completamente blanco, pliegue ulnar grueso y extensa palmeadura en las patas anteriores y posteriores. Adicionalmente, proporcionamos el primer registro de Nymphargus posadae para Per, encontrada en simpatra con la nueva especie en la Cordillera del Cndor.
3892732| Six putative hybrid all-female Cnemidophorus laredoensis B [= LAR-B(2N)]  C. gularis gularis, initially identified on the basis of color pattern and scutellation, were collected at five sites in the Rio Grande Valley of Texas and Mexico. Three females have erythrocyte nuclear sizes nearly one-third larger than their diploid parental forms C. gularis gularis and C. sexlineatus viridis, thereby confirming that they are triploid hybrids. Two females have erythrocyte nuclear sizes similar to both gonochoristic species; they are reassigned to C. gularis. Histocompatibility experiments verified the hybrid hypothesis for a live female; this hybrid accepted xenografts from three LAR-B(2N), whereas each LAR-B(2N) rejected xenografts from the hybrid. The other live suspected hybrid and a LAR-B(2N) reciprocally rejected xenografts; histocompatibility and morphological data supported reassignment of this individual to C. gularis. The hybrid identified in the skin grafting experiments has the predicted triploid hybrid complement (3N = 69-71), whereas the individual reassigned to C. gularis as a result of the skin grafting experiments has the expected diploid complement (2N = 46). Hybridization between LAR-B(2N) and C. gularis could possibly lead to a parthenogenetic female capable of founding a triploid clonal lineage. Hybrids involving LAR-A(2N) have been collected more frequently than those involving LAR-B(2N) by a margin of 9:1. 
3892637|Eleutherodactylus hamiotae sp. nov. is described from the cloud forests of Pichincha Province, Ecuador. It is the only species of the E. surdus assembly with an anteroventrally sloping snout and three longitudinal folds on the dorsum. Together with E. alberchi Flores, it is included in the E. surdus assembly, now comprising seven species. The relationships within this assembly and to other assemblies is discussed.
3892079|A key is presented for the identification of free-living aquatic salamander larvae and larviform adults of the United States and Canada that are old enough to have the hind legs and toes fully differentiated.
3891220|Water contents, desiccation rates and desiccation tolerances were obtained for 8 species of hylid frogs (Acris gryllus, A. crepitans, Pseudacris triseriata, Hyla cinerea, H. crucifer, H. squirella, H. versicolor, H. gratiosa). Interspecific differences in water content were noted, but did not correlate with the degree of terrestrialism. Although desiccation rates were significantly different for some species, no apparent relationship exists between the rate of water loss and the degree of terrestrialism. Log rate on log weight regressions for all species indicate that the rate of water loss is primarily a function of surface area or configuration to volume ratios. Critical Activity Point (CAP) values of H. gratiosa and H. versicolor are significantly higher than those of the other species, suggesting physiological adaptations to a terrestrial mode of life. The lower dessication tolerance of A. crepitans and A. gryllus correlates with their apparently aquatic habitat. Pseudacris triseriata, H. cinerea, H. crucifer, and H. squirella had similar desiccation tolerances, probably reflecting similar microhabitat moisture preference. CAP values are not influenced by the rate of desiccation and may be genetically controlled.
3890662|Study of a population of Wehrle's salamander in north-central Pennsylvania and the examination of preserved specimens from New York State and West Virginia have indicated some patterns of the species' life history. Mature deciduous forest is favorable habitat in northern Pennsylvania. Males appear to mature in four years, but females may not breed until their fifth year. Pennsylvania specimens attain larger adult sizes and this results in the females producing significantly larger egg complements than New York females. Reproduction is biennial or irregular with many mature females failing to breed each year. The observed sex ratio varies from 1:1 with males being significantly more abundant in most samples, particularly those from Pennsylvania and West Virginia. The timing of reproductive events seems to vary greatly between northern populations and the West Virginia population; mating and egg laying occur about four months later in West Virginia. Direct evidence of the time of egg laying is not available, but all indications are of mid-winter or early spring deposition in Pennsylvania. Population estimates indicate high density and biomass (1000 salamanders weighing 1.5-3.0 kg/ha) in a favorable area. Adult to juvenile ratios indicate good survivorship, but are biased to an unknown extent. Although few in number, records of movements indicate low vagility. One verified and one possible predator are known, but their quantitative effect on the population is unknown. P. wehrlei is the most abundant species of salamander in its habitat and probably has an important role in community function. This species resembles previously studied species of its genus in most important aspects of its life history.
3893389| We describe a new species of Bolivian Telmatobius from the Cordillera Oriental of the Andes. The new species occurs in cloud forests of the Department of Santa Cruz and adjacent Cochabamba and is similar to T. simonsi Parker. Telmatobius simonsi is herein redescribed, and data on osteology, variation, and distribution are provided for both species./// Se describe una nueva especie de Telmatobius endmica de los bosques nublados del Departamento de Santa Cruz y parte de Cochabamba, en la Cordillera Oriental de los Andes de Bolivia. La nueva especie es similar a T. simonsi, la cual se redescribe. De ambas especies se proporcionan datos sobre osteologa, variacin y distribucin. 
3893193|We evaluated age structure in three species of desmognathine salamanders at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory, North Carolina, for comparison with the results of an earlier study of age structure in these species at a nearby locality (Wolf Creek, North Carolina). At Coweeta, both Desmognathus quadramaculatus and D. monticola attain larger adult body sizes and greater ages than their Wolf Creek counterparts. The differences appear to stem in part from greater ages at sexual maturation in both species at Coweeta versus Wolf Creek. This disparity is most pronounced in D. quadramaculatus, where the estimated ages at first reproduction are 7-8 yr in males and 9-10 yr in females. The Coweeta populations of D. quadramaculatus and D. monticola may also have higher survivorship and higher rates of post-maturational growth than those at Wolf Creek. In contrast, in the third and smallest species, D. ocoee, the Coweeta population did not differ in size and age attributes from that at Wolf Creek. We hypothesize that the more mesic climate of Coweeta versus Wolf Creek is a safer environment for the two larger, aquatic to semi-aquatic desmognathines, eliciting selection for later maturation and thus larger body sizes. In contrast, selection on the life history of the smaller and more terrestrial D. ocoee at both localities may derive mainly from factors other than the climatic differential.
3891669|Leopard frogs are attracted to odors of 2 insects (crickets, mealworms) which they are commonly fed in the laboratory. Such odors also elicit feeding responses (extension of the tongue as usually used in prey capture) in the absence of visual cues. Both intact and blinded frogs responded to odor cues, but sightless frogs responded more readily than did normal animals.
3892568|Nine Heloderma suspectum were observed between 1 April and 13 July 1979. In April and May, movements of Heloderma were associated with areas where eggs of ground nesting birds were most abundant. During June and July, Heloderma responded to decreasing egg availability by shifting their diets to small mammals and moving onto areas where these prey were most abundant. These shifts are adaptive as Heloderma continually exploit the most abundant prey. Lizards demonstrated a foraging strategy of rarely backtracking and consuming only an average of 46% of the eggs available at each nest. The number of eggs eaten per day by each lizard was positively correlated with lizard weight. Combinations of lizard satiation, reproduction, predator avoidance and thermoregulation are suggested as major factors contributing to observed foraging and movement behavior.
3893440| We investigated allozyme variation from Costa Rican populations of the fer-de-lance, Bothrops asper. Blood samples were taken from a total of 100 specimens from six localities representing three major physiographic regions: Atlantic versant, Central Pacific lowlands, and Southwestern Pacific lowlands. Five of 16 protein coding loci (phosphogluconate mutase, isocitrate dehydrogenase, glucose 6-phosphate isomerase, malate dehydrogenase, and carbonic anhydrase-1) were polymorphic. Average heterozygosity for these loci varied between 2.9% and 5.5%. Genetic distances among samples from localities from the same physiographic region were not significantly different from zero. Pairwise comparisons between regions also resulted in low estimated distances. Analysis of population structure suggests high levels of gene flow among populations. Rates of evolution of venom and morphology previously reported for populations of this species seem to be uncoupled from rates of allozyme variation. /// En Costa Rica, gran diversidad en caracteres morfolgicos, toxicolgicos y de historia natural han sido previamente reportados entre poblaciones de la serpiente Bothrops asper. Con el fin de investigar la relacin gentica de esas diferencias, se evalu la variacin isozmica entre poblaciones de Bothrops asper en ese pas. Se tomaron muestras de sangre de un total de 100 individuos provenientes de seis localidades representando a tres regiones fisiogrficas: Vertiente Caribe, Pacfico Central y Pacfico Sur. De los 16 loci estudiados, cinco (Pgm-A, Icdh-A, Gpi-A, sMdh-A) resultaron polimrficos. El porcentaje de heterozigosis promedio por poblacin vari entre 2.9 y 5.5%. Las distancias genticas estimadas entre poblaciones fueron muy bajas. El anlisis de la estructura gnica indica que poblaciones de Bothrops asper en Costa Rica poseen alto flujo gnico y gran homogeneidad gentica entre ellas. Nuestros anlisis sugieren evolucin independiente entre los caracteres genticos y fenotpicos observados en estas poblaciones. Se sugiere que la gran diversidad en veneno y morfologia en esta especie pueda estar asociada con diferencias de seleccin a nivel local. 
24634322|The costs of nesting to female animals can be substantial, and may dictate patterns of nest-site choice. In particular, females that travel longer distances to nest likely incur greater energetic costs and may be at greater risk of losing territories to conspecific competitors. We examined patterns of nesting migrations for a population of Tuatara on Stephens Island, New Zealand, over 5 yr. We found that only about 7% of female Tuatara observed nesting in a rookery also lived in that rookery. Of 140 females for which we had both residence and nesting locations, 42% traveled to a nesting rookery from their residential area. The average distance traveled by these females was 84 m, and travel was directed toward the rookery closest to a female's residence area. Our results demonstrate that female Tuatara on Stephens Island minimize the distance traveled on nesting migrations. We suggest that the patterns in nesting travel we observed in this population may be due to natal philopatry of nesting females, or to females minimizing the costs of nesting-related travel.
3891432|The rate of water uptake by the terrestrial toad, Bufo fowleri, was greater than that of the aquatic frog, Rana clamitans, when both species were initially hydrated, but not when both were initially dehydrated. The eventual mean equilibrium weights attained by Bufo fowleri were inversely related to temperature but appeared to be independent of the initial hydration state. These values suggest that the voluntary bladder water reserves may average only 20 to 40% of total bladder capacity. Urine production was directly dependent on temperature. The urination behavior of both species was highly variable and influenced by activity as well as by temperature and hydration state.
3891209| A hydraulic framework of lymph canals supports the anterior and lateral parts of the sucker. During suctorial crawling, the rectus abdominis tendons allow interactions between movements of the lower jaw and trunk-tail complex. By facilitating an increase in buccal volume and thus increasing suction, the cristae hyoidea ligaments help to resist sucker disengagement when ambient forces of abduction operate. The muscle fibers of the H3a muscle are segregated into a pinkish posterior band and a whitish anterior band. The pink fibers are more densely vascularized and have denser mitochondria than the white fibers. Electron microscopy showed differences between pink and white fibers similar to those described for Rana catesbeiana. During rhythmic gill irrigation, the pink fibers yield electrical discharges, but the white fibers do not. In tadpoles hibernating below 8  1 C, suctorial crawling seldom occurs and sustained large negative buccal pressures are associated with cessation of narial inflow. Therefore ambient water is not pumped continuously over the gills. Instead, irregular pumping causes internal circulation of respiratory water, which is periodically renewed by narial inflow when the buccal cavity becomes less negative. Apart from the internal nares, the structure of the narial tubes suggests capability for valvular action. 
3893457|A critical variable in both ecological and conservation field studies is determining how many individuals of a species are present within a defined sampling area. Labor intensive techniques such as capture-mark-recapture and removal sampling may provide estimates of abundance, but there are many logistical constraints to their widespread application. Many studies on terrestrial and aquatic salamanders use counts as an index of abundance, assuming that detection remains constant while sampling. If this constancy is violated, determination of detection probabilities is critical to the accurate estimation of abundance. Recently, a model was developed that provides a statistical approach that allows abundance and detection to be estimated simultaneously from spatially and temporally replicated counts. We adapted this model to estimate these parameters for salamanders sampled over a six year period in area-constrained plots in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Estimates of salamander abundance varied among years, but annual changes in abundance did not vary uniformly among species. Except for one species, abundance estimates were not correlated with site covariates (elevation, soil and water pH, conductivity, air and water temperature). The uncertainty in the estimates was so large as to make correlations ineffectual in predicting which covariates might influence abundance. Detection probabilities also varied among species and sometimes among years for the six species examined. We found such a high degree of variation in our counts and in estimates of detection among species, sites, and years as to cast doubt upon the appropriateness of using count data to monitor population trends using a small number of area-constrained survey plots. Still, the model provided reasonable estimates of abundance that could make it useful in estimating population size from count surveys.
3892316|The movements of nine post-nesting female Kemp's ridley turtles (Lepidochelys kempi) were monitored using radiotelemetry during April-June 1980, in waters off the nesting beach, in the vicinity of Rancho Nuevo, Tamaulipas, Mexico. Turtles were monitored for periods of 2 h to 26 days. Most of the nine turtles, on returning to the sea, made relatively slow and seemingly random movements for 1-2 days, after which they exhibited rapid, directed longshore movement, travelling at least 10 km north or south of the nesting beach with indications that some may be travelling much farther (one turtle was detected 100 km south of the nesting beach). Tracked turtles left the beach area and returned to it in relatively close concordance to arribada times. Radiotagged animals that had nested on the same day tended to show similar subsequent movements. Certain observations indicated that turtles may be utilizing specific offshore areas.
3893067| I analyzed geographic protein variation in 24 genetic loci of five previously unstudied species of the Plethodon cinereus group (P. hoffmani, P. hubrichti, P. nettingi, P. richmondi, and P. shenandoah) using the technique of electrophoresis, utilizing the same methods as reported previously for P. cinereus and P. serratus. Plethodon hoffmani consists of two parapatric sibling species. One is described as a new species, Plethodon virginia, which occurs in the Valley and Ridge physiographic province of Virginia and West Virginia between the South Branch of the Potomac and the Cacapon rivers. Plethodon richmondi also consists of two parapatric cryptic species. The northern form is described as a new species, Plethodon electromorphus, which ranges from southwestern Pennsylvania, Ohio, and southeastern Indiana south to northwestern West Virginia, east of the New and Kanawha rivers, and northern Kentucky. The nine species of the P. cinereus group appear to have been derived from a common ancestor at about the same time, in the Pliocene Epoch. The phylogenetic relationships of the species within the group are uncertain. All of the populations within each currently recognized species cluster as a monophyletic group on both UPGMA and neighbor-joining trees. The average Nei genetic distance between all pairs of species of the P. cinereus group is >0.15. Natural hybridization between P. cinereus and P. electromorphus is reported. An unusual and unexplained absence of heterozygotes involving one Esterase- allele occurs in four samples of P. hoffmani from Pennsylvania, but not in other populations that possess the same alleles. 
3891801|Callagur borneoensis is an unusual chelonian from southeastern Asia that exhibits pronounced sexual and seasonal dichromatism. Juveniles and females are chiefly drab-brown in color, but adult males seasonally transform between dark and light color phases. Dark-phase males have a brown to gray-brown carapace and a charcoal gray to black-colored head with a dull, orange stripe extending midsagittally from the snout to the occiput. Light-phase males have a light-gray to cream-colored carapace and a pure white head with a scarlet stripe. The change from dark-phase to light-phase in males is a complex process involving proliferation of the epidermis of the head, a concomitant loss of epidermal melanosomes, increased vascularization to the stripe region, and ecdysis of the carapacial scutes. The light phase appears to be associated with breeding and can be partially induced with injections of testosterone. This bright color phase may facilitate species recognition by female Callagur in areas of sympatry with another superficially similar river turtle, Batagur baska.
3893569|Skeletochronology has been widely and successfully used to age temperate amphibians, enabling geographic comparisons of longevity and the age at maturity. To date, however, there have been very few similar studies conducted using skeletochronology in tropical or sub-tropical amphibians. In this study, we examined the applicability of skeletochronology for aging four sub-tropical anuran species (Litoria chloris, L. lesueuri, L. pearsoniana, and Mixophyes fleayi) that occur across a range of altitudes in southeast Queensland, Australia. We then used reliable estimates to examine altitudinal variation in longevity, age at maturity (AM), and potential reproductive lifespan (PRLS) for each species. Skeletochronology was successful in three of the four species. The age of L. lesueuri individuals from low altitude sites could not be reliably estimated due to extended activity seasons. On average, females were older than males in L. chloris, L. pearsoniana, and M. fleayi and were also older when breeding for the first time. There was, however, no significant difference in the PRLS between males and females within any of the three species. There were trends towards greater longevity and older AM in high altitude populations of all three species; however, there was no significant altitudinal variation in PRLS in any of the species. Our results suggest little intraspecific variation in the number of years that individuals of the four species are capable of breeding, regardless of gender, geographic location, longevity, and AM.
3891553|Tactile and chemical cues seem to be more important in courtship and breeding than visual and auditory cues. Thus, color patterns of male and female tortoises differ only slightly and do not vary seasonally, and unlike the situation in some congeners, head movements are not important signals. Vocalization occurs during courtship, but its role is unknown. Chemical cues are pronounced, especially in displays related to sex identification, and are largely based on scents associated with the cloaca. Tactile signals are extremely important, particularly when the shell is involved; biting does not occur. Males use their tail as a tactile organ both to locate the cloaca of the female and to guide penial insertion.
3891945| Pseudophryne bibroni, Pseudophryne dendyi and Pseudophryne semimarmorata   are territorial and call from terrestrial nest sites in situations which subsequently become flooded. Most   stagger their egg laying over a period of several nights and may move from one  to another. Males, in contrast, remain at their nests and resume calling after mating. When disturbed, they do not appear to defend the brood. Nests (n = 171) containing eggs of these species and their natural hybrids were observed; the patterns were very similar in each taxon. One or more adults were present at 80% of the nests; in 69%, a single  was present. During the day nests were more likely to be unattended than at night: this difference may be due to  behavior or collecting technique. Nests with embryos > 2 weeks old were more likely to be unattended than nests with younger embryos. Males remain at their nests for up to 40 days. They desert the brood before the site becomes flooded and the embryos hatch. This male/nest association is considered to be an adaptation to the female's egg-laying pattern rather than a case of parental care:   maximize their prospects for further reproductive activity. This explanation does not preclude the possibility that this behavior is secondarily advantageous to the brood: in maintaining the egg's H
3893422|We examined the sexually dimorphic head morphology of Schistometopum thomense, a West African species of caecilian. Morphometric data were correlated with experimentally determined burrowing speeds for each sex to determine the relationship between morphology and burrowing proficiency. Males had larger heads and slower burrowing speeds. Field-collected individuals of this species bear marks indicative of biting. We examined the frequency, location, and nature of bite marks on a series of field-collected, preserved specimens of S. thomense. Bite marks occurred on the head region more frequently than expected. We discuss hypotheses regarding the potential functions of biting.
3893076| The various isolated populations of Abronia previously allocated to A. aurita are reevaluated, along with several closely related species, including A. anzuetoi from Volcn de Agua in south-central Guatemala and A. campbelli from east-central Guatemala. We conclude that A. aurita, as previously recognized, is a composite of at least three species: A. aurita from the Verapaz highlands, A. vasconcelosii from the eastern portion of the Guatemalan Plateau, and a new species from the Miramundo area of the southeastern highlands. The new species is differentiated by morphological features and color pattern, and recently has been demonstrated to be distinctly divergent from other populations using molecular techniques. The status of the population from the southern Cuchumatanes Mountains remains unresolved, but probably is referable to A. vasconcelosii. The hypothesized phylogeny of these species suggests that, in the southern Guatemalan highlands, successive fragmentation of the once more widely distributed ancestral population inhabiting noncloudforest habitats occurred from east to west. /// Varias poblaciones aisladas de Abronia, previamente identificadas como A. aurita, fueron re-evaluadas. El anlisis incluy adems algunas especies relacionadas, tal como A. anzuetoi que habita el Volcn de Agua en el sur-centro de Guatemala y A. campbelli del este-central de este mismo pas. Se concluye que A. aurita, como previamente fue reconocida, esta compuesta de al menos tres especies: A. aurita con distribucin en las tierras altas de los Verapaces, A. vasconcelosii, distribuda en la porcin este de la Meseta de Guatemala, y una nueva especie de la regin de Miramundo, en las elevaciones del sudeste guatemalteco. La nueva especie es diferenciable mediante caracters morfolgicos y patrn de coloracin; adems, recientemente se ha demonstrado que es divergente de otras poblaciones basndose en caracteres moleculares. El estado taxonmico de la poblacin en la parte sur de la Sierra de Los Cuchumatanes permanece an sin resolver, aunque probablemente se refiera a A. vasconcelosii. La hiptesis filogentica de esta especies sugiere que en el sur de las tierras altas de Guatemala, ocurrieron sucesivas fragmentaciones, en direccin este-oeste, de una poblacin ancestral ampliamente distribuda que habit ambientes de bosques no nubosos. 
3892659|The thermal biologies of many diurnal lizards are known to be evolutionarily conservative at the subspecific level. I investigated whether nocturnal geckos are also conservative by comparing body temperatures selected in a thermal gradient and thermal tolerances among six populations of the gecko Tarentola boettgeri from the island of Gran Canaria. The studied populations were from a thermally diverse range of habitats which was reflected by differences in (median) field body temperatures of up to 17.8 C. I found no significant variation in mean selected body temperature among the six populations, although it did vary over an 8-h repeated-measurement period. Median diurnal field body temperatures were up to 22 C lower than mean selected body temperatures in geckos from cooler high elevation sites but as little as 5 C lower in geckos from warmer coastal sites. Critical thermal maxima (CTMax), minima (CTMin), and the body temperature at the onset of the panting reflex (PT) varied among the six populations, and they also showed acclimatory responses to laboratory conditions. The generalized patterns of among-population differentiation showed significant rank-correlations with site-elevation, both after initial (8-13 days) and long (11-13 wk) periods of laboratory acclimation. CTMin, CTMax, and PT were initially lower in the populations from the cooler high-elevation areas. This pattern of differentiation disappeared for CTMax and PT after 11 wk of laboratory acclimation but remained evident for CTMin. Climate-induced population differentiation (genetic or acclimatory) of CTMin appears to be slightly greater in this species than that described in diurnal lizards.
3891064|Paedogenic Ambystoma tigrinum survived acute anoxia for about 3 hr. During this time there was no significant reduction in hepatic glycogen content; however, cardiac glycogen was reduced drastically, as determined quantitatively and microscopically. Blood sugar and lactic acid levels increased significantly during anoxia as did the relative number of circulating red blood cells. These data indicate that paedogenic larvae of A. tigrinum are capable of sustaining themselves anaerobically for 3 hr during periods of anoxic stress.
3890633|Movements of displaced leopard frogs deprived of either the sense of smell or hearing were monitored using a trailing device. Anosmic animals were able to orient and home even on nights with heavy fog and reduced visibility. Deaf animals also oriented homeward.
24634324|Hyloscirtus larinopygion is rediagnosed, and a new species formerly confused with that species is described from the highlands of the Central Cordillera in the Andes Mountains of Colombia. The new species differs from the other species of the H. larinopygion group by its color pattern, iris coloration, and presence of a nuptial pad with dark-brown epidermal projections. We discuss variation and diversity of nuptial pads, the calcar tubercle, and some aspects related to the swollen cloacal region in the H. larinopygion group. Finally, we discuss reproductive biology and problems involving the definition of a putative synapomorphy of Hyloscirtus.
3893223|Populations of the high-Andean frog Hyla labialis show prolonged breeding activity of fluctuating intensity over most of the year. For this reason, tadpoles and metamorphosing frogs can be found in a given pond during all months of the year. On 45 field days distributed over 32 months, we captured, marked, and released 1022 metamorphosing frogs at a single breeding pond, and we recorded their abundance and mean body size over time. The largest metamorphosing frogs emerged during and immediately after months with many hours of sunshine. We also recorded breeding activity and body size of adult frogs resulting from individually marked and recaptured metamorphosing frogs. The percentage of recaptured individuals, our estimate of juvenile survival, did not correlate with monthly averaged metamorphic size. Adult body size of 17 recaptured males was positively correlated with metamorphic size once the effect of postmetamorphic age was statistically removed. In order to test whether the intrapond variation in metamorphic size affects the adult phenotype, we reared 58 individuals in the laboratory under common garden conditions. We found that larger male metamorphosing frogs attained sexual maturity sooner but at similar body sizes than smaller metamorphs. Our results suggest that the maturation and adult phenotypes of males of H. labialis are at least partially determined by metamorphic size.
3893327|Growth rate is an important parameter of reptilian life histories. I used nonlinear regression to describe male and female growth trajectories for two populations of painted turtles (Chrysemys picta). Use of a three-parameter Richards model, with a flexible curve-shape parameter, did not improve model fit in comparison to one of its special cases, the von Bertalanffy model. Entering age data as a continuous variable rather than as a discrete annual variable greatly improved model fit and estimation of hatchling size. Analysis of seasonal growth for a single abundant juvenile cohort indicated a seasonally sigmoidal pattern of growth. Seasonal growth was modelled using a modification of the logistic equation after use of the Richards model did not produce convergence on parameter estimates. Such a pattern is consistent with hypotheses concerning seasonal patterns of energy allocation in freshwater turtles of the temperate zone. Subsequent incorporation of a seasonally sigmoidal oscillation in the von Bertalanffy and Richards models using a sine-wave term improved model fit significantly only in the population with the larger sample sizes.
3891399|Seventy-six snakes, 294 snake eggs, and 51 lizard eggs were found in about 150 square feet of a talus slope one mile S Corvallis, Benton Co., Oregon. Five reptile species were represented: Gerrhonotus multicarinatus, Diadophis punctatus, Contia tenuis, Coluber constrictor, Pituophis melanoleucus. The 345 eggs were probably deposited by more than 51 females. Thirteen hatchling Diadophis averaged 2.0 g, 154.8 mm S-V length, and 188.8 mm total length. Six hatchling Contia averaged 0.47 g, 81.0 mm S-V length, and 94.8 mm total length. Forty-eight hatchling Pituophis averaged 16.5 g, 278.7 S-V length, and 334.7 mm total length.
24634293|We estimated growth rates of Dwarf Caiman (Paleosuchus palpebrosus) with capturerecapture data from 40 individuals collected over 6 yr in streams surrounding the Brazilian Pantanal, near the southern limit of the species' distribution. Repeated recaptures of eight animals indicate that within-individual variation is much greater than between-individual variation, possibly reflecting climatic influences. Growth rates of juveniles increased linearly until individuals were about 28 cm snoutvent length (SVL), and then growth rates decreased gradually after attaining that size. The rate of decrease, however, differed between males and females. Data for 30 juveniles with known age were used to validate the growth curve based on the growth rate-on-size analysis. The length of the smallest female recorded nesting (SVL = 60 cm) allowed us to estimate the age at first reproduction to be about 8 yr for females. Our data do not support our initial hypothesis that P. palpebrosus would have slow growth rates and relatively old age at first reproduction, as has been suggested for Paleosuchus trigonatus.
3891928| Aspects of temperature relationships in nests of the northern diamondback terrapin, Malaclemys terrapin terrapin, were examined in New Jersey. Nest temperatures had a diel variation from 2-9 C with a daily low at 0600h and a high at 1500h. Nest tempertures lagged behind sand surface temperatures. Prolonged periods of rain depressed surface temperatures and lowered nest temperatures to the daily low. Two nests on north-facing slopes had a mean daily temperature for the 70 days of development of  1 C lower than two nests on south-facing slopes. Ten nests on south-facing slopes hatched in an average of 71 days vs. a mean of 79 days for 10 nests on north-facing slopes (P < .001). Metabolic heat was produced in nests. The mean difference in temperature between nests and the sand at the same depth was 2-12 C per day. Depth of nests influenced nest temperatures and developmental period of the eggs. Nest depth and developmental period for eggs were positively correlated. Eggs failed to develop in very shallow nests. Because monthly temperatures differ, nests initiated in June hatched in less time (74 days) than nests initiated in July (86 days). 
3893352|Deadly toxins and resistance to them are an evolutionary enigma. Selection for increased resistance does not occur if predators do not survive encounters with toxic prey. Similarly, deadly toxins are of no advantage to individual prey if it dies delivering the toxins. For individual selection to drive the coevolutionary arms race between resistant predators and lethal prey, the survivorship of individual predators must covary with their resistance. The extreme toxicity of the rough skinned newt Taricha granulosa appears to have coevolved with resistance in its predator, the common garter snake Thamnophis sirtalis, yet the mechanism by which individual selection can operate has been unclear in this and other lethal prey-predator systems. We show that individual snakes assess their own resistance relative to newt toxicity and reject prey too toxic to consume. Rejected newts all survived attacks and attempted ingestion by snakes that sometimes lasted over 50 min. Behavioral moderation of toxin exposure by snakes provides the association between individual resistance and fitness necessary for coevolution of lethal toxins and resistance to occur.
3892848|Two new triparental unisexual Ambystoma, A. laterale-texanum-jeffersonianum and A. laterale-jeffersonianum-tigrinum, from Ohio and Michigan are described and compared to their parental species for allozymes, morphology, chromosomes, and mitochondrial DNA. The new unisexuals are triploid, morphologically distinct, readily diagnosed allozymically, and have mtDNA identical to that found in A. laterale-texanum. Multivariate analysis of morphology is useful for diagnosing only those unisexuals having a genomic complement from A. texanum. Mitochondrial DNA provides evidence for a "semi-independent" segregation event in the ancestry of one of the unisexual biotypes.
3892954|The medical meanings of the terms "toxic" and "venomous" to describe health risks from snakebite make these same terms ineffectual when used in evolutionary studies of snake oral secretions. From the snake's standpoint, a venom is certainly toxic, but a toxin is not necessarily a venom. The term toxin describes only a property of the oral secretion, its laboratory pharmacology; the term venom describes its biological role, how it is actually used by the snake in its natural environment. Failure to distinguish an oral secretion's property from its actual adaptive role has led unnecessarily to confusion when interpreting snake behaviors, feeding strategies, and evolutionary events. This has been especially true in colubrid snakes where the Duvernoy's gland has often been considered to be little more than a poorman's venom system. In fact, the Duvernoy's system in most colubrids may not be a venom system at all, at least not primarily, and its role in the biology of these snakes may be related instead to problems of prey handling and/or digestion. Even in truly venomous snakes, what is called a venom is in fact a mixture of oral secretions with multiple functions. Therefore in functional and evolutionary studies of snake oral secretions, it is not sufficient nor useful to make conclusions about the biological roles of these secretions from their pharmacological and physiological properties alone (e.g. toxicity, color, viscosity). This can be done safely only by examining the survival consequence (if any) of the oral secretion when actually deployed by the snake in its natural environment.
3891969|Specimens of the Nerodia sipedon complex collected from critical areas in Mississippi and southeastern Louisiana are analyzed. Eye size, head pattern, and dorsal and ventral pattern give evidence for intergradation. We support the view that N. sipedon and N. fasciata are conspecific.
3892691| Between October 1984 and June 1989, a sample of 274 spectacled caiman (189 dead on road, 85 sacrificed) was examined to study diet in the central Venezuelan llanos. I divided prey items found in the stomach into 10 categories and conducted analyses based on prey frequency and mass. Overall, fish, mammals, snails (Pomacea), and freshwater crabs were the most important prey. The diet of the caimans shifted ontogenetically and seasonally. The diet of the caimans during the dry season was composed largely of fish. Snails and crabs were consumed principally during the wet season. Mammals were most frequently encountered in the stomachs of the caimans during the late dry and early wet seasons. Vertebrate prey became more important with increasing size of caimans, with larger caimans consuming more fish and mammals. The consumption of insects was negatively correlated with the size of caimans, but snails and crabs were important in the diet of caimans of all size-classes. Caimans consumed food at a low rate, containing a mean of 15.6 g of recently ingested material; 25% of all stomachs that I examined were empty. /// En los llanos centrales de Venezuela entre octubre 1984 y junio 1989 se examin una muestra de 274 babas (Caiman crocodilus) (189 atropelladas, 85 sacrificadas). Los anlisis fueron basadas en frecuencia y peso. En general, las presas ms importantes fueron peces, mamferos, caracoles Pomacea, y cangrejos de agua dulce. Se encontr que la dieta de las babas cambio entre estaciones, y con el tamao de la baba. La dieta de la baba durante la estacin de sequa consisti prncipalmente de peces. En cambio, durante la estacin de lluvia, el consumo de caracoles y cangrejos aument. Mamferos fueron encontrados en los estmagos de babas prncipalmente durante el final de la sequa y comienzo de la estacin de lluvia. Babas juveniles se alimentaron principalmente de peces, caracoles, insectos (la mayor parte Coleoptera) y cangrejos. A medida que las babas van creciendo los vertebrados se conviertieron en presas ms importantes. El consumo de insectos fue correlacionado negativamente con el tamao de babas, pero caracoles y cangrejos formaron un importante parte de la dieta de babas de todos las clases de tamao. Babas ingerieron pequeas cantidades de comida, con un promedio de 15.6 g de presas frescas, y 24.5% de los estomagos vacios. 
3893159|Larvae of several species of anurans have been shown to exhibit fright responses to chemical stimuli from injured conspecifics, but the presence of this chemical alarm system is not ubiquitous for the order. We tested three species of Neotropical tadpoles (Bufo marinus, Rana brownorum, and Smilisca cyanosticta) for an alarm response to extracts from injured conspecifics. Tadpoles of Bufo marinus decreased their activity in response to extracts from conspecifics but not to extracts from heterospecifics or to a blank control. Neither of the other species showed any differences in their responses to the three stimuli (conspecific extract versus heterospecific extract versus blank). To date, only a few species representing five families of anurans have been tested for responses to alarm pheromones. Tests of a greater diversity of species may provide important insights into the evolution of alarm pheromones for anurans.
3890766|Food habits and reproduction of Callisaurus draconoides were studied at Saratoga Springs, Death Valley National Monument, California. Prey consisted of active insects and other arthropods. Diptera were the major prey item. Seasonal and annual differences were noted in food items. Minimum reproductive size was 70 mm snout-vent length in males and 65 mm in females. The peak of the reproductive cycle was May to June for males and May to August for females. Reproduction apparently failed in the Saratoga Springs Callisaurus population in 1967. This failure was attributed to lowered food availability which was caused by a reduced vegetative production during the dry winter and spring of 1966-67.
3893358| Two new species of the genus Phyllodytes are described from the State of Alagoas, Northeastern Brazil. Phyllodytes edelmoi sp. nov. was obtained at Mata do Catol, Macei, and three additional localities. This new, medium sized species (snout-vent length [SVL] 23.5-28.8 mm) is characterized by a dark brown to black dorsum with many pearl white spots in post-metamorphic and young specimens; a conspicuous pearl white spot on the dorsum of the tadpole; in life, adults deep golden yellow, no distinct tubercle on the tip of the snout; and nares on slightly elevated prominences. Phyllodytes gyrinaethes sp. nov. was collected only at Fazenda Bananeiras, Murici; it is characterized by its medium size (SVL 23.9-27.9 mm); a marbled dorsal pattern on the body and limbs; a well developed nuptial pad at the base of the first finger; a hidden tympanum; a red cast on the concealed areas of thigh, tibia, inner border of foot, and inguinal region; and a morphologically specialized tadpole with expanded labia. Description of the tadpoles and notes on the habitats and habits of the new species are presented. /// Duas novas espcies do gnero Phyllodytes so descritas do Estado de Alagoas, nordeste do Brasil. Phyllodytes edelmoi sp. nov. foi obtida na Mata do Catol, Macei, e em outras trs localidades; essa nova espcie, de tamanho mdio (CRA 23,5-28,8 mm),  caracterizada pela colorao marrom escuro ou enegrecido, com muitos pontos branco-perolado, nos jovens e recm-metamorfoseados; uma evidente mancha branco-perolado no focinho do girino; adultos, em vida, de cor amarelo dourado; focinho sem tubrculo apical; narinas colocadas em pequenas elevaes. Phyllodytes gyrinaethes sp. nov., coletada na Fazenda Bananeiras, Murici,  caracterizada pelo seu tamanho mdio (CRA 23,9-27,9 mm) e pelo calo nupcial bem desenvolvido na base do primeiro dedo; tmpano oculto; padro dorsal do corpo e membros marmoreado; partes ocultas das coxas e tbias, borda interna do p e regio inginal avermelhado; girino morfologicamente especializado, com disco oral muito amplo e outros caracteres incomuns. Descries dos girinos e notas sobre os habitats e hbitos das novas espcies so apresentadas. 
3892198|Eight species of xenodontine colubrid snakes (n = 1874 specimens) from Hispaniola were examined for prey remains and yielded 557 prey items of which 63.1% were lizards of the iguanid genus Anolis. With the exception of Darlingtonia haetiana, an Eleutherodactylus frog specialist, all of the species in our sample preyed heavily upon anoles. In general, Hispaniolan colubrids were opportunistic predators, but the widespread exploitation of a single prey genus (Anolis) may be unique to the West Indies. Frequently exploited prey species were geographically widespread and generally found at high densities (Osteopilus dominicensis, Anolis coelestinus, A. cybotes, Ameiva chrysolaema). Active foraging snakes (Alsophis, Antillophis) were more euryphagic, while sit-and-wait strategists (Hypsirhynchus, Uromacer oxyrhynchus) were trophically specialized. All of the species in our sample tended to eat relatively small prey items, even though larger individuals of a given prey species were available. The historical (phylogenetic) component of trophic ecology of these snakes is discussed.
3892554|Female Pseudemys scripta (n = 65) with eggs were collected from three habitats where females mature at relatively large body sizes and four where females mature at relatively small body sizes. Clutch size, clutch wet mass, egg wet mass and egg width all exhibited significant positive relationships with body size of the female while egg length did not. When effects of body size were removed, no significant differences in adjusted means of clutch size, egg wet mass, or of the log
3893112|I studied the calling behavior and reproductive biology of Hyla rosenbergi on the margin of a swampy cattle pasture in Southeastern Costa Rica. Males had a complex vocal repertoire with at least five different call types. In contrast with previous studies at other sites, males in this population showed facultative nest building behavior, did not engage in violent fights with each other, and did not guard basins, which might be explained by the abundance of available basin sites. The typical pattern of chorus tenure in H. rosenbergi was for males to spend only a few nights calling over about a one-week period. Males occupied 1-10 different nests, and the mean duration of individual nest occupation was 1.5 days. Individual male mating success was highly skewed; only 34% of the males managed to obtain a mate. Mating success was positively correlated with length of residency, chorus tenure, and the number of basins occupied during residency.
25621905|We describe a new species of gekkonid lizard from Palawan Island, southwestern Philippines. The new species differs from all Philippine Cyrtodactylus and all other phenotypically similar Southeast Asian Cyrtodactylus by characteristics of external morphology, color pattern, and body size. The new species is common in low- to mid-elevation primary growth forest and disturbed lowland riparian gallery forests along the southeast coastal foothills of Mt. Mantalingajan, on southern Palawan Island. To complement the description of the new species and enable future taxonomic work, we redescribe Cyrtodactylus annulatus, revise its diagnosis, and delineate its geographic range. To clarify the taxonomic status of this species with respect to other Philippine taxa and because the holotype of C. annulatus was destroyed in WWII, we designate a neotype for this species.
3893085|I examined space use by Anolis distichus within its home range in a free-ranging population in Miami, Florida. Individual lizards were marked and measured. Perch height, social behavior, and foraging behavior of marked individuals were noted. As females are likely to be more food-limited than males, I recorded the mean perch height of females both before and after the addition of a concentrated food source to their home ranges. Within a home range, space use was influenced by food availability and nutritional state more than by sex or social behavior. Females were lower than their mean height on the tree after striking at a prey item, suggesting that they moved lower in order to capture prey. When females had fed to satiation from a concentrated food source, they moved higher up the tree than during previous observations and continued to have higher mean perch heights 24 h later. Mean heights of males and females on trees did not differ significantly. Few social interactions by females were observed, suggesting that social behavior may have little short-term impact on female movement patterns, at least during the non-breeding season. Perch height may represent a balance between a lizard's nutritional state, food availability, and predation risk.
3893555|The embryonic stage in the red-crowned toadlet (Pseudophryne australis) varies among individuals of a clutch in three important features that may be a source for selection: the length of the embryonic period (15-119 days), the stage of development at which hatching occurs (Gosner 24-36) and the size of the tadpole at hatching (21-97 mg). Previous evidence suggests that variation in the stage at hatching and the length of the embryonic period is not a facultative response to environmental cues. To ascertain whether the basis for this variation was differential maternal provisioning, we investigated the amount of variability in egg sizes, and then the relationship of egg size to the length of embryonic period, stage and mass at hatching. The mean coefficient of variation in egg sizes was 3.9% (range 2.5-8.5%), which is quite high when compared to other amphibians. Egg size was positively related to tadpole size at hatching, and this may have consequences for fitness. No relationship was found between egg size and stage at hatching. The relationship between egg size and length of embryonic period varied among clutches, with significant sibship effects evident. The basis for variation in stage at hatching and length of embryonic period remains unknown, but could relate to factors such as the nutritive value of yolk independent of egg size or possibly genetic factors.
3893288|The peer-review process is based on a series of evaluations by referees and decisions by editors. Our essay is intended for graduate students who are composing their first manuscripts for publication and who wish to experience superior evaluations and favorable editorial decisions. We briefly describe the review process and provide hints on how to catch the reader's attention. We then describe 15 fatal flaws often detected by referees and editors. Our goal is to provide the student with some insight into the invisible aspects of the review process and, thus, to enhance the likelihood that the manuscripts will be published.
23254559|The Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt and surrounding areas contain substantial biological diversity. The mountains that make up the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt are a hypothesized biogeographic barrier for the terrestrial fauna found in the region. Several phylogeographic studies have provided genetic evidence in support of this historical narrative; however, the species examined represent a small percentage of the diversity found in this part of Mexico. Thus, additional studies are needed to identify concordant phylogeographic patterns and infer the historic species composition of particular ecoregions. In this study we investigated genetic variation in the Lowland Burrowing Treefrog, Smilisca fodiens, a species that occurs on both sides of the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt. We used mitochondrial (12S and 16S ribosomal subunits; 1039 base pairs [bp]) and nuclear (tyrosinase precursor; 513 bp) DNA to perform phylogenetic analyses on frogs from several localities in Mexico. Mitochondrial DNA supported two well-defined clades that correspond to populations found north and south of the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt, respectively. These analyses of matrilineal lineages also found higher levels of genetic diversity south of the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt. Although our nuclear DNA analysis did not reveal a phylogeographic split at the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt, we observed higher genetic variation among our southern samples, similar to the mitochondrial analyses. Our results are consistent with studies in other sympatric taxa that propose the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt as a biogeographic barrier. Additionally, our results suggest recent northern range expansion of S. fodiens. We suggest retaining S. fodiens as a single species until future work can clarify the amount and direction of gene flow between the mitochondrial clades.
3890750|The bright blue tail in juveniles of Eumeces fasciatus and several other species of skinks has been thought to function as a decoy, diverting the attention of predators to this "expendable part" of the body. This theory is inadequate to account for the evolution of the blue coloration, because: it overlooks the probability that a cryptically colored tail would make discovery by predators less likely; it does not account for loss of the blue coloration at maturity; and it does not explain the evolution of markedly different colors on tails of juveniles and jaws of breeding males. We propose that the blue coloration serves an intraspecific function, inhibiting attack by aggressive adult males. Inferential and experimental evidence supports this idea.
25209118|A new species of Uraeotyphlus (Amphibia: Gymnophiona: Uraeotyphlidae) of the malabaricus group is described from a type series of 21 specimens from the Western Ghats of southernmost Tamil Nadu, peninsular India. Three additional specimens are referred to the species. The new species differs from other species of the malabaricus group in its combination of total number of annuli, length of the tail (as measured by number of post-anal annuli), and numbers of teeth. By virtue of its sample size and precise locality data, the new species represents the best-known member of the recently described but poorly-known malabaricus-group of Uraeotyphlus. The malabaricus group likely includes additional unrecognized species, but increased sample sizes and better locality data are required to assist the interpretation of available material.
3893581|Previously published studies concerning the social behavior of red-backed salamanders (Plethodon cinereus) reported that in the forest (1) some male-female pairs co-inhabit territories even during the summer noncourtship season, and that in laboratory experiments (2) these pairs act as if they are socially monogamous, (3) males aggressively punish female partners that become polyandrous, and (4) females aggressively punish male partners that become polygynous. Past studies suggest that males and females freely choose their pair-partners in the forest and that sexual intimidation functions to keep partners monogamous. However, this inference is based on several underlying assumptions, which we test in the present study. We performed a series of experiments using randomly established pairs to test the assumptions that 'natural' pairs are more than an effect of familiarity between individuals and that extended housing as 'pairs' in the laboratory does not account for pair-like behavior. We found no evidence that members of either sex punished the opposite sex when laboratory-created pairs were housed together for either five or 30 days. Therefore, we conclude that the 'pair-like' behavior of natural pairs represents more than familiarity and that extended housing together does not account for that behavior.
3892026|The feasibility for determining the diets of herbivorous reptiles was explored by a standard microscopic technique. Botanical composition of the annual diet of the chuckwalla lizard, Sauromalus obesus was determined in the western end of the Grand Canyon, Arizona. The quantities of common plants were: Sphaeralcea ambigua 66%, Franseria dumosa 9%, Acacia greggii 7%, Lotus strigosus 3%, and Coldenia hispidissima 2%. Ten other plants occurred in small amounts and about 4% of the diet was insect larvae.
3891917|The glides of the lizard, Ptychozoon lionatum, with lateral cutaneous expansions tied and untied were measured and timed. Analysis demonstrated that untied animals traveled farther and at lower speeds than animals with expansions tied. Glide distances for untied lizards were negatively correlated with weight/surface area and with weight/snout-vent length. It is suggested that the primary function of the lateral cutaneous expansions is to facilitate gliding.
3892498|Accumulation of heat units in a lake was used to predict the onset of the annual nesting period for a population of Chelydra serpentina in north-central Ontario. Date of the first nesting attempt varied by 15 days over 6 yr, but number of heat units accumulated prior to the first nesting attempt varied by only 7.5%. By computing heat unit values, we were able to predict the date of the first nesting attempt within one day in each of 4 yr. Therefore, this method should be valuable in determining the start of nesting in a study population and in assessing local climatic (temperature) effects on the timing of oviposition.
3890969|Anolis tropidolepis occurs in cloud forest with disjunct populations at high altitudes in the Cordillera Central and Cordillea de Talamanca in Costa Rica in a climate characterized by high winds, abundant rainfall, and persistent fog or mist, with air temperatures usually between 11.5 and 23.5 C. This anole does not attempt to raise its body temperature by basking and body temperature always approximates environmental temperatures. Activity is chiefly in the range 15-20 C in body temperatures, which are characteristically several degrees below those of other lizards (Anolis intermedius, Gerrhonotus monticolus, Sceloporus malachiticus) that are sympatric and live in the same places. In a study area at Hacienda el Prado on the divide between Volcan Poas and Volcan Barba, 419 A. tropidolepis were captured and individually marked in the course of field work extending from October 1967 to March 1970. A. tropidolepis is relatively slow moving but lives in a habitat providing abundant shelter, usually on tree trunks or stumps and logs supporting a dense growth of epiphytes. Lizards recaptured after short periods usually were within 10 ft of the original capture site, and some remained for long periods and were recaptured after more than a year. Others shifted for various distances up to 420 ft. Growth is most rapid in hatchlings which may gain an average of about 3 mm per month for the first 3 months. Older young usually gain 2 mm or more per month until they approachadult size, then growth slackens abruptly. About 15 months are required for attainment of average adult size, but young may begin to breed when they are about 8-9 months old. Reproduction is continuous throughout the year with no discernible seasonal change. Eggs are laid one at a time at intervals of about a month and normally each adult female has an egg in each oviduct (at different stages of development) or has an egg in one oviduct and an enlarged follicle in the ovary of the opposite side. Eggs require about two months to incubate. Life expectancy in A. tropidolepis is longer than in lowland anoles of Costa Rica or in most small lizards of tropical climates.
3892746|During the spring, adult sleepy lizards (Tiliqua rugosa) form monogamous pairs that remain closely associated for extensive periods over an interval of 6-8 wk. After natural separations of hours to days, pairs reform. This paper describes observations of natural pairs, and of natural and experimental separation in the field. Sleepy lizards appear to use three mechanisms to relocate their partners. They either follow trails, use airborne signals, or search familiar sites. It is usually the male that seeks to relocate the female, but in several cases, females were observed to relocate their male partners.
3891673| The six-lined racerunner, Cnemidophorus sexlineatus, maintains dominance hierarchies in captivity. Trios of   were observed to determine the relation of hierarchy rank to physiological state and behavior. Rank was closely related to body weight and aggressiveness. High ranking  , unlike low ranking  , readily tried to mate with  . Anatomical examination showed this behavioral difference to be related to testicular state. Feeding behavior and nutritive state were not related to rank. Stress, measured by adrenal volume, was inversely related to rank. Aggression by dominant   may account for adrenal hypertrophy among subordinates. This study is the first to report a relation between stress and adrenal state in reptiles. 
3892505|Effects of sex and body size on home range, dominance, and activity budgets of the Puerto Rican teiid Ameiva exsul, a widely foraging non-territorial lizard, were studied using census and focal animal techniques at a site in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico. Average home range area for males significantly exceeded that for females, but males were larger than females. With the effect of body size removed statistically, there was no intersexual difference in home range area even though males engaged in significantly more non-foraging walking than females. The dominance hierarchy was size-based and independent of sex. Proportion of time spent basking was the same for three size classes. Digging and feeding were significantly correlated in large lizards and independent in small lizards.
3893486| A new species salamander of the genus Bolitoglossa is described. It is a member of the alpha group, subgenus Eladinea that occurs in relict subandean forests in the buffer zone area of Tatam Natural National Park (PNN) on the Eastern slope of the Western Andes of Colombia in the Departamento of Risaralda. This species differs from other species of Bolitoglossa by having basal digital webs with digital depressions on tips of plantar and palmar regions. The basal digital webs are interpreted as adaptation for terrestriality in high mountain salamanders. 
3893284|Field research stations provide both challenges and opportunities for graduate students interested in reptiles and amphibians. To be successful professionally, a student must balance the excitement inherent in conducting herpetological research with a program that will gain the respect of a broad spectrum of the scientific community. Each field research station has characteristics that make it distinctive from all others, but most have had to consider two problems: intellectual isolation from a main campus and an academic image of not being scientifically rigorous, a consequence of being an enjoyable place to be. Three decades of experience with graduate students in herpetology at The University of Georgia's Savannah River Ecology Laboratory provide one example of how the challenges can be met and the opportunities optimized.
3892697|The lungs of the dragon lizards Ctenophorus nuchalis and Pogona vitticeps are unicameral. We have used the scanning electron microscope (SEM), X-ray, and computerized tomography (CT) scans to study the static and dynamic behavior of the lung during the respiratory cycle in both anaesthetized and unanaesthetized, awake lizards. One awake, quiet C. nuchalis at 37 C held 0.18 ml of air/g body mass in its lungs during nonventilatory periods. However, the right lung holds a smaller volume than the left. During ventilation the caudal third of the lung retains a relatively constant volume, while the anterior portion of the lung undergoes the major changes in volume. Over 70% of the faveoli are located in the anterior two-thirds of the lung. CT scans of P. vitticeps reveal that the dorsal faveoli represent a larger (thicker) band than the ventral faveoli. The ventral surface is also considerably compressed and distorted by other abdominal organs. Most of the pulmonary arteries are located on the dorsal and lateral external walls of the lung. We propose that air moves into the faveoli during inspiration, as the body wall moves outwards, pulling with it the external wall of the lung which is attached by strong connective tissue. If the trabecular network maintains a relatively constant shape, the faveoli will be pulled open and air will be sucked into them. As the lung deflates, the faveoli are compressed against the relatively rigid trabecular network and air is forced out. Hence, each faveolus acts as a bellows. Movement of air in the lung and the function of pulmonary surfactant are also discussed.
3891618|Eurycea pterophila Burger, Smith and Potter, 1950, is shown to be an invalid taxon whose diagnostic characters result either from infection or mechanical injury, or are contradicted by data presented here from topotypic specimens or other evidence. Eurycea pterophila is a junior synonym of Eurycea neotenes Bishop and Wright, 1937, a wide ranging and moderately diverse species. Eurycea pterophila does not warrant subspecific status within E. neotenes.
3892252|A new species of frog, Rana psaltes, is described from the Yaeyama group of the Ryukyu Islands. It has been confused with R. adenopleura, but the two differ in several morphological and ecological features; most conspicuous differences are in their acoustic characteristics. R. psaltes constructs a small mud nest and lays a few eggs in it. External morphology, breeding ecology and vocalization of R. psaltes and R. adenopleura are compared.
3893494|It is sometimes perceived that the cues affecting chorusing behavior in frogs are simple combinations of weather variables, and that closely related or sympatric species should respond to these cues in similar ways. We investigated these ideas by examining chorusing behavior in two species of tropical Australian microhylid frogs, Austrochaperina robusta and Cophixalus ornatus. Both species have small adult body sizes, are terrestrial breeding, direct-developers, and extensively co-occur in the Australian Wet Tropics. We used timed tape recorders to monitor calling activity over two breeding seasons (October to March) during 1995-96 and 2001-02. Calling activity was recorded at three times each night at seven locations along a 550 m transect. In the 2001-2002 seasons, dataloggers recorded temperature, humidity, and rainfall, and we calculated moon phase each night. Individuals of C. ornatus called more times per minute than individuals of A. robusta, and called at much more consistent levels across nights, in a seasonal pattern that closely followed a quadratic curve in both seasons. Calling activity by A. robusta males could occur at any level on any night of the breeding season, and varied greatly among nights. Principal components analyses for the 2001-02 data showed that 78.1% of variation in A. robusta calling activity could be due to factors common to the entire transect, while such factors could account for 62.8% of the variation in calling by C. ornatus. This result suggests that weather influences calling activity of A. robusta males more than of C. ornatus males. Canonical discriminant function analyses and partial rank correlations of the relationships between environmental variables and calling activity over the season indicated that initiation of calling in A. robusta males was strongly affected by rainfall, and continuation of calling by rainfall and humidity. Calling initiation in C. ornatus males was less correlated with weather variables, and appeared most strongly affected by humidity. Calling levels within species were correlated across the three recording times each night, but much less strongly than would be expected if caused by responses to weather. Calling activity also was correlated between species at each time of night, and a substantial proportion of this correlation did not appear to be caused by common responses to the weather variables we measured. We suggest that in both species weather conditions affect the probability of initiation of calling activity, and that initiation and continuation of calling are probably also affected by intraspecific and perhaps interspecific social facilitation.
3890769|Simulated field conditions were used to study habitat selection of the clouded salamander, Aneides ferreus. Adult, subadult and young display somewhat different preferences at different temperatures. Young selected bark litter; subadults selected bark litter at higher temperatures, but displayed no preference between rock and bark at a lower temperature. Adults exhibited no marked preference between bark litter and rock litter.
3892530| The large eggs of two genera of small egg-brooding hylid frogs, Flectonotus and Fritziana, develop on the dorsum or in "open" dorsal pouches. The eggs hatch at stage 39-41; the female releases the tadpoles into bromeliads or other water-filled arboreal cavities. The tadpoles are well-supplied with yolk, do not feed, and complete their development in 5-20 days. Morphometric, developmental, osteological, karyological and immunological evidence support the recognition of two genera; morphometric data and coloration are the basis for recognizing five species. Flectonotus is defined as having the nasals broadly separated by the sphenethmoid, one pair of embryonic gills, and weakly cornified beaks in the tadpoles; the genus contains two species-fitzgeraldi (Tobago, Trinidad, Pennsula de Paria in Venezuela) and pygmaeus (Cordillera de la Costa and Mrida Andes, Venezuela). Fritziana is defined as having large nasals nearly in contact anterior to the sphenethmoid, two pairs of embryonic gills, and keratinized beaks in the tadpoles; the genus contains three species-fissilis, goeldii and ohausi-that have overlapping ranges in the mountains of southeastern Brasil. These genera are sister groups that differentiated 57-60 million years ago in the early Cenozoic. The genera represent a lineage independent from the line of egg-brooding hylids that gave rise to Gastrotheca. 
3891989|In the first of a proposed series of papers on the alpha taxonomy of the largely Australian-Papuan scincid genus Carlia the Australian species C. melanopogon is discussed. The holotype is redescribed and figured, and morphological variation in the species is described. Mitchell's (1953) synonymy of melanopogon is reviewed, and information is provided on the distribution, ecology, and reproduction of the species.
3891940| Rainbow snakes, Farancia erytrogramma, were collected around a Carolina bay in South Carolina over a 2-year period through continual use of a terrestrial drift fence and pitfall traps. Data collected on more than 100 specimens from the field population were complemented with examination of >200 museum specimens. Relative tail length was a reliable indicator of sex in specimens of all sizes. All known-sex   (N = 27) had tail proportions <15% of the total length, whereas 53   had tail proportions >16%. Sexual dichromatism was confirmed for the species. The   had significantly more ventral and less subcaudal spotting than  . The most parsimonious explanation is that comparable amounts of melanin are allocated to a body region independently of sex but, because of the dimorphism in tail length,   have more melanin concentration in the subcaudal region, whereas,   have a higher concentration on the ventral surface. Hatchling F. erytrogramma begin their first growing season at total lengths of 20-30 cm. A year later they are 45-55 cm long. Males presumably reach sexual maturity by the end of their second, or beginning of their third, growing season at lengths approaching 70 cm. Females are mature at an age of no more than 3 years and a length of 90 cm. Females attain lengths of 1.3-1.6 m whereas   are seldom more than 1.0 m. The capture of hatchlings and 2-year-olds entering the aquatic area in 2 consecutive years provided information on seasonal activity of immature individuals. Hatchling F. erytrogramma presumably overwinter on land in the vicinity of the nest. In March and April they move overland to an aquatic area where they remain if conditions are suitable. If the aquatic habitat becomes undesirable, individuals may move to neighboring aquatic sites. This strategy would have selective value in the southeastern coastal plain where many aquatic habitats have unpredictable, fluctuating water levels from year to year. Initial activity in March and April was generally associated with higher temperatures but precise relationships cannot be defined at this time. Precipitation did not appear to influence activity during this period. 
3893332|The karyotype of Dibamus novaeguineae from the Philippine Islands is unique among all reptiles for which karyotypic data exist. The diploid number is 36, with 20 macrochromosomes and 16 microchromosomes. Although Amphisbaena alba appears karyotypically similar, this probably results from convergent evolution. Consequently, the karyotype of D. novaeguineae does not presently help resolve the mystery of its suprageneric relationships, but clarification of relationships, including those within the genus, may emerge as karyotypes become known for additional dibamids and other reptiles.
3892902|The ability to detect chemical stimuli arising from prey by tongue-flicking and the ability to distinguish these stimuli from odorless (distilled water) and pungent (cologne) control stimuli are highly developed in the anguid lizards Elgaria coerulea and E. multicarinata. These abilities were predicted because anguids are active foragers, have high tongue-flick rates, are autarchoglossans, and because prey odor detection (but not discrimination) is known in another anguid, Ophisaurus attenuatus. In both species, the tongue-flick attack score and number of tongue-flicks were significantly greater in response to cricket odors than to either of the control stimuli. TFAS and tongue-flicks elicited by the control stimuli did not differ significantly in E. coerulea, but in E. multicarinata, cologne elicited greater TFAS and more tongue-flicks than did distilled water. One E. coerulea and two E. multicarinata attacked applicators bearing cricket odors. Due to the infrequency of biting, TFAS and tongue-flicks were positively correlated. Vomerolfaction is the presumed mediator of prey odor discrimination in alligator lizards, but the participation of gustation cannot be excluded.
3893037| Egg temperature during incubation determines sex in the American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis). Although juveniles and adults (>0.6 m) may be sexed effectively, smaller alligators are reportedly difficult to sex. We developed a method for sexing young alligators by inspection of the genitalia and quantified effects of incubation temperature on genital morphology. We predicted the sex of a hatchling by examining its genitalia within the cloaca. Our predictions were verified by inspecting the gonads macroscopically and histologically. The male clitero-penis typically is red, round, and large (mean length = 4.1 mm) in comparison with the female organ (mean length = 2.8 mm), which is white and smaller. Sex identification by cloacal examination was highly reliable (accuracy 96%). Clitero-penis dimensions of hatchlings incubated at 29, 31, 32, 33, and 34 C increased significantly with increasing incubation temperature, both within and between sexes. Based on differences apparent in hatchlings, incubation temperature seems to affect genital differentiation during development in a graded fashion. During posthatching growth, size increased rapidly in males versus females; based on previous studies, we think that these changes can be attributed to ontogenetic changes in the levels of circulating sex steriods. Observable size differences in the genitalia of males versus females permit an accurate, noninvasive diagnosis of sex in young alligators. Sex identification by this method will facilitate experimental study, as well as the management of wild and captive alligators. 
3892436| Reproduction of snapping turtles was studied from 1978-1983 and nesting ecology and demography of hatchling snapping turtles were studied from 1976 through 1982 in southeastern Michigan. The plastron lengths of reproductive females varied from 159-235 mm. Mean clutch size over 6 yr was 27.9 eggs (range = 12-41) and showed a significant positive linear relationship with body size of females. Females produced only one clutch per year. The youngest known-age, reproductive female was 12 yr of age. Duration of the nesting season varied from 13-31 days, and the initiation date varied by 22 days (22 May-12 June). The beginning of nesting activity each year was significantly correlated with the amount of heat available during March, April and May. Daily nesting activity was essentially bimodal with a major peak occurring between 0600 and 1100 h and a lesser peak of activity between 2000 and 2300 h. Nest construction averaged 111 min. Body temperatures of females at the time of nest completion ranged from 20.4-28.0 C (x = 22.9 C). Nests averaged 183 m straight-line distance from the nearest relatively permanent water, and no significant difference was found between the distances from water of those nests destroyed by predators and those escaping predation. Females nested in open areas that were adjacent to their marsh of residence or adjacent to other bodies of water. Observed females moved as far as 1625 m (straight-line distance) in preparation for nesting. Some females that were observed nesting in more than 1 yr constructed nests within 5 m of a previous nest, whereas other females changed nesting areas and constructed nests up to 1000 m apart. Predation rates on nests averaged 70% and ranged from a high of 100% in 2 yr to a low of 30% in 1 yr. The majority of nest predation occurred within 24 h of nest construction. The major predators were raccoons and foxes. Nests preyed upon by foxes were significantly older and further from water than nests destroyed by raccoons. An average of 4.14 eggs or developing embryos died in nests that escaped predation. Weekly mean temperatures in exposed and shaded nests ranged from 17.2-23.3 C during the entire incubation period. Nest temperatures were significantly lower in the shaded nest for all weeks except the first week following egg laying. These data indicate that shaded nests do not provide enough heat to allow complete development. Dates of hatchling emergence ranged from late August to early October, with the majority of emergence occurring in September. The average number of days from egg laying to hatchling emergence was 93.2. All sources of mortality resulted in a probability of 0.22 of surviving from age zero to age 1 (an approximately 90-day period from egg laying to hatchling emergence from the nest). 
25209125|Interspecific competition plays an important role in structuring ecological communities and generating patterns of phenotypic diversification. In the Shenandoah Mountains of Virginia, strong interspecific competition between P. cinereus and P. shenandoah shapes the geographic distributions of these species and relegates P. shenandoah to sub-optimal habitat. However, while many Plethodon salamander communities exhibit phenotypic shifts resulting from interspecific competition, the morphological consequences of competition in this system have not been investigated. We examined head shape variability of Plethodon cinereus and P. shenandoah to determine whether phenotypic patterns of variation were consistent with the hypothesis of interspecific competition. Across all three mountains where P. shenandoah is found, we identified significant species-specific differences in head shape. We also found significant phenotypic shifts between allopatric P. cinereus located at lower elevations and sympatric P. cinereus located at higher elevations. However, there was no evidence of accentuated phenotypic divergence in the sympatric contact zone between the two species. Thus, while there was evidence of a character shift in P. cinereus, patterns of character divergence between species associated with interspecific competition were not found. These observations suggest that morphological variation is decoupled from ecological interactions in this system, and aggresive interactions between the two species do not elicit a phenotypic response as seen in other Plethodon communities.
25209114|Escape theory predicts flight initiation distance (FID), distance between predator and prey when escape begins, for factors affecting costs of fleeing and not fleeing. Starting distance (SD), distance between predator and prey when approach begins, appears to affect FID for some species and risk levels, but not others. I predicted that in an active forager under low risk FID would appear to increase as SD increases due to (1) inclusion of SDs shorter than optimal FID and (2) spontaneous movements not motivated by escape. I predicted that FID and SD are unrelated at low risk when SDs shorter than optimal FID and spontaneous movements are excluded. When I approached the lizard Aspidoscelis exsanguis, an active forager, all predictions were confirmed. Effects of short SD and spontaneous movement might account for relationships between FID and SD in some birds and lizards. Nevertheless, as a predator approaches, costs of monitoring may increase, as may assessed risk and risk-averse errors due to shorter available assessment time. Risk-aversion might account for restriction of the relationship between FID and SD to high risk levels in an ambushing lizard species, for which spontaneous movements are far less frequent than for active foragers such as A. exsanguis. Although FID and SD are unrelated in A. exsanguis, SD and the related alert distance can provide valuable insights into risk assessment in other taxa having escape movements distinct from other movements. Present findings emphasize the importance of distinguishing between escape and other movements that may be initiated during approaches. A previously untested prediction of escape theory is that escape begins immediately when a prey detects an approaching predator closer than optimal FID, leading to the prediction of a slope of 1.0 between FID and SD. This prediction was confirmed for SDs less than 1.5 m.
3893064|I examined distribution, population density and structure, diet, habitat use, homerange dynamics, and physical condition of the Anegada population of Cyclura pinguis using ground surveys, interviews with residents, mark-and-recapture estimates, fecal analysis, feeding experiments, radiotelemetry, and life-history data. When compared with a study of 1968, the density of the extant population at a 43-ha study site was 0.36/ha, as opposed to 2.03/ha. Leaves represented only 38% of dietary volume, in contrast to 71% in 1968. Fruit comprised 56% of the diet. Well fed individuals of C. pinguis from a relocated population on Guana Island would not eat the leafy components of the Anegada iguanas' diet. Home ranges on Anegada overlapped and were 100 times larger than previously recorded. The sex ratio was two males to one female as opposed to 1:1 in 1968. Iguanas had proportionately lower body mass than animals captured in 1968. Population decline on Anegada seems largely due to increased competition from live stock, managed in 1968 but now feral, eating most palatable vegetation from the understory. Predation by cats and dogs is also a threat. The total remaining population is estimated at <200 individuals. A national park designed to protect the endangered population of C. pinguis has been proposed for Anegada.
3892150|We collected dwarf waterdogs (Necturus punctatus) in first to third order blackwater tributaries of the Savannah River in central South Carolina. Quantitative environmental data from each collection site (n = 49) permitted univariate and principal components analyses of habitat use. Waterdogs were most common in deeper sections of streams with slow currents, undercut banks, and an accumulation of mud, silt, and leaves. Examination of preserved specimens indicated maturity at 70-80 mm snout-vent length, an increase in number of oocytes with body size, longer tails in females than in males, and asymmetric oocyte production by the two ovaries. Food items included earthworms, chironomid larvae, crayfish, mayfly nymphs, and salamanders, but over one-half of the 50 waterdogs collected had empty stomachs.
3893526| We analyzed trophic ecology and its relationship with environmental variables for two leptodactylid species, Leptodactylus latinasus and L. bufonius (Anura: Leptodactylidae). The two species are common around Corrientes City, Argentina, where they live in the same habitat. The main objectives were to analyze the diets and patterns of coexistence relative to the microhabitat of each species. Weekly sampling was carried out January 1997-February 2000. A randomization test and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) were used for data analysis. In L. latinasus, the diet was dominated numerically by isopterans and coleopterans (25.25% and 21.21%, respectively) and volumetrically by insect larvae (37.14%). In L. bufonius, the alimentary contents were dominated numerically by isopterans (60.49%) and volumetrically by coleopterans (62.47%). The trophic niche breadth was wider in L. latinasus (6.55) than L. bufonius (2.44). The overlap in the trophic niche (prey proportion) was higher (
3892875| At Cuzco Amaznico in southern Amazonian Peru, the large leptodactylid frog Ceratophrys cornuta is an abundant, nocturnal, terrestrial predator. Breeding occurs primarily after the first heavy rains of the rainy season, and activity is strongly correlated with the mean rainfall of the preceding 48 h. The carnivorous tadpoles develop in shallow ponds and metamorphose in November-March. The frogs move randomly after rains; although they are aggressive, there is no evidence of territorial behavior. Ceratophrys cornuta is a sit-and-wait foraging strategist; of the volume of food consumed, 75% consists of large orthopterans and small vertebrates, but ants are the most abundant food item. /// En Cuzco Amaznico en el sur de la Amazona peruana, el gran sapo leptodactlido Ceratophrys cornuta es un predador abundante, nocturno y terrestre. La reproduccin sucede principalmente despus de las primeras fuertes precipitaciones de la poca lluviosa y la actividad est correlacionada significativamente con el promedio de lluvia en las 48 horas previas. Los renacuajo carnvoros se desarrollan en charcas someras y la metamorfosis se produce desde Noviembre hasta Marzo. Los sapos se mueven en cualquier direcin despus de la lluvia. Aunque son agresivos, no hay evidencia de una conducta territorial. Ceratophrys cornuta se comporta como un estratega de la caza al acecho. Del volumen total de presas consumidas, el 75% consiste en grandes ortpteros y pequeos vertebrados, pero las hormigas son la presa ms abundante. 
3893597|Both abiotic factors and behavioral patterns may influence snake activity. However, other than reproductive activities, behavioral patterns have rarely been incorporated into studies of snake habitat selection. We investigated seasonal differences in canebrake rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus) movement patterns and habitat selection. We modeled habitat selection in two ways, with and without regard to behaviorally-based seasons, and compared the two models to determine which yielded the most informative results. Behaviorally-based seasons (foraging, breeding, and hibernation) were determined from field observations of study animals. Habitat selection was modeled as habitat use versus availability using a case control sampling design for males and nongravid females using logistic regression. Males had significantly larger home ranges, moved more often, and traveled greater distances between successive locations during the breeding season as compared to nongravid females. The male no-season habitat model lacked significance, and the nongravid female no-season model revealed a positive association with pine savannas. When behaviorally-based seasons were included in the models, both sexes showed distinct seasonal variation in habitat selection, with males and nongravid females using similar habitat for breeding and hibernation, but partitioning habitat during the foraging season. Our results indicate that behaviorally-based seasons provide important details about intraspecific canebrake rattlesnake habitat selection and movement patterns, and that future research should benefit from the inclusion of snake behavior in habitat studies.
3893261|We investigated the abilities of males and females of Eublepharis macularius to discriminate between their own pheromones and those of same-sex conspecifics and of males to distinguish between female cagemates and unfamiliar females. Tongue-flicks and other behaviors in response to pheromonal stimuli were recorded for 5 min. Tongue-flicks by all males to their own stimuli and to those of another male did not differ significantly, but some males performed aggressive stilting displays to stimuli from other males, reducing the time available for tongue-flicking. When males that stilted were excluded, the tongue-flicking rate was significantly higher in response to chemical stimuli of unfamiliar males than to their own. In an alternative analysis, a tongue-flick stilt score (TFSS), a composite measure weighting aggressive responses more heavily than tongue-flicking, also was significantly greater in response to stimuli of other males than to the males' own stimuli. Three behaviors revealed differential response by males to chemical stimuli from female cagemates and unfamiliar females. Chemical stimuli from unfamiliar females elicited significantly greater tongue-flick rate, a higher probability of performing tail vibration, which is a species-typical courtship behavior, and a higher probability of remaining with the pheromone source throughout a trial. Tongue-flick rates by females did not differ significantly in response to their own pheromones and those of other females. Neither were there other behavioral indications of discrimination.
3892829|I determined seasonal and diurnal behavior and activity temperatures of tiger snakes on offshore islands of southern Australia. Unlike mainland tiger snakes, which are active only during warmer seasons, island populations are active all year. Frequency distributions of active snakes at hourly intervals during the day were unimodal at midday during cooler seasons and bimodal, with maximal activity at mid-morning and late afternoon, during warmer seasons. Active snakes and the number of hours that they were observed during the day increased from cool to warm seasons. Correlations of body and air temperatures indicated that island tiger snakes were thermoregulating during warm seasons but relatively passive to ambient temperatures during cooler seasons. However, evidence of posturing, the maintenance of body temperatures well above ambient, disproportionate numbers of active adult females as compared to males and intercepts greater than zero for seasonal
3891632|A Hispaniolan north island population of the otherwise south island species Eleutherodactylus wetmorei is described from a long series taken near Carrefour Marmelade in the Chaine de Marmelade in northern Haiti. Although there is an unlikely possibility that this population is introduced, the extreme disjunction between it and the main range of the species presents problems of its origin, and several hypotheses are proposed.
3893094|We describe a new species of lizard of the genus Pseudocalotes from Bukit Larut in the state of Perak, West Malaysia. This represents the third species of Pseudocalotes known from the Malay Peninsula. In scale counts and body proportions, it is most similar to P. floweri from Thailand and Cambodia, but it differs from that species in characteristics of the head squamation and in the shape of the subdigital scales of the third toe.
3890744|Reproductive habits of the spotted turtle, Clemmys guttata, were studied for 27 months in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. Courtship and mating occur from March to early May. Courtship consists of a chase and vicious biting by the male. Nests, the nesting process (occurring in June), eggs, and hatchlings are described. Incubation periods ranged from 70 to 83 days. The earliest hatching occurred on 18 August.
3891996|Quantitative assays for pepsin, amylases, and lipases were made on whole-gut homogenates of seven species of anuran tadpoles, including two ontogenetic stages of Rana catesbeiana. Pepsin was not detected in tadpoles of Bufo woodhousii and Rhinophrynus dorsalis in stages 25-30, although Bufo had pepsin at stage 38. All other species had pepsin and there was an indication of an ontogenetic increase. Amylases and lipases were present in all species, and they varied interspecifically.
3891576|O
3893356|We conducted a chromosome banding analysis (heterochromatin, nucleolus organizer regions, DAPI fluorescence, distamycin A/mithramycin fluorescence) of six phylogenetically basal dendrobatid frog species (Colostethus chalcopis, C. leopardalis, Mannophryne herminae, M. neblina, M. olmonae, M. trinitatis). With the exception of C. chalcopis (2n = 22), all examined species had a chromosome complement of 2n = 24 chromosomes. The C- and Q-band analyses showed that constitutive heterochromatin is present at the centromeres of all species, with
4497967|Recent phylogeographic work on Taricha torosa has revealed that the subspecific lineages, T. t. torosa and T. t. sierrae, are distinct evolutionary lineages that form a secondary contact zone in the southern Sierra Nevada of California. I examined the dynamics of this contact zone using two allozyme markers, mitochondrial DNA, morphometrics (head shape), and head color pattern. The subspecific lineages interbreed where they meet, and form a hybrid zone centered along the Kaweah River in Tulare County. Clines among genetic markers had similar shapes and centers, and ranged from 7-10 km wide. There is evidence of selection against hybrid genotypes in the center of the hybrid zone. Analyses of head shape and color pattern show that the two subspecies are phenotypically differentiated, and that patterns of differentiation in these characters are congruent with the genetic clines. The two subspecies constitute distinct evolutionary lineages and merit recognition as separate species: T. torosa (California newt) and T. sierrae (Sierra newt).
3892653| The lizard Lacerta vivipara exhibits both oviparous (egg-laying) and viviparous (live-bearing) modes of reproduction. Hybridization cannot occur in nature because oviparous populations are isolated in the extreme southwestern part of the distributional range. Hybridization experiments (oviparous  viviparous,
3893606| Animals have evolved a number of ways to protect themselves from the harmful effects of ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation, but little is known about the relative importance of different mechanisms protecting amphibian embryos from UV-B radiation. Using enzymatic removal of gelatinous coats (jelly envelope) surrounding the eggs of Rana temporaria, we tested the hypothesis that the jelly envelope acts as a sunscreen that protects embryos from harmful effects of UV-B radiation. We conducted two independent factorial laboratory experiments employing three different UV-B (no UV-B, normal, and enhanced) levels and jelly removal (control, modified, and completely removed) treatments. We found no UV-B  jelly removal treatment interactions in survival rates or in frequency of abnormal individuals, suggesting that jelly removal did not increase susceptibility of embryos to UV-B radiation. These results support the contention that the jelly envelope is not the most important means of protecting R. temporaria embryos from UV-B radiation. Other factors (e.g., melanin pigments, other sunscreen compounds, effective DNA-repair mechanisms) must be responsible for the high UV-B radiation tolerance of embryos. 
41238979|The effect of temperature on sperm dynamic parameters in ectotherms in general, and reptiles in particular, remains poorly understood due to the lack of consistent evidence. As a group, snakes show considerable variability regarding mating systems, male reproductive behavior, thermoregulatory behavior, and preferred temperatures. Additionally, snakes present significant variability in sperm competition levels, which is determined by the species mating system. Because sperm longevity, motility, and velocity are positively related to reproductive success in both competitive and noncompetitive conditions, the sperm physiology of ectothermic organisms may functional optimally at ecologically relevant temperatures. The objective of this work was to analyze the effect of an ecologically plausible range of temperatures on sperm dynamic parameters of two species of snakes with contrasting mating systems and sperm competition levels: Boa constnctor occidentalis and Waglerophis merremii. To accomplish this, an in vitro incubation approach was used: sperm dynamic parameters (i. e., motility and velocity) were measured on sperm solution aliquots incubated at 25C, 30C, and 37C for up to 10 h by means of a phase contrast video microscopy system. Results suggested that although an increase in temperature has a general negative impact on sperm motility and velocity, the two species studied present different degrees of sensitivity to high incubation temperatures. Moreover, these differences can be explained by the dissimilar thermal conditions that the sperm of the two species would experience during their reproductive seasons, which are a consequence of the differences in their reproductive behavior. In conclusion, sperm motility and swimming velocity respond mainly to environmental conditions imposed by mating systems rather than to selection by sperm competition.
3890667|Four species of tadpoles, Phrynella pollicaris Boulenger, Rana glandulosa Boulenger, Rhacophorus promianus Smith, and Cacophryne borbonica (Tschudi) are illustrated and described for the first time. In addition a review of four other doubtful species, Leptobrachium nigrops Berry and Hendrickson, Kalophrynus pleurostigma pleurostigma Tschudi, Rhacophorus nigropalmatus Boulenger and Bufo asper Gravenhorst, is also included. Remarks on the breeding habits of the parents and the habitat of the tadpoles are given.
3892006| Two new species of lizards are named from the upper Amazon Basin in Colombia, Ecuador, and Per. Alopoglossus atriventris (Teiidae) differs from its apparent closest relatives, A. buckleyi and A. copii, in rugosity of head shields, carination of ventral scales, and coloration. Enyalioides cofanorum (Iguanidae) is like E. microlepis and E. oshaughnessyi in having a single dorsolateral row of enlarged scales, but differs by having many conical scales between the dorsolateral row and the middorsal crest, strongly keeled ventral scales, and different coloration. 
3891588| A year-long study of the reproductive cycle of Ameiva ameiva petersii Cope   was conducted in Amazonian Ecuador. Examination of ovarian and oviducal eggs revealed that egg laying is seasonal, occurring from late May to early December. Hatchlings were found from March through April and from November through December. 
24634296|The lizards Podarcis muralis and Iberolacerta horvathi display an overall similarity in morphology and ecology. Although they are widely sympatric in part of their distribution range of Slovenia, areas of altitudinal segregation have been observed. Ecophysiological traits such as preferred body temperatures (Tp) and rates of evaporative water loss (EWL) are some of the factors likely to be subjacent to this pattern. We expect the species that is more abundant in higher altitudes to have lower Tp and higher EWL (due to lower environmental temperatures at higher elevations) than the species that is more abundant in lowlands. We conducted lab experiments to determine whether intra- and interspecific variation in these two physiological traits exists. Contrary to expectations, the means of Tp were similar between the species, but their seasonal dynamics differed, which indicates that thermal accuracy might be more important. Species differed in seasonal (and daily) variation of Tp, rising from spring to summer more in P. muralis than in I. horvathi. Comparing instantaneous EWL, our results showed interspecific differences with higher values in P. muralis than in I. horvathi. Throughout a 12-h period, the accumulative EWL was also always higher for P. muralis than for I. horvathi, with the greatest differences occurring after 912 h of the experiment. Further studies should focus on investigating if these divergent physiological characteristics of both species are associated with their habitat use (in terms of thermal and water environment) and species interaction.
3893303|We describe a new species of Desmognathus from Union County, Georgia. It closely resembles D. quadramaculatus, but the two are distinguishable by adult size, body proportions, color pattern, and fixed differences at four allozyme loci. The new, smaller species is currently known from two tributaries of the Nottely River and is sympatric with D. quadramaculatus at both sites. The new form is semi-aquatic and utilizes habitats that are similar to those of D. quadramaculatus. Metamorphosis occurs at a smaller size than in D. quadramaculatus, apparently as a result of a shorter larval period. Selection on life history features may have had a role in the origin and divergence of these forms.
3891942| The aggressive behaviors of 3 species of South American inguanid lizards of the genus Tropidurus (T. occipitalis, T. hispidus, T. torquatus) were observed and filmed in large enclosures in Oklahoma. The display-action-pattern of T. occipitalis (mainland Ecuador) consists of sequences of 3 rapid pushups (1.4 s) similar in body involvement and posturing to species of this genus on the Galapagos Islands. Both T. hispidus (British Guiana) and T. torquatus (Surinam) exhibit very similar display-action-patterns involving rapid head nod sequences in < 1 second. Display sequences are repeated in series by all 3 species. Other typical iguanid behaviors recorded were posturing with dewlap extension, lateral compression of the trunk, rapid head nodding by courting   and rejection posturing by the   as well as social dominance interactions. Display-action-pattern graphs and posture sketches are presented. 
3893172|Fundamental issues in the study of predator-prey interactions include addressing how prey coexist with their predators and, moreover, whether predators promote coexistence among competing prey. We conducted a series of laboratory experiments with a freshwater assemblage consisting of two predators that differed in their foraging modes (a crayfish, Procambarus sp., and the western mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis) and their prospective anuran prey (tadpoles of the narrow-mouthed toad, Gastrophryne carolinensis, and the squirrel treefrog, Hyla squirella). We examined whether competition occurs within and between these two prey species and, if so, whether the non-lethal presence of predators alters the outcome of competitive interactions. We also asked whether the two species of prey differ in their susceptibility to the two types of predators and whether interspecific differences in predator avoidance behavior might account for this variation. Our results indicated that Gastrophryne was a stronger competitor than Hyla; at high densities, Gastrophryne reduced the body size of both congeners and conspecifics, as well as the proportion of surviving conspecifics that metamorphosed. However, the presence of mosquitofish did not alter the outcome of this competition, nor did either type of predator affect the density-dependent responses of Gastrophryne. In laboratory foraging trials, the number of tadpoles of each prey species that was killed, but not completely consumed by mosquitofish, was similar for Gastrophryne and Hyla. Yet, significantly more individuals of Gastrophryne than of Hyla were the first prey eaten by mosquitofish; there was no difference in the number of individuals of each species eaten by crayfish. Overall, more individuals of Gastrophryne than of Hyla were killed and completely eaten by mosquitofish at the end of the experiment. The two species of prey did not differ in their spatial avoidance of either type of predator, suggesting that this behavior did not play a significant role in the differential vulnerability of the prey to predation. By reducing the abundance of G. carolinensis, the potential exists for predators, such as mosquitofish, to ameliorate this species' competitive impact on other species. In this way, predators may promote coexistence of species within some assemblages of amphibians.
25209098|Map turtles and sawbacks (Emydidae: Deirochelyinae: Graptemys) are a diverse group of turtles that are of ecological interest due to their diversity in trophic morphology, particularly in females, and their extreme sexual size dimorphism (with females larger). I used comparative analyses (independent contrasts in correlation analyses and GLM analyses) to examine hypotheses regarding the evolution of body size in the genus. Evolutionary changes in body size of both males and females were positively related to inferred shifts in latitude. Trophic morphology (relative head width, expressed either as a continuous or a discrete variable) was not an additive source of variation in male body size, but was for female body size, primarily due to the large body sizes exhibited by the megacephalic southern clade (G. pulchra, G. ernsti, G. gibbonsi, and G. barbouri). Status as allopatric or sympatric to other species of Graptemys was not an additive source of variation in female body size. These results argue against the hypothesis that character displacement of body size in females was important in the radiation of map turtle and sawback species and instead suggest a functional relationship whereby degree of molluscivory in females covaries with body size. Sexual size dimorphism was found to increase with body size of females, also due primarily to the large females of the megacephalic clade; this result means Graptemys is an exception to Rensch's Rule. In a latitude-corrected analysis of body size evolution in deirochelyine turtles, the exceptional degree of sexual size dimorphism in Graptemys appears to result more from reduction in male size than increase in female size. Decreased male size may indicate relaxed selection for large body size in Graptemys males as a consequence of the fact that they rarely leave the water for terrestrial excursions, because selection for larger male body size in other deirochelyines may be mediated by (a) predation pressure imposed by terrestrial predators, (b) enhancement of overland mobility for male searching, and (c) the need for resistance to desiccation during overland excursions. Alternatively, male body size reduction in Graptemys may be explained by energetic requirements of searching for mates in the fluvial environment or unknown differences in social structure among deirochelyine turtles.
3891176|Hemocytological and serum chemistry values were determined in juvenile individuals of the African puff adder, Bitis arietans. Data reported are: hematocrit, hemoglobin, leukocyte count and differential, and cell and nuclear sizes of leukocytes and erythrocytes. The morphology of the leukocytes is described and illustrated. Serum values investigated were: bilirubin (total, direct, and indirect), blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, cholesterol, glucose, alkaline phosphatase, total protein, glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase, glutamic pyruvic transaminase, and uric acid. Values obtained are compared to those previously reported for other viperines.
3891793|Seasonal testicular changes were studied in the stinkpot turtle (Sternotherus odoratus) during 1979-1980 in Jefferson County, Alabama. Maximum masses of testes occurred during August-October with minimum values during February-April. Epididymal masses were lowest during July-September coincident with the greatest increase in masses of testes. Histological examination of the testes revealed that spermatogenesis began in March, reached a peak by early August, and continued through October. Epididymides contained spermatozoa throughout the year, and had greatest diameters during March and October. Seasonal testicular changes in this species have been examined in northern and western areas of its range. A comparison of these populations and animals from central Alabama indicates that spermatogenesis begins earlier and lasts longer in southern populations.
3892636|A new species of Abronia is described from an isolated highland area in eastern Guatemala. It is placed in the subgenus Auriculabronia but differs from its consubgeners in numerous characteristics of morphology and color pattern.
25621904|The Cerrado is one of the richest tropical savannas and is considered a biodiversity "hotspot." It is estimated that, at the current rate of loss, the ecosystem will disappear by the year 2030. The number of new species being discovered in the Cerrado has increased linearly, especially over the last 50 years. We describe a new species of Cnemidophorus from the Jalapo region, in the northern Cerrado biome, Brazil. Linear discriminant analyses and a nave Bayesian model indicated that a combination of meristic counts (femoral pores, scales around tail, prefemorals, dorsals, and supralabials) and categorical variables derived from pholidosis and coloration clearly distinguish the new species from its congeners. The new species is apparently parapatric with C. mumbuca, the two species occurring on opposite banks of the Novo River. The two species are ecologically and morphologically similar, sharing a small body size, a fixed clutch size of a single egg, and a small number of femoral pores. The new species is apparently endemic to the Jalapo region, in the northern portion of the Cerrado biome. Its small size and restricted geographic range are consistent with findings from Cerrado anurans that undescribed species tend to be small and have reduced ranges. These results highlight the urgency of biotic surveys in Cerrado in face of its accelerated pace of destruction.
3892747|The brown tree snake, Boiga irregularis, is a colubrid snake that employs constriction as a means of prey capture, yet it also possesses a Duvernoy's gland that is directly associated with a grooved, rear, maxillary fang. Prior investigations have hypothesized that the secretion from this gland is utilized by the snake for the rapid killing of rodent prey. To test this hypothesis, we compared the death rate of prey struck by brown tree snakes with and without the use of Duvernoy's secretion. We found no significant difference in the rate of death of rodents (Mus musculus) between snakes with full envenomation capabilities and those deprived of envenomation capabilities. Further, unlike some viperid snakes, the site on the body of the mouse where the fangs of B. irregularis were first engaged did not significantly affect rate of death. These results indicate that mechanical mechanisms (e.g., constriction, pinning), rather than a chemical mechanism (Duvernoy's secretions), play the primary role in producing rapid prey death by B. irregularis. The absence of a direct role of the secretion from a well-developed Duvernoy's gland in prey capture should invite a re-evaluation of this gland in colubrids generally.
3893149| Taxonomic relationships of Bufo microscaphus were analyzed using allozyme data. I compared the three currently recognized subspecies, B. m. californicus, B. m. mexicanus, and B. m. microscaphus, to each other, to remaining members of the B. americanus group, and to B. cognatus and B. speciosus. Of 25 loci scored, 10 were variable within B. microscaphus. Seven allozymic autapomorphies identified B. m. californicus, and three for B. m. mexicanus. None were discovered for B. m. microscaphus. Discrete allozyme differences support the hypothesis that B. m. californicus, B. m. mexicanus, and B. m. microscaphus are mutually exclusive evolutionary lineages which should be recognized as species. Geological and hydrological events in the Early to Mid Pleistocene may best explain the origin and diversification of the B. microscaphus complex. /// Las relaciones taxonmicas de Bufo microscaphus fueron analizados usando data aloenzimtica. Corrientemente, las tres subespecies reconocidas son B. m. californicus, B. m. mexicanus, y B. m. microscaphus, stas fueron comparadas una con la otra y con los miembros restantes del grupo B. americanus, B. cognatus y al B. speciosus. De los 25 loci revisados, 10 variaban entre B. microscaphus. Siete autapomrfios aloenzimtica identificaron B. m. californicus y tres diagnosticaron B. m. mexicanus. Ninguno fue descubierto por B. m. microscaphus. Diferencias aloenzimtica descretas apoyan el hiptesis que B. m. californicus, B. m. mexicanus, y B. m. microscaphus son linajes evolutivas mutuamente exclusivas y deberian ser reconociadas como especies. Eventos geolgicos y hidrolgicos en la primera parte del Pleistoceno podrian explicar el orgen y la diversificacion del complejo B. microscaphus. 
3891921|Cartilaginous structures, partially calcified in some snake species, are present on the distal end of snake ribs. These costal cartilages in the advanced snakes (Colubroidea) are structurally distinct from those of the primitive snakes (Typhlopoidea and Booidea). They can be employed as a taxonomic character within the Serpentes. The structures are phylogenentically stable rather than adaptively labile.
27669746|A new species of forest frog of the genus Platymantis is described from an elevation of 140 m in the Taft Forest Reserve in eastern Samar Island, Philippines. It is assigned to the Platymantis guentheri Species Group, a group of primarily arboreal species, and is distinguished from these and other congeners by features of its external morphology and its preferred terrestrial, limestone microhabitat. Several striking morphological characters include a large body (34.239.1 mm SVL for 9 males and 44.349.8 mm SVL for 9 females), greatly expanded finger and toe discs, large eyes, spotted flanks, and sparsely-distributed, salmoncolored dorsal dermal tubercles. The new species represents the second largest Philippine Platymantis, the third terrestrial species in the P. guentheri Group, and the only known species of Platymantis from the Mindanao Faunal Region with a preference for forested, karst habitats.
3891667| Courtship and parental behavior of Dendrobates auratus were studied in the field and in captivity. Males are nonterritorial, but occasionally engage in aggressive competition. Males call to attract   and lead them to oviposition sites in leaf litter. Courtship includes elaborate tactile interactions between partners, with the  taking the more active role. Parental care is performed by the  and includes tending of eggs and transport of tadpoles to water. Males can care for >1 clutch simultaneously. High  parental investment may lead to a shortage of  , limiting  reproductive success. This may result in interfemale competition and a partial reversal of the usual sex roles in courtship. 
3893039|Snakes in the Neotropical colubrid genus Scaphiodontophis possess very long and fragile tails; tail length often approaches 50% of total length, and most adults in collections have incomplete tails. Based on an examination of preserved specimens, we present evidence that multiple tail breaks occur during the lifetime of individuals of this genus. Presumably, the long and fragile tail of Scaphiodontophis functions to facilitate multiple breaks, which allows for multiple escapes in encounters with predators. This is the first time that this defense mechanism has been demonstrated in a tetrapod lacking powers of tail regeneration.
3893461| We describe two new species of Proctoporus and a new species of Euspondylus (all from central Peru, Departamento de Hunuco, 2545 to 3010 m elevation). The new species are distinguished from all species presently assigned to Proctoporus and Euspondylus by unique characteristics of pholidosis, morphometrics, and color pattern. A key to the Peruvian species of Proctoporus and Euspondylus is provided. The current allocation of species to Proctoporus and Euspondylus may not reflect the phylogenetic relationships of the species under consideration. Based on the available data there appears to be no evidence to justify the separation of these genera. However, because of nomenclatural problems that would arise from synonymizing the two genera (e.g., producing a secondary homonymy in the case of Proctoporus guentheri Boettger and Ecpleopus guentheri O'Shaughnessy), we chose to retain the two genera until phylogenetic information is available. /// Describimos dos especies nuevas del gnero Proctoporus y una nueva especie del gnero Euspondylus (todas provenientes del Per central, Departamento de Hunuco, de 2545 hasta 3310 m sobre el nivel del mar). Las nuevas especies se distinguen de todas las demas actualmente asignadas a los gneros Proctoporus y Euspondylus por caractersticas de escamacin, morfometra y patrones de coloracin. Una clave dictoma para las especies del gnero Proctoporus y Euspondylus del Per es detallada. La actual asignacin de las especies al gnero Proctoporus y Euspondylus aparentemente no refleja las relaciones filogenticas de las especies bajo consideracin. Basados en los datos disponibles, no parece que exista evidencia para justificar la separacin de estos dos gneros. Sin embargo, y debido a problemas de nomenclatura al sinonimizar los dos gneros (por ejemplo al producir un homnimo secundario en el caso de Proctoporus guentheri Boettger y Ecpleopus guentheri O'Shaughnessy), consideramos mantener los dos gneros por el momento. 
3892114|Eleutherodactylus emcelae is named from cloud forests in western Panama. It is a species of the melanostictus Group, most similar to E. monnichorum Dunn.
40602605|A new species of medium-sized Sphenomorphus is described from the biogeographically enigmatic island of Palawan in the western Philippines. This species represents only the third skink in the genus Sphenomorphus found on Palawan Island. The new species is compared with other Sphenomorphus found on Palawan and with phenotypically similar species in the genus from throughout its range. To aid in future identification of Sphenomorphus specimens from Palawan, we provide a key to the species from this island.
3891287|The rediscovery of Kentropyx striatus in Trinidad is described. It is a heliothermic lizard of open country and sugar cane plantations, partly aquatic and more arboreal than other Trinidad teiids. It has been kept in captivity for short periods and three clutches of eggs have been successfully incubated; the incubation period is three months. A description of the colors of living specimens is included.
3893624|Sexual dimorphism in body size is often accompanied by shape dimorphism. Shape dimorphism may be selected directly, or may be an indirect result of selection for size dimorphism. To determine whether shape differences are likely to have been directly influenced by selection, the indirect effects of size dimorphism on shape can be removed statistically, the approach of most previous studies, or, alternatively, we can examine the patterns of shape dimorphism in species that are not size dimorphic. Here I describe sexual shape dimorphism in adults and neonates of a lizard that is not dimorphic in body length, the eastern water skink (Eulamprus quoyii). In this species, snout-vent length is not significantly different between adult or neonate males and females, but there are significant shape differences between sexes in both adults and neonates. For a given body length, adult males have wider heads, longer limbs, shorter trunk length (the distance between the forelimb and the hindlimb), and greater mass than females. In addition, head width, forelimb length and mass increase significantly more rapidly with body length in adult males than in females, whereas the rate of change of hindlimb length and trunk length with length is not significantly different in males and females. The shape of the body is more similar in neonates than adults, but female neonates have significantly longer trunks than males. The intersexual shape difference in neonate E. quoyii suggests that, although growth rate differences among body parts are the main source of differences in shape between adults, the difference between male and female interlimb lengths is present initially. Shape differences present at birth that are preserved until adulthood are less common than growth differences as a source of adult shape differences. The intersexual shape differences among adult E. quoyii are similar to those reported for species that are sexually size dimorphic, suggesting that selective forces have influenced body shape in similar ways in both size dimorphic and nondimorphic species, and that allometric relationships alone may not be responsible for shape differences between males and females in size dimorphic species.
3892510|A new species of woodland salamander of the Plethodon glutinosus group from Walker County, in northwestern Georgia, is described. It is known from only two areas on the eastern slope of Pigeon Mountain, a spur of Lookout Mountain. Most individuals have been taken in and around limestone crevices in habitat characteristic of and also occupied by the green salamander, Aneides aeneus. The new species has a color pattern different from that of any other species of Plethodon. Although the new species is clearly assignable to the Plethodon glutinosus group, it is distinct in possessing enlarged toes that appear to be modified for climbing.
3893002|The thermal dependence of sprint speed, exertion distance and time, and aggressive response was examined in the island night lizard, Xantusia riversiana, over a body temperature range of 10-35 C. Critical thermal limits were 6.6 and 39.0 C. Thermal optima for sprint speed and distance approximated preferred body temperature (28.3 C) and declined at higher or lower body temperatures. Exertion time was largely independent of body temperature, and lizards ran for about 70-90 s. Speed during exertion sprinting declined exponentially with increasing time and distance covered. Maximum oxygen consumption at 30 C
3892300| The spermathecal and cloacal anatomy of the slimy salamander, Plethodon glutinosus, were studied in Alabama. The number of spermathecal sacs ranged from 8-15 (x = 11.1), and sacs contained spermatozoa from mid-March-late summer. Numerous ciliated crypts were observed within the cloacal tube. Only adult females with ova >1.5 mm in diameter had mated, if the presence of spermatozoa in the spermatheca is an accurate indication. In general, only gravid females (those with vitellogenic ova) of the genus Plethodon contain spermatozoa in their spermathecae during a given reproductive season. Comparisons of spermathecal and cloacal anatomy of female P. glutinosus with previously reported accounts on other Plethodon indicate that similar morphological features exist between closely related species. 
3893118| We provide a diagnosis for the Liolaemus elongatus group which currently includes six species (including the species described herein) of midsized, long-tailed, primarily saxicolous lizards. Most of these species are distributed along the Andean Cordillera of western Argentina where they principally occur at elevations above 1000 m. Here we describe Liolaemus heliodermis, a new species belonging to this group from the region where the Cumbres Calchaques and the Sierra del Aconquija mountain ranges converge in northwestern Tucumn Province. The new species differs from all other members of the elongatus group in several meristic characters and in the distinct coloration of the males: black heads with vibrant yellow torsos. Liolaemus heliodermis is the most northerly distributed member of the elongatus group and is the only member of the group known to occur in Tucumn Province. Preliminary data on the biology of L. heliodermis and the relationships of the new species to other members of the elongatus group are discussed. /// El grupo Liolaemus elongatus actualmente incluye seis especies (incluyendo la que aqu se describe) de tamao medio, de cuerpos elongados, siendo principalmente saxcolas. La mayora de estas especies se distribuyen a lo largo de la Cordillera Andina, del lado argentino, principalmente en elevaciones que exceden los 1000 m. Aqu nosotros describimos Liolaemus heliodermis, una especie nueva que pertenece a este grupo, de la regin donde las Cumbres Calchaques y la Sierra del Aconquija convergen en el noroeste de la provincia Tucumn. La especie nueva difiere de todos los otros miembros del grupo elongatus en tener machos con cabeza negra y el torso amarillento adems de varios caracteres mersticos. Liolaemus heliodermis es el miembro distribuido ms al norte del grupo elongatus, y es el nico miembro del complejo presente en la provincia de Tucumn. Se aportan datos preliminares sobre la biologa de L. heliodermis y sus relaciones con otros miembros del grupo elongatus. 
4497972|A new species of Uraeotyphlus (Gymnophiona: Uraeotyphlidae) is described on the basis of a single, distinctive specimen from the Western Ghats of southern Kerala, India. This species is most similar to U. malabaricus (Beddome) in that it lacks a clear differentiation between primary annuli and their higherorder (secondary or tertiary) subdivision. The pattern of annulation among species of Uraeotyphlus falls into two clear types based on the differentiation of primary and higher-order annuli, and the number of annular divisions per vertebra and whether this varies along the body. This difference is reflected in our recognition of oxyurus-group (U. interruptus, U. menoni, U. narayani, U. oxyurus) and malabaricus-group (U. malabaricus and a new species described herein) species within Uraeotyphlus.
3891542|The structural and climatic habitats of the iguanid lizard Anolis sericeus and its syntopic congeners were studied at four localities in southern Mexico. At two of the localities it occurred with another congener (A. tropidonotus or A. cuprinus), at another it occurred with A. dollfusianus and A. lemurinus and at the fourth locality it was found alone. Seven perch variables were studied: type, diameter, height, color, texture, direction, and amount of insolation at perch site. Perch color was probably the most important variable in segregating syntopic congeners. Perch height was never a significant means of reducing overlap. Perch direction and texture were also of little use, but amount of insolation at perch site was important. There were more structural habitat differences between syntopic species of similar size than between species more disparate in size. There was little difference between populations of A. sericeus from different localities when comparing most variables, but perch diameter and color showed the greatest interpopulational differences. Certain parallels can be drawn between A. sericeus and other successful, widespread species of Anolis (A. carolinensis, A. opalinus, A. sagrei, and A. subocularis).
3892538| Nesting ecology of the Blanding's turtle was studied for 6 yr, from 1976 through 1981 in southeastern Michigan. Beginnings of the nesting seasons varied by 17 days (May 23 to June 9) and lasted from 16-30 (x = 23) days. Beginnings of nesting seasons were significantly correlated with mean April temperatures but not to mean May temperatures. Nesting activity occurred almost entirely in the evening with average time of nest completion at 2119 h EST. Most females return to the same general nesting areas each year. Nesting areas were usually not adjacent to the female's marsh of residence. Three hypotheses concerning predation of nests were tested. (1) Nests located greater distances from water should have lower predation rates. (2) Nests located in areas where predators can use an essentially linear search pattern should have a higher predation rate. (3) Females that nest early in the nesting season should have lower egg mortality due to predation. None of these hypotheses was supported by our data. Nests were located 2-1115 m (x = 135 m) from the nearest water. Predation accounted for 82% of nest mortality. Most predation (84%) occurred during the first five days after nest completion with 47% occurring within the first 24 h. Percent nest predation ranged from 42% (1978) to 93% (1981). Within the nests that survived predation, an average of 1.20 eggs per nest failed to develop, and 22% of the observed nests produced hatchlings. The average time from egg laying to hatchling emergence was 84 days (mid-August through early October). Forty-five percent of hatchling emergence was synchronous (all hatchlings emerge in one day), and 55% asynchronous (emergence over more than one day). Females mature at a plastron length of from 160-162 mm. There was no relationship between body size of the female and the day of the nesting season when she nested. As few as 23% or as many as 48% of the females in the population may reproduce in a given year, and those that do produce only one clutch of eggs. Clutch size averaged 10 (min.-max. = 3-15) eggs. Data on clutch frequency, nest survivorship and body size distributions for the entire population indicate that recruitment into the adult population may be very low. 
3892088|Hyla hutchinsi is a new stream-breeding treefrog related to Hyla geographica. The webs between the digits are black, and adult males have a distinctive advertisement call. The larva has a black body, pink tail and 4/7 tooth rows.
3892898|The genetic relationships among populations of the morphologically variable scincid lizard Leiolopisma entrecasteauxii were examined by allozyme electrophoresis. An analysis of the products of 31 presumed loci in 96 individuals showed that a minimum of three biological species were present. Fixed allelic differences were maintained where pairs of species were in sympatry and contrast with genetic uniformity within species over wide geographic areas. Species boundaries do not coincide completely with earlier attempts to subdivide L. entrecasteauxii based primarily on patterns of dorsal coloration. However, several morphological features do correlate with the genetic groups, which will facilitate formal taxonomic changes.
3892179|To study the nature and ontogeny of reproductive organs in Limnodynastes tasmaniensis, series of siblings were reared from early stage tadpoles to sexual maturity. Gonads differentiated comparatively early, during hindlimb bud development. A male and female spawned when 80-100 days post-metamorphosis and when juvenile in form. Siblings which were maturing sexually were similarly juvenile.
3891786|The testicular cycle of Crotaphytus collaris was studied using samples of animals collected in northern Arkansas in 1971 and 1972. Males mature at 76 mm in snout-vent length and participate in breeding activities in their first year of life. Histological analyses of the testes showed that spermiation occurs from early May to late June. Abdominal fat bodies become depleted during this period. Testicular recrudescence begins in late July. Interstitial cells were abundant in testes of all adults. A concurrence between the duration of spermiation in males and the ovigerous condition of females in both years indicates a high degree of synchrony in the reproductive cycles of males and females in this species.
3891409| A  loggerhead turtle (Caretta caretta) tagged on Florida's lower gulf coast after it had nested was discovered nesting on the Atlantic coast of Florida over 4 years later. This is the first recorded incident where an individual of Caretta has made egg laying emergences on both coasts of Florida and such a great distance from an earlier nesting. Discussion is presented on peculiar nest site fixity behavior for the gulf coast nesting population of this marine turtle. 
3893373|I observed the agonistic and display behavior of the wandering salamander (Aneides vagrans: Plethodontidae) from Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada, in 90 staged encounters of 42 individuals of both sexes. Behavioral patterns were similar to those of other plethodontids, and some patterns, such as snout raise, snout-pressing, holding-down, and circle pattern, appear to be unique to the genus. Presumed marking behavior, including chin-rubbing and vent-rubbing, were also seen. Aggressive behaviors recorded for other species of Aneides, including grip, snapping, and bite-hold, were not observed in A. vagrans. The frequency of aggressive behavior was low compared to other plethodontid species in laboratory trials. Agonistic behavior occurred in only 27.7% of encounters; biting occurred in only 2.2%.
3891695| The natural history and herpetofauna of Ile  Cabrit, a small islet off the Haitian coast in the Golfe de la Gonve, are discussed. New subspecies of Leiocephalus pratensis and Epicrates fordi are named. 
3893548| The genus Lachesis Daudin, 1803 was partitioned into six geographic groups to evaluate the taxonomic status and phylogenetic relationships among these groups. Characters of external morphology and hemipenial anatomy were evaluated. Results obtained through the phylogenetic and statistical analyses support recognition of the Central American species L. melanocephala and L. stenophrys as distinct species, whereas the South American L. muta is recognized as monotypic, without further differentiation in subspecies. These results provide further evidence of the independence of the Central American and South American lineages and are congruent with other studies based on molecular data. /// O gnero Lachesis Daudin, 1803 foi dividido em seis grupos geogrficos para se avaliar a posio taxonmica e as relaes filogenticas entre estes grupos. Foram usados caracteres relativos  morfologia externa e hemipnis. Resultados obtidos atravs das anlises filogentica e estatstica suportam o reconhecimento das espcies centro-americanas L. melanocephala e L. stenophrys como espcies distintas, enquanto a espcie sulamericana L. muta  reconhecida como monotpica, sem a diviso em subespcies. Tais resultados confirmam uma independncia das linhagens da Amrica Central em relao  Amrica do Sul e so congruentes com outros estudos que utilizaram dados moleculares. 
24634279|Terrestrial plethodontid salamanders are abundant predators within the forest floor litter of eastern North America, and are hypothesized to regulate soil and litter invertebrate density and species composition. I tested this hypothesis during a 6-yr study of the effects of the Eastern Red-backed Salamander (Plethodon cinereus) on the invertebrate community of a forest site in northeast Ohio. Salamander surface density, invertebrate abundance, and community composition were monitored within 30 open, circular plots. Variation in plot occupancy by P. cinereus was achieved by supplying plots with differing amounts of artificial cover (0, 1, or 4 ceramic tiles) that served as refuges for the salamanders. Salamander plot occupancy, invertebrate density, leaf litter mass, and leaf litter moisture were quantified each spring and fall from 2003 through 2008. Statistically significant effects of salamander plot-occupancy on invertebrate densities were found for several taxa of mesofauna, including several Collembola taxa, oribatid mites, pseudoscorpions, and psocoptera. The strength and direction of salamander effects varied among taxa and included negative, positive, and no effects on invertebrate densities. The magnitude and sign of salamander effects on invertebrate densities were predicted by seasonal and interannual variation in leaf litter mass and, to a lesser extent, litter moisture content. Salamander effects decreased with increasing litter mass and were more often negative when litter mass was high, whereas positive effects on invertebrate densities were more likely when litter mass was low. For several taxa, the positive effect of P. cinereus also increased with litter moisture. I propose two mechanistic hypotheses for these dynamics that integrate behavioral ecology of salamander prey selection and territorial defense with variation in litter mass and litter moisture.
3892654|Comparative ecology of Crotalus viridis (western rattlesnake) and Pituophis melanoleucus (gopher snake) was studied from 1975-1980 within and near the Snake River Birds of Prey Area in southwestern Idaho. We handled a total of 454 C. viridis and 455 P. melanoleucus (including 123 and 24 recaptures, respectively) during the study. Variables studied were (1) seasonal and daily activity patterns, (2) body temperatures, (3) habitat, and (4) food. Overlap in resource use was relatively high for all dimensions measured. Seasonal activity was similar for both species (Horn's index of overlap, R
3892723| Seasonal morphometric and physiological changes associated with a biennial reproductive cycle in female Cordylus giganteus are described for a 15-mo period. Cordylus giganteus is a large terrestrial, viviparous lizard endemic to the Highveld grasslands of South Africa. Vitellogenesis commences in autumn (January-February) and continues through winter hibernation to culminate in ovulation during spring (October). Liver and oviducal hypertrophy coincide with pronounced increments in plasma calcium, inorganic phosphate, and estradiol-17 in advanced vitellogenic females. Total plasma protein concentration did not show a clear seasonal pattern. Clutch size ranges from 1-3 young and is not affected by female body size. Females are gravid during summer and give birth in late summer (January-February). During embryonic development, ovarian follicles remain small and translucent, and the diameters of the corpora lutea decrease prior to parturition. Plasma progesterone levels increase in gravid females to peak in the second trimester of pregnancy. The oviducts remain hypertrophied throughout pregnancy and decrease in mass during the nonreproductive period. Nutritional exchange between female and embryos is suggested during late stages of embryonic development, in light of the 130% net increase in embryonic dry mass when compared to ovulated yolk mass. I discuss the variation in physiological variables among female reproductive categories, with special reference to biennial reproduction. 
3891802|Injections of prostaglandin E
3893239| A new species of frog, Batrachyla nibaldoi, is described from the temperate Nothofagus forests of South America in southern Chile. This species is most similar to B. taeniata (Girard). /// Se describe una nueva especie de Batrachyla, B. nibaldoi, proveniente de los bosques templados del sur de Chile. Esta es una rana de tamao mediano (35.4-40.8 mm; distancia hocico-cloaca) que posee dedos delgados y carece de tubrculo metatarsal externo. La membrana entre los ortejos es reducida, fina y transparente. La articulacin tibio-metatarsal alcanza el borde posterior del tmpano. Desde el punto de vista fentico, B. nibaldoi muestra mayores similitudes con B. taeniata que con otras especies congenricas. 
3892144|Ophisaurus mimicus, a new cryptic species of anguid lizard apparently closely related to O. attenuatus and O. compressus, is described from the southeastern United States.
3891894| Rate of gastric digestion (as measured by evacuation) by the iguanid lizard Anolis carolinensis of meals of crickets (Gryllus sp.) and mealworm larvae and adults (Tenebrio molitor), are compared at ambient temperatures of 32, 25 and 18C. The effect of large and small meal size, a 12-day starvation period and season are reported. Rate of evacuation was determined by comparing weight of dry matter consumed with dry matter remaining in the stomach at time of autopsy. Little or no difference in percent gastric depletion at 32C existed among the three food organisms at time intervals of 8, 16, 24 and 32 h of digestion. Approximately 25% of the meal was removed from the stomach after 8 h and 50% after 16 h. Thereafter, the rate of removal decreased slightly with the stomach reaching 90% depletion after 32 h. Gastric evacuation proceeded much more slowly at 25 and 18C. Statistical analysis revealed a significant rate difference for large and small meals and a 12-day starvation period, but no seasonal effect. 
3891657|Aggregations of tadpoles of the American toad, Bufo americanus are described and a scheme for classifying them is proposed. Aggregations are recognized using two major criteria, tadpole density and behavior. Aggregated tadpoles engage in two types of social interactions, butting and coordinated swimming. Butting occurs as larvae swim about and butt and push against each other. In coordinated swimming, tadpoles move in the same direction and roughly parallel to each other. Aggregations are classified into two broad categories: Stationary Aggregations, which do not change position, and Moving Aggregations, which flow as a unit from place to place. Necrophagous Groups are Stationary Aggregations in which tadpoles vigorously feed from a dead tadpole or other carrion. They are especially common when larvae are crowded into small, shallow ponds. Feeding Groups are Stationary Aggregations of feeding tadpoles (Gosner stages 25-41) feeding on periphyton or from the pond bottom. A third type of Stationary Aggregation, the Metamorphic Group, is made up of tadpoles which have nearly completed metamorphosis (stages 42-45) and no longer feed. They occur in shallow water near shore and transforming individuals emerge from them and move onto land. There are two kinds of Moving Aggregations, Streams and Schools. Tadpoles in Streams swim together in moderately dense processions and feed rather infrequently. Schools are made up of tadpoles in closer contact that are primarily feeding as the group advances. Aggregations result from a complex of interacting factors including light intensity, water temperatures, type and distribution of food, and social interactions among the larvae themselves. Many of the aggregations result in a more efficient utilization of food resources.
3891208|In southwestern Idaho Cnemidophorus tigris occupies low hills and flat areas with sparse vegetation made up of different associations of the following dominant shrubs: Artemisia tridentata, Grayia spinosa, Atriplex confertifolia, Chrysothamus nauseosus and Atriplex canescens. Activity begins in mid-April to May with a peak in June. The ovarian cycle starts in May with ovulation and mating in the first half of June and egg laying the last of June into July. Testicular cycle starts when males emerge, reaching its peak in mid-June, and regression is complete by mid-August. Hatchlings appear by mid-August. C. tigris reaches sexual maturity in 20-23 months at 67-70 mm SVL. Reproductive potential is 2.65 eggs/year.
3893208|We performed a histological study on Salamandra lanzai to compare its cloacal anatomy with that reported in congeneric species as well as in members of the sister taxon Mertensiella. Our observations indicated that in Salamandra lanzai the cloacal anatomy, including the accessory glands, is very similar to that described in Salamandra atra and S. salamandra, suggesting an unitary trend of the genus Salamandra in the phylogeny of the cloacal structures. Moreover, the study revealed that in this urodele, secretory pores of the dorsal glands lie external to the cloacal cavity, a morphological trait that we also observed in S. salamandra gigliolii, S. atra, and Mertensiella luschani atifi. This finding, never reported in other members of the family, is discussed in relation to the functional role of the dorsal glands in male reproductive strategies and is regarded as an adaptive character of the genus Salamandra (and possibly of the other "true" salamanders) to their typical terrestrial mating.
3891540| Activity and home range size of the Texas tortoise, Gopherus berlandieri, were investigated in southern Texas. This tortoise has two diel activity periods: morning and afternoon. These periods are maintained by the high midday temperatures; but, even so, more tortoises are active in the evening than in the morning. No tortoises were observed in December-February in the study area. Four methods were used to calculate home range size on a free access study grid. The results indicate that   have larger home ranges than   and that some of the home ranges were stable for at least 2 years. The four methods of estimating home range are discussed. 
3892147|The cloacal anatomy of the broad-headed skink, Eumeces laticeps, was examined macroscopically and by light microscopy. Subdivisions of the cloacal complex, namely the coprodaeum, urodaeum, and proctodaeum, differed between the sexes with the most striking structural modifications occurring in the urodaeum. Males have more prominent urogenital papillae than do females, whereas females exhibit well-developed urodaeal chambers which are reduced in males. Two types of large cloacal glands are found in E. laticeps. The dorsal gland occurs lateral to the proctodaeum in both sexes. In males, it also extends ventral to the proctodaeum and is called the ventral gland. The urodaeal gland, found only in females, becomes highly secretory during the breeding season. In gravid females, its tubular lumina contain both acidophilic and basophilic secretions. The lumina of dorsal glands of both sexes contain acidophilic material. We hypothesize that the dorsal gland may be the source of a species-identifying odor; the urodaeal gland apparently secretes a female sex pheromone.
3891173|Ameiva chrysolaema evulsa is described from Grosse Caye, an isolated islet off the southern coast of the Tiburon Peninsula of Haiti. A possible history of this species, involving its interaction with A. taeniura, is presented.
3892489|The locomotor activity patterns of both neotenic and terrestrial morph tiger salamanders, Ambystoma tigrinum, were studied in a natural habitat, in semi-natural outdoor pools, and in the laboratory. In late summer and autumn, with natural variation in temperature and light regimes, locomotor activity of neotenes in the outdoor pools peaked during the warmest part of the day while terrestrial adult activity peaked shortly after dusk. Statistical separation of the effects of direct sunlight and temperature on neotenes indicated that both were highly significant and together accounted for most of the pattern observed: time-of-day was unimportant. My laboratory results were inconsistent with the results from more natural settings, contradicting the common assumption that diel activity patterns are species specific. In the neotenic tiger salamander's natural environment of low visibility, there may be no advantage to restricting activity to a particular time of day.
3892424|Aerial surveys, out to 222 km off the east coast of central Florida during August 1980, revealed that marine turtles were distributed in a narrow zone west of the Gulf Stream. Of 255 loggerhead turtles, Caretta caretta, only three were observed east of the western boundary of the Gulf Stream. Radiometric thermometry revealed that the waters occupied by most Caretta were markedly cooler than the nearby waters of the Gulf Stream. Of 18 leatherback turtles, Dermochelys coriacea, all were seen west of the Gulf Stream in waters less than 70 m in depth. Marine turtles off eastern Florida are confined seasonally to nearshore waters west of the Gulf Stream. The records of Dermochelys in nearshore waters are in contrast with a deep water oceanic ecology often hypothesized for this species.
3892810| A second species of Andean Phyllonastes is named from the Departamento Amazonas of Peru. The new species, P. lynchi, is like P. heyeri in having three phalanges in the fourth finger. A key to the identification of the species of Phyllonastes is provided, and new localities are noted for P. myrmecoides. /// Se describe una segunda especie andina de Phyllonastes del Departamento de Amazonas, Per. La especie nueva, P. lynchi, es ms similar a P. heyer por no tener reducin falangeal en el dedo cuatro de la mano. Se presenta una clava para la identificacin de las especies de Phyllonastes y nuevas localidades para P. myrmecoides. 
3890621|A community nest containing numerous clutches of Demansia psammophis eggs is described. The nest site had been used for successive seasons and was apparently chosen as an ideal site among less suitable areas.
41239006|A new species of the colubrid genus Geophis is described from the Sierra Madre del Sur of Guerrero, Mexico. The new species possesses all of the diagnostic characters of the sieboldi group, but differs from all of the other species in the group by having dorsal scales arranged in 17 rows, 133-139 ventrals in females and 130-137 in males, 24-31 subcaudals in females and 34-39 in males, keeled dorsal scales on at least the posterior three-fourths of the body, apparently no apical pits, and a light nuchal collar in juveniles. The new species fills a gap in the distribution of the sieboldi group between Michoacn and Oaxaca, and is the first Mexican species of the genus reported to exhibit both a unicolor (uniformly dark) and a bicolor (with dark markings on a red background color) body and tail dorsal patterns, a polymorphism similar to that previously documented in few lower Central American species. Se describe una nueva especie del gnero de colbridos Geophis de la Sierra Madre del Sur de Guerrero, Mxico. La nueva especie posee todos los caracteres diagnsticos del grupo sieboldi, pero difiere de todas las dems especies en el grupo por tener escamas dorsales dispuestas en 17 hueras, 133-139 ventrales en hembras y 130-137 en machos, 24-31 subcaudales en hembras y 34-39 en machos, escamas dorsales quilladas en al menos las tres cuartas partes posteriores del cuerpo y un collar nucal claro en jvenes, y por aparentemente carecer de fosetas apicales. La nueva especie llena un hueco en la distribucin del grupo sieboldi entre Michoacn y Oaxaca, y es la primera especie mexicana reportada que exhibe tanto un patrn dorsal del cuerpo y la cola unicolor (uniformemente oscuro) como otro bicolor (con marcas oscuras sobre un color de fondo rojo), un polimorfismo similar ai documentado previamente en algunas especies de la regin ms surea de Amrica Central.
3893156|I studied the reproductive biology and behavior of two sympatric species of Colostethus for eight months in a primary forest near Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil. Colostethus marchesianus has semiterrestrial tadpoles, as in most dendrobatid species, and exhibited one cephalic amplexus before oviposition. Colostethus stepheni has terrestrial tadpoles and exhibited two periods of cephalic amplexus before oviposition. In both species, the amplexus lasted about 50 min and males defended territories. Colostethus stepheni displayed three types of vocalizations while C. marchesianus displayed only two. Both species preferentially called at dawn and dusk. Calling and breeding activity occurred at different times of the year; C. stepheni started to call as the rainy season began in November, and C. marchesianus started to call two months later. Colostethus stepheni was found either close to or far from wet sites in the forest, but C. marchesianus was found only close to small streams or ponds.
3890980|Sperm suspensions from the epididymis of breeding male Anolis carolinensis were cultured in the following: buffered saline, buffered saline plus macerations of either male kidney containing a hypertrophied sexual segment or female kidney containing no sexual segment, buffered saline plus male liver, or buffered saline plus male skeletal muscle. Only male kidney tissue significantly increased the per cent of motile sperm over that found in sperm cultured in saline. The possibility that secretions from the sexual segment of the male kidney activate or provide nutrients for sperm is discussed.
24634283|Populations of Wood Turtles, Glyptemys insculpta, have steadily decreased over the past 30 yr because of habitat destruction and degradation. We sampled Wood Turtles from three areas in Michigan, USA, to characterize populations, quantify demographic trends, and measure the effect of declining population size on genetic diversity. Wood Turtle samples (n = 68) were collected from three rivers in the Lower Peninsula of Michigan and analyzed at nine microsatellite loci. Bayesian clustering programs identified two populations that split the three sampling sites into North and South populations. In both populations, analysis of genealogies estimated r < 0, indicating population decline. However, no evidence of a bottleneck was detected (P = 0.30 North, P = 0.29 South), and little evidence of inbreeding was observed (average North FIS = 0.25, average South FIS = 0.23), relative to other Emydidae populations. The high genetic diversity observed in the North and South populations is likely due to immigration between the two populations (FST = 0.04), coupled with the long life span of the Wood Turtle. The conflicting signals suggested from the genealogy models compared to the FIS and bottleneck analysis suggests that coalescent models may be better suited to detect population decline than other measures of genetic diversity in long-lived species such as the Wood Turtle.
3892184|During four winters (1976-1980), water was observed more than 100 times in burrows in Leon County, Florida and Thomas County, Georgia. Water occurred in burrows as early as 8 October (1976) and as late as 11 March (1977 and 1978) for periods up to 48 consecutive days; several occupied burrows contained ground water at least once every winter during the study. I observed tortoises totally or partially submerged in water most of the time that water was present, indicating a preference for immersion even when water levels were low in burrows. Burrow flooding may be common in colonies of Gopherus polyphemus.
3893265|We studied a population of the alpine newt, Triturus alpestris, living at the upper limit of its altitudinal range (2200 m in the northwestern Alps) during the aquatic activity period. Age was estimated by skeletochronology applied to phalanges and body size was measured. Age structures were similar between sexes, with age at maturity at 9-11 years and longevity up to 20 years. Annual survival was 0.81. Females were significantly larger than males. Growth, modelled according to van Bertalanffy's growth model, was higher in females during the juvenile period. A comparative analysis of age and size at maturity, mean size, and longevity in several European populations distributed from sea level to high altitudes shows a significant increase in these phenotypic variables with the decrease of the duration of the activity period. The growth coefficient K, indicating the shape of the curve, is smaller in highland than in lowland populations, and the asymptotic size is smaller in the plain than at higher altitude. If adult size increases with altitude, age at maturity is extensively delayed in short activity period environments. The discussion is focussed on the patterns of variation of these traits. However, age and size of newts can also depend on traits of the previous stages of the life cycle, and we review several characteristics of the egg and larval stages in response to environmental gradients.
3893616|We used 1400 bp of mitochondrial DNA sequence from two gene fragments (ND4 and cyt-b) to investigate phylogenetic relationships within Atropoides, with emphasis on the subspecies of A. nummifer. Although many relationships within the genus are strongly supported, monophyly of Atropoides was never supported, although it could not be rejected with statistical confidence. In most analyses, the genus was paraphyletic with respect to Porthidium and Cerrophidion, due to the problematic placement of A. picadoi. Our results suggest that the current taxonomy may underestimate species diversity within this group. Atropoides nummifer was found to comprise three distinct phylogroups, generally coinciding with the current subspecies recognized under A. nummifer but paraphyletic with respect to A. olmec. Additionally, disjunct populations previously thought to represent A. nummifer in Oaxaca, Mexico, and Baja Verapaz, Guatemala, appear to represent A. olmec. We use the phylogeny recovered for A. nummifer and A. olmec to discuss geological and climatic events that may historically have affected gene flow within this complex.
3892916| Effects of artificial lighting on loggerhead (Caretta caretta) and green turtle (Chelonia mydas) nesting behavior were determined experimentally at major nesting beaches: Melbourne Beach, Florida, USA (loggerheads) and Tortuguero, Costa Rica (green turtles). I conducted experiments in which a portion of each nesting beach remained dark, or was illuminated with white, mercury vapor (MV) or yellow, low pressure sodium vapor (LPS) luminaires of equal luminance. Lighting beaches with MV luminaires significantly reduced the numbers of green turtles and loggerheads emerging and nesting within lighted study areas. Lighting beaches with LPS luminaires had no significant effect on nesting in either species. Some turtles were misdirected by lighted luminaires (primarily mercury vapor) on their return to the ocean following nesting attempts. Lighted luminaires did not significantly affect the stages at which nesting attempts were abandoned nor the positioning of nests relative to dune vegetation. Results suggest that MV luminaires and other broad-spectrum lighting types have the potential to disrupt the nesting of loggerheads and green turtles. LPS luminaires may be an acceptable alternative where lighting on nesting beaches cannot be completely extinguished. /// Los efectos de la luz artificial en el comportamiento de las especies caguama (Caretta caretta) y la tortuga verde (Chelonia mydas) al hacer sus nidos fueron determinados experimentalmente en las playas principales de nidada: Melbourne Beach, Florida EUA (caguamas) y Tortuguero, Costa Rica (Tortugas verdes). Llev a cabo experimentos en que una porcin de cada playa de nidada permaneca oscura, o era iluminada con vapor de mercurio (MV) o con lumbreras de igual luminiscencia de vapor amarillo de sodio a baja presin (LPS). La iluminacin de las playas con lumbreras MV redujo significativamente el nmero de tortugas verdes y caguamas saliendo y anidando dentro de las reas de estudio iluminadas. La iluminacin con lumbreras LPS no tuvo un efecto significativo en la nidada de ninguna de las especies. Algunas tortugas fueron mal dirigidas por las lumbreras encendidas (principalmente vapor de mercurio) en su regreso al ocano despus de sus intentos de anidar. Las lumbreras encendidas no afectaron significativamente las etapas en que los intentos de anidar fueron suspendidos ni tampoco la posicin de los nidos en relacin con la vegetacin de las dunas. Las resultados sugieren que las lumbreras MV y otros tipos de iluminacin de amplio espectro tienen el potencial de trastornar la nidada de las caguamas y las tortugas verdes. Las lumbreras LPS pueden ser una alternativa aceptable cuando la iluminacin en las playas de nidada no puede ser completamente extinguida. 
23255790|We describe a new species of Ischnocnema from the municipality of Arcos, in the karst region of the upper Rio So Francisco basin, State of Minas Gerais, Brazil. The new species is diagnosed by the possession of a W-shaped mark on the back, at the level of the shoulder, with one tubercle at each posterior point, red iris in life, and moderate-sized discs on fingers III and IV. These characteristics resemble those of Ischnocnema manezinho and I. sambaqui (from the I. lactea series) but also that from the species in the I. verrucosa series. Uma nova espcie de Ischnocnema  descrita, procedente do Municpio de Arcos, regio crstica do alto curso da bacia do rio So Francisco, Estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil. A nova espcie  diagnosticada por apresentar uma marca em forma de W entre os ombros, com um tubrculo em cada uma das bases; ris vermelha em vida; discos com tamanhos moderados nos dedos III e IV. Tais caractersticas assemelham-se s apresentadas por I. manezinho e I. sambaqui (da srie de I. lactea), mas tambm quelas apresentadas pelas espcies da srie de I. verrucosa.
3890759| Over a 22-year period 151 live milk snakes, Lampropeltis triangulum syspila, from Douglas County, Kansas, or nearby areas were examined. Adult males average 6% larger than females. Length of tail is not significantly different in the sexes. Recaptured marked snakes moved 250-1300 (x = 832.5) ft, indicating home ranges of about 50 acres. Ten females had 5-9 (x = 6.7  .46) eggs-a relatively small clutch compared with the 13 calculated for L. t. triangulum of the eastern United States. However, L. t. triangulum attains much larger size. Hatchling syspila are about 200 mm SVL. By the following spring, young average 240 mm, and by the second spring, 360 mm. By the third spring, most are 400-500 mm and some are sexually mature; growth rate is not much reduced in the fourth and fifth years. Among 22 natural food items, Eumeces fasciatus is by far the most frequent, with E. obsoleta, Diadophis punctatus, Carphophis vermis, Cryptotis parva, and Peromyscus maniculatus making up the remainder. 
40602600|We studied the reproductive cycle of Sceloporus grammicus from two localities in Hidalgo, Mexico: La Estanzuela (LE) and Tilcuautla (TIL) of the Municipality of Mineral del Chico and San Agustn Tlaxiaca, respectively. Males were larger than females in both populations, with males having larger snoutvent lengths (SVLs), heads, and limbs than females. Males from LE reached sexual maturity at a larger SVL (42.2 mm) than males from TIL (38.9 mm). Females from LE reached sexual maturity at a smaller SVL (41.6 mm) than females from TIL (44.6 mm). Reproductive activity of both sexes from both populations was asynchronous. Testicular recrudescence at LE occurred May-July, reaching maximum activity August-October, and showing regression November-December, whereas in TIL, recrudescence occurred May-June, reaching maximum activity July-October, and showing regression November-December. Vitellogenesis occurred May-October in both populations, with ovulation occurring November-December. Embryonic development was observed November-March in both populations. Hatchlings from LE and TIL first appeared in March. Mean litter size for both populations was similar (LE, 4.75; TIL, 4.66) and increased with female SVL. Reproduction of S. grammicus for both populations was different from other montane populations but similar to populations from low elevations. Estudiamos el ciclo reproductivo de Sceloporus grammicus de dos localidades, La Estanzuela (LE) y Tilcuautla (TIL) del Municipio de Minerai del Chico y San Agustn Tlaxiaca, respectivamente, Hidalgo, Mxico. Los machos fueron ms grandes que las hembras en ambas poblaciones. En ambas poblaciones, los machos presentaron la cabeza y miembros ms grandes que las hembras. Los machos de LE alcanzaron la madurez sexual a una longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC = 42.2 mm) mayor que las hembras de TIL (38.9 mm). Las hembras de LE alcanzaron la madurez sexual a una LHC ms pequea (41.6 mm) que las hembras de TIL (44.6 mm). La actividad reproductiva de ambos sexos de ambas poblaciones fue asincrnica. La recrudescencia testicular en LE ocurri de mayo a julio, alcanzando la mxima actividad de agosto a octubre, y mostrando regresin de noviembre a diciembre, mientras que en TIL, la recrudescencia ocurri de mayo a junio, alcanzando la mxima actividad de julio a octubre, y mostrando regresin de noviembre a diciembre. La vitelognesis ocurri de mayo a octubre en ambas poblaciones, con ovulacin de noviembre a diciembre. El desarrollo embrionario se observ de noviembre a marzo en ambas poblaciones. Las primeras cras de LE y TIL aparecieron en marzo. El tamao medio de la carnada de ambas poblaciones fue similar (LE, 4.75; TIL, 4.66), e increment con la LHC de la hembra. La reproduccin de S. grammicus de ambas poblaciones fue diferente a otras poblaciones de montaa pero similar a las poblaciones de bajas altitudes.
3891322|Telmatobius solitarius, a new rare species from the ancient volcanic tableland of Southern Pilcaniyeu (Rio Negro, Argentina), is described. Its general relationships with the recently discovered Telmatobius praebasalticus and T. reverberii are discussed. The general features of such a chain of semiterrestrial telmatobiid frogs from the highland Patagonian territories are pointed out.
3891697|Recapture studies of snapping turtles, Chelydra serpentina, in Iowa indicate that shell growth begins in the last 2 weeks of May. Most rapid growth is in June, July, and August, and all annual growth is accomplished in an activity period of 204 days and a 145 day feeding period. Males mature in the fourth or fifth year of growth at plastral lengths of 149-155 mm. Females enter a period of ovarian follicle development without ovulations between years 4 and 7 at plastral lengths of 123 and 175 mm. Ovulations first occur during the sixth or more often seventh full year of growth or even later. Males grow at a faster rate than females during years 5, 6, and 7 and some males continue to grow after 35 years. Female growth is slight beyond 20 years. Male growth rate decline is correlated with maturity but the decline in females begins earlier with the start of ovarian follicle development. In past studies, utilization of enlarging ovarian follicles as a criterion for maturity may have masked differences in maturation age and size.
3893563| I describe a new species of Stenocercus from the lowlands of southwestern Ecuador and northwestern Peru. The new species differs from other Stenocercus by the combination of the following characters: posterior circumorbitals present, one row of supraoculars enlarged, posterior head scales enlarged, projecting angulate temporals absent, canthals two, ventrals smooth, posthumeral and postfemoral mite pockets shallow, dorsolateral crests absent, inscriptional ribs not articulating midventrally, throat yellow and venter lavender in males. Some evidence suggests that the new species is closely related to Stenocercus iridescens, which occurs allopatrically in the lowlands of western Ecuador and southwestern Colombia. /// Describo una especie nueva de Stenocercus de tierras bajas del suroccidente ecuatoriano y noroccidente peruano. La especie nueva se distingue de otras especies de Stenocercus por la combinacin de los siguientes caracteres: circumorbitales posteriores presentes, una hilera de escamas supraoculares ensanchada, escamas posteriores de la cabeza grandes, escamas temporales angulares no proyectadas, dos cantales, ventrales lisas, bolsillos posthumerales y postfemorales poco profundos, crestas dorsolaterales ausentes, articulacin medioventral de costillas abdominales ausente, pecho amarillo y vientre rosado en machos. Algunos de estos caracteres sugieren que la especie nueva est cercanamente emparentada con Stenocercus iridescens, la cual est distribuida aloptricamente en las tierras bajas del occidente ecuatoriano y suroccidente colombiano. 
3893026|Recent changes in the hypothesized phylogenetic relationships and taxonomy of gekkotan lizards were based solely on the karyotype. I judge those studies to be unconvincing because the character states were usually polarized according to the common equals primitive criterion, and the hypothesized transformation was often ambiguous. Further, no additional or corroborative benefit was derived from referring to the nature of karyotypic evolution, largely because the historical patterns in question were assumed. In addition, there was no justification for using the simplicity of the imagined processes as a basis for choosing among alternative hypotheses of relationships. The phylogenetic informativeness of the gekkotan karyotype remains to be determined by future empirical studies. Structural analyses of chromosomes and studies of intra- and interspecific variation will be important in delimiting comparable states and recognizing independent variables, respectively. Ultimately, the homology of synapomorphies must be considered in light of the best fitting hypothesis of relationships for a large body of evidence, which would include the karyotypic characters in question. Rooting the branching pattern(s) resulting from the simultaneous analysis of many outgroup and ingroup terminal taxa will provide the globally most parsimonious interpretation of character evolution.
40931020|During encounters with predators, prey that flee into refuges decide how long to hide. Refuge use theory predicts that hiding time increases as the risk of emerging increases. Lizards that escape by autotomizing their tails incur costs, including temporary decrease in speed and loss of ability to use autotomy. Thus, risk of being captured upon emergence is greater after autotomy. Also, a predator that captures a prey may later be assessed as posing greater threat. We predicted that hiding time increases after a lizard has been captured or has undergone autotomy. A previous study of striped plateau lizards (Sceloporus virgatus) showed that the proportion of lizards that entered refuges increased after autotomy but not after earlier capture. To examine unstudied effects of autotomy and capture on hiding time, we conducted a 2  2 factorial field experiment with handling and autotomy as factors. The four groups were (1) unhandled intact controls; (2) unhandled autotomized; (3) captured (and handled) intact, but not autotomized; and (4) captured, handled and autotomized. Because entering cool refuges entails costly decrease in body temperature, hiding times are shorter in cooler refuges. We controlled this effect statistically by conducting analyses of covariance incorporating difference in air temperature inside and outside refuges as the covariate. As predicted, autotomy and handling led to longer hiding times. However, handling affected hiding time only in intact lizards. Our results add autotomy and capture to risk factors known to affect hiding time, augmenting a growing body of knowledge supporting the hypothesis that trade-offs between costs of emerging and remaining in a refuge guide decisions about hiding time.
3893155| We present information on developmental stages (larvae, recent metamorphs, and subadults) and ecology of the Panamanian golden frog (Atelopus zeteki). Tadpoles were found in stream pools away from swift torrents and recent metamorphs were observed on gravel bars adjacent to these pools. Water quality of streams containing A. zeteki was found to have high dissolved oxygen content, neutral pH, and low levels of sulfates, nitrates, reactive phosphorous, and turbidity. As opposed to the aposematically colored adults, metamorphs and subadults of the two populations studied were cryptically colored, suggesting the absence of significant skin toxicity in the latter. Subadult juveniles often were seen in close proximity to adult males. This is unusual because outside of courting gravid females, adult males are aggressive toward other conspecifics within sight. /// Informacin sobre las etapas de desarrollo (larvas, juveniles recin transformados y subadultos) y ecologa de la rana dorada de Panam (Atelopus zeteki) es presentada. Los renacuajos fueron encontrados en las piletas de las quebradas, lejos de corrientes fuertes, y los juveniles recin transformados fueron observados en los bancos de grava a los lados de estas piletas. La calidad de agua de las quebradas fue determinada, sta tena un contenido de oxgeno disuelto alto, pH neutro y niveles bajos de sulfatos, nitratos, fsforo reactivo y turbidez. A diferencia de los adultos, que tienen una coloracin aposemtica, los metamorfos y subadultos de las dos poblaciones estudiadas tenan una coloracin crptica, lo que sugiere la ausencia de toxicidad significativa en la piel de stos ltimos. Los juveniles subadultos fueron vistos frecuentemente creca de machos adultos. Esta observacin es inusual, porque exceptuando a las hembras grvidas que estn siendo cortejadas, los machos son agresivos hacia cualquier otro individuo coespecfico dentro de su campo visual. 
3892779|We studied the cloacal anatomy of male Euproctus montanus by light microscopy, which revealed some traits of the cloacal conformation and accessory glands that distinguish this species from the other members of the family. There is a backward-projecting conical protuberance in the cloacal region of E. montanus, at which apex occurs the vent. The cloacal chamber contains a conspicuous pseudopenis, which may protrude from the cloacal cavity during amplexus. Only two types of accessory glands have been verified-pelvic and ventral glands. Kingsbury's glands are absent, and apparently also the dorsal glands. Observations on the cloacal morphology and accessory glands are discussed in the light of the peculiar mating habits of this species, which consists of female capture and apposition of the male cloaca to the female one. Possibly, this method of mating renders chemical attractants (usually produced by the dorsal glands) unnecessary. In addition, sperm transfer may occur by means of simplified spermatophores, which may account for the lack of Kingsbury's glands and the reduction of ventral glands.
25209101|Liolaemus gracilis was cited in the categorization of the reptile habitat associations of Buenos Aires province in Argentina as the only Liolaemus lizard inhabiting the rocky grounds of the Tandilia System. We describe a new species of the genus Liolaemus which was previously confused with the widely ranging L. gracilis from the population of this mountain range. We examined samples of populations from coastal and dunes and from the mountain range of Tandilia. Morphological characters and measurements were taken from specimens of both populations. We recorded ecological and life history notes of the saxicolous form in the field. The new species is an endemic and saxicolous form from Tandilia that can be distinguished from L. gracilis by indistinct or absent light dorsolateral stripes, small and segmental paravertebral spots, and by a throat with a denser, fine and diffuse spotted pattern. The ventral coloration is grayish plumb. Temporal scales are keeled or slightly keeled and the auricular scale is less differentiated. Morphometrically, the new species is larger in snout-vent length and head width but smaller in maximum body width and tail length than L. gracilis. The new species is oviparous and insectivorous. /// Liolaemus gracilis es citada en un listado de reptiles y ambientes de la provincia de Buenos Aires de Argentina como la nica especie de Liolaemus que habita en suelos rocosos del Sistema de Sierras de Tandilia. Describimos a partir de una poblacin de estas sierras una nueva especie del gnero Liolaemus anteriormente confundida con L. gracilis, esta ltima de mayor distribucin. Examinamos caracteres morfolgicos y medimos especmenes de muestras provenientes de poblaciones de las dunas costeras y de las sierras de Tandilia. En el campo recolectamos datos sobre la ecologa e historia natural de la forma serrana. La nueva especie es una forma saxcola endmica de Tandilia que puede distinguirse de L. gracilis por las bandas dorsolaterales claras poco evidentes o ausentes, la manchas paravertebrales pequeas y segmentarias y por una garganta con un patrn denso y difuso de manchas finas. La coloracin ventral es gris plomiza. Las escamas temporales son quilladas o levemente quilladas y la escama auricular est menos diferenciada. Morfomtricamente la especie saxcola tiene mayor longitud hocico-cloaca y su cabeza es ms ancha, pero a la vez es ms delgada en la mitad del cuerpo y su cola es ms corta que la de L. gracilis. La nueva especie es ovpara e insectvora.
3893174| We investigated the impacts of PIT-tagging and tattooing on survival, condition, and egg laying in Alpine newts (Triturus alpestris) by both field and laboratory experiments. A laboratory experiment made it possible to compare impacts of each marking technique with control groups of unmarked newts. This experiment consisted of a 3  3 factorial plan (population, replication, and marking) using 90 individuals of each sex. Neither survival nor body condition were affected by marking. No variation was detected between marking treatments. However, marked females laid significantly more eggs than control females. We assume that such higher reproductive outputs are responses to the stress induced by skin injury by both marking techniques, but this hypothesis remains to be tested. The field experiment consisted of monitoring a newt population in a pond where individuals (n = 121) were marked by either marking technique. No difference in survival or in body condition was detected between marking treatments. Either technique reliably met the requirements of data processing. The present study shows that data obtained with both techniques can be regarded as similarly suitable for estimating population parameters. However, because of better long-term reading reliability, PIT-tagging appears to be the preferred one, provided that body size is sufficiently large to accomodate a transponder. 
3893542|Use of cover objects for hiding is a well developed behavior in reptiles, including snakes. Snakes sometimes aggregate under cover objects, which may reflect a shortage of suitable cover, very favorable conditions, social attraction, or simply chance. However, most studies of aggregation behavior have been conducted in the laboratory. In this study, I investigated the tendency of six species of snakes to aggregate under rocks in the field in southern Ontario, Canada. Most snakes under rocks were by themselves, but I found single- and mixed-species aggregations of up to four snakes. Although all species were involved in mixed-species aggregations, I did not find all possible combinations of species; no aggregations involved more than two species. Goodness-of-fit tests suggested that the pattern of aggregation sizes was well described by a geometric distribution, implying a nonrandom tendency toward aggregation. Nonetheless, because data were pooled over time, random occurrence of aggregation cannot be ruled out. However, aggregations were clearly nonrandom in another sense: individuals in aggregations tended to be the same size, perhaps indicating size-specific choice of rock and/or fellow snake. Careful field experimentation will be required to test these ideas.
3892418| A new species of Lepidophyma is described from Michoacn, 250 km northwest of the previously known northern limit of the genus on the Pacific coast of Mxico. The species resembles L. smithii in having low numbers of femoral pores and lateral tubercle rows, but differs in having fewer dorsal and gular scales. 
3893022|Velvet geckos (Oedura lesueurii) are small nocturnal lizards that use crevices under slabs of rock as diurnal retreat sites. In laboratory trials offering a choice of alternative crevice types, captive geckos showed consistent preferences based on characteristics such as the size of the overlying rock and the width, shape, temperature, humidity, and height above the substrate of the crevice itself. The presence and sex of conspecifics also influenced the selection of retreat sites. No preferences were evident with respect to crevice orientation (horizontal versus vertical) or type of substrate (rock versus soil versus sand) in our laboratory trials, but the distributions of geckos in the field suggest that the lizards prefer rocky crevices as diurnal retreat sites. Our study shows that velvet geckos evaluate a wide variety of structural, microclimatic, and social aspects of potential shelters, and hence can use complex criteria to assess the suitability of potential retreat sites.
27669730|Escaping prey decide whether to enter and how long to stay in refuges. According to refugeuse theory, hiding time increases as costs of emerging increase and costs of staying in refuge decrease. We studied effects of air temperature on probability of entering refuges and the effects of thermal cost on hiding time (duration in refuge). Few striped plateau lizards (Sceloporus virgatus) used refuges at intermediate air temperatures, but most readily entered cool refuges at the lowest air temperatures and relatively warm refuges at higher temperatures. Because running speed in lizards decreases as body temperature decreases, S. virgatus that are cool upon morning emergence presumably reduced their probability of being captured by entering refuges. As air and presumably body temperatures increase, refuges are initially cooler than outside, contributing to infrequent use. At higher, but not thermally stressful, temperatures, a greater probability of using refuges may reflect lower thermal costs in refuges that have warmed. Hiding time decreased as temperatures became cooler in refuges than outside. Our results confirm previous work on actively foraging lacertid lizards showing that hiding time decreases as thermal costs of refuge use increases, and extend this finding to a very distantly related phrynosomatid species that is an ambush forager. Thus, the thermal cost of refuge use affects hiding time even in lizards that do not require high body temperature for prolonged foraging movements. A growing body of knowledge supports the hypothesis that tradeoffs between costs of emerging and remaining in refuges guide decisions about hiding time.
3891472|Nocturnal observations of surface activity of the plethodontid salamanders Desmognathus fuscus, Desmognathus ochrophaeus, and Eurycea bislineata were made along stream margins at two study sites in northeastern Ohio. Peak surface activity for these species occurred at sunset and during the first hour thereafter, followed by a diminution into the night. Activity of salamanders was highly correlated with that of potential prey, and analysis of stomach contents indicated that the salamanders were feeding during the period of heightened activity. By foraging at times when prey were most available, possible interspecific competition for food may be minimized despite overall similarity in diets.
3892087|In what appears to be the first quantitative investigation of pupillary dynamics in anuran amphibians, Rana pipiens from Wisconsin and Rana forreri from Mexico were studied by infrared photography in 32 separate experiments. Dark-adapted pupils constricted slowly to light, reaching asymptotic closure after 10-20 min. At low illuminations (5-50 lux), the pipiens pupil may redilate fully after about 4 h in constant light. At higher illuminations (500-1500 lux), the pupil is still slowly redilating after 4 h, and at the highest illumination (5000 lux) fails to show signs of redilation even after 24 h. Responses of R. forreri are similar but the pupils never achieve full redilation at even the lowest illumination and show no clear signs of redilation at illuminations of 500 lux and higher. With increasing illumination, the speed and extent of maximum constriction both increase. After 24 h of light-adaptation, the pupil completely dilates to its normal opening within 1 h following light offset. Frogs immobilized by curare and physical restraint showed the same pupillary curves. Unlike the classical mammalian pupil, which constricts rapidly and then redilates to an asymptotic value depending upon the illumination, the slower anuran pupil either reaches the asymptote through initial constriction or (if the illumination is sufficiently low) redilates slowly showing no asymptote short of complete redilation within 4 h of light onset.
3892843| Life history traits of the yellow mud turtle, Kinosternon flavescens, were studied from 1981 to 1988 in the Nebraska Sandhills. Females mature at about 90 mm carapace length (CL) after an average of 11 yr of age. Hatchling females are larger than males, but males are larger than females in all age classes older than 3 yr. The relationship of age to CL was determined by applying the von Bertalanffy growth model to long-term recapture data. Egg width and mass were correlated with body size, but egg length was not. Clutch size (x = 6.5; range = 4-9) was highly correlated with body size. When the effect of body size was removed, egg size was inversely correlated with clutch size. A maximum of one clutch was produced each year, but only about 75% of females nested in any given year. Annual frequency of nesting was not related to female size but appeared to be positively correlated with late spring temperatures in the current and past year. Relative clutch mass (RCM) averaged 10.9% and was correlated with female size and clutch size. Expenditure per progeny (RCM/clutch size) was inversely correlated with female size and only weakly related to egg size. Pelvis size did not constrain egg size, and increases in female reproductive output with body size were accomplished both by increases in egg size (mainly in width) and egg number. A complex trade-off between egg size and clutch size is apparently being selected for. Although the species exhibits temperature-dependent sex determination, cohort sex ratios were not significantly different from parity, nor were they correlated with annual mid-summer air or soil temperatures. Mortality during the first year of life was extremely high (81%), due primarily to egg predation. Egg infertility, overwintering, and migration to the water the following spring also account for small losses. Annual survivorship by juveniles was relatively high (30-70%) and exceeded 90% by the sixth year and 95% by the eighth year. The species exhibits a Type III survivorship curve. Life table analysis showed that the population was growing slightly (R
3892837|The predatory behavior of larval small-mouthed salamanders (Ambystoma texanum) was quantitatively studied in the laboratory. A split-plot Latin square design was used to test for differences in behavior between two size classes of larvae foraging on six types of prey. Size-specific differences in foraging behavior were observed. Small larvae had a higher frequency and duration of swimming-affiliated behaviors, while large larvae exhibited more crawling-affiliated behaviors. Shifts in foraging behavior associated with different prey types were not as obvious. Transitions between different sequential pairs of feeding behaviors were never random, regardless of prey type. Larvae showed similarly ordered behavior sequences with Daphnia, small isopods, and even when no prey were present. Large isopods and the two size classes of amphipods elicited more complex behavioral sequences, especially for attack sequences. Thus, changes exist in larval foraging behavior in response to prey. These behavioral shifts are responses to general characteristics of the prey (behavior and/or size) and are not species-specific.
3892822|Clutch size, clutch frequency, and carapace length were examined for leatherback turtles, Dermochelys coriacea, nesting at Culebra National Wildlife Refuge, Puerto Rico, from 1984-1987. There were no significant differences in mean clutch frequency, mean clutch size, or mean carapace length of females among years. Clutch frequency showed a significant positive correlation with body size, but there was no significant correlation between clutch size and body size. Returning turtles that had been tagged in previous seasons (remigrants) had higher clutch frequencies than those never before seen nesting on Culebra (neophytes). However, there was no significant difference in body size between remigrants and neophytes.
3893101|We examined morphological variation in Gyrinophilus porphyriticus in six geographic regions of the southern Appalachian Mountains and tested competing evolutionary hypotheses concerning body size and life history variation in this species. Morphology was quantified with a set of linear distance measures, and three size-adjustment methods were used to generate shape variables from these values. Phenotypic variation was assessed using each set of shape variables, and phenotypic differentiation was represented as a matrix of generalized Mahalanobis distances among populations. Morphological variation was also examined in the context of three historical hypotheses of the evolution of body size. The relationships among the populations under each hypothesis were quantified and represented by a design matrix. The association between each evolutionary hypothesis and the observed phenotypic variation was then determined using Mantel tests. We found significant phenotypic differences among populations, regardless of which size-adjustment method was used. Populations from the Blue Ridge, Piedmont, and Nantahalas were morphologically similar, while populations from the Balsams, North Cowees, and South Cowees were each unique and distinct from other groups. None of the evolutionary hypotheses were associated with phenotypic variation, but when the effect of geography was taken into account, the river vicariance model was significantly associated with morphology. Thus, there was morphological support for the river vicariance model. These results, coupled with previous results concerning sexual isolation between parapatric populations in G. porphyriticus, suggest that morphometric variation may be a useful diagnostic character in this species complex.
3893400|A current generalization regarding body temperature (T
40602599|Snakes exhibit a complex repertoire of defensive responses, shifting from one tactic to another depending upon conditions at the time of encounter with a potential predator. Standardized laboratory trials, controlling factors such as time of day, temperature, and type of encounter, can be used to test predictions about the form of this context dependency. We studied two sympatric species of elapid snakes from southeastern Australia. Although similar in body sizes, habitat use, and nocturnality, small-eyed snakes (Cryptophis nigrescens) are wide foragers (and hence, encounter predators under cool conditions at night in relatively open areas), whereas broad-headed snakes (Hoplocephalus bungaroides) lie in ambush for long periods within sun-warmed rocky retreat sites (and hence, encounter predators mostly when the snake is warm, and within its retreat). Based on those differences, we predicted that small-eyed snakes would be thermal generalists; that is, temperature would exert relatively little effect on the snakes' locomotor abilities, alertness, and preparedness to flee from threat. Broad-headed snakes would be likely to utilize tactics other than fleeing, and to increase response intensity substantially at higher temperatures. Both species were predicted to exhibit more intense responses at night, and when warm. Data from our laboratory trials supported these predictions: (1) antipredator behaviors of small-eyed snakes were less sensitive to thermal variation than were those of broad-headed snakes, (2) both species relied primarily on fleeing, but broadheaded snakes were more likely to adopt retaliatory behavior than were small-eyed snakes, and (3) both species responded more intensely at night and when warm. These results are consistent with the broader theory that snakes flexibly adjust their antipredator tactics to local conditions.
23255792|We describe a new species of Liolaemus, belonging to the alticolor group, that was previously confused with L. walkeri. The new species inhabits the inter-Andean dry valleys at two localities in the department of La Paz (Ananta and Jupapina), Bolivia. We compared the new species with 11 morphologically similar taxa classified as part of the alticolor group. Our comparisons were based on external morphology and included lepidosis, morphometry, meristic characters, and color patterns. Liolaemus sp. nov. differs from other species of the same group by unique dorsal coloration and lepidosis characteristics. Describimos una nueva especie de Liolaemus perteneciente al grupo alticolor, previamente confundida con L. walkeri. Esta nueva especie habita en los valles secos inter-Andinos, en las localidades de Ananta y Jupapina, provincia Murillo, departamento de La Paz, Bolivia. Basndonos en caracteres de morfologa externa (lepidosis, morfometra, caracteres mersticos y patrones de coloracin), comparamos el nuevo taxn con 11 taxa morfolgicamente similares que pertenecen al grupo alticolor. Liolaemus sp. nov. difiere de las dems especies del grupo por presentar un patrn de coloracin dorsal y caractersticas de su lepidosis nicos. Estos resultados nos ayudan a concluir que se trata de una especie nueva del gnero Liolaemus.
3892952| Males of Anotheca spinosa call from water filled tree holes or bromeliad leaf axils. I used water filled containers to study the reproduction and parental care of this species in captivity. Between 48 and 311 eggs (x = 157.8) were laid in a single, discontinuous layer above the water surface. The male abandoned the container immediately or 6-7 days after oviposition. Few eggs were fertilized and only 1-25 larvae per clutch hatched. The female subsequently returned to the container depositing eggs either above the water when the male was still present or under the water surface when the male was absent. The unfertilized eggs were eaten by the larvae. She returned in intervals of 1-14 (x = 4.85) days feeding larvae as long as they touched and slightly sucked her skin during her visits. If this behavior was interrupted by metamorphosis or experimentally, the female did not lay unfertilized eggs but approached a calling male. Metamorphosis was reached after 60-136 days, depending on the number of larvae present. Larvae that did not receive nutritive eggs regularly either starved and were eaten by their siblings or survived until the latter had completed metamorphosis, at which time they were able to obtain nutritive eggs again. /// Los machos de la rana coronada Anotheca spinosa cantan desde las aguas acumuladas en los huecos de rboles o en las axilas de las hojas de bromeliceas. En cautiverio se utiliz un recipiente con agua. Una hembra fue agarrada por las axilas al entrar al recipiente. Un promedio de 158 huevos fueron depositados en una capa simple, discontnua en el borde del recipiente sobre la superficie del agua. El macho abandon el recipiente o inmediatamente despus de la oviposicin, o despus de que las larvas salieron del huevo a los 6-7 das. La hembra retorn posteriormente al recipiente, depositando huevos sobre el agua con el macho an sobre ella antes de que los renacuajos salieron del huevo, o debajo de la superficie del agua sin el macho sobre ella. Estos huevos no fertilizados fueron devorados por las larvas. La hembra regres posteriormente en intervalos de 1-14 das (x = 4.85), alimentando a las larvas tan pronto ellas la tocaban y succionaban ligeramente su piel durante su visita. Si este comportamiento fue interrumpido por la metamrfosis o experimentalmente, la hembra no puso mas huevos sino se acerc a un macho que cantaba. La metamrfosis se alcanz despus de 60-136 das, dependiendo del nmero de las larvas presentes. Cuando haban ms de 10 larvas presentes, no todas recibieron regularmente huevos nutritivos. Estas larvas murieron de hambre y fueron comidas por sus familiares, o lograron sobrevivir esperando hasta los otros haban completado su metamrfosis y as pudieron obtener nuevamente huevos nutritivos. 
3892178|In the east-central United States, two forms of Ambystoma texanum occur which differ in their preferred breeding habitat, mode of egg deposition, egg size, stage at hatching, and hatchling morphology. The two forms are allopatric over most of their ranges, but they occur parapatrically in southeastern Indiana and north-central Kentucky and sympatrically in western Kentucky. In areas of parapatry and sympatry, the two forms show virtually no evidence of intergradation, and the existence of a sibling species complex is suspected.
3891611|Two forms of the salamander Gyrinophilus porphyriticus inhabit the Cowee Mountains in Jackson, Macon, and Swain counties, North Carolina. A small morph, allied to populations in the adjacent Blue Ridge and Piedmont, occurs in the southeastern part of the Cowees, whereas a large morph, related to populations in the nearby Nantahala Mountains, occupies the northwest. There appears to be neither intergradation nor coexistence between the two where their distributions approach one another at Watauga Gap, about midway along the length of the main Cowee ridge. The pronounced differences in adult body size and fecundity between the 2 Cowee morphs result from a greater time required for attainment of maturity following metamorphosis in the northwestern populations. Such differences among populations in the Cowee and adjacent ranges are thought to represent adaptive responses related to the environmental history of the southern Blue Ridge Province.
27669742|Chicken turtles (Deirochelys reticularia) were studied at Dry Bay, a Carolina bay wetland in South Carolina, USA, between 1994 and 2005. A total of 461 individual turtles was marked from 19931998. Minimum ages at maturity for males and females were 2 and 5 yr, respectively. All females reproduced each year, and 60% of reproductive females produced two clutches per season. Clutch size averaged 9.8 eggs, and both clutch and egg size increased with body size. Hatchlings averaged 29.2 mm PL, and body sizes were similar among years. Yearling survivorship varied from 7.043.0% (mean = 20.4%) among years. The highest survivorship of a hatchling cohort to age 5 was 0.21. Survivorships of juveniles and adults while in terrestrial refugia were higher than survivorships while in aquatic habitats. No adult females survived a 2-yr drought (20012003), and the bay was repopulated by mature males and juvenile females (most from the 1998 hatchling cohort) that had survived the extended drought in terrestrial refugia. Three of those juvenile females matured and produced eggs in 2004. The traits of early maturity, high susceptibility to predation, and shortened longevity characteristic of chicken turtles are consistent with predictions for species that live in seasonally fluctuating and highly unpredictable aquatic habitats.
3892015| In southern New Mexico, males of Holbrookia maculata, H. texana, and Phrynosoma modestum were reproductive from at least May through July; male Crotaphytus collaris were reproductive only in May and June. The latter apparently had a short breeding season and produced a single clutch (x=5.3  .35 eggs). All-female Cnemidophorus tesselatus were gravid from late May to mid-July, and possibly produced more than one clutch. Males of Cnemidophorus tigris were reproductive for 5 months in Arizona, 4 months in New Mexico, and 3 months in Utah. Oviducal eggs had a similar pattern of 3, 2, and 1 month respectively. Clutch size followed previously described trends, averaging 4.0  .42 in Utah and 2.03  .12 in New Mexico. Abdominal fat bodies in females of Crotaphytus collaris, Sceloporus graciosus (Utah), Cnemidophorus tesselatus and Cnemidophorus tigris decreased in length during reproduction, then increased. Miscellaneous notes are given on small samples of Phrynosoma cornutum, Sceloporus clarki, S. jarrovi, S. virgatus, Eumeces obsoletus, and Cnemidophorus exsanguis. 
3891707|Eggs of the green turtle, Chelonia mydas; loggerhead turtle, Caretta caretta; and leatherback turtle, Dermochelys coriacea were gathered from Hutchinson Island, Florida, USA, during 1971 and 1972, and incubated in the laboratory. Hatchlings were pen reared at several facilities. During 1971, 61% of green turtle eggs hatched, and in 1972, 58% hatched; no data were obtained for loggerhead or leatherback turtles. Mean carapace length of 25 randomly selected green turtles was 21.4 cm and mean total weight was 1.302 kg at age 1 year. Mean carapace length of 25 randomly selected loggerhead turtles was 18.4 cm and mean total weight was 1.278 kg at age 1 year. Leatherback turtles grew rapidly on a diet of Cassiopeia xamachana (Cnidaria: Scyphozoa); at age 6 months, 1 leatherback turtle weighed 1.642 kg. A wide range of individual growth rates was found for each species. Short-term studies indicated no differences in growth of green turtles fed either fish only or an omnivorous diet, and that green and loggerhead turtles grew well on a diet of C. xamachana. Recapture of 21 tagged green turtles released from Florida suggests that hatchery reared turtles can survive in nature.
3892872| A new species of toad is described from cloud forests in the departments of Santa Cruz and Cochabamba, Bolivia. The new species is assigned to the Bufo veraguensis group and occurs in sympatry with three other members of this group. The new species most closely resembles Bufo quechua. /// Se describe un nuevo sapo, Bufo justinianoi, de los bosques nubosos de los Andes de Santa Cruz y Cochabamba, Bolivia. Los especmenes fueron colectados entre 1875 y 2220 m sobre el nivel del mar. Bufo justinianoi pertenece al grupo de B. veraguensis. Se distingue de las otras especies en este grupo por poseer crestas craneales y supraorbitales presentes, pliegue tarsal ausente, tener glndulas paratoideas ovoides ms largas que anchas, no tener tmpano visible, y tener vientre y dorso cubierto de tubrculos cnicos y espinosos, dedos relativamente cortos, y el primer dedo ms largo que el segundo. Solamente otras dos especies de este grupo poseen crestas craneales y no poseen tmpano visible, B. veraguensis y B. quechua. B. justinianoi se distingue de B. veraguensis por sus dedos relativamente ms cortos, menor tamao, y poseer el segundo dgito ms pequeo que el primero. De B. quechua se distingue principalmente por tres caractersticas. Primero, poseer crestas supraorbitales y parietales prominentes (versus parietales a veces poco conspicuas, pero supraorbitales siempre ausentes). Segundo, poseer dedos relativamente mas cortos, y el segundo dedo considerablemente mas corto que el primero (versus solamente ligeramente ms corto). Finalmente, los tubrculos supernumerarios de los pies son entre 80 y 90% ms grandes que los subarticulares (versus menos de 50%). Adems parece ser que B. justinianoi posee reticulacin ms densa en el vientre. 
3891856|A new species of Cyrtodactylus of the louisiadensis group is described from the Solomon Islands. Notes on other species occurring in the archipelago are also included.
3891614| Data are presented on body sizes at birth, growth rates, and sizes and ages at sexual maturity in 6 species of Australian elapid snakes. Larger species have larger young, but the ratio of offspring size to adult size is lower in the larger species. Growth is rapid: body length more than doubles in the 1st year of life. Sexual maturity is reached at younger ages than in most previously-studied snake species. Females first mate at 12 months of age in Unechis gouldii, Hemiaspis daemelii and Hemiaspis signata, at 24 months in Austrelaps superbus and Notechis scutatus, and at 31 months in Pseudechis porphyriacus. Males generally mature at slightly younger ages than  . The evolutionary significance of this sexual bimaturism is discussed. 
3893041|We quantified first-night mammalian predation on nests of olive ridley sea turtles (Lepidochelys olivacea) at Playa Nancite, Guanacaste, Costa Rica to test the predator-satiation hypothesis. This hypothesis suggests that selection pressure favors synchronized reproduction as it overwhelms or satiates predators with a large amount of potential prey over a short amount of time. Located within Santa Rosa National Park, Playa Nancite is isolated and inhabited by a large array of predators but no human-introduced predators. This situation provides for a unique opportunity to study predation in a relatively undisturbed setting. We made observations of 118 nests deposited by turtles that nested individually and 237 nests deposited by turtles in arribadas (turtles nesting in synchrony with more than 100 other turtles on a small area of beach) from June through August 1992. Significantly more first-night solitary nests (51%) were preyed upon than arribada nests (7.6%) throughout the beach. Similarly, a significant increase in solitary versus arribada nest predation existed within low, mid-, and vegetated beach zones. We suggest that these results provide support for the role of predator satiation in the evolution of the arribada phenomenon.
3892111|Reproduction and lipid cycling of the broad-headed skink (Eumeces laticeps) were studied from 1982 through 1984. Both sexes become active in early spring and mate from late April to early June. Females deposit eggs in nests constructed in rotted areas of hardwood logs during June. The male reproductive cycle is similar to that of most temperate zone lizards, in which testes are enlarged in spring but are subsequently reduced in size as breeding activities are terminated. Vitellogenesis in females commences in April, with ovulation and egg laying occurring from mid-May through Mid-June. Clutch size varies from 9-18. Females remain with the nest until eggs hatch. Clutches of eggs may be moved by females in the field, an apparent response to nesting conditions becoming unfavorable. Eggs gain over 60% of their original mass prior to hatching, but the hatchlings weigh considerably less than recently laid eggs. The brooding period lasts approximately 48 days. Hatchlings appear during late July to mid-August. Sexual maturity is reached at an age of 21 mo in both sexes, and virtually all sexually mature females in the population breed each year. The pattern of lipid cycling for males and females is inversely associated with reproduction. Lipid reserves are reduced during reproduction and are increased at other times. In both sexes, lipids in carcasses, tails, and fat bodies cycle with reproduction, and the tail alone comprises nearly half of the standing lipids in an individual.
3891513|Early Cretaceous fossil tadpoles from Isreal are referred to Shomronella jordanica gen. et sp. nov. and assigned to the frog family Pipidae. The fossils are well preserved, many bones are uncrushed, and a number of features of soft anatomy are preserved, including body outline, choroid cup of eye, thymus gland, cephalic blood vessels, and spinal nerves. The fossils are compared with the normal tables of development for living Xenopus laevis, and the majority correspond approximately to stage 57-59; a small specimen (the only one lacking both fore- and hindlimbs) appears to be at about stage 52-53 and the most mature specimen at about stage 60-61. Shomronella jordanica, although clearly pipid, has few derived character states in common with other pipid species, either fossil or Holocene, and in some respects seems to be the most primitive known member of the group. It shares some primitive character states with other Cretaceous pipids from Israel and some with a morphologically primitive living genus (Xenopus); outside of the Pipidae there are some resemblances to the extinct pipoid family Palaeobatrachidae. Shomronella jordanica is distinctive in the shape of its parasphenoid and cleithrum. These fossil tadpoles are of interest in demonstrating the extremely ancient development of the pipid tadpole and its midwater filter-feeding adaptation.
3892371|Thirteen species of iguanid lizards (excluding Anolis) from Brazil were examined. Species from the Amazonian region have fewer and larger eggs than do those from south of the Amazonian forests. These differences presumably have evolved because young lizards in tropical forests suffer less nonselective mortality than they do in other environments. This has been attributed to the greater stability or predictability of the tropical forest environments, but these attributes remain to be adequately documented.
3891538|Two subadult Lepidochelys olivacea from shallow coastal waters of northeast Queensland are discussed. The relative abundances of turtle species occurring in the Cairns area are listed. No breeding by L. olivacea is known for eastern Australia.
3892565|Twelve enzyme loci are examined electrophoretically in two populations (Vermont and Illinois) of the tetraploid treefrog Hyla versicolor and in one population (Illinois) of its diploid progenitor H. chrysoscelis. Allele frequencies are compared with those found in earlier samples of northern (New York and New Jersey) and southern (Texas) H. versicolor and eastern (South Carolina, Georgia, Ohio, Mississippi) and western (south-central Texas) H. chrysoscelis. At several loci (Lda, Ldb, Sod), the Vermont tetraploids contain electromorphs that are found in Texas and Illinois populations of H. versicolor and H. chrysoscelis, but not in eastern H. chrysoscelis. A multiple origin hypothesis for H. versicolor cannot be accepted unless it is assumed that (1) a complex series of parallel independent mutations occurred between geographically distant tetraploid populations; and (2) northeastern and southern tetraploids arose simultaneously from geographically distant diploid populations, followed by a third, much later, origin from H. chrysoscelis in the central part of the range. The single origin hypothesis, that H. versicolor arose from a genetically intermediate population of H. chrysoscelis in the central part of the latter's range, and evolved allele frequencies similar to eastern and western diploid populations in the northeast and southwest, provides a better explanation of present and earlier data without requiring any biologically improbable assumptions. The observations that Illinois H. versicolor are genetically intermediate between northeastern and Texas tetraploid populations, especially at two diagnostic loci (Ldb and Sod), and that Illinois H. versicolor and H. chrysoscelis show the highest interspecific similarities in the complex, also support the single origin hypothesis. Since the Illinois population of H. chrysoscelis contains alleles at diagnostic loci that were formerly thought to occur in either eastern or western H. chrysoscelis and H. versicolor, there is no absolute biochemical distinction between the two diploid population groups. There is, therefore, no evidence to support the claim (Maxson et al., 1977) that there are two species of H. chrysoscelis. The existence of a genetically intermediate population of H. chrysoscelis in the central portion of the range, with a Nei's (1972) D of only 0.017 to a parapatric, genetically intermediate population of H. versicolor, supports earlier, erroneously interpreted information indicating that H. versicolor is an autotetraploid. Estimated times of divergence between eastern and western H. chrysoscelis, and between H. chrysoscelis and H. versicolor, coincide, respectively, with the onsets of the Illinoian glacial and Sangamon interglacial periods of the Pleistocene. Nei's (1972) I, Rogers' (1972) S, and Nei's (1978) unbiased I are utilized to generate dendrograms by the UPGMA and Fitch and Margoliash (1967) techniques. The dendrogram utilizing Nei's (1972) I seems to be the most implausible, probably because of the effect that small sample size has on allele frequency estimates in comparisons involving very closely related populations.
3892216|A series of the highland ground gecko, Tenuidactylus montiumsalsorum, was collected from northern Punjab, Pakistan, 134 yr after the first collection. The gecko is redescribed and compared with its congeners, T. caspius, T. fedtschenkoi, T. kachhensis, T. watsoni, T. scaber, T. elongatus, T. agamuroides, and T. turcmenticus, and other non-trihedral tubercle-bearing geckos of the area. Tenuidactylus montiumsalsorum has unique morphology among its congeners. Notes on its ecology, reproduction, and distribution are included.
3892272|The western North American frogs Rana cascadae and Rana pretiosa are usually allopatric, but natural hybrids between them have been found at Gold Lake near Willamette Pass, Oregon. Hybrids can be identified by diagnostic allozymes, particularly of the isozymes SOD, GOT-2 and LDH-1, and by the relative positions of secondary constrictions in their karyotypes. The secondary constriction is subterminal on chromosome No. 12 in the karyotype of R. cascadae, but it is median on chromosome No. 10 in R. pretiosa. Two hybrids, both adult males, showed no pairing of homologous chromosomes in meiosis, indicating a considerable degree of genetic divergence between the two species.
3893299|Although it is widely known that most species of snakes readily accept carrion in captivity, the notion of scavenging by wild snakes historically has been rejected or ignored. Herein, we review the literature describing instances of scavenging by snakes and consider the implications of carrion use on their ecology. Thirty-nine published accounts yielded 50 observations of scavenging by snakes (43 from field observations and seven from laboratory studies). Thirty-five species from five families were represented, but pitvipers and piscivorous snakes were represented more frequently than other groups. Scavenged material varied widely and included rodents, birds, fish, frogs, and snakes. Olfaction appears to be the overriding sensory modality used for carrion detection. Some species may use scavenging as a deliberate feeding strategy that supplements their regular modes of prey acquisition. Additional knowledge of the scavenging behavior of snakes should provide new insights into the fundamentals of the ecology of snakes.
4497963|The bog turtle Glyptemys (= Clemmys) muhlenbergii is an inhabitant of groundwater-fed sedge meadows in the northeastern and southeastern United States. Observations of bog turtle habitats throughout the species' range demonstrate that livestock grazing has been an important factor in staving off successional processes and abating large-scale invasions by tall-growing, competitively dominant plantsmany of which are exotic in origin. The demise of small-scale dairy farming over the past three decades has led to the pastoral abandonment of the majority of bog turtle habitats in the Northeast. As a consequence, habitats are being degraded by the growth of invasive flora, changes in hydrology, and loss of turtle microhabitats created by livestock. In this study we compared the number of bog turtle captures, bog turtle demographic parameters, bog turtle densities, and vegetation at sites that are currently grazed (n = 12) and at sites in which grazing had recently ceased (n = 12). This analysis demonstrated that grazed sites contained greater numbers of turtles, greater turtle density, and greater frequency of occurrence for juvenile turtles. Grazed sites also contained greater cover of low-growing herbaceous vegetation and lower heights of tallgrowing exotic and/or invasive vegetation than the formerly grazed sites. We hypothesize that nutrient enrichment from manure and agricultural run-off has promoted the establishment and growth of invasive plant species at many of the sites, but livestock grazing has kept these plants in check. When livestock are removed, invasive species proliferate, and the hummocky microtopography maintained by the livestock traffic is often reduced to a mat of vegetation. This investigation showed that efforts to preserve viable populations of bog turtles may depend on the preservation of low-intensity, pasture-based dairy and beef farming.
3892476|Five species of xenodontine snakes (Family Colubridae) were studied during 12 consecutive months in a caatinga habitat of northeastern Brazil. These are: Liophis lineatus, L. mossoroensis, L. poecilogyrus, L. viridis and Waglerophis merremii. Differences in body length, mass and head size were associated with differences in feeding ecology. All five species fed exclusively on anurans, but each species ate different sets of anuran species. Reproduction appeared continual in three of the species and at least an extended reproductive season was apparent in the other two species. All five species are oviparous. Seasonality of reproduction in these species was considerably different from that reported for two sympatric species of Philodryas (Colubridae) studied during the same time period at the same locality.
3892556|Time trials indicated that the speed of the quadrupedal gecko Phyllodactylus marmoratus nearly doubled after autotomy, a result contrary to earlier work on bipedal lizards.
3893145|Activity level is often positively correlated with both growth rate and vulnerability to predation, creating a fitness tradeoff. Ambystoma jeffersonianum and Hemidactylium scutatum, two sympatric species of salamanders with very different larval growth rates, were assayed for differences in activity level and vulnerability to predation. In a laboratory assay, A. jeffersonianum, the higher growth rate species, had a significantly higher activity level early in the larval period, which is when larval mortality is expected to be greatest. In an artificial pond experiment with a salamander predator (adults of Notophthalmus viridescens), A. jeffersonianum had poor initial survival, whereas H. scutatum had a constant mortality rate. Survival of both species was similar at the time H. scutatum metamorphosed. The presence of predators tended to cause an increase in growth rate in A. jeffersonianum, but a decrease in H. scutatum. Larvae of neither species reduced total activity when in the presence of a predator through day 12 of their larval periods. After day 12, H. scutatum increased total activity when in a predator-free environment, but reduced total activity when in the presence of a predator. This study demonstrated that the activity level pattern of A. jeffersonianum early in the larval period was more successful when integrating both survival and growth in the presence of a predator and may help to explain the greater relative abundance of that species in predator-filled aquatic habitats.
3893097|Caiman crocodilus and C. yacare are economically valuable species afforded legal protection both within the United States and around the world. While five populations of these species have received formal taxonomic recognition between 1758 and 1955, there has never been an analysis of variation across populations representing the entire range of these species. We examined 13 external morphological characteristics in 360 individuals from known localities distributed throughout the range of these taxa. Using covariance, principal component and discriminant function analyses, we find no defensible basis for the partition of C. crocodilus into subspecies, nor do we feel that considering C. yacare a subspecies of C. crocodilus, as proposed by some, is warranted. The implication of these findings for enforcement of current legislation is discussed.
23352176|The Red-headed Amazon River Turtle (Podocnemis erythrocephala) is the smallest species of the family Podocnemididae yet is frequently captured for human consumption. Our objectives were to (1) determine the relative abundance of this population and those factors that influence numbers, and (2) characterize the population structure using carapace length, sex ratio, and proportion of adults to verify the influence of sample methods and environmental factors. We sampled turtles in 20032008 in the Ayuan River, the middle Rio Negro, Amazonas State, Brazil. We captured turtles using trammel nets and freediving. Females were larger and weighed more than males. The capture method influenced the size, sex ratio, percentage of juveniles, and the capture index. This population of P. erythrocephala had a sex ratio of 0.41male:1female and 40% were juveniles. The frequency of recaptures was  22% of a sample (n = 4432), indicating that only a part of the population was captured. The low density of humans (one person per 3.4 km 2 ) living in the region, and having the nesting beaches distributed along the river, probably contributes to the large number of turtles captured. However, these natural populations of P. erythrocephala need to have long-term monitoring in this region in order to monitor the effect of human's consuming this species; this effect can only be quantified by long-term monitoring. Podocnemis erythrocephala  a menor espcie do gnero e uma das trs espcies mais capturadas para o consumo humano na bacia do Rio Negro. Os objetivos deste estudo foram (1) estudar a abundncia relativa da populao e os fatores que a influenciam; (2) caracterizar a estrutura populacional quanto ao comprimento da carapaa, razo sexual e a proporo de indivduos imaturos na rea de estudo e verificar a influncia dos mtodos de amostragem e dos fatores ambientais sobre estes parmetros. As amostragens ocorreram desde novembro de 20032008 no rio Ayuan, no mdio Rio Negro, estado do Amazonas, Brasil. Para as capturas foram utilizadas as tcnicas de mergulho livre e trammel nets. O dimorfismo sexual de tamanho foi confirmado, as fmeas foram maiores e mais pesadas do que os machos. O mtodo de amostragem influiu sobre o tamanho, razo sexual, percentual de juvenis e no ndice de captura por esforo. A populao de P. erythrocephala  caracterizada por uma razo sexual de 0,41 :1 e por ter 40% (indivduos) imaturos. As taxas de recapturas foram inferiores a 22% durante o estudo apesar de terem sido marcados 4432 indivduos indicando que apenas uma pequena parcela da populao foi capturada. A baixa densidade humana na regio (um habitante para cada 3,4 km 2 ) associada a locais de reproduo distribudos ao longo de todo o rio provavelmente contribuam para o grande nmero de indivduos encontrados. No entanto as populaes naturais de P. erythrocephala precisam ser monitoradas a longo prazo na regio, pois o consumo desta espcie  uma realidade e os seu efeito na populao s pode ser observado a longo prazo.
3893370|We evaluated five species of the genus Ambystoma in laboratory aquaria to quantify the effect of other larvae on microhabitat use and activity. We studied microhabitat use by partitioning containers into microhabitats that either contained or lacked refuges and recorded movement to determine activity. All five species altered microhabitat preferences and activity levels when they shared tanks with larvae of most species. The smallest species (A. laterale and A. maculatum) spent the most time in the vegetated chamber, used the vegetated chamber more often, and decreased activity in the presence of potential predators. When species were paired, both species usually changed their activity and use of microhabitat in opposite directions. These behaviors may be important in maintaining coexistence among species by reducing interspecific aggression and intraguild predation.
27669734|We describe two new species of Liolaemus belonging to the montanus series. The new species are closely related to L. dorbignyi, but are disjunctly distributed with respect to this taxon. Both new species exhibit unique color patterns, which, along with differences in squamation, differentiate the two new taxa from the other species in the series. Both new species are saxicolous and inhabit rocky hills in the Puna regions of northwestern Argentina. One occurs in the Cerro de la Virgen, Nevados de Cachi and Nevados de Palermo of Salta Province. The other is known only from its type locality in the Cerro El Pichao of Tucumn Province. /// Describimos dos nuevas especies de Liolaemus pertenecientes a la serie montanus. Las nuevas especies estn cercanamente relacionadas a L. dorbignyi, pero presentan una distribucin disjunta respecto a este taxn. Las nuevas especies presentan un patrn de coloracin nico, con diferencias en escamacin, lo que las distingue de las otras especies de la serie. Ambas son saxcolas y habitan zonas rocosas en regiones de la Puna del Noroeste de Argentina. Una habita en el Cerro de la Virgen, Nevados de Cachi y Nevados de Palermo de la Provincia de Salta. La otra es conocida solo de su localidad tipo en el Cerro El Pichao en la Provincia de Tucumn.
3891952|Courtship and mating of captive western fox snakes, Elaphe v. vulpina, were studied. Behavioral sequences were recorded by cinematography and videotape, and (along with previously published records) were analyzed quantitatively and qualitatively. Motor pattern sequences were subjected to transition analysis resulting in a sequence diagram.
3893429| We describe a new species of Neusticurus. The species was found in undisturbed terra firme tropical rainforest of the Juru River Basin, in the state of Acre, Brazil (southwestern Amazonia), where it is sympatric with N. ecpleopus. The new species has several supernumerary scales on the head; palpebral disc usually undivided; tympanum superficial; tubercles in four longitudinal rows on dorsum and in transverse rows on flanks; preanal-femoral pores per leg in males 10-14, in females 0-1; tail with three transverse rows of lateral scales per two ventral caudal scales; and hemipenis with calcareous spinules on flounces. /// Uma nova espcie de lagarto do gnero Neusticurus  descrita. A espcie foi encontrada em floresta mida tropical, no perturbada, de terra firme, junto  bacia do Rio Juru, no estado do Acre, Brasil (sudoeste da Amaznia), onde ocorre em simpatria com N. ecpleopus. A nova espcie possui diversas escamas supernumerrias na cabea; disco palpebral usualmente no dividido; tmpano superficial; tubrculos em quatro fileiras longitudinais no dorso e em fileiras transversais nos flancos; poros preanais-femorais por lado em machos 10-14, em fmeas 0-1; cauda com trs fileiras transversais de escamas laterais correspondendo a duas fileiras de escamas na superficie ventral; e hemipnis com superficie formando diversas pregas, ornadas com espnulos calcrios. 
3893397|Hand and throat musculatures were surveyed for systematic characters in 157 species and 41 genera of leptodactylids. Two conditions occur in the superficial throat muscles; one of them is shared by the Limnodynastinae and the Leptodactylinae and Eleutherodactylini. The hand musculature of the Leptodactylidae differs consistently in some respects from the musculature reported from other families, but data are available from few families. The distribution of characters of the hand muscles indicate monophyly of a number of leptodactylid groups: the subgenus Eleutherodactylus (excluding the binotatus group), the E. martinicensis group, clades consisting of Ceratophrys and Lepidobatrachus; Caudiverbera and Telmatobufo; Leptodactylus, Vanzolinius, and Hydrolaetare; and Hylodes and Megaelosia. The condition of the m. palmaris longus in the subgenus Eleutherodactylus resembles that of the hylids, particularly in the E. martinicensis group. Elongation of the mm. extensores breves profundi is a feature of arboreal members of different species groups of the subgenus Eleutherodactylus, and resembles the condition found in hylids and an arboreal microhylid. This may be an adaptation to arboreal life. No putative adaptations were found in the hand musculature of aquatic leptodactylids.
3893114|In this study, we investigated the territorial behavior of Sceloporus occidentalis by focusing on three questions: do individuals of S. occidentalis (1) exhibit site-fidelity, (2) defend the site with aggressive behavior, and (3) maintain exclusive use of the defended area? Spatial distributions and aggressive behavior were studied in two natural populations. We also used a small arena to observe aggressive behavior in paired interactions. Repeatability analysis revealed that individuals of S. occidentalis maintain home ranges of similar areas and in similar locations across years. While lizards use pushup displays to delimit territories that are approximately 61% of total home range area, overt aggression (e.g., chases, bites) was infrequent. Furthermore, lizards maintained exclusive use of only a small proportion of their defended areas. We discuss our results in the context of what it means to be "territorial".
3892705|A new species of Uroplatus from relict rainforest in extreme southern Madagascar is characterized by its small size; dorsoventral flattening of the body; absence of lateral membranous fringes on the head, neck, body, limbs, and tail base; short snout; undivided rostral scale; short tail with shallow and regular crenellation along the border; homogeneous dorsal and ventral scalation; and nearly uniform coloration. The new species is most similar to Uroplatus alluaudi, which is known only from the extreme northern rainforests of Madagascar, but it differs from U. alluaudi in having homogeneous dorsal scales (heterogeneous in U. alluaudi), in coloration, and in the structure of the hemipenis. The new species is known only from two specimens collected in an isolated patch (about 1.2 km
41406814|We measured gaseous lift and specific gravity of larval anurans at regular intervals during development to assess their importance in determining buoyancy in eight species. Specifically, we examined the hatchling, larval, and metamorphic stages of tadpoles from still waters (Limnodynastes dumerili, Limn, peronii, Lithobates septentrionalis, and Rhinella marina), intermittent streams (Litoria genimaculata and Lito, lesueuri), and torrent sections of rivers (Lito, nannotis and Nyctimystes dayi). Buoyancy levels and the strategies used to attain buoyancy varied at different phases of development and with the environment occupied. Buoyancy increased rapidly during development in hatchlings of Limn, peronii, Lith. septentrionalis, and R. marina due to a reduction in specific gravity. Lungs were inflated in early larval stages of all species except for Lito, nannotis, N. dayi, and R. marina, which inflated their lungs following metamorphosis. Limnodynastes dumerili and Limn, peronii used gaseous lift to maintain near-neutral buoyancy throughout larval and metamorphic stages. Lithobates septentrionalis, Stages 25-29 (first summer), possessed a high level of gaseous lift, but buoyancy declined as lung gas volume decreased in Stages 31-43 (second summer). Rhinella marina did not inflate lungs prior to transformation but achieved an intermediate buoyancy level due to a very low specific gravity. The intermittent-stream species Lito, genimaculata and Lito, lesueuri used gaseous lift to achieve buoyancy levels similar to those of Lith. septentrionalis (Stages 31-43) and R. marina. The torrent-dwelling species Lito, nannotis and N. dayi were the least buoyant; their lungs were not inflated prior to transformation and their specific gravity was elevated. Both gaseous lift and specific gravity are important factors in determining buoyancy in larval anurans.
3891067|The sea snake Pelamis platurus is commonly found in large aggregations along slicks and drift lines in the Gulf of Panama and in other areas.
3893197| I redescribe the giant form Telmatobius marmoratus gigas Vellard, endemic to the Cordillera de Huayllamarca in the central Altiplano of Bolivia, from both adults and tadpoles, and I elevate it to species status; a neotype is designated. /// Se redescribe, a partir de adultos y larvas, la forma gigante Telmatobius marmoratus gigas Vellard, endmica de la Cordillera de Huayllamarca, en el altiplano central de Bolivia, se eleva a categora de especie y se designa un neotipo. 
3893335| I review the status of the populations of toads referred to Bufo cavifrons that occur in lower montane areas west of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, Mexico. The populations in the Sierra de Jurez and Sierra Mixe, Oaxaca are described herein as a new species. The name B. cavifrons is restricted to the topotypic population in the isolated volcanic Sierra de los Tuxtlas, Veracruz. The poorly known species Bufo cristatus, from the Sierra Madre Oriental, is rediagnosed with respect to these other species. The natural history of all three species is briefly reviewed; all seem to inhabit primary forest, and B. cristatus and B. cavifrons breed in streams. /// Se revisa la situacin taxonmica de las poblaciones asignadas a Bufo cavifrons que habitan en las reas montaosas bajas al oeste del Istmo de Tehuantepec, Mxico. Se describe una nueva especie de la Sierra de Jurez y la Sierra Mixe, Oaxaca. El nombre Bufo cavifrons es restringido a la poblacin topotpica de las montaas volcnicas aisladas de la Sierra de los Tuxtlas, Veracruz. Se presenta una nueva diagnosis para la escasamente conocida especie Bufo cristatus, de la Sierra Madre Oriental, en comparacin con las otras dos especies. La historia natural de las tres especies es brevemente revisada; sugirientose que las mismas ocupan habitats de bosques primarios y las especies B. cristatus y B. cavifrons se reproduce en riachuelos. 
3892858| We examined the emergence pattern of hatchling loggerhead turtles (Caretta caretta) on the Mediterranean island of Cephalonia. Hatchlings usually emerged at night. Hatchlings emerged from each nest on more than one night (n = 10 nests, x = 8.3 nights for emergence of all hatchlings, range = 5-11 nights). The number of nights over which hatchlings emerged increased as the distance of the nest from the sea decreased. Hatchlings did not always emerge as a single group from each nest on any night. When hatchlings emerged later in the night, the sand (depth measures = 3-15 cm) was cooler. This reflected the cooling of the sand during the night and suggested that there was no fixed sand temperature that initiated emergence. However, the time that the first hatchlings emerged each night was significantly correlated with the rate of change of sand temperature in the evening at 15 cm: i.e., when the sand at 15 cm cooled more rapidly in the evening, hatchlings emerged earlier. 
3892415|Serum albumins of representatives of all 10 genera of myobatrachine frogs were compared by micro-complement fixation. Seven species of Ranidella were genetically differentiated from R. signifera. Crinia georgiana had an albumin which was more similar to that of R. signifera than were the albumins of four other species of Ranidella. Based on their relative degrees of albumin similarity with R. signifera, we infer that R. riparia and R. tasmaniensis are not closely related to one another. Generic diversification of myobatrachine frogs appears to have occurred prior to the fragmentation of Gondwanaland.
3892096|Quantitative information is presented on defensive behavior of brooding female Plethodon cinereus. Responses of females to brooding and non-brooding conspecifics and snakes were observed in the laboratory. Aggressive defense was exhibited by 91% of attendants and 5% of intruders in encounters between brooding females. Attendants were equally aggressive in encounters with non-brooding intruders (85% for adults and juveniles) and less with hatchlings (44%) none of which showed aggressive behavior. Responses of attendants to intrusion indicate that they may be defending the nest cavity as well as the eggs and therefore are exhibiting both territorial behavior and parental care.
3893351| The smooth softshell Apalone mutica is a North American trionychid turtle typically found in moderate to fast moving rivers and streams. Such habitats contrast with more resource rich environments (e.g., marshes and swamps) inhabited by other turtle species for which parental investment and egg and hatchling components have been studied. We measured components of eggs, embryos, and hatchlings and determined levels of pre-ovulatory parental investment in Apalone mutica from Arkansas. Eggs averaged 7.34 g wet mass and 28.8% non-polar lipids (NPL) by dry mass. Triacylglycerol, an energy storage lipid, was the major lipid class component of eggs, averaging 82% of total egg lipids. Levels of structural (mostly polar) lipid classes were generally similar to those found in eggs of other turtle species, although proportions of phophatidylethanolamine were higher and increased with egg size. Incubation time averaged 55  SE 3.4 d. At 18 and 36 d of development, embryo dry mass represented 11% and 34%, respectively, of embryo dry mass at hatching. Thus, approximately two-thirds of the total increase in embryo dry mass occurred during the final one-third (18 d) of development. Hatchlings averaged 6.60 g wet mass and 25.9% NPL by dry mass. The index of parental investment in care (hatchling NPL/egg NPL) averaged 75.4%, the highest such index reported among turtles. High levels of pre-ovulatory, parental investment in trophic care of neonates appear to be a factor important to hatchling survival during early life stages such as dispersal from the nest, movement to aquatic habitats, and the period prior to which hatchlings attain a positive energy balance in relatively low resource environments. 
3893493|Previous research suggests that some individuals of the red-backed salamander (Plethodon cinereus) in Virginia form socially monogamous relationships. We investigated if living together for 9 d is sufficient to establish such a relationship. In our first laboratory experiment, we tested two hypotheses: that increased familiarity between territorial males and female intruders would lead to (1) reduced aggression and (2) increased touching (conciliation) by the males, as expected in social monogamy. We posed the same two hypotheses in our second experiment for territorial females responding to male intruders. When residents and intruders first met, residents in both experiments spent more time in threat postures than they did 9 d later. Thus, familiarity led to decreased aggression toward intruders of the opposite sex. We then removed the now familiar first intruders and replaced them with unfamiliar second intruders. Aggression by residents in both experiments increased, suggesting that male and female residents can distinguish between a familiar and an unfamiliar intruder of the opposite sex. When we shortly thereafter removed the second intruders and, 2 d later, reintroduced the original first intruders, in both experiments residents maintained low levels of aggression. This suggests that they could remember the first intruders after 2 d of separation, even with the intervention of an unfamiliar member of the opposite sex. We found no difference in touching behavior for residents in either experiment. Thus, our first hypothesis (concerning reduced aggression) was supported while our second hypothesis (concerning increased touching) was not. Therefore, the formation of socially monogamous relationships may require longer than 9 d of living together and/or a 'choice' of partners, which would be possible in the natural habitat but was randomized in our experiments.
3891955| Amphibians and reptiles were collected from the tree buttress microhabitat in a Sumatran rain forest. Comparison of this collection with a collection from all accessible microhabitats in this forest revealed the presence of 3 buttress specialists. Some evidence exists indicating that certain variable physical circumstances associated with buttresses (e.g., amount of litter or tree size) are of differing importance to the species collected. Species diversity has been measured and compared to values based on buttress data from Thailand and Ecuador. Average species diversity per individual for the Sumatran tree buttress collection (H = 2.95  .43) was intermediate to those for Thailand (H = 1.92  .47) and Ecuador (H = 4.95  .84). The Sumatran forest herpetofauna is also probably intermediate in size to these thus supporting the hypothesis that overall forest diversity largely determines microhabitat diversity. However, the presence of tree buttress specialists and the correlation of species with variable physical circumstances in Sumatran forest buttresses suggests that the former hypothesis is too simplistic. 
3891926| Centrolenella griffithsi (Goin)   exhibit aggressive behavior consisting of grasping one another with the forelimbs while suspended from vegetation. Aggressive behavior and territoriality are well developed in certain species having specialized reproductive modes that require limited resources. 
3892028| Intraerythrocytic hemogregarine parasites from the lizards Tropidurus albemarlensis and Amblyrhynchus cristatus of Santa Cruz Island (Galapagos Islands) should be derived from similar parasite species infecting the ancestral mainland populations. They may help identify these ancestral populations as well as assess dispersal of the lizard species within the island complex. Hemogregarines of T. albemarlensis are piriform and average 7.9  4.1 m; those of A. cristatus are sausage-shaped and average 13.1  5.3 m. Collectors should not disregard this valuable aspect of their material. 
3893384| We describe a new species of Proctoporus from the Cordillera de Mrida, Venezuela. The new species is the first Proctoporus recorded from this mountain range and fills a large hiatus in the known distribution of the genus. The new species possesses a uniquely elongated second supralabial scale and a combination of other characters that distinguish it from all other congeners. Due to its distinctness from the two other species of Proctoporus from Venezuela, the new species does not appear to be a member of the P. luctuosus group or any of the other recognized Proctoporus species groups. /// Describimos una nueva especie de Proctoporus de la Cordillera de Mrida, Venezuela. La nueva especie es la primera especie registrada para esta cordillera y cierra un vaco grande en la distribucin conocida del gnero. La nueva especie poseela segunda escama supralabial exageradamente elongada, lo cual es un cracter nico en el gnero, y tambin la combinacin de varios otros cracteres que distinguen esta especie de todas las dems. Por ser muy distinto de las otras dos especies de Proctoporus de Venezuela, la nueva especie no se coloca en el grupo de P. luctuosus, ni en los otros grupos establecidos de Proctoporus. 
23352179|The High-Andean Frog (Dendropsophus labialis) is distributed along the Eastern Andes of Colombia between 1900 and 3600 m. We analyzed multiple traits to determine if acoustics and morphology covary with genealogical history or if they evolved following independent trajectories. We generated a phylogeny of D. labialis populations with the use of mitochondrial ribosomal gene (12S, val-RNA, 16S) and nuclear gene (proopiomelanocortin A [POMC]) sequences. Two well-supported clades that correspond to geographic distribution were recovered. Acoustic variation diverges according to genealogical history, but external morphology does not follow this pattern. The strong and congruent divergence observed in acoustic and genetic characters indicates that these two clades correspond to morphologically cryptic, parapatric species. We describe the Northern Clade as a new species (Dendropsophus luddeckei; the Southern Clade retains the name D. labialis). The low level of molecular divergence between two outgroup species, Dendropsophus pelidna and Dendropsophus meridensis, suggests D. pelidna is a junior subjective synonym of D. meridensis.
3891736| Analysis was undertaken of head scute polymorphisms in the populations of Sceloporus jarrovi inhabiting the Pinaleo Mountains of southeastern Arizona. On the basis of Wright's three-phase shifting balance model of evolution it was predicted that microgeographic variation in the frequencies of various morphs would be demonstrated within the Pinaleo sample. Such variation was found. Furthermore, latitudinal clines reported by Chrapliwy (1964) from S. jarrovi in the frequencies of head scute morphs support the hypothetical adaptiveness of these morphs. The clines appear to be validated by comparison with the pooled Pinaleo sample-representing the northernmost edge of the species distribution-and one cline is paralleled by an altitudinal change. 
25209111|A relatively large amount of variation occurs in the reproductive ecology of tropical snakes, and this variation is generally regarded as being a consequence of seasonality in climate and prey availability. In some groups, even closely related species may differ in their reproductive ecology; however, in others it seems to be very conservative. Here we explore whether characters related to reproduction are phylogenetically constrained in a monophyletic group of snakes, the subfamily Dipsadinae, which ranges from Mexico to southern South America. We provide original data on reproduction for Leptodeira annulata, Imantodes cenchoa, and three species of Sibynomorphus from southern, southeastern and central Brazil, and data from literature for other species and populations of dipsadines. Follicular cycles were seasonal in Atractus reticulatus, Dipsas albifrons, Hypsiglena torquata, Leptodeira maculata, L. punctata, Sibynomorphus spp. and Sibon sanniola from areas where climate is seasonal. In contrast, extended or continuous follicular cycles were recorded in Dipsas catesbyi, D. neivai, Imantodes cenchoa, Leptodeira annulata, and Ninia maculata from areas with seasonal and aseasonal climates. Testicular cycles also varied from seasonal (in H. torquata) to continuous (in Dipsas spp., Leptodeira annulata, L. maculata, N. maculata and Sibynomorphus spp.). Most dipsadines are small (less than 500 mm SVL), and females attain sexual maturity with similar relative body size than males. Sexual dimorphism occurred in terms of SVL and tail length in most species, and clutch size tended to be small (less than five eggs). Combat behavior occurs in Imantodes cenchoa, which did not show sexual size dimorphism. Reproductive timing, for both females and males, varied among species but in general there were no differences between the tribes of Dipsadinae in most of the reproductive characteristics, such as mean body size, relative size at sexual maturity, sexual size and tail dimorphism, duration of vitellogenesis or egg-carrying in oviducts.
3893546| Anuran larvae evacuate their feces through the vent tube, which communicates with the posterior intestine and opens to the exterior. In the dextral configuration, the vent tube extends posteriorly from the body wall to the right side. The morphology and microanatomy of the dextral vent tube configuration were studied in various species classified into three categories: (1) marginal external tube, (2) nonmarginal external tube, and (3) without external vent tube, but with an external aperture in the posterior wall of the body. These dextral configurations were compared to medial vent tube configurations in Orton larval types 2, 3, and 4. Although vent tubes show greater morphological diversity in the dextral than in the medial condition, the histological organization in all cases is based on the same tissues (dermis and epidermis), and, thus, the medial and dextral configurations are fundamentally similar. Part of the cloaca located in the pleuroperitoneal cavity has a region covered by ciliated epithelium, which suggests that it is derived from the proctodeum. Cilia remain in the cloaca, until at least Gosner Stage 34. The rectus abdominis muscle fibers are orientated in a different direction relative to the cloaca in tadpoles with different ecotypes. /// Las larvas de anuros evacuan las heces a travs del tubo cloacal, que comunica el intestino posterior con el exterior. En la configuracin dextral, el tubo cloacal se extiende posteriormente a la pared del cuerpo, sobre el lado derecho del mismo, con o sin relacin con la aleta ventral. Se estudia la morfologa y la microanatoma del tubo cloacal dextral sobre la base de tres casos: (1) con tubo externo, marginal a la aleta ventral, (2) con tubo externo no marginal, (3) sin tubo externo, con la abertura externa en la pared del cuerpo. La estructura anatmica de los tres casos se compara con tubos de configuracin medial en los tipos larvales de Orton 2, 3, y 4. No obstante la mayor diversidad morfolgica de los tubos cloacales dextrales sobre los mediales, la organizacin histolgica en todos los casos result fundamentalmente similar. Parte de cloaca ubicada en el interior de la cavidad pleuroperitoneal presenta una regin tapizada por un epitelio ciliado, que sugiere un origen proviente del proctodeo embrionario. Las cilias permanecen en la cloaca, al menos hasta el estadio 34. Los msculos rectus abdominis se organizan con diferente direccin relativa a la cloaca en renacuajos con diferente ecotipo. 
3893232| We describe a new species of small, terrestrial, montane pitviper (Cerrophidion) from extreme southern Sierra Madre Oriental in Veracruz, Mxico. It differs from other members of the genus in scalation, coloration, color pattern, and hemipenial ornamentation. We also report the effect of the first known case of snakebite on humans for this species as well as aspects of its ecology. /// Una nueva especie de terrestre, pequea, nauyaca de montaa (Cerrophidion) se describe para el extremo sur de la Sierra Madre Oriental en Veracruz, Mxico. Difiere de los otros miembros del genero en escamacin, coloracin, patrn, y ornamentacin hemipenial. Se reporta el primer caso de mordedura y datos ecolgicos. 
3891463|Cerastes vipera buries in the sand leaving only its snout and eyes above the surface. Upon the approach of a lizard, it protrudes its distinctively marked tail above the surface and wriggles it in the manner of an insect larva. Lizards attempting to seize the tail are struck by the snake and eaten. In contrast to many other species which practice caudal luring only as juveniles, in C. vipera the habit occurs in adults. Most known caudal lurers are crotaline vipers; C. vipera is the second viperine snake definitely known to lure with the tail although there are undocumented reports and/or circumstantial evidence that other viperines do, and it may be rather widespread among them.
3892570|Flexible-shelled eggs of common snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina) were incubated in different hydric environments to elicit different patterns of net water exchange between eggs and their surroundings. Eggs resting on the wettest substrate experienced a net absorption of water during incubation, but eggs in all other settings experienced a net loss of solvent, with the amount of the loss varying directly with the severity of the dehydration stress to which eggs were exposed. Embryos in eggs in wetter environments consumed energy reserves in the yolk more rapidly and grew faster during later stages of development than did embryos in eggs in drier settings. Because eggs in wetter environments contained larger reserves of water in the albumen and vitelline sac than did eggs in drier conditions, metabolism and growth of embryos seem therefore to have been affected by the size of the pool of water available to support embryogenesis. Owing largely to differences in rates of metabolism and growth, turtles hatching from eggs incubated in wetter environments were much larger than hatchlings emerging from eggs incubated in drier surroundings. Because eggs incubating in natural nests also exchange water with the environment, sites selected by female snapping turtles for oviposition may influence water balance of developing eggs, metabolism and growth of embryos, and size and subsequent survival of hatchlings.
3893289|We discuss the difference between data that are gathered to test a priori alternative hypotheses (confirmatory research) and those gathered to determine whether any interesting a posteriori hypotheses might be generated from the data set (exploratory research). Confirmatory studies should be designed so as to minimize type I statistical errors while exploratory studies should be designed to minimize type II errors, which may require different approaches to statistical analyses. We suggest that authors clearly state whether they are reporting confirmatory or exploratory research in manuscripts, especially for experimental studies, because evaluations by referees and readers often hinge on such a distinction.
23255791|We describe a new species of the Bokermannohyla pseudopseudis group from Chapada Diamantina, Espinhao Range, central Bahia, northeastern Brazil. It is characterized by the following combination of traits: male snoutvent length (SVL) 60.0  3.3 (51.965.3 mm, n = 14); female SVL (60.2-61.6 mm, n = 2); short snout, rounded in dorsal view, rounded to truncate in lateral view; head 1.07  0.04 (1.011.14 mm, n = 14) times wider than long; tympanum diameter 0.07  0.01 (0.060.08 mm, n = 14) times SVL; macroscopically evident glandular tissue irregularly distributed on the mental area; hypertrophied forearm; well-developed prepollex; nuptial pad between the distal free section of the prepollex and the base of finger I; dorsum light gray to light brown (background) with irregular-shaped brown marbled blotches (without a central light spot) formed by small dark brown dots; in life, small yellow dots on upper and lower lips, eyelids, loreal and gular regions, supratympanic fold, fingers, arms, forearms, flanks, feet, tibiae, thighs, and cloacal region.
3892876|Human impacts obviously have reduced or eliminated many populations of amphibians and other organisms. Recent reports, however, have suggested that declines and disappearances of amphibian populations over the last two decades represent a distinct phenomenon that goes beyond this general biodiversity crisis. We review the literature on natural temporal and spatial variation in population sizes and examine techniques for analyzing trends in abundance. Whether the recent declines and extinctions of isolated, protected amphibian populations exceed expected natural fluctuations remains equivocal. The suggestion that amphibians are particularly sensitive bioindicators of anthropogenic stresses has not received adequate study, and to our knowledge, no evidence has been presented to substantiate it. Although concern about the status of amphibian populations is clearly warranted, formulation of appropriate null hypotheses and further study are needed.
3891730|In addition to a possible function of the tongue as a lure, enhanced allurement is believed to occur in the East African twig snake, Thelotornis k. kirtlandi (Hall.), through its normal defense posture involving swelling of the forepart of the body. This is demonstrably attractive to birds, who perhaps perceive the snake as an avian fledgling. It is believed that this behavior-as well as other behavior initiated by snakes-elicits prey responses that render them more vulnerable to predation. If so, the concept of snakes "charming prey" may in fact exist, involving behavioral adaptations consistent with their ordinary activities attractive to prey species, thus eliminating the necessity of formulating any sort of purposive action associated with this behavior.
3893472| A distinctive new species of the colubrid snake genus Heteroliodon is described from the deciduous dry forest of Montagne des Franais, near the northern tip of Madagascar. The new species is characterized by stout habitus, low number of ventral scales, long relative tail length, high number of infralabial scales, and absence of a light colored vertebral stripe. The limestone massif of Montagne des Franais appears to be an important center of endemism for Madagascan biota and should, therefore, be included in Madagascar's network of nature reserves. 
3891336|A new population of Chionactis occipitalis is reported from Baja California Norte. Character comparisons show this population to be most closely related to the atypical Anza-Borrego population of C. o. annulata rather than to a spatially closer, typical population of annulata. A tentative outline is proposed to elucidate the biogeographical history and relationships of the population. This scheme is based upon the isolating effects of Lake LeConte and incursions into the Salton Basin by the Gulf of California.
3892958| A new species of dendrobatid frog of the genus Colostethus is described from the Guiana Highlands in southeastern Venezuela. It is distinguished from all other Colostethus by having an orange-yelow throat in life and by lacking both pale longitudinal stripes and distinct dark markings on the chest or belly. /// Se describe una especie nueva de rana dendrobatida del gnero Colostethus de la altiplanicie guyanense en el sureste Venezuela. La nueva especie se distingue de todos los otros Colostethus por tener una garganta amarillo-naranja en vivo, y por la ausencia de bandas plidas longitudinales y manchas obscuras en el pecho o abdomen. 
3891693|Quantitative turbidimetric immunoprecipitation tests indicate a close affinity for the five types of marine turtles, with Caretta, Eretmochelys, and Lepidochelys being more closely related to each other than to Chelonia, and these four types being distinct from Dermochelys. There is evidence that Lepidochelys is closest to a sea turtle ancestry. Among non-marine turtles, the emydine Terrapene appears to be most like marine turtles.
3891418| Growth and size of Holbrookia maculata maculata were investigated from 1969-1971 in eastern New Mexico. Discernible age groups included hatchlings, 1-year-olds, 2-year-olds, and 3-year-olds. Hatchlings, ranging in size from 19-23 mm in snout-vent length (SVL), first appeared on the study area from 6 July to 25 August. Hatchling mean growth rate was 0.26 mm/day, but rates decreased as SVL increased. Mean SVL of 19 hatchlings of both sexes captured prior to hibernation was 40 mm. Growth rate of 1-year-old lizards was 0.1 mm/day. Mean SVL for 15 one-year-olds of both sexes captured between 15 April and 16 July was 51 mm. A mean SVL of 55 mm was calculated for eight lizards from the 2 and 3-year-old age groups combined. Their mean growth rate was approximately 0.02 mm/day. At all ages, mean growth rates for   were not significantly different from mean growth rates for  . Weight-SVL relationships of both sexes were similar. Tails of   were significantly longer (t-test, P < 0.01) than tails of   by the time the lizards reached the late hatchling stage of growth. One  laid two clutches. One was laid during mid-June and the other in July. Sexual maturity and reproduction occurred at the age of 1 year. 
3893056|We describe a green lacertid lizard, Takydromus hani, from central Vietnam. It differs from congeners in having 6-8 (versus 1-5) femoral pores on each thigh. The phylogenetic relationships of this continental form seem to be with T. sauteri of Taiwan, and T. toyamai and T. smaragdinus of the Ryukyu Archipelago.
4497937|A new species of Oreophrynella is described from Mount Ayanganna a 2000 m plateau in the Pakaraima Mountains in west-central Guyana. The new species can be distinguished from other species of Oreophrynella by large size (snout-vent length up to 37.3 mm in females; 26.7 mm in males) absence of frontoparietal crests, orange-colored dorsum, and creamy yellow venter.
3891433| Sceloporus graciosus   possess a subcutaneous saccular gland immediately anterior to the ventral lip of the cloaca. Ducts from the gland penetrate the cloacal epithelium just inside the ventral lip of the cloaca and moisten the preanal and postanal regions of the body. The gland secretes an apocrine material during and for several weeks beyond the mating period. A similar gland occurs in S. undulatus, S. occidentalis and S. magister. 
41406799|Morphology of some groups of organisms has been highly conserved over evolutionary time, resulting in genetically divergent taxa with relatively little morphological variation. Genetic studies on salamanders of the genus Plethodon have revealed a high level of morphologically cryptic diversity, and recent ecological and evolutionary studies have suggested that morphology may be informative for taxonomic purposes when combined with genetic data. We examined morphological variation in the Ouachita Mountain endemic salamanders P. fourchensis and P. ouachitae to test whether these sister species, and recently identified phylogeographic lineages within species as defined by genetic data, can be discriminated using morphology. We found that P. fourchensis and P. ouachitae differed significantly in morphology and could be classified correctly with greater than 90% accuracy. Individuals from a previously identified hybrid zone were morphologically intermediate to the two parental species. Phylogeographic lineages within each species (n = 4 for P. fourchensis, n = 7 for P. ouachitae) also exhibited significant morphological differences and were classified correctly in 57-72% of cases. Our results support genetic evidence that showed significant divergence between P. fourchensis and P. ouachitae and among the different lineages within each species. The high levels of diversity within P. fourchensis and P. ouachitae have important implications for conservation because these endemic species have small ranges and lineages are usually restricted to single mountains.
3893385| We describe a new species of Cnemidophorus from a Cerrado enclave in southwestern Amazonia, Rondnia state, Brazil. This species is apparently endemic to Cerrado enclaves in the vicinity of the city of Vilhena, a region under intensive anthropic pressure due to the expansion of soybean plantations. A discriminant analysis indicated that femoral pores and scales around the tail are the best discriminators among Brazilian species of Cnemidophorus. A nave Bayesian network constructed with categorical (mostly coloration) variables indicated that the new species had high conditional probabilities of dorsolateral fields absent, vertebral field spotted, and paravertebral lines absent. The analyses revealed clear distinctions between species of Cnemidophorus that range north and south of the the Amazon River. The new species may have evolved as a result of vicariance, following the isolation of peripheral enclaves of Cerrado in southwestern Amazonia after the late Pleniglacial. The restricted range in small areas, under extreme human pressure around Vilhena, makes this species one of the most critically endangered elements of the Brazilian herpetofauna. 
3893401|Pseudemydura umbrina is active only during winter and spring when environmental temperatures are relatively low and the ephemeral swamps that it inhabits contain water. We used operative environmental temperature thermometers to define the microclimates available to P. umbrina in its natural habitat during late winter and early spring, and we monitored the use of these microclimates by seven adult tortoises using radio-telemetry. Although air and water temperatures may be as low as 12-14 C during the day, we found that microclimates available to the animals have operative temperatures of up to 35-44 C out of water and 27 C in water. All animals increased in body mass during this study, and females increased in body mass faster than males. Tortoises that spent more time in warm water increased their body mass faster than those that spent more time in cold water. During the cool time of the year, P. umbrina enhances its physiological condition by using warmer microclimates in the range of potential available microclimates.
3890835|Salvadora hexalepis had a mean preferred body temperature in the laboratory of 33.0 C, a mean critical thermal minimum of 7.0 C, and a mean critical thermal maximum of 43.8 C. Oxygen consumption and heart rate increased with temperature, with greatest changes in these parameters at high and low temperature extremes. Cardiac and metabolic responses are what would be predicted for a reptile the size of S. hexalepis. A wide range of thermal tolerance is suggested as an important adaptation for a snake that is primarily a lizard predator.
3891647| At the northernmost edge of its range in southern Illinois, nocturnal choruses of the green treefrog, Hyla cinerea, occur from early May until early August each night air temperatures are above 20 C. The largest choruses, composed of hundreds of  , occur in early June, and spawning occurs during June and July. Calling   are found on emergent vegetation in permanent bodies of water. Surface and subsurface vegetation, which reach peak growth during the spawning season, serve as substrata for eggs and as habitat for tadpoles. During the day adult frogs crouch in emergent vegetation near the shoreline but over water. By 1900 h waves of A calls move across the breeding habitat as   move to outer reaches of emergent vegetation to establish calling stations. Dispersion of calling   is aided by agonistic encounters during which B calls are given. Choruses of C calls begin by 2100 h and continue for 2-2.5 h, during which time a few   are drawn toward calling  . By the time chorusing stops (2250-2340 h) all   seen in the population are in amplexus. Amplexus occurs only when a  approaches and touches a calling . Ovulation occurs during amplexus, though hormonal events leading irreversibly to ovulation begin before amplexus, and is accompanied by contractions of flank muscles which apparently help move eggs down the oviducts. Once a  is attracted to a calling , ovulation begins and 4-5 h later eggs are spawned whether or not she is allowed to enter amplexus. Duration of spawning under laboratory conditions is 15-35 min and 500-1,000 eggs are released. Eggs are propelled backward, just under the water's surface, and adhere to floating vegetation. This is a necessity for egg survival at the study site because of O
3893001| Incubation temperature has been shown to control sex determination (TSD) in both suborders of living turtles, including freshwater, terrestrial, and sea turtles. This study combines field and laboratory data from four neotropical endemic species (Dermatemys mawii, Staurotypus triporcatus, Claudius angustatus, and Kinosternon leucostomum) and two of temperate zone origin (Chelydra serpentina and Trachemys scripta). The sex of hatchlings incubated in natural nests and controlled laboratory temperatures was studied. Adult sex ratios in natural populations were determined by mark and recapture studies. Staurotypus and Claudius appear to have genetic sex determination (GSD) while TSD occurred in the other four species. Threshold temperatures of both Trachemys and Chelydra were lower in these Neotropical populations than in those studied in Temperate Zone climates. Natural populations of species with TSD were found to have variable adult sex ratios, skewed towards one sex or the other. These variations in sex ratio could sometimes be explained by nest site ecology. /// En los dos subordenes de tortugas existentes que incluyen tortugas terrestres, de agua dulce, y marinas, se ha demostrado que la determinacin del sexo es controlada por la temperatura de incubacin de los huevos (TSD). En este estudio se combinan los datos de campo y de laboratorio con cuatro especies de tortugas endmicas del Neotrpico: Dermatemys mawii, Staurotypus triporcatus, Claudius angustatus, y Kinosternon leucostomum; y dos epecies de zonas templadas: Chelydra serpentina y Trachemys scripta. Se relizaron experimentos de incubacin en el laboratorio y se obtuvieron datos de proporciones sexuales en nidos naturales. Por medio de estudios de marcaje y recaptura se estim el sesgo de los sexos de los adultos en problaciones naturales. Staurotypus y Claudius poseen determinacin gentica del sexo (GSD), y las otras cuatro especies presentan TSD. La temperatura umbral fue ms baja en las poblaciones neotropicales de Chelydra y Trachemys comparada con la encontrada en estudios previos con poblaciones de zonas templadas. Las poblaciones naturales de las especies que poseen TSD presentarn razones sexuales variables, consesgos hacia uno o otro sexo. Estas variaciones en el sesgo de los sexos se puede explicar en parte por la ecologa de los nidos. 
27669735|Hyalinobatrachium orientale has a complex taxonomic history suggesting that more than one species could be under this name. In this review, we try to clarify the current taxonomic status of this species by means of morphological, bioacoustic, and mitochondrial DNA sequence comparisons of specimens from Tobago Island and the Venezuelan Cordillera de la Costa (Oriental Sector, Cordillera del Litoral and Cordillera del Interior). Our data support the resurrection of Hyalinobatrachium orocostale, restricted to the Cordillera del Interior. Additionally, specimens from Cordillera del Litoral and Oriental Sector do not form a monophyletic group; hence, we define as Hyalinobatrachium sp. the populations from Cordillera del Litoral and H. orientale sensu stricto the populations from the Oriental Sector. Preliminary bioacoustic and morphological analyses indicate that the populations from Tobago are conspecific with Hyalinobatrachium orientale sensu stricto.
3893629| We describe a new species of leptodactylid frog of the genus Physalaemus from the lowlands of western Ecuador. It belongs to the P. pustulosus species group and differs from other group members in its smaller size, skin texture, tadpole characters, and advertisement call. The new species has wide variation in size and color pattern both at the intra- and inter-population levels. This variation matches that observed in P. montubio and P. randi, and render difficult its diagnosis on the basis of morphological features. A phylogenetic analysis of morphological characters shows that the new species belongs to a clade distributed west of the Andes in Ecuador and northern Peru, sister to (P. petersi + P. pustulosus). A phylogeny based on mtDNA shows that P. montubio and P. randi form a clade sister to (P. coloradorum + P. sp. nov.). The calls of these three species have two components with different acoustic features that arguably match the frequency sensitivity of the ear of conspecific females, in a manner similar to the complex calls of P. pustulosus. The new species occurs in two predominantly dry regions, the Lowland Deciduous Costa Forest, and the Lowland Semideciduous Costa Forest. /// Describimos una nueva especie del gnero leptodactlido Physalaemus de las tierras bajas del occidente del Ecuador. La nueva especie pertenece al grupo de especies P. pustulosus. Se diferencia de otras especies del grupo por su tamao ms pequeo, textura de la piel, caractersticas del renacuajo, y llamado de anuncio. La nueva especie presenta una amplia variacin en tamao y patrn de coloracin a nivel intra- e inter-poblacional. Esta variacin es similar a la observada en P. montubio y P. randi haciendo difcil su diagnstico en base a morfologa. Un anlisis filogentico basado en caracteres morfolgicos evidencia que la nueva especie pertenece a un clado distribuido al oeste de los Andes en Ecuador y el Norte del Per, hermano de (P. petersi + P. pustulosus). Una filogenia basada en ADN mitocondrial muestra que P. montubio y P. randi forman un clado hermano de (P. coloradorum + P. guayaco sp. nov.). Los cantos de estas tres especies tienen dos componentes con caractersticas acsticas diferentes entre s, cuyas frecuencias sonoras posiblemente se correlacionen con la sensibilidad de frecuencias del odo de hembras conespecficas, de manera similar a lo observado en los cantos complejos de P. pustulosus. La nueva especie se encuentra presente en hbitats predominantemente secos, el Bosque Deciduo de Tierras Bajas de la Costa y el Bosque Semideciduo de Tierras Bajas de la Costa. 
3892874|The incidence of insemination in migrating female Ambystoma opacum was studied in a breeding population near a Carolina bay in South Carolina. Of 77 females that were hand-captured substantial distances from the nesting area and then held in isolation, 24-38 (31-49%) produced fertile clutches. The capture of females during migration that had been inseminated before reaching the pond basin suggests that the timing and location of mating is more variable in this species as compared to other ambystomatids. The evolution of terrestrial courtship, coupled with the potential for high mate competition among males at the nesting area, may have provided an opportunity for sexual selection of an alternate male mating strategy.
3891683|The Devil's Den fauna, Levy County, Florida, is said to represent an interval from about 8,000 to 7,000 years ago, but may be somewhat older. This sinkhole trap has yielded at least 31 herpetological fossils, including 1 salamander, 5 anurans, 8 turtles, 1 alligator, 1 lizard, and 15 snakes. Open and dense woods, swamps and bogs, marginal thickets, Pine Flatwoods, and disturbed areas are indicated. Four of six species of amphibians are larger than their Holocene equivalents. Some elements suggest that the climate of the area may have been more equable than it is today. The fauna has produced one of the latest known records of two extinct land tortoises in North America, and it is possible the tortoises were contemporaneous with humans.
3892237|The U.S. Bureau of Land Management developed an enormous data base on the desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) in California from 1976-1985. Strip transects (n = 1808) provided data on distribution and relative abundance. Four major population centers covering from
3891534| The early stages of parental care of an adult  of the Australian leptodactylid frog, Assa darlingtoni are described. The  sits in the middle of recently hatched eggs and the larvae make their way into the bilateral brood pouches in his in guinal region. 
3892401|Territorial behavior among lungless salamanders of the family Plethodontidae has often been observed, but detailed investigations exist for only a few species. I examined spacing and movements of the western red-backed salamander, Plethodon vehiculum, through a mark-recapture study in the field and through laboratory experiments to test the hypothesis that adults defend feeding territories under cover objects. Plethodon vehiculum showed a high degree of site-specificity in the field and maintained relatively small home ranges. Home ranges of adult males, adult females, and juveniles were similar in size (mean distance between the two farthest captures for adult males = 2.47 m, for adult females = 1.71 m, for juveniles = 1.95 m). Few cover objects, however, were used exclusively by a single adult as would be expected if the salamanders were territorial. The pattern of multiple captures (adults within 10 cm of each other) showed no consistent seasonal trends. I examined the effect of soil moisture and distribution of food on the dispersion of P. vehiculum in indoor enclosures. Under test conditions, dispersion of P. vehiculum under cover objects did not indicate territoriality. Climatic conditions (cool and wet) in spring and autumn, when adults of P. vehiculum are active on the surface, are probably responsible for food (invertebrate prey) being readily available, thus rendering the defence of feeding territories uneconomical.
3893078|I describe a new species of blind snake, Typhlops meszoelyi, from the high elevations of Darjeeling, Assam. It superficially resembles three Indian species (T. exiguus, T. loveridgei, and T. porrectus) but can be distinguished from them by a preocular larger than the ocular, a deep concavity in the posterior border of the nasal, a nostril that is visible dorsally, a fourth supralabial that is at least twice the size of the third supralabial, and a faint eyespot located beneath the ocular in both dorsal and lateral views.
3892640|Predatory behavior of rattlesnakes is dependent upon or modified by particular routes of sensory input. Experimental studies examining the effects of sensory input commonly use laboratory strains of mice, but this raises the question of how faithfully such mice present a prey stimulus equivalent to that of natural, wild rodents. To examine these effects, I studied the comparative predatory behavior of rattlesnakes using laboratory mice and wild mice under various schedules of sensory deprivation: blindfolded and covering of infrared facial pit. Of 56 scored predatory variables, in only three did rattlesnakes show significant differences in their predatory behavior between laboratory and wild mice. Most such differences were likely related to the more cautious behavior of wild mice. Our conclusions agree with others, namely that with only a few exceptions, laboratory mice elicit predatory behaviors of rattlesnakes equivalent to those of natural rodent prey.
3891726| Analysis of four collections of Pelobates tadpoles from Cdiz Province, Spain provides information on the variability of growth rates in prometamorphic and metamorphic stages of P. cultripes and demonstrates high homogeneity in mouthpart structures. Development of the hindfoot is illustrated as an aid for staging spadefoot tadpoles. Collection data provide ecological and behavioral information. 
3891328| Eggs of Pseudoeurycea nigromaculata (Taylor) from Cerro Chicahuaxtla, Veracruz, and eggs and embryos of P. juarezi Regal from Cerro Peln, Oaxaca, Mxico, are described for the first time. They exhibit many similarities to the eggs of P. exspectata, Hydromantes, and Batrachoseps in number of envelopes and in bead-like type of connection. The eggs of P. bellii, Parvimolge townsendi, and several species of Bolitoglossa are adherent rather than stranded. It is postulated that in some species of tropical plethodontid salamanders egg deposition is timed so that hatching occurs during the wet season, a more favorable time for the young. 
3893271|We sequenced a 427 bp portion of the cytochrome oxidase (subunit I) gene to establish a phylogenetic tree for the lizard genus Niveoscincus. Previous attempts to establish a phylogeny for this genus using morphology, allozyme electrophoresis, and the mitochondrial gene cytochrome b have been unsatisfactory. The molecular phylogeny achieved in this study is compared with previous phylogenetic and biogeographic studies of Niveoscincus. The possible role of Pleistocene glacial events in speciation patterns and biogeography of the species of Niveoscincus is discussed. Our evidence indicates that a ground-dwelling species in the late Tertiary probably gave rise to the modern lineages of Niveoscincus within which three separate clades can be distinguished.
3892865|Tail breakage in Coniophanes fissidens occurs regularly throughout its geographic range. Analysis of large series from Guatemala and southern Mexico revealed no consistent trends; geographically proximate samples varied widely in sexual differences and overall frequency of breakage. The hypothesis that the long tail allows for multiple breaks through a lifetime is not supported. No concentration of breaks was found at any site on the tail, but males may have reinforced tail bases to protect the hemipenes. Frequency of injuries other than tail breaks was very low. "Tail autotomy" is identified as a distinct subset of "tail breakage" and does not apply to any known snakes.
3893083|We examined the relative stability versus lability of temporal display structure in males of the lizard Anolis carolinensis. We videotaped headbobbing displays across field and laboratory environments, social contexts, and populations for males from Georgia, Florida, and Hawaii, and subsequently generated display-action-pattern (DAP) graphs of these displays for statistical comparison. Anolis carolinensis is known to be a recent (circa 1950) colonizer of Hawaii, and displays from this population could therefore be altered through founder effects, genetic drift, and/or a tropical environment unlike that encountered over the rest of the species' range. Therefore, we expected to find lability in temporal display structure between Hawaiian and mainland populations. In contrast, we found that males from each population used the same three, highly stereotyped temporal display structures (i.e., display types, labeled A, B, and C) in their display repertoires, and that all three of these types were used across all measured recording environments and social contexts. Furthermore, intra-display structure was not affected by recording environment or social context, but within the relatively small total variance, a significant population effect was found for a majority of intra-display units.
4497960|Investigations of natural history trade-offs between reproduction and immunity are common throughout the literature. Most previous studies of such trade-offs have focused on how resources can be drawn from immune response to fuel reproduction. Our results demonstrate that resources also can be shifted from reproduction to immunity. Immunologically-challenged male northern cricket frogs (Acris crepitans) expressed reduced investment in reproduction. Spermatic cyst diameter, germinal epithelium depth, and gonadosomatic index were smaller in antigen-injected males relative to those injected with a sham (saline injected) and noninjected control animals. Although body size increased in all groups during this study, linear growth and body mass did not appear to be significantly different among these three treatment groups. These results demonstrate indirectly that in A. crepitans immune response may increase metabolic demand for resources and fuel that need from the stores normally used to support male reproduction. We speculate that anything eliciting an immune response in this species may reduce male fertility, so pathogens and toxins at levels that are currently believed to be relatively harmless may impact populations in ways we could not previously predict.
3893467|The microenvironment surrounding a lizard egg will strongly influence its probability of hatching, yet little is known about which environmental cues females use to select favorable nest sites. We conducted three experiments using Norops polylepis (Polychrotidae) in semi-natural enclosures to determine a female's ability to assess soil moisture levels and the presence of leaf-litter cover when selecting an oviposition site. Females laid significantly more eggs in moist soil (42% water content) than in the dry (10%) and saturated (70%) soil treatments. Most eggs (72%) placed in moist soil treatments hatched, whereas none of the eggs in the dry and saturated soil treatments hatched. In a separate choice experiment, females laid significantly more eggs in a "soil-and-leaf-cover" treatment than in "soil-only" or "leaf-cover-only" treatments. Our results demonstrate that female N. polyelpis can detect variations in water content and leaf cover, and that females prefer microhabitats that likely maximize the survival of their eggs.
4497929|Males from different iguanian lizard species engage in frequent visual signaling during agonistic interactions, mainly by displaying head bobs. We conducted a detailed study of the structure of head bob displays mediating male agonistic interactions in Liolaemus lemniscatus lizards. We staged pair-wise encounters where one male, the intruder, was placed in the terrarium of a conspecific male, the resident. During these interactions, males exhibited only one type of head bob display made up of three distinct units: a low amplitude bob (unit 1), a brief pause (unit 2), and two consecutive high-amplitude bobs (unit 3). Head bob displays occurred singly or as a part of a bout, with a mean number of head bob displays per bout of two. Total head bob display duration was stereotyped. The highest inter-individual variation (duration and amplitude) was recorded for unit 3, suggesting that this unit may provide information about the individual identity of the sender. Winners of interactions performed more head bob displays than losers, and these were composed of units of longer duration and higher amplitude than head bob displays exhibited by losers. Although preliminary, our results suggest that, in L. lemniscatus, head bob displays may facilitate opponent assessment by conveying information about individual fighting ability, motivation, or dominance status.
3891465|Elaborate pedal luring in the frog Ceratophrys calcarata apparently to entice smaller potential prey anuarans was observed. Luring behavior consisted of alternately vibrating and undulating the fourth and fifth toes of the hindfoot with the hindfoot raised so that the plantar aspect of the foot was visible. The digits were in motion throughout the display and the inner and outer lateral surfaces were presented to the prey by a side-to-side waving motion. During the final stages of luring, the limb was raised to the middorsal line so that the upturned foot was visible to the prey above the interorbital region, thus insuring that the prey approach the Ceratophrys frontally.
3891758|Individuals of Plethodon cinereus are more frequently found in cohabiting groups of 2-7 under rocks and wood in the early spring than in the summer, even though their density on the forest floor does not vary between seasons. This seasonal change in distribution lends support to the hypothesis that interference competition occurs among these salamanders.
3893102|Fence lizards, Sceloporus undulatus, reproduce multiple times per year. Survival of reproducing females drops dramatically between clutches from first to final clutch of the year. Also, offspring from later clutches emerge with less time available for growth and storage prior to hibernation. Considering these two facts, life history theory predicts that (1) females should exhibit greater reproductive effort (RE) in the second clutch of the active season than in the first, and (2) that the increase in RE should be mediated by a greater allocation of energy per offspring. To test these hypotheses, we compared reproductive traits (RE, clutch size, and egg mass) of lizards from a New Jersey population laying their first and second clutches. Two different estimates of RE (relative clutch mass, and clutch mass adjusted for condition) were significantly lower for the second clutch than for the first clutch. The difference in RE was manifested primarily as a decrease in clutch size. Clutch size was correlated with female body size and condition, but average egg mass was not correlated with either variable. Egg mass varied twice as much among clutches as it did within clutches. In fact, the variation in average egg mass observed among clutches was almost as great as that which exists among populations of S. undulatus. Variation in egg mass within and among clutches has consequences for offspring quality because egg mass was positively correlated with snout-vent length, body mass, and condition of hatchlings. Our data do not support the predictions of existing theories regarding the optimal allocation of RE among offspring.
3891404| Fossil box turtles are reported from Mississippi for the first time. Shell remains of an adult  and adult  were recovered from a late Pleistocene deposit. In size they are comparable to extant Terrapene carolina major and T. c. major  T. c. triunguis intergrades. Size and morphological characteristics indicate their assignment to the putnami-triunguis intermediate form, T. c. putnami
3893454| We studied habitat selection by the litter-dwelling gecko Sphaerodactylus nicholsi in the Cabo Rojo National Wildlife Refuge in southwestern Puerto Rico to determine how this small diurnal species exists in an apparently xeric habitat. We divided the 240 ha refuge into 956 quadrats each measuring 50 m  50 m and selected 60 quadrats at random to search for geckos. The 60 quadrats yielded 33 discrete locations with sphaerodactylids that we called occupied sites. Occupied sites were located beneath the dense canopies of broad-leaved evergreen trees and were completely shaded. The average area of an occupied site was 103 m
3892857| This study examines variation in reproductive characteristics over 2 yr in the viviparous Australian skink Eulamprus tympanum. Litter size (x = 2.8) was positively related to female body size in both years of this study, and there was no variation in the form of this relationship between years. However, offspring size, and the relationship of offspring size to female body size varied from 1989 to 1990. In most other species of lizard that have been examined, offspring size either does not change from year to year or changes concurrently with changes in clutch (litter) size. Here I suggest that because litter size is small, and additional offspring apparently cannot be produced without substantial growth by the female (11% of body length), the response to exogenous variables affecting reproductive investment may be mostly in terms of offspring size. 
3891764|Dermatemys mawii has a diploid number of 56 and a karyotype identical to that of a sea turtle (Chelonia mydas). We hypothesize that D. mawii and C. mydas share the primitive karyotype for all non-trionychoid cryptodiran turtles.
3891436| The frog Leptodactylus bufonius nests in Chamical, Argentina from November to February. Nests are excavated in mud shores of ponds in from one to two nights, and probably only by the . Rain seems to stimulate this activity.   call from in or near nests. Eggs and foam are deposited by the  inside the nest with the ; this usually occurs at least one night after construction of the nest is completed. After eggs are deposited, the adults exit and cap the nest with mud. Nest temperatures range from 26.5-36.4 C. About 250-450 larvae hatch inside of the nest in 4 days. They remain in the nest, probably do not feed, and decrease in size. Larvae may exist this way for several weeks. When rain raises the level of the pond sufficiently, the nest is flooded and larvae are freed into the pond. Larvae appear to be capable of existing outside the nest soon after hatching. 
3893378|Gestation length varies among populations of common geckos on the South Island of New Zealand, from annual reproductive cycles at a relatively warm site at Alexandra to biennial cycles at a cool site at Macraes. We compared the effect of warm and cool thermal regimes on the length and success of gestation between geckos from Macraes and Alexandra. To assess the likelihood of geckos experiencing these temperatures in the wild, we compared the laboratory thermal regimes with data available for field microhabitat temperatures, body temperatures ( T
3893395|We describe a new species of mangrove monitor from Halmahera Island, Indonesia. The new species differs most dramatically from its congeners by having a blue tail, tines of tongue with xanthophores, the body of the tongue with a distal black band, the gular region not heavily pigmented, the dorsum melanic anteriorly, and large black blotches on its neck. The new species appears to be partially arboreal and joins Varanus indicus and V. salvator as the third monitor species known from Halmahera.
3891729|Kingsnakes observed in the process of locating nests containing young birds were apparently aided in their search by the relative intensity of the attacking response by the parents. The vivid marks and coloration of these snakes appear to serve as reinforcement signals to maintain the intensity of the attacks, as well as to provide directional signals to the snake. It is believed that this phenomenon is described for the first time and may be an additional explanation for the presence of vivid marks and colors in some snakes.
3891690|In the western terrestrial garter snake, Thamnophis elegans, three tooth types can be recognized based on their shape: recurved, curved, and linear. Recurved teeth are a shallow S-shape in appearance, curved teeth are crescent-like in shape, and in linear teeth the curve in the base does not continue distally so the tooth tip is straight. Each functional tooth bears a pair of dental ridges positioned opposite one another along the sides of the tooth. These ridges vary progressively in length and position from anterior to posterior teeth. They begin at the cusp and continue toward, but do not reach the base. The posterior maxillary teeth are distinctive. Their distal dental ridges are long and elevated into prominent edges which make the teeth appear blade-like. Three aspects of the functional anatomy of the teeth are considered. First, in pythons and probably garter snakes, recurved teeth likely serve as prey snaring rather than manipulating adaptations. Second, dental ridges function during jaw closure as cutting edges that promote penetration and thus aid secure tooth engagement. Third, the posterior maxillary teeth are the first teeth of the maxilla to engage prey and these teeth have a distinctive anatomy (long, blade-like, prominent distal edge). Thus the posterior maxillary teeth penetrate deeper into the integument than any other teeth. This suggests that the posterior maxillary teeth function to impale the struggling prey and aid in holding and manipulating the prey.
3892769|The terrestrial stage of pond-breeding amphibians has been the subject of few ecological field experiments, partly because terrestrial individuals of many species are difficult to capture, observe, and manipulate. I tested a new strategy for sampling terrestrial, fossorial, pond-breeding amphibians within large field enclosures. Ambystoma opacum and A. talpoideum were placed in 225 m
3892302|Six readily distinguishable blood cells of Chelonia mydas are described and characterized. Differential counts of white blood cells show age dependent differences. There are no apparent sex-related differences in cell types among sub-adult and adult green sea turtles. Red and white cell counts do not demonstrate an age or size related regression for turtles from 6 mo old to adults. The hemoglobin level and packed cell volume of the green sea turtle apparently increase with age.
3892294|Tadpoles of the treefrog Hyla pseudopuma, ranging from stages 26-42, were offered to predatory adult dytiscid beetles (Rhantus guticollis) and odonate naiads (Aeshina sp. and Sympetrum nigrocreatum) in order to examine stage-specific vulnerability. Two predictions were tested. (1) Based on a size threshold, small tadpoles without visible legs should be more vulnerable to specific predators than should large tadpoles without legs or large tadpoles with two legs. (2) Once the forelimbs erupt, a tadpole passes through an awkward stage, and thus four-legged individuals should be more vulnerable to specific predators than should large tadpoles with no legs or two legs. Experimental results for Rhantus guticollis and Sympetrum nigrocreatum supported both predictions. Aeshina sp. naiads, however, were able to capture and kill all stages of tadpoles offered. In all experiments, fewer four-legged individuals were killed than expected. Most four-legged tadpoles that survived climbed out of reach of the predators. In nature, metamorphosing froglets often climb out of water and sit on vegetation while resorbing their tails.
3892625|Body temperature of free-ranging Hyla cinerea was compared with that of water-saturated plaster frog models placed in the exact microhabitat occupied by the living frogs. The temperature of frogs at night was significantly higher than the temperature of models, but the mean difference was only 0.8 C. During the day, frog temperature was considerably higher than model temperature, with excess temperatures ranging from 0.9-6.8 C (
41406805|Frequency-dependent prdation (FDP), or apostatic selection, is often assumed to be a main evolutionary process to maintain color-pattern polymorphism, particularly when colors are drab. Under this hypothesis, differences in survival rate based on color pattern should be detectable. In many species of anoles, females show variation in dorsal patterns. These patterns consist of drab colors and are thought to have evolved as a predator-avoidance mechanism. We tested the FDP hypothesis for Norops humilis at the La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica. Three female patterns are found in this population. The dotted pattern occurs in males as well as females, whereas vertebral stripe and reticulated morphs are only found in females. To test FDP, we compared morph frequencies from population data collected at several sampling periods between 1981 and 2007, expecting to see fluctuations in frequencies over time. In addition, we predicted that the most common morph would experience higher mortality. Therefore, we analyzed survival rates from a capture-recapture study. We found that the dotted morph was more common in juveniles as well as in adults and adult morph frequencies remained stable over time. Survival rates supported this, showing no significant difference among morphs. The evidence supported rejection of the FDP hypothesis in this population of lizards. Possible scenarios to explain the stability of dorsal patterns and suggestions for future research are presented.
3892312|We examined relationships among life history parameters for three species of Ambystoma: clutch size and female size, hatchling size and ovum size, and growth rates of hatchling larvae. We used female A. opacum to test for a possible relationship between clutch size and female snout-vent length; larval A. talpoideum and A. maculatum were used to test for possible relationships among the larval life history parameters. In addition, we tested larvae of A. opacum, A. maculatum and A. talpoideum for possible differences in larval growth rates. A significantly positive relationship was found between clutch size and female snout-vent length for A. opacum. Hatchling size was positively related to ovum size for A. maculatum, but not for A. talpoideum. Conversely, growth rate was positively related to both ovum diameter and hatchling length for A. talpoideum but not for A. maculatum. The results of a multiple linear regression revealed that hatchling length can significantly predict growth rate in larval A. talpoideum better than the initial size of ova. These two variables in combination explain more of the variance in the relationship than does hatchling length alone. There was no significant difference in the larval growth rates of A. opacum and A. maculatum, but both had a faster growth rate than larval A. talpoideum.
3893207|From 1991-1993, we conducted an intensive mark-recapture study of an island population of Florida box turtles, Terrapene carolina bauri. We used models based on the Jolly-Seber open population model to estimate abundance, after first examining the capture histories for violations of the underlying assumptions of mark-recapture analysis with goodness-of-fit tests contained in the program RELEASE. Some violations were detected, resulting in low estimates. We estimated that 544 (415-672 approximate 95% confidence interval) adult box turtles inhabited the southern 36.4 ha of Egmont Key in the summer of 1993. This estimate is similar to those of conspecific populations studied in more northern areas and provides a reliable initial estimate with which to monitor population trends in the future. Adult capture probabilities ranged between 0.09 and 0.30. Weekly survival probabilities for adults ranged between 0.94 and 1.00. There were significant differences in capture histories between adults and juveniles, indicating differences in survival and/or capture probabilities. Increased movement and activity of individuals on the study area during two survey periods, one after a severe storm and the other during the fruiting season of a favorite food source, was verified with one of the goodness-of-fit tests.
3893246|Miniature dataloggers were used during the winter of 1994-1995 to measure temperatures inside 14 nests containing hatchling painted turtles (Chrysemys picta). The study was conducted at the Valentine National Wildlife Refuge in northcentral Nebraska (1) to assess variation in temperature within and among nests, (2) to determine the duration of exposure of hatchlings to subzero temperatures, and (3) to evaluate survival by hatchlings in relation to variation in the thermal environment. Diel cycles in temperature were evident in most nests, even during the coldest period of winter when temperatures in several nests declined to minima between -9 C and -11 C. Temperatures in nests were continuously below the equilibrium freezing point for body fluids of turtles for intervals ranging from several days to 2 weeks in January and again in February. More than 50% of hatchlings survived in 13 nests, and all died in one. The nest in which all the turtles succumbed was not the nest in which the most extreme temperatures were recorded. The study confirms that hatchling painted turtles overwintering in the field commonly withstand lower body temperatures than are known to be tolerated by any other amniote vertebrate. Moreover, surviving turtles probably withstood exposure to subzero temperatures by sustaining a state of supercooling and not by tolerating freezing of water in the extracellular compartment.
3891526|Diploid number (2n) and chromosome morphology are presented for 11 species of kinosternid turtles. Sternotherus and Kinosternon had a diploid number of 56, while Staurotypus had a diploid number of 54. This quantitative difference is in the number of so-called microchromosomes. Both chelydrid genera have a diploid number of 52. The morphology of the macrochromosomes, however, indicates a similarity between the kinosternines, with the chelydrids and staurotypines being different. This difference is in the second pair of chromosomes, which is submetacentric in the kinosternines and metacentric in the chelydrids and staurotypines. The suggestion that the chelydrids are more closely related to the emydids than the kinosternids is supported by the diploid number. The similarity between the chelydrid and staurotypine karyotype also supports the hypothesis that the chelydrids are derived from a stock common to the kinosternids. The chelydrids and kinosternids are therefore probably derived from a common stock which is close to the emydids.
3891629|The systematic status of Pseudoeurycea unguidentis, an enigmatic Mexican plethodontid salamander described by Taylor (1941), is reviewed in the light of morphometric and biochemical analysis of recently collected material. It is concluded that P. unguidentis is a valid species which differs from Pseudoeurycea smithi, a superficially similar sympatric form, in numerous phenetic and genetic characters. Far from being conspecific, as suggested by an earlier investigator, these two salamanders are more different genetically than are most congeners in other animal groups.
3891421| Hemoglobin concentrations, hematocrits and erythrocyte counts were compared of two populations of the keeled earless lizard, Holbrookia propinqua differing markedly in geographic location and habitat, but not in altitude. No significant differences were found between sexes or localities. However, significant variation due to interaction between sex and locality was indicated for hematocrit values. Mainland   had much higher hematocrits than other groups except island  . Island   averaged higher in all blood values than island  ; however, in mainland samples this situation was reversed. Females with unyolked oocytes had significantly higher hematocrits than   with yolked oocytes. Hemoglobin concentrations were within the range of published values for lizards, but were markedly lower than values reported for a sea level population of Sceloporus occidentalis. There was no correlation between lizard size and any of the blood parameters. 
3892904|Reproductive behavior of captive green sea turtles (Chelonia mydas) was observed at the Cayman Turtle Farm, British West Indies. Observed components of courtship behavior included gular rubbing, biting, cloacal checking, circling and biting, chasing, following, attempted mounting, mounting, and escorting. Data analysis indicated that in each of the observed components, reproductively attractive females were the target of the behavior significantly more often than reproductively nonattractive females. Cloacal checks may be used by both males and females to assess reproductive condition of females. Males may escort mounted pairs to disrupt copulation attempts by rivals and increase their own reproductive success; females may act as escorts to enhance later mate availability. In general, females appear to signal approaching reproductive receptivity to males, but females may exercise mate selectivity by avoiding mounting.
25209104|The Santiago poison frog, Adelphobates captivus, a species not seen in life since 1929, was recently rediscovered on an expedition to its type locality in northwestern Peru. The colors of this species, previously unknown, consist of a black dorsum with bright red-orange spots and yellow spots ventrally. We provide amendments to the original description as well as the first accounts of tadpole morphology, vocalization, and natural history. A Bayesian phylogenetic analysis suggests Adelphobates captivus and a species originally described as Dendrobates mysteriosus are sister species that form a monophyletic clade sister to Ranitomeya. We propose to clarify the taxonomic status of D. mysteriosus incertae sedis by erecting a new genus, Excidobates, to include mysteriosus and its sister taxon captivus. Members of this genus are distinguished from Ranitomeya by 11 site substitutions in their rrnS and rrnL sequences, well-developed first fingers, and pale spots on the ventral surfaces of the thighs. /// La rana venenosa del Santiago, Adelphobates captivus, una especie no vista en vida desde 1929, fue redescubierta recientemente en una expedicin a su localidad tpica en el noroccidente de Per. Los colores de esta especie, previamente desconocidos, consisten en un dorso negro con puntos rojos brillantes y puntos amarillos en el vientre. Presentamos rectificaciones a la descripcin original, as como los primeros datos sobre morfologa de los renacuajos, vocalizacin e historia natural. Un anlisis filogentico Bayesiano sugiere A. captivus y una especie originalmente descrito como Dendrobates mysteriosus son especies hermanas que forman un clado monofiltico, hermano a Ranitomeya. Proponemos aclarar el estado taxonmico de D. mysteriosus incertae sedis, erigiendo un nuevo gnero, Excidobates, para incluir mysteriosus y su taxn hermano captivus. Los miembros de este gnero se distinguen de Ranitomeya por 11 substituciones de lugar en sus secuencias de rrnS y rrnL, por un primer dedo bien desarrollado y puntos plidos en las superficies ventrales de los muslos.
3892243|Recent research on the gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) has indicated its ecological importance, revealed reasons for its decline, and suggested management strategies. It is generally associated with the sandhill community but occurs in a variety of other natural and ruderal habitats. Limiting factors include well-drained sandy soil, adequate herbaceous food, and sunlit nesting sites. Tortoise densities and movements are related to herbaceous biomass. As the principal sandhill grazer, the gopher tortoise serves as a seed dispersal agent for native groundstory plants. The burrowing habits of the gopher tortoise return leached nutrients to the surface and the burrows provide refuges for many other species. Female gopher tortoises reach sexual maturity at 10-20 yr of age and produce a single annual clutch of about six eggs. Recruitment is reduced by heavy egg and hatchling predation. The major reasons for the decline of the gopher tortoise are habitat destruction, habitat degradation, and human predation. Recommended conservation measures include prescribed burning of sandhill habitat, establishment of preserves, protection from over-harvest, restocking, and public education.
3891329|The body temperature and thermal behavior of the western fence lizard was continuously monitored in the natural habitat by radiotelemetry and direct observation under various daily temperature conditions. Great flexibility in thermoregulatory behavior allows this species to attain and maintain satisfactory body temperatures under varying ambient conditions. Such behavior permits greater habitat utilization.
3891651|Hybridization between the iguanid lizards, Anolis aeneus and Anolis trinitatis on Trinidad has been well documented, but hybrids appeared to have low reproductive potential and backcrosses were previously unknown. Recent electrophoretic study indicated six genetic loci that could be used as markers to separate the two species and identify hybrids. We here present genetic evidence that two individuals, one field identified as a hybrid, the second as Anolis aeneus are best interpreted as backcrosses between a hybrid and A. aeneus.
40931015|Defending young against intruders is a potentially risky behavior, and is energetically costly. Yet female eastern red-backed salamanders, Plethodon cinereus, guard their clutches for many weeks and aggressively defend eggs against predators and conspecifics. I examined the effect of clutch age, clutch size, and attendant size on the level of aggression attained during nest defense by staging conspecific invasions of nests of brooding female P. cinereus in the laboratory. I predicted that older and larger clutches would elicit increased aggression from the guarding females, and that larger females would be more aggressive when defending. The females were significantly more aggressive when guarding older clutches (6 wk postoviposition) than younger clutches (4 wk postoviposition). However, there was no difference in aggressive behavior when females guarded large (10-egg) or small (4-egg) clutches. There was also no relationship between body size and level of aggression; females were aggressive regardless of their size. These results suggest that females are able to evaluate the age (or developmental stage) of their eggs and adjust expenditure accordingly, but are not differentially responsive to clutch size.
3891771|Two distinct populations of collared lizards exist in the vicinity of San Gorgonio Pass, Riverside County, California. These populations have previously been considered to be separate subspecies of Crotaphytus insularis or to represent two different species (i.e., C. collaris and C. insularis). A three year study indicated that (1) geographic distributions of the two populations do not overlap and no suitable habitat continuum presently exists between their ranges, (2) the populations are readily distinguished by multivariate analysis, and (3) the displays of males differ in pattern and duration. We believe that these two populations belong to separate species: C. insularis vestigium, occurring from the San Jacinto Mountains southward, and C. bicinctores, occurring north and east of San Gorgonio Pass and the Coachella Valley.
3893331|Morphological and genetic variation were highly correlated in the hybrid zone between the toads Bufo hemiophrys and B. americanus in southeastern Manitoba. We subjected 30 morphological traits to discriminant function analysis and compared the results with a genetic index of hybridization constructed from five diagnostic isozyme loci (Pgdh, Mpi, Ldh-1, Icdh-2, and Sod) from the same specimens. The loci did not exhibit identical clines in allele frequencies. Both morphological and genetic scores for individuals demonstrated increased individual variation within the hybrid zone. Compared to morphological evidence taken 11 or more years prior, the hybrid zone shifted westward by about 9.6 km while maintaining the same width. Fluctuating population sizes may influence such dynamics. Selection against hybrids could not be demonstrated. Interspecies taxonomic boundaries are rendered vague by hybrid zones, creating difficulties for species delineation. Because hybridization may imply only the plesiomorphic lack of isolation mechanisms, evidence that the taxa involved maintain their historic identities outside of the hybrid zone despite a restricted exchange of genes within it argues for the existence of phylogenetic species.
3892730|A new species of batagurine emydid turtle, Mauremys iversoni, based upon a series of 29 specimens from the Provinces of Fujian and Guizhou, People's Republic of China, is described. This species is most similar to Mauremys mutica, from which it differs in several morphological features and in coloration and pattern. Mauremys mutica and M. iversoni are reported to be sympatric near Nanping, Fujian.
3892455| Previous molecular work using immunological comparisons of albumins suggested that the New World xenodontine colubrid radiation comprises several distinct lineages whose members differ by about 70 albumin immunological distance units. This study examines phylogenetic relationships among genera within one of those lineages, a large assemblage with its center of diversity in South America and the West Indies. Reciprocal microcomplement fixation comparisons of albumins support the recognition of several major clades within this group: Alsophis, Helicops, Hydrodynastes, Clelia-Oxyrhopus, Philodryas and Xenodon. The branching order among the first four of these cannot be resolved, but Philodryas and Xenodon appear to represent somewhat earlier derivatives of that radiation. Other genera closely related to Clelia-Oxyrhopus are Pseudoboa, Phimophis and Tripanurgos. This group (pseudoboines) is molecularly the most cohesive group of genera examined, with immunological distances among these 23. All xenodontine genera with terminal disks on the hemipenis are in a clade with Xenodon. Hypsirhynchus and Tropidodryas appear to be associated with Alsophis and Philodryas, respectively. Other South American xenodontine genera cannot be precisely placed within the radiation based on current molecular data. The South American xenodontines have undergone extensive speciation, but much of the molecular differentiation between genera has occurred phyletically within clades. 
3892587|Southern leaf-tailed geckos are large (to 100 mm snout-vent length: SVL) nocturnal saxicolous lizards endemic to the Sydney Basin in southeastern Australia. We dissected 176 preserved museum specimens to document morphology, food habits, and reproductive biology. Hatchlings are large (33-41 mm SVL) relative to maternal body size. Females mature at larger sizes than do males (77 versus 70 mm SVL) and attain larger mean and maximum adult sizes. Abdomens of adult female P. platurus (especially gravid females) are thicker than those of males and may limit access of gravid females to narrow crevices. Females also have longer abdomens relative to SVL than do conspecific males, perhaps as an adaptation to accommodate the clutch. Adult males have enlarged testes throughout the year, but female reproductive cycles are highly seasonal with vitellogenesis and ovulation in spring and oviposition in summer. Some females may produce more than one clutch (of two eggs) per year. Geckos of all size classes consume a variety of invertebrate prey, especially large nocturnally active insects (e.g., spiders, chilopods, cockroaches, and beetles), and feeding continues in all seasons.
3893421|Reciprocal transplantation of the southern Appalachian salamander Plethodon jordani between the Great Smoky Mountains and the Balsam Mountains, in field competition experiments by Nelson G. Hairston, Sr. in 1974-1978, provided an opportunity for observing the genetic interactions between the two populations in their first generation of sympatry. Native individuals in both mountain ranges can be identified by their coloration (red cheeks in the Great Smoky Mountain population, gray cheeks in the Balsam Mountain population) and F
3892048|Principal components analysis (PCA) is applied for the first time to the identification of frogs of the genus Eupsophus. Eupsophus vittatus and E. calcaratus are clearly distinguishable, but a second PCA was required on the E. roseus-E. migueli subsample. The associated plot did distinguish these latter species.
3893241|We examined variation in 11 external morphological characters in 1353 larvae from 60 populations belonging to four subspecies of the polytypic salamander Ambystoma tigrinum and two closely related members of the tiger salamander complex, A. californiense and A. velasci. Phenotypic differentiation among these taxa is relatively slight, in keeping with their relatively shallow levels of differentiation based on mitochondrial DNA and allozymes. Significant differences among some taxa were observed in size-corrected gill raker number, with smaller contributions from several other variables. Despite this small degree of differentiation, the Mexican ambystomatid A. velasci, the eastern tiger salamander A. t. tigrinum, and to a lesser extent the California tiger salamander A. californiense form distinguishable morphological groups, while the remaining taxa (A. t. mavortium, A. t. melanostictum, and A. t. nebulosum) differ only slightly from one another. By contrast, we found that all size-corrected variables showed large levels of variation among populations within taxa. The causal mechanisms responsible for this among-pond variation are not obvious, although several lines of indirect evidence suggest that a combination of historical gene flow and current natural selection may be required to explain the observed patterns. Taxonomically, our data provide additional support for the interpretation that A. t. tigrinum may be a valid taxon at the specific level, while A. t. mavortium, A. t. melanostictum, and A. t. nebulosum are almost indistinguishable from one another.
3892635|The phylogeny, biogeography, historical ecology, and taxonomy of the phrynosomatid lizards of the genus Urosaurus were studied using the methodology of phylogenetic systematics. Relationships and status of the nine species were assessed with 33 characters (22 phylogenetically informative) of osteology, squamation, coloration, and behavior, and a single allozymic character. Parsimony analysis yielded a single shortest tree (length = 43.3, consistency index = 0.693) showing the following relationships: (graciosus (((bicarinatus + gadovi) + (lahtelai + (microscutatus + nigricaudus)))+ (ornatus (auriculatus + clarionensis)))). Although some clades are not strongly supported, this phylogeny suggests that (1) contrary to previous hypotheses, the species from Baja California, the Revillagigedos Islands, and western Mexico are (respectively) each others' closest relatives, (2) there have been three instances of speciation through peripheral isolation in Urosaurus, (3) strict arboreality appears to have evolved twice within the genus, and (4) none of the previously recognized species groups are monophyletic. A new classification is proposed in which three monophyletic species groups are recognized.
3892025|The yamakagashi, Rhabdophis tigrinus, a common natricine snake of Japan and adjacent East Asia, is generally considered inocuous to man despite its enlarged posterior maxillary teeth and well developed Duvernoy's glands. Three cases of serious envenomation by this species are reported, all marked by delayed, spontaneous, superficial hemorrhaging and profound impairment of normal blood coagulation. In two cases these phenomena were accompanied by signs of severe internal hemorrhaging and hemolysis. Other symptoms may have resulted from transitory involvement of the central and autonomic nervous systems. Therapeutic measures applied in these cases are described, including the apparently effective use of a systemic antihemorrhagic drug. It is concluded that R. tigrinus is a dangerously venomous snake and potentially lethal to man.
3892419| Two dendrobatids, provisionally assigned to Colostethus, are named from the Cordillera Oriental of Colombia near Bogot, Colombia. Both species differ from other Colostethus in lacking the vocal slits and in having elongate anal sheaths. One species is cavernicolous and occurs at elevations above 3000 m (caves within pramos). The other species occurs along mountain streams in areas once supporting high altitude cloud forests (elevations ca. 2400-2800 m). 
41238991|The Eastern Massasauga rattlesnake, Sistrurus catenatus catenatus, is a candidate for US federal listing and is legally protected in every state or province in which it occurs. Habitat degradation and human persecution have contributed to range-wide population declines. Survival estimates are essential for a thorough understanding of population dynamics, yet are rarely reported for S. c catenatus in the peerreviewed literature. There has been little research on massasauga survival in managed areas of Michigan, USA, the state considered to be the last S. c catenatus stronghold. Our objectives were to estimate survival of massasaugas during the active season (May-October) in southwestern Lower Michigan and describe causes of mortality. We captured (mid-May to late August), radiomarked, and monitored 27 adult massasaugas in 2008 and 2009 and pooled data for analyses. We observed snakes throughout the active season and estimated survival (Mayfeld method) for that period (11 May-29 October; 168 d). Cause-specific mortality was investigated qualitatively. Estimated survival probability for the active season was 0.9472 (CI = 0.8518-1.0000), higher than any estimate for similar studies of which we are aware. The single mortality event observed was caused by prdation. We suggest that the high massasauga survivorship in this area might be attributable to habitat management for S. c catenatus combined with a relative lack of infrastructure and human persecution. Our results suggest that adult S. c catenatus survival is potentially geographically variable and can be high in areas not well-investigated, such as southwestern Lower Michigan. More research would yield long-term survival trends for the studied population as well as throughout their range.
3891638| Red-sided garter snakes in Manitoba, Canada form tightly-knit groups during cool weather. Similar aggregative behavior was experimentally induced in the laboratory by subjecting the snakes to 5C. This behavior pattern appears to have thermoregulatory significance. 
4497959|We describe oviposition site, clutch characteristics and breeding phenology of a population of Eurycea lucifuga, the cave salamander, from SE Missouri, to understand the impact of biophysical and biotic conditions on a troglophilic species. In the field oviposition occurred in underground rimstone pools over 6 mo, with most reproduction occurring from August to October. Individual females deposited 1-31 eggs per pool, hatching approximately 10-20 d post-oviposition. Larvae remained in the pools as long as 6 mo before moving into the stream. We raised eggs and larvae of E. lucifuga in the lab and compared survival, growth, and development under three temperature regimes. Embryonic growth was slowest at cooler temperatures and produced larger larvae, while temperatures typical of summer surface stream temperatures resulted in high mortality. We suggest that the cool, predator free habitats of midwestern caves have allowed for a longer reproductive season in E. lucifuga, but that the unpredictable hydrology and limited food supply of these cave environments has expanded the breeding period and slowed embryonic and larval development.
25209086|We describe a new species of Cycloramphus of the eleutherodactylus group from the Ilha dos Alcatrazes, southeastern Brazil, with descriptions of advertisement and territorial calls and notes on natural history. Additionally, we describe the advertisement and territorial calls of C. eleutherodactylus. The new species is diagnosed by the following set of characters: snout truncate in lateral and dorsal views; head wider than long; eyes protruding; tibia shorter than thigh; and distinct advertisement call. The new species is known from a single population on the Ilha dos Alcatrazes, a 149 ha island about 35 km off So Paulo State coast where these frogs are scattered in a small valley. The very restricted range of the new species of Cycloramphus and the declining quality of its habitat qualify this frog as critically endangered.
3892473|Enzyme variation was assayed among toads along a transect through the hybrid zone between Bufo hemiophrys and B. americanus in southeastern Manitoba. Thirteen of 26 loci exhibited polymorphism, and clines in allele frequencies through the zone were noted at five loci. The mid-point of the hybrid zone appears to be further to the west by about 11 to 12 km, when compared with that described in a previous morphological study (Cook, 1978). High levels of heterozygosity were found, yet deficiencies in observed numbers of heterozygotes compared to expected numbers were recorded in some samples. Populations of toads within the hybrid zone are composed mainly of intermediates, apparently interbreeding without hindrance. Introgression is asymmetrical with evident gene flow from B. hemiophrys into B. americanus. This zone has features typical of stable "allopatric" (sensu Woodruff, 1973) hybrid zones and is coincident with an ecotone between western prairie and eastern forest habitats. These two species probably met in secondary contact after the retreat of glacial Lake Agassiz up to 8000 yr ago. The stability of this zone is ensured by the continuing reproduction of the intermediate individuals in the ecotone, in concordance with a hypothesis of hybrid superiority in a narrow, clinal hybrid zone.
3892359|Adult male fence lizards (Sceloporus undulatus) were placed in differing photothermal conditions at various seasons of the year, and their testes later were examined histologically. Timing and regulation of the testicular cycle depend on an interaction between temperature and an apparent endogenous rhythm in temperature sensitivity. There is no evidence for significant photoperiodic effects on the testicular cycle. High temperatures accelerate testicular regression during spring and early summer. A thermal refractory period begins in late spring and continues into fall, suppressing the initiation of a new wave of spermatogenesis by warm temperatures during this period. Cool temperatures in early fall stimulate testicular enlargement and early spermatogenic development. The refractory period terminates in mid-fall, and warm temperatures then become stimulatory. Early termination of the refractory period presumably allows lizards to achieve a state of reproductive readiness immediately after emergence in early spring. The results support the general premise that temperature is the major exogenous factor controlling reptilian reproductive cycles in the Temperate Zone.
3890736| Slider turtles (Pseudemys scripta) have not previously been reported in northwestern Mxico (north of the Ro del Fuerte drainage). Pseudemys scripta yaquia new subsp. is described from 12 specimens (Ro Mayo, Conicarit, Sonora). Data are presented for 11 other speciments. The known range of P. s. yaquia is in the lower reaches of the Ro Mayo, Yaqui, and Sonora drainages, entirely within the state of Sonora. P. s. yaquia is regarded as most closely related to P. s. ornata on the basis of shared characters; yaquia differs from ornata in lacking distinct carapacal ocelli and in having an indistinct plastral pattern. The geographical ranges of ornata (Ro Sinaloa southward at least to Tuxpan, Nayarit) and yaquia are separated by that of P. s. hiltoni (lower reaches of Ro del Fuerte); no intergradation of hiltoni with either yaquia or ornata can be demonstrated. A key to the subspecies of P. scripta in northwestern Mxico (gaigeae, hiltoni, nebulosa, ornata, and yaquia) is presented. 
3892583| The southern alligator lizard, Elgaria multicarinata, has highly variable body temperatures during activity which average only about 21 C. It also appears to rely predominantly on ambush foraging. I therefore anticipated that the species would have unusually low metabolic expenditures relative to other lizards its size. To test this hypothesis, I measured the field metabolic rate (FMR) of free-ranging individuals during their spring activity season using the doubly labeled water technique. FMR was indeed very low, averaging 0.13 (0.034 SD) ml
3892340| Tokay geckos (Gekko gecko) acclimatized to 25  1 C and a LD 12:12 photoperiod exhibited significant diel cycles of temperature selection in a thermal gradient with either uniform light over the entire gradient (UL) or a point-source of light over the hot end of the gradient (LH). Both groups selected higher body temperatures at night than during the day. No diel cycle was observed in the geckos exposed to the paradoxical condition of a point-source of light over the cold end of the gradient (LC). The UL and LH groups showed greater precision in thermoregulation during the scotophase than during the photophase. The opposite was found for the LC group. We concluded that light has a definite impact on thermoregulatory behavior that is distinct from the role that heat plays in thermoregulation. We recommend that variance be used as a standardized measure of thermoregulatory precision. 
3893613|Formerly considered a full species, Trimorphodon biscutatus vilkinsonii is presently regarded as a subspecies of T. biscutatus based on morphological data compiled from eight male specimens from southeastern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico; these specimens were thought to be intermediate between the currently recognized T. b. lambda (from Sonora and Arizona) and T. b. vilkinsonii (from Chihuahua and Texas). We performed univariate and multivariate statistical analyses of a morphological data set compiled for T. b. vilkinsonii, T. b. lambda, and specimens collected from the intermediate zone. Our analyses indicate that T. b. vilkinsonii is clearly distinct from T. b. lambda. Several characters, such as blotch width and interblotch distance, allowed more than 95% of specimens of both taxa to be classified properly. Our data also confirm that specimens sampled from the intermediate zone should be considered T. b. lambda. We find the T. b. vilkinsonii populations represent a separate, distinct lineage, and we elevate this taxon to species level.
3892499|A woodland population of box turtles, Terrapene carolina, was studied at 180 acre (72.9 ha) Allee Memorial Woods, Indiana, from 1958-1984. The bulk of the population was marked from 1958-1960 and intensive sampling was conducted in five other subsequent years (1964, 1965, 1967, 1970, 1983). Survival to 20 yr or more after first marking as adults averaged 18.1% in older males, 36.0% in growing males, 15.6% in older females, and 13.8% in growing females. Among 136 turtles marked in 1958, 11.4% of the males and 10.5% of the females survived at least 25 more years. Sex ratios generally favored males, but seldom significantly. Population density was 4.4-5.7/ha in the 1960's, but density and total population size appeared to have declined substantially by 1983.
3893382|Terrestrial, and especially arboreal, snakes can generally span a greater distance than aquatic snakes, which have a relatively short saccular lung. Thus, we hypothesize that the saccular lung provides structural support when snakes form a cantilever. Without subsequent study, the saccular lung has long been proposed as a support for a snake's body, especially to help span gaps. To test this hypothesis, we determined whether the pressure in the saccular lung was significantly elevated when the snake was spanning a gap. Further, we reduced pressure in the lung to zero to determine whether this manipulation reduced the cantilever ability of the snake. The pressure in the saccular lung increased significantly as a snake neared its maximal cantilever distance. However, when we prevented the pressure in the saccular lung from rising above atmospheric pressure, the snake's maximal cantilever distance was not affected. Therefore, the pressure increase in the saccular lung as the snake approached its maximal spanning distance was probably caused by the contraction of skeletal muscles needed to support the body. We conclude that the saccular lung does not help snakes span gaps. We discuss whether the saccular lung helps support the body or maintain posterior body form.
3890846|The regal horned lizard preferred a Sonoran Desert mountain valley as optimum microhabitat. Diurnal activity was greatest between 0600 and 0900 hr. Eggs were deposited in late July or early August and numbered 17 to 25. Apparently only one clutch is laid annually. Mean growth rate varied from 0.25 mm/day in first-year lizards to 0.04 mm/day in adults. Defensive behavior is described.
3893647|Two new species of Larutia are described, one from Pulau Tulai, located 38 km off the southeast coast of Pahang, West Malaysia, in the Seribuat Archipelago and another from Gunung Berumput in the Pueh Mountains of Sarawak, East Malaysia. The Pulau Tulai species differs from all others in having a pair of light yellow dorsolateral stripes, light yellow markings on the head, small maximum snout-vent length (115 mm), and characteristics of nuchal banding. The Gunung Berumput species differs from all others in having radiating nuchal markings. Both represent new island records (Pulau Tulai and Borneo) and, based on morphology, are members of different monophyletic species groups within Larutia.
3893394|The gecko genus Ebenavia Boettger is rediagnosed as phyllodactyle gekkonines with mostly multicarinate scales and claws restricted to the digits of the pes of females. We describe a second, diminutive species of Ebenavia from Lac Tsimanampetsotsa on the southwestern coast of Madagascar. This new species differs from the type species, E. inunguis, in its smaller size, darker and more uniform coloration, presence of multicarinate postrostral scales, and a relatively larger and differently shaped first supralabial scale. The phylogenetic affinities of Ebenavia are unknown, but the two species share similarities with Phyllodactylus peringueyi of South Africa, and the possibility that the three species form a monophyletic group should be explored. The discovery of this new species adds to the growing list of Madagascan species-pairs that have east-west disjunctions, with western species adapted to xeric conditions and eastern species found in rainforest.
3891607|Of 5 species of chelid turtles studied, 3 basked regularly and 2 basked occasionally. This division parallels established taxonomic groupings. The final phases of basking are associated with signs of discomfort which appear to be related to the prevention of overheating of the extremities while the body mass continues to warm.
3891779|A nuchal bone and a first left costal bone from two different individuals represent the first fossil record for the diamondback terrapin, Malaclemys terrapin. The bones are from a Pleistocene deposit at Edisto Beach, Colleton County, South Carolina, a locality that is within the present range of M. terrapin. Fossil Chrysemys nelsoni recovered from the same deposit indicate that the ranges of Chrysemys nelsoni and Chrysemys rubriventris were probably once continuous and that gene flow between the two "species" may have occurred as recently as late Pleistocene.
3892539|The ability of newborn timber rattlesnakes, Crotalus horridus, to follow the scenttrail of a conspecific newborn, adult female and adult male, was investigated. Twenty newborn C. horridus were laboratory-reared and tested in a Y-maze after ecdysis in autumn. Scent-trails were followed correctly in 84% of 57 completed stimulus tests overall (P < 0.01). In 86% of the stimulus tests, the snakes showed a distinct behavior, the trail contact response (TCR). The TCR consisted of a pause and a series of short tongue flicks directed toward the substrate. No-trail control tests (n = 17) showed no TCR. Mean trailing time and mean tongue flick rate in the three stimulus trail conditions did not differ significantly from the controls. Communal denning is a prominent feature in the population dynamics of C. horridus. In this species, and in other communally-aggregating snakes, scent-trailing may be an important mechanism guiding the newborn to a communal den.
3891555|The heart of Necturus maculosus has an incomplete, trabecular, interventricular septum. This septum may be homologous with the trabecular septum of Siren lacertina but likely is not homologous with the trabecular septum of lungfishes. The necturid septum does not appear to function in maintaining a double circulation because the interatrial septum is incomplete and the spiral valve is absent. The interventricular septum may prevent excessive dorsoventral dilation of the ventricle when it fills with blood; if so, the septum is assisted by another incomplete septum, the intraventricular septum. Preventing excessive dorsoventral dilation of the ventricle may be a necessary compensation for the dorsoventral compression of the trunk of the body.
3891076| The status of the populations of Leiocephalus personatus on the Dominican Pennsula de Saman, Hispaniola, is clarified, and a new subspecies is named from that northeastern peninsula. 
3891407|Indirect evidence supports the hypothesis that red salamanders (Pseudotriton) are palatable Batesian mimics of red efts (Notophthalmus). Pseudotriton which occur in regions without a sympatric red eft are cryptically colored throughout life, while those that occur sympatrically with a potential model are red at some stage of life. Pseudotriton that never grow markedly larger than efts are red throughout life. Those which as adults are larger than efts are red as juveniles and become cryptically colored when they mature. Geographic and ontogenetic color differences in efts might also be reflected in the presumed mimics.
3892946|Hyla miyatai is described from the upper Rio Napo region of Ecuador. This new species is characterized by its small size, short truncate snout, concealed tympanum, and dorsal color pattern of bright red and yellow. It apparently breeds in deep, vegetation-choked streams.
3892268|Thermal acclimation to warm temperatures typically reduces the resting rate of oxygen consumption
3892534| Elachistocleis piauiensis sp. nov. is described from Picos, State of Piau, Northeastern Brasil. This new microhylid species inhabits the "caatinga" region and is characterized by small size, color and habits. 
3893049| Whereas measures of maximal performance are important for defining the functional operating space of organisms, it is not clear what determines the levels of submaximal performance used in nature. In this study, I address the following two questions. What influence does the habitat have in determining performance levels in nature? Why do animals not perform at levels more similar to their performance limits? To do this, I studied clinging performance of lizards (Sceloporus occidentalis) living in an abandoned quarry. Results indicate that two habitat characteristics play an important role in determining clinging performance: microhabitat type and sun exposure. On average, lizards in this study used perches sloped about 45 elevated 68 cm above the ground. The slope of the perch used by lizards is similar to the average rock perch (44) found in the quarry. The height of the perch used by lizards is similar to the average sun exposed perch (70 cm) in the quarry. Thus, it appears that lizards' thermoregulatory preference for high, sunny, rock basking sites has greatly influenced their choice of perch. Examination of laboratory measures of clinging performance revealed that lizards were capable of clinging to perches approaching 100 from horizontal. However, in nature lizards only used perches sloped up to 80. Experiments using dead lizards revealed that friction alone allowed lizards to cling to perches up to 75. The level of maximal voluntary performance observed in nature may result from the friction of the lizards' ventral surface. 
3891785|Responses of red-legged frogs (Rana aurora) to humans and to garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis) were examined in the field and laboratory. When undisturbed, red-legged frogs are mainly terrestrial, usually sitting in the open on dry land. When approached by a potential predator, however, the frogs generally jump into the water and remain there for fairly long periods of time. Overall, the antipredator strategy of red-legged frogs appears to be one of remaining immobile until the predator approaches too closely. Approach distances are greater for larger predators (humans) than for smaller predators (snakes), and larger snakes evoke greater activity on the part of frogs than do smaller snakes. Movement by snakes seems to be necessary to produce escape responses; other moving objects, however, do not necessarily disturb frogs. While depression of numbers of frogs by snakes was not shown in this study, observations of frog behavior in the presence of snakes sugggest that it could occur.
3893483| The life history of red-backed salamanders (Plethodon cinereus) has been intensively studied in the United States, but little information exists for Canadian populations, which limits the ability to perform analyses of latitudinal trends in this species. To investigate variations in body size, age structures, longevity, and growth, we used drift fences to sample populations in four habitats (from mixed to deciduous forests) within a 12 km radius in the Mastigouche Reserve located in Quebec, Canada. During the active season of 1997, we captured, measured and sexed (except neonates) a total of 775 salamanders, and estimated the age of 330 of these specimens using skeletochronology. The population characterized by highest mean body size and/or mean age was from a mixed forest that also harbored the greatest abundance of salamanders. For all populations combined, body size (SVL) ranged from 12-46 mm for males and 12-54 mm for females, and longevity reached 8 yr in females and 9 yr in males. Adult males showed lower mean SVL and mean age than adult females (41.0 mm, 5.2 yr vs. 44.8 mm, 5.8 yr, respectively). Accordingly, von Bertalanffy growth models indicated a higher asymptotic body size and a lower growth coefficient in females. For 7 out of 8 analyses, age was significantly correlated with SVL in animals  4 yr old; the strength of these correlations was greater in females than in males and significantly correlated with SVL range. Comparisons with other populations reveal that age and size at maturity in P. cinereus increase with latitudes in both sexes. However, females, but not males, show a slight increase in mean adult body size with latitudes, leading to a positive allometric relationship between body size and sexual size dimorphism, the northern populations being more dimorphic. Body increment during the first year of growth was found similar to lowest values reported for other small species of Plethodon from the United States but much reduced compared to conspecific populations from the U.S.A. Factors related to latitude (e.g., temperature, duration of activity season) seem responsible for the observed differences. 
41406810|The Turks Island Boa (Epicrates chrysogaster) is endemic to the Turks and Caicos Islands and is currently known from only 11 islands. The subspecies has likely been extirpated from several islands in its historic range, and all remaining populations are threatened with extirpation owing to habitat loss, introduced feral predators, malicious killing, and vehicle strikes. To assist conservation efforts, we undertook a genetic analysis of 53 individual E.c. chrysogaster, representing five island populations, with the goal of identifying existing population structure and genetic diversity. For each snake sampled, we sequenced one mitochondrial and two nuclear genes, resulting in 1591 bp of sequence, and screened nine microsatellite loci.All individuals were found to be monomorphic at the four microsatellite loci that amplified, and only three individuals were found to vary (by a single nucleotide polymorphism) in either nuclear gene. Nine mitochondrial haplotypes were found, with a maximum sequence divergence of < 1%. Taken together, these data indicate shallow genetic divergence in this subspecies, possibly owing to a lack of historical population structure and small population size when the Turks and Caicos Banks were each single islands during the last glacial maximum. Epicrates chrysogaster appears to represent a single evolutionarily significant unit, a significant finding suggesting that conservation strategies focusing on ecologically intact populations might be more appropriate than alternate strategies involving near-impossible reversal of declining populations on heavily disturbed islands. In addition, reintroduction programs would likely not disrupt any significant historical population structure.
3893522| Two new species of brachycephalid frogs are described from Pico Marumbi, municipality of Morretes, and Pico da Igreja, municipality of Guaratuba, Paran State, southern Brazil. The new species share the following attributes: body bufoniform; skin on top of the head, and central part of the back body smooth with no dermal co-ossification; outer metatarsal tubercle distinct; dermal roofing bones of skull unornamented; all paired cranial bones distinct and not fused; quadratojugals, and maxillary odontoids present. The new species from Pico Marumbi is characterized by male SVL = 11.6-12.5 and female SVL = 13.0-14.5 mm; and general color orange with dorsal reddish-brown irregular markings, lateral surfaces with small dark brown spots, and belly with brownish spots and small dots. The new species from Pico da Igreja is characterized by male SVL = 12.6-13.9 and female SVL = 14.6-15.3 mm; and general color orange, lateral surfaces with small dark brown spots, and belly with brownish coalescent spots and small dots. Comparisons with other brachycephalid species and osteological data are provided. 
3893038| Several methods have been proposed recently as standards for sampling and monitoring amphibians. This study sought to (1) compare several sampling methods during the establishment of a monitoring program and (2) describe differences in species composition among the study sites. We investigated whether observed differences among sites depended on sampling method. The study was performed at the Jatun Sacha Biological Station in the Upper Amazon Basin in Ecuador. We established seven sites in primary forest and sampled amphibians four times over a 5-mo period using transects searched during the day and night, artificial cover stations, and artificial ponds. Significantly more species were found during nocturnal searches of transects than with the other methods. In cluster analysis of species occurrences, both diurnal and nocturnal transect searches identified one floodplain site as being distinct from the rest. Sites appear most similar when artificial ponds were considered and consistently less similar in data from nocturnally searched transects. Data from both types of transect and from artificial cover indicated that one site in the reserve's interior was particularly rich in species of Eleutherodactylus. Additionally, nocturnal transects detected increased species richness of hylid frogs at the two floodplain sites. This is consistent with the aquatic mode of reproduction of hylid frogs. Higher species richness of Eleutherodactylus is characteristic of drier terra firme forest with low disturbance. These trends are most clear in data from nocturnally searched transects. /// Se han propuesto varios mtodos estndar por el muestreo y monitoreo de los anfibios. El presente estudio pretendi (1) comparar cuatro mtodos de muestreo durante el establecimiento de un programa de monitoreo y (2) describir las diferencias en la composicin de especies entre los siete sitios de muestreo. Nos preguntamos si las diferencias observadas entre los sitios dependieran en el mtodo empleado. El estudio se llev a cabo en la Estacin Biolgico Jatun Sacha, ubicada en la cuenca alta amaznica del Ecuador. Establecimos siete sitios de muestreo en bosque primario y muestreamos los anfibios cuatro veces en un perodo de cinco meses, empleando transectos recorridos da y noche, escondites artificiales, y charcos artificiales. Al comparar los mtodos, se encontraron significantivamente ms especies en los recorridos nocturnos de los transectos. En el anlisis de agrupamiento, ambos tipos de transectos identificaron un sitio inundable por ser distinto de los dems. Los sitios se parecieron ms en el anlisis de los datos de los charcos artificiales, y se parecieron menos en los datos obtenidos en los transectos nocturnos. Los datos de ambos tipos de transecto y los escondites artificiales, indicaron que un sitio en el interior de la reserva tena ms especies de Eleutherodactylus que los otros sitios. Adems, en los transectos nocturnos, se encontraron una alta riqueza de hlidos en los dos sitios inundables, lo cual es consistente con los modos acuticos de reproduccin de los hlidos. Los nmeros elevados de especies del gnero Eleutherodactylus caracterizan crecientamente prstino bosque de tierra firme. Estas tendencias son mas evidentes en los datos de los recorridos nocturnos de transectos debido a la observacin de ms especies. 
3892533|An unusual population of Kinosternon from South Carolina, previously identified as a disjunct population of K. bauri, is morphometrically compared with K. s. subrubrum and K. bauri. Discriminant analyses of shell and cranial characters demonstrate distinct separation between the South Carolina turtles and K. s. subrubrum but indicate extensive overlap between South Carolina turtles and K. bauri. These data confirm the previous taxonomic assignment of the South Carolina population and provide additional K. bauri localities that establish geographic continuity between the South Carolina locality and those that formerly constituted the northern border of the species' range. A discriminant function that separates the species of Kinosternon from South Carolina and Georgia is given for each sex.
3890836|Geographic variation within Arizona elegans blanchardi, a population of uncertain position from Trans-Pecos Texas, and Arizona elegans elegans is discussed. The numbers of ventrals, caudals, and body blotches are used as key characters. Analyses of these characters suggest that A. e. blanchardi, the Trans-Pecos population, and A. e. elegans are a continuous population from northern Kansas and southern Nebraska to southern Tamaulipas, Mexico. The name blanchardi should be placed in the synonymy of Arizona elegans elegans.
23352107|New World Coral Snakes (genus Micrurus) occur from North to South America in a wide range of climates and habitats. Using both original and published data, we show that reproductive patterns diverge in the two phylogenetic lineages of Micrurus within the subtropical regions. Species with black rings arranged in triads are characterized by males larger than or equal in size to females, male combat behavior, and a broader season of vitellogenesis and oviposition. In these species, mating in autumn is synchronous with both spermatogenesis and vitellogenesis. Thus, females need to store sperm until ovulation in spring. In species with black rings arranged in monads, females are generally larger than males, there is no malemale combat, and seasonal vitellogenesis occurs in spring synchronous with mating. Egg laying occurs from late spring to summer, and hatchlings emerge from late summer to autumn. Spermatogenesis peaks during autumn, and males store sperm in the deferent duct over winter, until the mating season. Despite these phylogenetic trends, climatic influence on the extension of reproductive cycles was evident, with equatorial species exhibiting more continuous cycles and species from cold areas exhibiting more seasonal cycles. These two disparate reproductive strategies may be considered another differential trait between these two clades of Micrurus showing the high divergence between them.
3892317|In an investigation to provide information on the diving patterns of leatherback sea turtles during their internesting interval, two leatherbacks were fitted with time-depth recording (TDR) units while nesting on Sandy Point, St. Croix. These TDR units continually recorded the diving patterns of each turtle including diving duration, diving depth, and surface time throughout the 10 day period between nesting bouts. Both turtles dove frequently and continuously throughout the entire period. Maximum dive depth was 475 m for the smaller turtle and 314 m for the larger one. Maximum dive time was 27.8 and 37.4 min, respectively. The larger turtle generally dove for longer durations than the smaller turtle. Mean diving depth and mean surface time were greater during the day; however there was no significant difference in mean diving time between day and night for either turtle. It is concluded that leatherback sea turtles are active divers during the internesting period, that their dive patterns, depths and durations are similar in various ways to other pelagic divers such as seals, sea lions and penguins, and that there is a consistent duration of dives that may reflect the aerobic limit.
3891093| Eleutherodactylus orcesi (slopes of Nevado Chimborazo, 3160-3800 m) and E. thymelensis (pramos del Angel, 3500-3800 m) are named from the Ecuadorian pramos. Both are sympatric with the more widely distributed E. curtipes and are members of the E. unistrigatus complex. Eleutherodactylus orcesi lacks prevomerine teeth but is not related to the South American species once placed in Syrrhophus. 
3891288|Hand sampling of turtle populations is usually considered a biased technique, worst of which, it favors the capture of juveniles. Collecting during spring emergence favors the capture of large turtles. In the fifth year of a population study, a floating blind was used to camouflage collectors, and many biases seemed to be reduced if not eliminated. The sex ratio changed slightly, but justifiably, toward a larger proportion of females. The percentage of animals recaptured from the previous year increased from 47% to 78%. The proportion of juveniles in the sample decreased from the reported biased figure of 50% to 25%. It was estimated that 60% of the turtles in the 1-acre pond were caught in 16 man-hours. The apparatus and technique are described.
3892279|A system of drift fences and pitfall traps was used over a 2-yr period to monitor the herpetofaunal community on four plots of land (1 ha each) maintained on different burn schedules. Experimental plots were burned every year (1E), every 2 yr (2E), or every 7 yr (7E); the control plot (CE) has not burned for 20 yr. A total of 1236 amphibians and reptiles of 27 species were captured during 1983 and 1984. Severe cold in December 1983 may have caused a large decline in herpetofauna in 1984; over two-thirds of the animals were captured in the first year of the study. Both Shannon-Weiner and Simpson's diversity indexes indicated that plot 2E had the lowest diversity each year. The greatest diversity was found on 1E or 7E. The 2-yr fire periodicity produced a dense layer of grasses and herbaceous plants that was not readily occupied by sandhill herpetofauna. The most abundant reptile was the six-lined racerunner, Cnemidophorus sexlineatus, which comprised about 33% of all captures. The highest density of racerunners was found on 1E, while lizards on 7E showed the greatest philopatric tendencies (especially in 1983, the year 7E was burned). The results indicated that burning increased diversity and abundance of amphibians and reptiles over control plots, and some fire periodicities were better than others for maintaining high diversity.
3892192|The calling pattern of males of Smilisca sila was examined under conditions of natural ambient light at Barro Colorado Island, Panama, from January through April 1984. Males vocalized more frequently, used more complex calls, and were less likely to call from under leaves during "light" sampling periods than during "dark" sampling periods. Also, males vocalized significantly more frequently at dusk (between 1830 h and 1915 h) on moonless nights than on moonlit nights, although they did not use complex calls. The total calling period (between the first calling male and the last calling male on each night) was significantly longer for moonlit nights. This study suggests that this species of frog has developed a variety of behavior patterns that potentially reduce predation by bats.
3892016|Critical thermal maxima (CTM) were determined using the same technique for samples from each of three populations of Ambystoma maculatum. All samples were acclimated to 13 C in constant light. The CTM estimated were 35.5 C (s=0.3) for a population from Pennsylvania and 35.4 C (s=0.4) and 35.8 C (s=0.3) for each of two populations from near Durham, North Carolina. The similarities and differences in CTM among these populations are discussed with reference to modifying influences on the measurement of CTM.
3892907|Sexually mature female red-sided garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis) were collected from Manitoba, Canada, in the springs of 1983, 1984, 1985, and 1987. Females were brought into the laboratory to examine the relationship among body mass at emergence from hibernation, ovarian development, and spring mating. A large difference in the incidence of ovarian development was observed among the four years; vitellogenesis was absent in >75% of adult females in 1983. A multivariate analysis of covariance of body mass was performed on data from all years with snout-vent length (SVL) as the covariate; body mass (BM) was then expressed as adjusted BM to control for effects of SVL on BM. The analysis tested within and among year differences in the adjusted BM on emergence of vitellogenic and nonvitellogenic females. Within each year, mean adjusted BM at emergence of females that became vitellogenic was significantly greater than that of females that did not become vitellogenic. However, differences in the incidence of vitellogenesis among years could not be attributed to differences in the adjusted BM at emergence. There was no interaction between mating and the adjusted BM on vitellogenesis. Finally, we examined the role of climate in regulating reproduction and the adjusted BM of this species. There were no consistent climatic trends that could explain the differences in the adjusted BM or vitellogenesis observed among years; however, a cooler summer in 1982, the summer preceding the year of low reproductive output, was observed. These findings suggest that in some years females may be able to overcome deficits in BM and reproduce.
3893230|Insectivorous lizards that actively search for food, but not those that hunt by ambush, locate and identify prey chemicals by tongue-flicking, which gathers chemical samples for sensory analysis. However, only a tiny fraction of lizard species has been studied. One assumption of the comparative studies is that presence or absence of prey chemical discrimination is stable within most families because extensive data show that foraging mode is stable in most families. I present new experimental evidence on the relationship in cordyliform lizards, the families Cordylidae and Gerrhosauridae. The only previous data for the ambushing cordylids revealed no evidence of prey chemical discrimination in tests of Cordylus cordylus requiring lizards to tongue-flick cotton swabs held by an experimenter. In additional tests on C. cordylus, we presented chemical stimuli on ceramic tiles placed on the cage floors and observed responses through one-way glass. We conducted both swab tests and tile tests on the cordylid Platysaurus pungweensis. Neither cordylid species exhibited any sign of prey chemical discrimination, showing that experimenter's presence does not explain the absence of discrimination in the swab tests and extending the absence of prey chemical discrimination to another cordylid genus. Swab tests showed strong prey chemical discrimination in the actively foraging gerrhosaurid Gerrhosaurus validus, which tongue-flicked and bit swabs at higher rates in response to prey chemicals than to control stimuli. These findings are consistent with those for G. nigrolineatus and with the minimal foraging data available for Gerrhosauridae. All available data on cordyliform lizards support the relationship between foraging mode and chemosensory behavior and agree with the assumption of intrafamilial stability of prey chemical discrimination. Additional data needed on cordyliform foraging and prey chemical discrimination are noted.
3892463|Winter temperatures of the nests of Chrysemys picta were rarely below -2.0 C, although one nest reached -3.3 C. There was no significant difference between nest and soil temperatures at the same depth, indicating the absence of observable metabolic heat production by hatchlings. Two nests were excavated in February. The hatchlings were responsive to touch and symmetrically arranged in the nest with their heads directed upwards. Snow cover is an important insulator of soil. Data of hatchling survivorship over 5 yr suggests winter-kill may be an important source of hatchling mortality during winters with little snow cover. No hatchlings died during a winter (1981-1982) characterized by deep snow cover.
4497940| We describe a new species of the Eleutherodactylus discoidalis group from cloud forests of the Apurimac and Kosipata valleys, southern Peru. The new species differs from other species of the group mainly by having a coarsely shagreen dorsum, long and slender hind legs, very long feet, Finger I equal in length to Finger II and fingertips not expanded. The species also lacks supernumerary tubercles on the feet. 
3893514|The eastern massasauga, Sistrurus c. catenatus, is a small rattlesnake threatened with extirpation throughout its range. Massasaugas occur in a variety of habitats and adequate knowledge of their natural history at local scales is essential for effective management. We used radiotelemetry to document patterns of movement and macrohabitat selection of massasaugas in a fen environment, an important, but understudied, habitat. Based on both 100% minimum convex polygons and 95% kernel density, seasonal home ranges of males were larger than those of nongravid females which, in turn, were larger than those of gravid females. Activity center estimations followed the same trend as the seasonal range estimations. Similarly, activity centers (50% kernel density) of males were larger than those of nongravid females which were larger than those of gravid females. Nongravid females and gravid females differed in their mean frequency of daily movement, distance moved per day and total distance moved in a season. Males also differed from gravid females in these three regards, but only differed from nongravid females in distance moved per day. Compositional analysis of both 100% MCPs and 95% kernel densities indicated a preference for emergent wetland vegetation by all individuals; however, wooded areas and meadows were used to a lesser extent.
3891392|Breeding aggregations of Acris crepitans and A. gryllus were intermixed at a pond near Covington, Louisiana, but partial habitat separation was demonstrated. Acris crepitans inhabited the shrub-dominated pond margins, while A. gryllus tended to avoid them; A. crepitans did not occur in a nearby meadow with temporary pools, while A. gryllus bred successfully in these pools. Both species wintered in swampland near the Abita River. Food intake rates differed for equal numbers of these frogs in mixed groups at the pond and in the swamps, although the same food types were taken. Possibly A. crepitans is adaptively superior to A. gryllus in extensive wetlands, and A. gryllus is adaptively superior in well-drained areas where temporary pools form the only available breeding sites. Reported cases of local sympatry may reflect various local habitat types; competition in such situations is probably reduced by divergence in habitat utilization and food intake.
3891613|Somatic chromosomes of the Neotropical hylid frog, Anotheca spinosa (Stejneger) were analyzed. In this form, n = 12, 2n = 24, as in most hylids. The karyotype appears to be identical or nearly identical to the karyotypes of certain other 24-chromosome hylids.
3892154| We examined patterns of surface activity, population structure, sex ratio, growth, and reproduction in a population of the western red-backed salamander, Plethodon vehiculum, using mark-recapture methods, on southern Vancouver Island, British Columbia. Surface activity of adults consisted of spring (March-June) and autumn (September-November) periods with courtship taking place in the autumn. Juveniles remained above ground in midsummer after adults had disappeared, probably into underground refugia. Small salamanders (SVL  30 mm) were found under small rocks and away from discrete cover objects in the leaf litter and under moss more frequently than medium-sized (30 < SVL  40 mm) and large (SVL > 40 mm) individuals. Growth was rapid during the first year of life (mean increase in SVL = 10.5 mm) and declined steadily thereafter with little growth taking place after sexual maturity was reached. Females attained sexual maturity at a larger size and reached a greater SVL than males. Individual females reproduced at intervals of 2 yr or more. The overall sex ratio of P. vehiculum with SVL > 40 mm did not differ from 1:1, but males outnumbered females during most sampling periods, probably due to behavioral differences between the sexes. In general, the life history characteristics of P. vehiculum on southern Vancouver Island are similar to those of Plethodon in other temperate zone regions with the same length of time available for surface activity. However, annual variations in weather probably have a major effect on specific values of population parameters, and long-term studies are therefore needed to describe life histories adequately. 
3893007|The southeastern five-lined skink, Eumeces inexpectatus, occurs in a wide range of habitats throughout Florida, but it is most abundant in scrub and snadhill (high pine) habitats. Both the scrub and sandhill habitats are fire maintained, and resident animals respond to the frequency of burning. During 7 yr of study, adult males were trapped most often in March and April and adult females most often after nesting and hatching of young, from late June to mid-July. As judged by the number of individuals captured, I determined that plots of sandhill protected from fire for about two decades or burned on 5 or 7 yr cycles support more individuals than plots burned on either 1 or 2 yr cycles. Differences in the number of skinks found in plots subjected to the three burn frequencies likely reflect the structure of the habitat. Frequent burning reduces the amount of litter and tree canopy, produces patches of open ground, and promotes the growth of herbaceous plants. Plots protected from fire have thick layers of litter which provide shelter and foraging habitat for southeastern five-lined skinks. Plots burned on 5 or 7 yr cycles have sufficient time to accumulate litter between fires to provide good quality habitat for this species.
3892725|Plasma testosterone levels were measured during the annual reproductive cycle in male Niveoscincus metallicus, a small viviparous skink. Snout-vent length (SVL), basal tail width, ventral coloration, testis size, and epididymal state were assessed as indicators of maturity and reproductive status. We found no correlation between the intensity of ventral coloration and either SVL or testosterone levels. Males are, however, significantly more highly colored than females. Testis size (mass and volume) shows a marked seasonal variation with a peak during summer (late December-February). Circulating testosterone levels are low (0.7-10.0 ng ml
3891778|The gecko Lepidodactylus lugubris ovulates one egg simultaneously from each ovary, whereas the two ovaries alternately ovulate one egg in Anolis carolinensis. In L. lugubris, large follicles undergoing yolk deposition exhibit synchronous growth in the two ovaries, but these follicles alternate in size in A. carolinensis. In both species, however, smaller previtellogenic follicles exhibit synchronous growth between ovaries. These results are discussed in relation to the control of interovarian patterns of ovulation in lizards.
25209117|A new species of Cyrtodactylus is described from Lore-Lindu National Park, Sulawesi Island, Indonesia. It is distinguished from all other Cyrtodactylus by a unique suite of scalation characters and a distinctive color pattern. The new species is the fourth Cyrtodactylus known from the island of Sulawesi and one of two new species found in 2004. These recent discoveries suggest that the diversity of the herpetofauna in Wallacea, a poorly studied biological "hotspot," may be far richer than previously thought.
3892077|Nerodia taxispilota from the Hopewell, Virginia, area possess an aestival male reproductive system. Spermatogenesis begins in April and terminates in November. Recrudescence is at its height in mid-summer, and spermiogenesis occurs principally from September through November. Seminiferous tubules involute during winter. The epididymis is postulated as the site of spermatozoa storage. Seminiferous tubule diameter increases with spermatogenic activity. Its maximum size is a function of body length, as is the diameter of the epididymis. Males attain sexual maturity at approximately 460 mm snout-vent length.
3891561|Tadpoles of piedmont Pseudacris triseriata at 2-legged and 4-legged stages have higher critical thermal maxima (CTMs) than montane tadpoles at corresponding stages. In both the piedmont and the montane tadpoles, CTMs are lower in the later stage of development, and CTMs during metamorphic climax correspond closely to published values for CTMs of adult chorus frogs. Critical thermal maximum appears to be an important adaptation of chorus frog tadpoles, and altitudinal differences in CTM among adult frogs may merely reflect the important differences in CTM which are expressed during the tadpole stages.
3891975|Rhineura sepultura sp. nov. is described from the early middle Miocene (early Hemingfordian mammal age) Black Bear Quarry II local fauna of Bennett County, South Dakota. Differences in the shape of the dentary, dentary and maxillary tooth orientation and position, and encroachment of the dentary by the splenial and coranoid bones separate Rhineura sepultura from the related forms Rhineura marslandensis of the middle Miocene of Nebraska and from Rhineura floridana of the Pleistocene and Holocene of Florida. Differences in cranial bones and teeth in these species of Rhineura may be associated with small changes in burrowing and/or feeding. The vertebrae of the Miocene and Quaternary species are very similar.
3891867| Alligators from Florida, Louisiana, and South Carolina were analyzed for allozymic variation using starch gel electrophoresis. The proportions of polymorphic loci (P = 0.15) for the three populations were comparable to values for other vertebrates, while mean heterozygosity (H = 0.022) was lower than expected for nonmammalian vertebrates. There were statistically significant differences in allele frequencies between the populations for three loci: Lactate dehydrogenase-2; Peptidase-1; Glutamate oxalate transaminase-1. All populations were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium and showed low genetic distances as expected for closely related conspecific populations. 
3892007|Leptodactylus mantipus Boulenger is a species of the genus Barycholos Heyer (Leptodactylidae, Leptodactylinae). B. mantipus differs from B. pulcher in finger length, presence of tarsal tubercles, shape of subarticular tubercles, and in coloration. Barycholos differs from other leptodactylines in having digital discs on the toes but not the fingers and in the arrangement of hyolaryngeal muscles.
3892606|Rana sakuraii, a new species of brown frog, is described from Central Honshu, Japan. The species is characterized by extensive toe-webbing, absence of a vocal sac, and habit of lotic-breeding. It is regarded as a sister species of Rana tagoi.
3891616| Ritualized combat between  alterna-phase and blairi-phase Lampropeltis mexicana was observed. Courtship and copulatory sequences between a blairi-phase pair and alterna-phase pair were seen the following day. Unsuccessful courtship sequences between a blairi-phase  and alterna-phase  were recorded. No eggs resulted from these matings. Additional agonistic interactions were observed between different blairi-phase  , and both were involved in 14 courtship and copulatory behavioral patterns with 2 other blairi-phase  . Data for 2 clutches of eggs, incubation period, emergence and pattern of the neonates are presented and discussed. Comparisons are made between the combat, courtship and copulatory behavior of L. mexicana and other American colubrid snakes. 
3891458| Eleutherodactylus gladiator (valley of the Ro Papallacta, elevation 2350-2910 m), Eleutherodactylus leoni (both slopes of the northern Andes, 2590-3400 m), and Eleutherodactylus pyrrhomerus (Pacific slopes, 2600-2900 m) are named from the Andean slopes of northern Ecuador and southern Colombia. The three are more similar to one another than any is to other species of the genus. All have high, vaulted heads, truncate snouts, stocky bodies with slender limbs, appear to lack digital pads, and are small, ground-dwelling frogs. Eleutherodactylus leoni and E. pyrrhomerus have red areas on the concealed limb surfaces; these areas are orange in E. gladiator. 
3891682|Growth rates of captive male Gopherus agassizi were studied for 5 years after hatching. Growth rates in the 4th year were considerably greater than predicted from a prior study of the same individuals, and are believed to be associated with attainment of puberty. An individual (carapace length = 236 mm) examined by necropsy at exactly 4 years of age contained motile, epididymal sperm. All males exhibited courtship behavior when confined with a mature female. Carapace length at the end of 4 years was similar to that of 20-yr-old, reproductively active tortoises studied by other investigators. The extremely rapid attainment of puberty by tortoises used in this study is ascribed to the husbandry regimen.
3891833| A concurrent study assigned Hypopachus populations from the highlands of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Chiapas, Mxico, to H. barberi. The present paper reviews the systematics of the other populations of Hypopachus. Consideration is made of 13 linear measurements, ratios between them, coloration, mating call, and habitat. Measurements and ratios which show significant differences between geographic regions manifest parallel clines with variations in elevation and latitude. None of the differences in proportion provides diagnostic separation of even the most extreme populations. Duplication of color features and web extent occur in widely separated areas. Variation in proportion and coloration is such that geographically adjacent populations are similar, even across apparent distributional gaps. Variation in mating calls from one area exceeds the differences between areas. Throughout its range Hypopachus variolosus is most frequently encountered in open woodlands or pasturelands with abundant short-grass cover. With the absence of diagnostic differences in proportion and call and presence of parallel clines in proportion, coloration, and extent of web, these populations are all considered conspecific and assigned to H. variolosus. H. variolosus and H. barberi differ in average snout-vent length, in relative sizes of hindfoot and metatarsal tubercle gap, and in ventral coloration. They occur sympatrically or at closely adjacent sites near Guatemala City, Jalapa, and Salam in Guatemala, and Pueblo Nuevo Solistahuacn in Chiapas, Mexico. 
25621900|The use of space by individual animals strongly influences the spatial extent, abundance, and growth rates of their populations. We analyzed the spatial ecology and habitat selection of Masticophis flagellum (the coachwhip) at three different scales to determine which habitats are most important to this species. Home ranges and mean daily displacements of M. flagellum in Florida were large compared to individuals in other populations of this species. Home ranges contained a greater proportion of Florida scrub habitat than did the study site as a whole, and individuals selected Florida scrub habitat within their home ranges. For both selection of the home range within the study site and selection of habitat within the home range, mesic cutthroat and hydric swamp habitats were avoided. Standardized selection ratios of Florida scrub patches were positively correlated with lizard abundance. Several non-mutually exclusive mechanisms, including foraging success (prey abundance, prey vulnerability, and foraging efficiency), abundance of refugia, and thermoregulatory opportunity may underlie the selection of Florida scrub by M. flagellum. Historic rarity and anthropogenic loss and fragmentation of Florida scrub habitat, coupled with the long-distance movements, large home ranges, and selection of Florida scrub by M. flagellum, indicate that large contiguous tracts of land containing Florida scrub will be essential for the persistence of M. flagellum in central Florida.
3892238|Most chelonians undergo temperature dependent sex determination (TSD). Only four species are known to undergo genetic sex determination. We expect that the desert tortoise, Gopherus agassizii, undergoes TSD since the European tortoise, Testudo graeca, has been shown to have a threshold temperature of 30-31 C. Both upper and lower threshold temperatures exist for freshwater turtles. Variation also occurs due to geographic differences, daily and spatial changes in nest temperatures, osmotic stress, and other factors. Nest site selection and seasonal changes in soil temperatures affect TSD in both freshwater and sea turtles. Laboratory experiments to clarify the mechanism of sex determination for G. agassizii should have the highest research priority. Until that is accomplished, managers should prohibit, or at least greatly restrict, uses of desert habitat that change the temperatures of desert tortoise nests and/or reduce the area of viable nesting habitat for this species. If TSD occurs, field studies should then be conducted to address sources of natural variation.
3891476|A diversity of defensive responses was observed in 10 populations of fire toads (Bombina bombina and B. variegata). Differences of the various populations may reflect variations in type and number of predatory animals present.
3893365|The eastern fence lizard, Sceloporus undulatus, is a broadly distributed polytypic species. We surveyed allozyme variation with the goal of generating an intraspecific phylogeny to evaluate the current classification of the species. We electrophoretically assayed 24 loci from 12 populations of S. undulatus, which comprised 6 of the 11 recognized subspecies, 3 additional species of Sceloporus (S. occidentalis, S. virgatus, and S. woodi), and an outgroup taxon, S. clarki. Out of the 24 loci, 14 loci were variable. Phylogenetic analyses using distance, likelihood, and parsimony resulted in trees that were inconsistent with current subspecific designations. Three species of Sceloporus (S. occidentalis, S. virgatus, and S. woodi) arose within S. undulatus. Two major lineages of populations of S. undulatus were identified: (1) a midwestern grasslands group that includes the population from Missouri, and (2) various populations from the eastern woodlands and western canyonlands. The subspecies S. u. hyacithinus and S. u. undulatus are polyphyletic, whereas S. u. garmani and S. u. tristichus are paraphyletic. No fixed allele differences were observed among the populations of S. undulatus, or among the other species of Sceloporus. Our results indicate that the present subspecies designations do not portray patterns of evolutionary relatedness and require reevaluation.
40602607|We describe a new species of Liotyphlops (Serpentes: Anomalepididae) from Ilha de So Sebastio, municipality of Ilhabela, So Paulo state, southeastern Brazil. The new species represents the first record of the genus throughout most of the Atlantic Coastal Forest in So Paulo state. Liotyphlops caissara sp. nov. is related to L. albirostris and L. wilderi, but it can be distinguished from the first species by having a different number of body scales, and from the latter by having a distinct number of supralabials. The new species also differs markedly in color pattern by having continuous pale cream color throughout the venter. Descrevemos uma nova espcie do genero Liotyphlops (Serpentes: Anomalepididae) da Ilha de So Sebastio, municpio de Ilhabela, estado de So Paulo, sudeste do Brasil. A nova espcie representa o primeiro registro do gnero ao longo da maior parte da Mata Atlntica costeira no estado de So Paulo. Liotyphlops caissara sp. nov.  relacionada  L. albirostris e L. wilderi, mas pode ser diferenciada da primeira por apresentar diferena no nmero de escamas ao redor do corpo, e da ltima pela diferena no nmero de supralabiais. A nova espcie tambm difere marcadamente no padro de colorao por apresentar o ventre de cor creme claro ao longo de todo o corpo.
23255793|We describe a new species of Bothrops from Vitria Island, off the coast of So Paulo, southeastern Brazil. The new species differs from the mainland coastal populations of B. jararaca mostly in its smaller and stouter body, number and form of scales, and hemipenial morphology. From B. insularis and B. alcatraz, both related species endemic to islands in southeastern Brazil, B. otavioi sp. nov. differs mainly in its body form and number of scales. The new species has the most common mitochondrial haplotype for mainland populations of B. jararaca, which is also found in B. alcatraz. A mitochondrial genealogy (gene tree) shows the new species nested within the northern clade of B. jararaca. This genealogical pattern can be explained by a recent speciation event for B. otavioi sp. nov. The isolation of insular species of Bothrops from continental ancestor populations are probably related to the same vicariant process, the oscillations of sea level during the Pleistocene. The new species feeds on small hylid frogs, and attains sexual maturity at 388 mm snoutvent length (SVL; males) and 692 mm SVL (females). Bothrops otavioi sp. nov. is endemic to Vitria Island, and should be listed as critically endangered because it is known from only a single area (an island), its geographic range covers less than 100 km 2 , and there is a projected continuing decline in the quality of its habitat because of increasing human settlement.
3892363|The number of previtellogenic follicles in adult Nerodia sipedon is approximately three times larger than the number of vitellogenic follicles or embryos present. Follicles less than 5 mm in length do not appear to have a seasonal growth pattern, but larger follicles undergo marked seasonal changes. Follicles greater than 5 mm are absent from the ovary during gestation, begin to appear after parturition, and reach a maximum length of 9 mm by the onset of hibernation. With the onset of vitellogenesis in spring, all follicles greater than 5 mm become vitellogenic and are either ovulated or become atretic. Based on injections of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) in immature and subadult snakes, follicles greater than 3.5 mm in length can respond to FSH and undergo vitellogenesis. However, few follicles between 3.5 and 5.0 mm normally respond, because enough follicles between 5 and 9 mm are present in the ovary to account for the projected litter size. Hypophysectomy does not result in immediate atresia of previtellogenic or vitellogenic follicles, but it does result in complete cessation of growth in vitellogenic follicles.
3893456| We used radio-telemetry to study the movements and habitat use of Western toads (Bufo boreas) in the Targhee National Forest in southeastern Idaho. Eighteen toads (10 male and 8 female) that bred in a seasonally flooded pond, were fitted with radio-transmitters, tracked, and their movements mapped and analyzed with global positioning and geographic information systems. We also analyzed their patterns of habitat selection at micro- and macro-scales by comparing sites used by toads with randomly selected sites. After breeding, two male and six female toads left the breeding pond and used terrestrial habitats extensively. Male and female toads showed different patterns of movement and habitat use, although all toads seemed to behave in ways that reduced loss of body water (e.g., such as traveling on nights of high humidity). Male toads traveled shorter distances from the pond than females (581  98 m and 1105  272 m, respectively). Female toads used terrestrial habitats extensively and were selective of cover types (e.g., shrub) that provided greater protection from dehydration. Female toads also preferred certain habitat edges and open forests over forests with closed canopies or clearcuts. Information from this study can assist land managers in establishing protective buffers and managing forests for the protection of toad populations. 
3892603|Allozyme data are used to examine the phylogenetic relationships of the three species of eastern North American newts. All three species are electrophoretically distinguishable with Notophthalmus perstriatus and N. meridionalis sharing the most recent common ancestor. Genetic variation in N. viridescens is lower than expected for such a wide-ranging species. A scenario for the evolution of the North American newts based on biochemical estimates of divergence times is presented that is consistent with the current understanding of the paleoecology of North America and the biogeography of the North American herpetofauna.
3893353|We studied kin discrimination in the larvae of the four-toed salamander Hemidactylium scutatum. The results of a spatial affinity assay supported the hypothesis that larvae can recognize kin and do so whether they have been raised alone or with siblings. Larvae were attracted to siblings and did not avoid non-siblings. Two additional experiments tested the hypothesis that kin discrimination is a function of predator density. The consistent predator avoidance pattern of larval H. scutatum was to lower activity level. In the experiment characterized by a higher predator density, sibling groups of larvae exposed to a predator lowered their amount of swimming more than larvae in mixed sibling groups. These results are consistent with the hypothesis of context-dependent kin discrimination and suggest that individuals can balance costs and benefits of behaviors as a function of ecological and social factors. This study is the first to demonstrate kin recognition in the larval stage of any species in the family Plethodontidae.
3891630|Chelus fimbriatus is the correct scientific name for the matamata. A brief history of the use of the alternate names is outlined.
3891733| Two new species of the Hispaniolan inoptatus group of the leptodactylid genus Eleutherodactylus are described; one species (E. nortoni) is known from both Haiti and the Repblica Dominicana on the southern slopes of the Massif de la Selle (and from a voice record from the southern slopes of the Sierra de Baoruco), and the other (E. chlorophenax) is known only from one locality on the northern slopes of the Massif de la Hotte in extreme southwestern Haiti. 
3892764|A comparison between the onset of mating and oviposition in facultatively paedomorphic (aquatic) Ambystoma talpoideum and the migration dates of metamorphic (terrestrial) males into the same breeding site revealed a mechanism of partial reproductive isolation. Most paedomorphic females captured in early November 1993 already were inseminated; the onset of oviposition was observed soon thereafter. Most metamorphic males did not arrive at the pond until mid-December or early January, and these migration dates are consistent with data from previous years. The path of development (paedomorphosis or metamorphosis) of an individual is incompletely plastic; heritable differences between individuals exist in their propensity to metamorphose. A partial reproductive partition between paedomorphic females and metamorphic males may favor a gradual reduction in the propensity to metamorphose in the offspring of paedomorphic females. This mechanism, coupled with antagonistic agents such as pond-drying, may promote this life history dichotomy.
3892254|The tribe Pseudoboini consists of 10 xenodontine genera characterized by possession of bicapitate, bilobed hemipenes with centrifugal forked sulci and proximal spines. The tribe has a southern distribution, centered in Brazil, and ranges northward into Mexico and southward into Argentina. The close relationships of the included genera are indicated not only by similar (and unique) hemipenial morphology, but also by similar geographic relations. Recent immunological studies corroborate the morphological data in those genera that have been investigated.
4497971|A new species of rhacophorid frog of the genus Chiromantis is described from Phnom Samkos in the northwestern section of the Cardamom Mountains, Cambodia on the basis of having the following unique characteristics: green blood; turquoise bones; a thick, white line running from below the midsection of the eye onto the upper lip to the shoulder; and fingers III and IV being more than one-quarter webbed. It is further distinguished from its congeners by a unique combination of additional morphological and color pattern characteristics. This new species is the eighth potential endemic known from the Cardamom Mountains and underscores the need for continued field work in this remote section of Indochina.
3891482|Courtship and copulatory patterns of the Ottoman viper (Vipera xanthina) conform to a triphasic behavioral scheme: tactile-chase; tactile-alignment; intromission and coitus. The male utilizes the tip of his tail to elevate the female's tail and then slides his tail and posterior trunk anteriorly until juxtaposition of the cloacae is achieved. The interval of time between extrusion and retraction of the hemipenis during unsuccessful attempts at insertion is short (less than 1.5 s). Evagination of the basal portion of the organ appears to be primarily a function of the propulsor muscles and this portion is inserted first into the female's cloaca. The middle and terminal portions of the hemipenis inflate within the female's cloaca after the basal spines have anchored the organ. Presumably, engorgement of the blood and lymph sinuses contributes at this point to turgidity of the organ.
3891508|The larval period of Pseudotriton montanus is usually about 1.5 yr in a Piedmont population in South Carolina and 2.5 yr in a nearby Blue Ridge population in North Carolina. In both populations, hatching occurs in late winter and metamorphosis in late spring and summer. Growth rates of larvae are higher in the Piedmont, so that size at metamorphosis is approximately the same in the two populations. The difference in growth rates is considered to be a consequence of temperature differences between the two habitats. The similarity in metamorphic size in the two populations, and the narrowness of the size range at metamorphosis in this species generally, apparently represent evolved traits of the life cycle of P. montanus, reflecting adaptation of the species to relatively permanent aquatic habitats.
25621901|We described the phylogeny of the salamandrid genus Neurergus in Turkey using statistical analyses on morphometric characters and a molecular analysis based on 12S and 16S rRNA genes. Two different species, Neurergus crocatus and Neurergus strauchii (N. s. strauchii and N. s. barani), are reported from new localities. Morphologically, the only significant differences between N. s. strauchii and N. s. barani were eye width, head width, and forelimb length in females; and eye width, head length, head width and inter-nostril distance in males in terms of 12 external morphometric measurements, with N. s. barani having larger values. According to PCA, species segregated along morphological axes and all the variables (except inter-limb and eye width in males and except longest toe forelimb, head width, eye width and inter-orbital distance in females) were important in separating species along these axes. We obtained a total of 833 basepairs (bp) of two mitochondrial genes (478 bp of 12S rRNA and 355 bp of 16S rRNA) from Neurergus crocatus (n = 10), Neurergus strauchii strauchii (n = 9) and N. s. barani (n = 9). Neurergus crocatus differed from N. s. strauchii and N. s. barani with sequence divergences of 4.5%-5.1% and 5.4%-5.5%, respectively. However, among three haplotypes of N. s. strauchii, sequence divergence was very low (0.24% to 0.96%). The nucleotide difference between these two subspecies ranged from 0.48% to 1.2%. As a result, N. s. barani specimens in this study were not strongly differentiated from N. s. strauchii, suggesting that their distributions are either connected or only recently separated or that N. s. barani does not represent a distinct genetic unit.
3893547| Salamandra salamandra has an unusual mode of reproduction. Females retain eggs in their oviducts and give birth to aquatic larvae or, in some populations, to fully metamorphosed juveniles. We investigated how variation in the birth size of larvae of five different sibships of S. salamandra affected larval survival, larval growth rates, time to metamorphosis, and size at metamorphosis under different food and temperature conditions. Maternal effects, via the effect of larval birth size, attenuated throughout development in all environments but still affected metamorphic traits at lower temperatures. Larval developmental time was negatively correlated with larval birth size and positively correlated with size at metamorphosis. After controlling for the effect of larval birth size, broad-sense heritabilities were obtained for residual values of metamorphic traits, indicating that enough genetic variability exists at lower temperature environments and that responses to selection of metamorphic traits are possible. The size at and the time to metamorphosis were phenotypically and genetically correlated. Since both traits presumably affect fitness, genetic dependence between size and time to metamorphosis may act as a constraint on adaptive evolution through antagonistic pleiotropy. Mass-specific growth, time to metamorphosis, and size at metamorphosis were plastic under different temperature and food conditions, but no significant sibship  environment interaction was found for any trait. In addition, significant cross-environment correlation for size at metamorphosis with respect to the food gradient indicates low potential for the adaptive evolution of reaction norms to heterogeneous food environments. 
3891652|Mitotic metaphase chromosomes were used to karyotype 18 turtles, representing six species and seven taxa of the Clemmys complex (Testudines: Emydidae). The species of this complex have now all been karyotyped. Karyotypic data support an earlier investigator's partitioning of Clemmys (2n = 50), from Mauremys and Sacalia (2n = 52). North American Clemmys have a karyotype of 8 metacentric or submetacentric pairs, 5 terminal or subterminal pairs, and 12 pairs of microchromosomes. The Eurasian Mauremys and Sacalia have 9 metacentric or submetacentric pairs, 5 terminal or subterminal paris, and 12 pairs of microchromosomes. No karyotypic differences were observed between species within any of these genera. Dimorphic sex chromosomes are not present in these genera.
3892832| A new species of frog, Cycloramphus juimirim, is described from coastal southern So Paulo, southeastern Brazil. It is a species of the fuliginosus group, most similar to C. bandeirensis Heyer. 
3892757|Body size affects locomotor performance, muscle size, and muscle enzyme activity in the leopard frog, Rana pipiens. Large frogs jump farther than small frogs (jump distance scales with body
3891387|The Pacific boa, Candoia aspera, an inhabitant of stream-side habitats, employs "sidewinding" locomotion in traversing soft mud. When molested, the snake strikes, bites, and may release cloacal contents. These failing, it forms a tight ball in which the head is concealed. Similar behavior and variations of it are exhibited by various harmless and venomous snakes. Presumably "balling" affords greater survival value than feigning death or use of the tail as a "false head," and appears to be an advanced condition resulting from the evolution of such protective mechanisms.
3892392| Testudo gigantea Schweigger, 1812 is the correct name for the giant tortoises of Aldabra. Bour's suggestion that the type of Testudo gigantea Schweigger, 1812 was a specimen of Testudo indica Schneider, 1783 is untenable for several reasons. Since the specimen described by Schweigger has been lost, and existing specimens of Testudo indica are incomplete or only fragments, accurate comparisons of Schweigger's vague description with T. indica are impossible. Living T. gigantea populations are highly variable and possess traits given by Schweigger. Aside from the inconclusive morphological evidence, changing the name of the Aldabra tortoises is illadvised owing to the long time and wide use of gigantea in scientific and popular literature. Furthermore, the use of elephantina would be confused with elephantopus, the epithet for Galpagos tortoises. 
3892108|Reproductive behavior and male mating success were compared between two sympatric species of glass frogs exhibiting different degrees of parental care. During some nights, male Centrolenella fleischmanni called continuously from vegetation overhanging streams and maintained greater nearest neighbor distances than did male C. prosoblepon. Female C. fleischmanni initiated amplexus and deposited eggs that were attended by males. Males generally attended eggs late in the evening, when few additional females were available, thus minimizing lost mating opportunities. Male C. prosoblepon called sporadically, moved actively, initiated amplexus, and showed no paternal care of clutches. Female C. prosoblepon attended eggs immediately after deposition. Egg attendance did not appear to enhance larval survivorship significantly in either species. For both species, male reproductive success was correlated with length of residency at the site, but snout-vent length and call pitch or duration were not correlated with male success in obtaining mates. Larval survivorship was enhanced by the choice of wet microhabitats for oviposition by C. prosoblepon.
3891483|Comparative electrophoretic studies were conducted on individual samples from five individuals each of the puff-adder (Bitis arietans) and Cape cobra (Naja nivea). Electrophoretic differences between fresh and newly freeze-dried venoms were negligible. Storage of freeze-dried venom samples, however, produced considerable change in the electrophoretic patterns.
3892942|Following histological preparation, cloacae from females of 20 species representing 10 of the 14 genera of bolitoglossine salamanders were examined using light microscopy and microcomputer-generated image reconstructions of serial sections. In all species, the anterior cylindrical portion of the cloaca, the cloacal tube, consists of simple, columnar, glandular epithelium that grades into stratified, cuboidal epithelium lining the area over the vent, the cloacal chamber. Cilia are lacking in the cloaca. The cloacal tube is 0-5% of total cloacal length in Bolitoglossa, Dendrotriton, Oedipina, and Thorius, while the cloacal tube is 8-19% of total cloacal length in Batrachoseps, Chiropterotriton, Hydromantes, Lineatriton, and Pseudoeurycea. Spermathecae consist of simple, branched, acinar exocrine glands of simple, columnar epithelium and connect middorsally to the cloacal tube or anterior cloaca chamber by a common tube of stratified epithelium. Recesses of the cloacal chamber occur posterior to the spermathecae in Batrachoseps pacificus major, H. italicus, and T. macdougalli. Other cloacal glands are found in some species. Batrachoseps p. major and H. shastae possess ventral glands lateral to the cloacal tube, H. italicus and L. lineola possess dorsal glands caudad of the spermathecae, and P. goebeli possesses both ventral and dorsal glands. These glands are short, tubular exocrine glands that appear rudimentary. The bolitoglossines are not especially diverse or specialized in cloacal anatomy. The variation in bolitoglossines is matched in the other groups of plethodontids, which are considered closer in other aspects of morphology to the ancestor of plethodontids. Homoplasy is evident in re-evolution of dorsal and/or ventral glands, possession of a cloacal recess, and differences in the length of the cloacal tube relative to the cloacal chamber.
3891964|Neck tubercles having apical epidermal invaginations are described for Elseya latisternum and named "follicular tubercles." The histological structure of these tubercles suggests that they increase integumentary sensitivity to mechanical stimulation. The combination of an evagination (the tubercle itself) and an invagination (the follicle) increases epidermal surface area and sensory innervation in the neck skin. Follicular neck tubercles occur in low frequency throughout the geographic range of the species. They are most frequent in populations west of the Great Dividing Range where water is more often murky than clear.
3891676| An adult Varanus mertensi  exhibited threatening behavior to other lizards which differs in part from that of other varanids reported to date. Elements include the following: bounding bipedal flight; bipedal stance with anterior trunk expanded and posterior trunk dorsoventrally compressed; presenting the flattened dorsum to the "adversary" while arching the neck and looking over the shoulder; undulating lateral flexures; hyperextension or adpression of the forelimbs and pivoting upon the hind limbs; tilting the trunk toward the "adversary"; commencing an exaggerated jerky gait with limbs hyperextended and in 1 instance the monitor struck a congener with the tilted dorsum by jumping sideways. 
40602624|Fear of snakes is one of the most profound and pervasive of human phobias, yet human attitudes toward snakes and many of the other animals that herpetologists study are highly variable. With respect to snakes, some of this variation likely has a biological basis, as snakes may have been an important source of mortality in the evolution of our species. But experience must also be important in determining human attitudes toward snakes in particular, and amphibians and reptiles in general. I contend that small, seemingly inconsequential events can profoundly affect a person's attitudes toward amphibians and reptiles, and that such events can even serve to deflect one onto an altogether different career trajectory than what might otherwise have been. In support of this proposition I trace the development of my interests in herpetology, and in so doing identify the events and influences that were pivotal in the development of my attitude toward amphibians and reptiles and in shaping my career as a herpetologist. My interest in herpetology began as a boyhood fascination with snakes, sparked by a seminal publication in National Geographic Magazine. Later, fortuitous associations with supportive academic mentors were instrumental in setting my herpetological path. Yet, things did not have to play out the way they did; without those chance events and influences, things could so very easily have been different.
3893319|Juveniles of a variety of lizard species exhibit bright tail colors that contrast clearly to the cryptically colored body. The "predator escape" hypothesis suggests that bright tail colors deflect the attack of a predator towards the lizard's tail, which can be autotomised, and hence increase the probability of surviving a predatory attack. Although this hypothesis is widely accepted, surprisingly few empirical data exist to support it. Here, we examined the relative frequencies of predatory attack on plasticine replicas of juvenile lizards in the genus Podarcis with either green or brown tails in nine areas of Spain. Replicas with bright green tail color experienced, over a one-week period, the same rates of attack by birds and other predators as replicas with cryptic brown tails. However, the proportion of replicas that showed bill markings on the tail only was highest for the green-tailed replicas. In contrast, the frequency of predatory attacks towards the head or body was similar in the two groups of replicas. Our experiment appears to support the classical prediction of the adaptive value of a green autotomic tail in lizards. However, lizard species with multiple tail colors may also represent alternative anti-predator strategies that may have arisen by different selective pressures between habitats. We also suggest that the evolution of bright tail coloration in juveniles of Podarcis as an antipredator mechanism may be favored by the correlated evolution of morphological, physiological, and behavioral characteristics
3893348|We studied the relationship between fluctuating temperatures in the field and sex ratios of the giant river turtle (Podocnemis expansa) obtained from nests incubated in seminatural conditions using a stepwise logistic regression model. The number of hours above 31 C and mean temperature above 31 C during day 29-30 were the two parameters that best explained sex ratios. We also monitored incubation temperatures of natural nests. Mean incubation temperature and the combination of mean and variance were not predictors of sex ratio. We found a beach effect on sex ratios and incubation time. Natural nests hatched earlier than seminatural nests. Length of the incubation period was negatively correlated with degree days and mean incubation temperature in seminatural nests but not in natural nests. We found no evidence of an influence of length of the incubation period on sex ratio. Our results support current conservation practices in the study region.
3893615|We present phylogenetic analyses of 42 new partial mitochondrial-DNA sequences in combination with 28 previously published sequences representing all eight major groups of the lizard clade Iguanidae (sensu lato). These sequences include 1838 aligned positions (1013 parsimony informative for ingroup taxa) extending from the protein-coding gene ND1 (subunit one of NADH dehydrogenase) through the genes encoding
3893505| A new genus, Cryptophyllobates, was recently described for a species of dendrobatid that was originally described as Phyllobates azureiventris. One of the distinguishing characters of this frog is the presence of dorsolateral stripes that end on the posterior back above the thighs. While conducting fieldwork in Acre, Brazil, I collected an unusual dendrobatid that transported all tadpoles in a clutch at one time; however, tadpoles of this species were more similar to Dendrobates than to Epipedobates. I subsequently discovered that this species is similar to Cryptophyllobates azureiventris and herein describe it as the second species in this genus. Molecular studies indicated that the new species and C. azureiventris are sister species and that they are closely related to some clades of Colostethus. Courtship of the new species was not observed, but tadpoles were found in a pool in a fallen tree, and adults were frequently seen in treefall gaps. Tadpoles are similar to those of Dendrobates in that they are predaceous, possibly as a result of convergence in behavior in response to development in similar restricted microhabitats. /// Um novo gnero, Cryptophyllobates, foi recentemente descrito para uma espcie de dendrobatdeo originalmente descrita como Phyllobates azureiventris. Uma das caractersticas diagnsticas  a presena de listras dorso-laterais que terminam na regio posterior do dorso, na parte superior dos fmures. Durante uma viagem a campo no estado do Acre, Brasil, coletei um dendrobatdeo diferente que transportava todos os girinos de uma ninhada de uma vez; entretanto, os girinos dessa espcie eram mais parecidos com Dendrobates do que com Epipedobates. Em seguida descobri que essa espcie era semelhante a Cryptophyllobates azureiventris e aqui a descrevo como a segunda espcie do gnero. Estudos moleculares mostraram que a nova espcie e C. azureiventris so txons irmos, e que o gnero est relacionado a alguns clados de Colostethus. Rituais de acasalamento no foram observados para a nova espcie, mas os girinos foram encontrados em uma poa formada em uma rvore cada e os adultos frequentemente observados em clareiras produzidas pela queda de rvores. Os girinos assemelham-se a Dendrobates por serem predadores, possivelmente uma convergncia no comportamento em resposta ao desenvolvimento em microhbitats restritos semelhantes. 
3892248|Lepidoblepharis grandis, a new species allied to L. festae Peracca, is described from wet forests along the western flanks of the Cordillera Occidental in Pichincha Province, Ecuador. The new species, the largest in the genus, appears to be most closely related to Lepidoblepharis colombianus Mechler, from the Cordillera Oriental in Colombia.
25621883|Standard names lists of the North American herpetofauna have been published since 1882, with the newest list published in 2008. The most recent list was criticized by Pauly et al. in this issue's Points of View forum. Specifically, Pauly et al. question the function and review process of such a list, the stability of scientific names, and the authority of the list, with an unfavorable conclusion for those involved in authoring the list. I provide counter arguments to the controversial points raised by Pauly et al. and pose the question: which is a greater impediment to taxonomic freedom of scientific names, imposed taxonomic stability or the nonexistent authority attributed to the list?
3892781| We studied the reproductive biology of two populations of the arboreal lizard Urosaurus b. bicarinatus from 1980-1984 in western Mxico. One population is located in the elevated portion of the Ro Balsas Basin, in the state of Morelos, and the other at a lowland site of the basin in the state of Michoacn. Data were obtained from specimens collected in the field and from museum collections. Females and males of both populations exhibit a pattern of late spring and summer reproduction. Males show maximal testicular volume and activity during the late spring and summer months in Michoacn and during the spring and summer months in Morelos. Vitellogenesis begins in April in both populations, with most females ovulating in the summer. Incubation occurs during the summer with hatching in late summer and early fall. Individuals reach sexual maturity within a year. Mean clutch size for oviductal eggs was 7.7  2.4 and 6.7  1.8 in populations from Morelos and Michoacn respectively. No correlation between snout-vent length of females and clutch size was found. /// La biologa reproductiva de dos poblaciones de la lagartija arborcola Urosaurus b. bicariantus fu estudiada durante 1980-1984. Una de las poblaciones se localiza en la parte alta de la Cuenca del Ro Balsas, en el Estado de Morelos y la otra en la parte baja, en el Estado de Michoacn. Los datos fueron obtenidos de especimenes colectados en el campo y de colecciones de museos. Hembras y machos de ambas poblaciones presentaron un patrn reproductivo de fines de la primavera y verano. Los machos mostraron actividad reproductora y volumen testicular mximo a fines de la primavera y verano en Michoacn y durante toda la primavera y verano en la poblacin de Morelos. La vitelognesis se inici en abril, y la mayora de las hembras de ambas poblaciones ovularon en verano. Los huevos son incubados en el verano y los nacimientos a fines de verano y a principios de otoo. Los individuos alcanzaron la madurez sexual antes del ao. La media del tamao de la nidada de los huevos en el oviducto fue de 7.7  2.4 y 6.7  1.8 en la poblacin de Morelos y Michoacn respectivamente. 
3893398|We conducted an electrophoretic survey of 12 Taiwanese populations of Rana limnocharis (nine from the main island and three from adjacent islets). Analysis using resultant data and previously published data for populations of continental China and the southern Ryukyus indicated the presence of substantial genetic differentiation between eastern (i.e., eastern main island and Lutao and Lanyu islands) and the remaining (i.e., northern, western, and southern main island and Penghu Island) populations within Taiwan, with the latter being more similar to continental Asian populations. The southern Ryukyu population, while being more similar to the eastern Taiwan populations, was the most divergent of all populations examined. The genetic differentiation between eastern and remaining Taiwanese populations is considered to reflect the primary interruption of gene flow between them by the central mountain range of the main island. However, the eastern Taiwan populations lack fixed or nearly fixed alleles unique to themselves, and they share most alleles with one or both of the remaining Taiwanese and southern Ryukyu populations. Genotype of the current eastern Taiwan populations may have been derived from an introgression between western Taiwan populations and former eastern Taiwan populations that were genetically closer to the southern Ryukyu populations.
3890764|The hatching of five sibling young of the Lampropeltis mexicana complex of kingsnakes, in which three exhibited the pattern type of blairi and the other two and the female parent bore the pattern of alterna, indicates that these two presumed subspecies are polymorphs of the same taxon. Data are presented on the incubation and hatching of the eggs, variation among the siblings, and natural history. Cloacal hemorrhaging was observed in the mother and the four young females but was not seen in the single young male. The first record for the alterna pattern from Durango, Mexico is reported.
3893582|During intraspecific interactions involving males, females and subadults, acoustic as well as visual signals were observed in the diurnal frog Phrynobatrachus krefftii. Strikingly, interactions between adult males are highly dominated by inflations of the bright yellow subgular vocal sac without sound production. We studied the signaling behavior in males of P. krefftii at the Amani Nature Reserve, Usambara mountains, Tanzania, from November 2001 to March 2002. Under nonmanipulated conditions, we registered 641 male-male interactions involving 31 individuals during 323 hours of observation. Most (496 or 77%) inflations of the vocal sac were purely visual; the remainder (145 or 23%) of the signals were bimodal, and accompanied by sound production. To test whether exclusive visual signaling can be evoked under experimental conditions, we introduced tethered males into the visual field of 28 residents, registering the elicited responses over 10 minutes after the introduction. Unimodal (i.e., exclusive visual) signals (825 out of 1106 responses) dominated over vocal-sac inflations accompanied with sound production. In seven selected focal males, the rate of exclusive visual signaling (0.57 signals/min), however, was more frequent than under nonmanipulated conditions (0.13 signals/min). Phrynobatrachus krefftii is the first species of anuran amphibians reported to perform nonaudible vocal-sac inflations during intraspecific male-male signaling behavior.
3891554|The jumping ability of southern cricket frogs (Acris gryllus) and northern cricket frogs (Acris crepitans) collected from an area of sympatry in Virginia was determined by averaging the 3 longest jumps of 5 attempts. Multiple regression analyses reveal that the length of jump is a significant function of leg length and body weight in A. gryllus, and of foot length and body weight in A. crepitans. Analysis of a pooled data set from both species indicates that the length of a jump is related to foot length and body weight, and that A. gryllus jump significantly farther than A. crepitans of similar size. Jumping ability of these frogs may be related to habitat preference. Acris crepitans usually occur on margins of ponds or streams and near aquatic sanctuary. Acris gryllus seem to prefer moist woodlands or swamps where longer jumps may be adaptive in escaping predators.
3893325|This study documents and compares patterns of temporal variation in egg size in three populations of the fire-bellied toad (Bombina orientalis) from the Republic of Korea. Data were taken from an eight-year field study and a concomitant four-year laboratory study of repeated breedings of wild caught females. We provide evidence that egg size is a plastic trait in this species by describing the extent and changes of variation in two traits: mean egg size per clutch and intraclutch egg size variation. We show that in the field there was substantial variation among populations, among individuals within populations, and among eggs within the clutches of single individuals. In addition, there were significant differences among years as well as significant population by year interactions. Yearly shifts in egg size were positively associated with environmentally induced shifts in body mass. Similarly, the amount of variation in egg size within a clutch shifted among years. These field results imply that substantial amounts of variation in egg size among individuals may not be directly genetic. The laboratory studies further support this view. There were significant differences in the degree of plasticity exhibited by individual females in each of the three populations as measured by the coefficients of variation of mean egg size and intraclutch egg size variation among females based on repeated breedings of individuals. In addition, repeatability values for individual populations ranged from 0.14-0.27 for mean egg size but were not significantly different from zero for the variation in intraclutch egg size variation. Our field and laboratory results demonstrate that egg size variation is highly subject to non-genetic sources of variation. We discuss the implications of these observations for an understanding of the importance of plasticity and maternal effects on the evolution of reproductive traits in amphibians.
3892672|We studied the timing and patterns of testicular activity of the common snapping turtle, Chelydra serpentina, in Wisconsin. Spermatogenesis begins in May and terminates in September. During spring and early summer, the testes are flaccid and exhibit their minimal mass. Maximal testicular mass is exhibited during the second half of July and in August coincident with spermiogenesis and spermiation. In November, there is a decline in spermatogenic activity and testicular mass. The testes remain regressed throughout the winter months. The epididymis attains its maximal mass during August and early September as the spermatozoa migrate into the luminae. The epididymal mass remains high until the following spring when it abruptly declines, reaching minimal mass during early summer; it remains low until spermiation. In Wisconsin, it appears that temperature is an important factor in regulating spermatogenic activity. The gradual rise in water temperature between May and August is correlated with spermatogenesis and testicular growth. The decrease in temperature after August is correlated with testicular regression.
3892404|Observations of 18 radio-tracked snakes in the field, combined with dissection of museum specimens, provided data on reproductive biology of eastern Australian diamond pythons (Morelia spilota). Both sexes mature at about 150 cm snout-vent length (SVL). Pelvic spurs are longer and thicker in males than in females and are used by males to manipulate the female's tail prior to copulation. Reproductive activities occurred in spring (late September to early November), when testes were at their maximal size. Two to six males aggregated around a single female. Male combat was not observed, and more than one male was seen to copulate with the same female, in the presence of other males. Mating aggregations lasted from 4-6 wk. Females oviposited in late December or early January inside "nests" of leaf litter and coiled around the eggs to incubate them. Clutch size of diamond pythons varied between 9 and 54 eggs per clutch, and was positively correlated with maternal SVL. During reproduction, females lost approximately 44% of their initial body weight, about two-thirds of which was attributed to oviposition and the other one-third to metabolic costs and reduced feeding opportunities associated with incubation. Probably because of this high metabolic cost and the low energy intake associated with "ambush" foraging, females did not breed every year.
3893519| A new species of frog of the Craugastor alfredi group is described from western Honduras. The new species is the first member of the C. alfredi group reported from Honduras. It inhabits the Montane Subtropical (Premontane) Wet Forest of Montaa del Cerro Azul, Sierra del Espritu Santo. It differs from all other species in the group by the combination of having the fifth toe pad wider than the second, few melanophores on the abdominal area of the venter, a small number of vomerine teeth (0-8), and a rounded proximal subarticular tubercle on Toe V about one-half the size of the distal subarticular tubercle. /// Se describe una nueva especie de rana del gnero Craugastor perteneciente al subgrupo spatulatus del grupo alfredi. La nueva especie, Craugastor cyanochthebius, es la primera especie del grupo alfredi que se encuentra en Honduras. Esta especie fue encontrada a elevaciones medias en el bosque lluvioso subtropical montano de Montaa del Cerro Azul, Sierra del Espritu Santo, cerca de la frontera con Guatemala. Craugastor cyanochthebius difiere de las otras especies en el grupo al poseer la almohadilla del quinto dedo del pie ms grande que la del segundo, el vientre con pocos melanforos en la parte centro-posterior, un nmero reducido de dientes en los facculos dentgeros (0-8) y el tubrculo proximal subarticular del dedo quinto del pie redondeado en vista lateral y ligeramente ms de la mitad el tamao del distal. 
25209097|Although many field experiments have examined interactions among terrestrial salamanders or among semi-aquatic salamanders, virtually no research has examined potential interactions among salamander species across ecotones. Past research has indicated that numerous factors may influence salamander distributions, including competition, predation, and abiotic factors. We conducted a field removal experiment to investigate potential interactions among salamanders across the steam-woodland ecotone and to determine the effects of such interactions on community structure. We used removals of a terrestrial salamander, Plethodon cinereus, and/or several species of semi-aquatic salamanders of the genus Desmognathus to investigate potential interactions between these genera and the semi-aquatic salamander Eurycea cirrigera. Although removals did not significantly decrease numbers of P. cinereus or Desmognathus on plots, distribution of E. cirrigera shifted unexpectedly closer to streams in response to removals of P. cinereus. Eurycea cirrigera may have been responding to demographic shifts of P. cinereus, as average snout-vent length and mass of P. cinereus decreased significantly on removal plots. Our results indicate that interactions among salamander species across the stream-forest ecotone influenced intergeneric responses in a complex fashion.
24634325|Barygenys exsul was described from only two specimensone from Rossel Island and one from Sudest Island. I redescribe the species based on an additional 12 recently collected specimens from the type locality, and I provide the first information on that species' advertisement call. I then diagnose and describe two closely related new species found in geographic proximity to B. exsul. Both of these populations have been known for the past few decades but each had been erroneously assigned to B. exsul. The new species differ from B. exsul on the basis of a series of morphological, color-pattern, and call features. Each is narrowly endemic: B. exsul is limited to two islands in the Louisiade Archipelago, one of the new species is limited to nearby Woodlark Island, and the other is known from a limited area on southeastern-most mainland New Guinea. The Woodlark species exhibits a four-fold range of body sizes among adult males, which is unusually large among Papuan frogs.
3893313|Examination of specimens and locality data of Trachemys scripta elegans, T. s. gaigeae, and T. s. cataspila in the southwestern United States and northeastern Mexico indicates these three taxa are primarily allopatric. Morphometric analysis further indicates that these forms are distinct, without evidence of intergradation. Little or no overlap of diagnostic marking patterns was detected, except for variation in the supratemporal stripe of T. s. elegans in the lower Rio Grande and Pecos River. Hemoglobin (analyzed by isoelectric focusing) of sliders in those drainages was also variable. Although limited introgression between T. s. elegans and T. s. gaigeae or T. s. cataspila might be possible in the lower Rio Grande, specimens of T. s. elegans from the area are not intergrades, and therefore we do not consider them to be conspecific with the other forms. Six specimens from the upper Rio Grande are possibly hybrids of elegans and gaigeae but their status is problematic. The appropriate species designations of gaigeae and cataspila await a broad phylogenetic analysis, including all forms in the T. scripta complex.
3892310|The only sexually dimorphic glands in these species are those associated with the cloaca. Male G. porphyriticus and P. ruber are similar to each other in cloacal anatomy, but male P. montanus and S. marginatus differ greatly from those species and from each other in cloacal anatomy. Among females, G. porphyriticus and S. marginatus share some features of cloacal anatomy, including an elongate projection (the cloacal papilla) associated with an extensive recess in the dorsal cloacal chamber. The female cloacal anatomy of these two species differs significantly from that of female P. montanus and P. ruber, which are identical in cloacal anatomy. The only G. palleucus with developed cloacal glands is a naturally metamorphosed male whose cloacal anatomy resembles that of G. porphyriticus and P. ruber. The ancestral and derived states for cloacal structures cannot be determined from available data. Thus, similarities in cloacal anatomy cannot be used at this time to elucidate phylogenetic relationships among these species. The cloacal papilla and recess of female G. porphyriticus and P. ruber may aid in release of sperm from the spermatophore.
3891738|Chromosomes from corneal or tail fin epithelia of Rhinophrynus dorsalis (Rhinophrynidae) and 10 genera of Microhylidae were analyzed. Chromosomal counts or karotypes have been previously published for 10 additional genera of Microhylidae. Diploid chromosome counts of 22, 24, 26, and 28 are known for the Microhylidae. The basic number for the family is apparently 26, and is found in representatives of the Asterophrynae, Asian Microhylinae; Phrynomerinae, and Sphenophryninae and in one apparently primitive New World genus of Microhylinae. The same diploid number (26) has been suggested as primitive for the Pelobatidae, Hylidae, Leptodactylidae, and Ranidae. The known 22 chromosome members of the Microhylidae are all New World microhylines; karyotypic similarities within this group generally parallel the affinities suggested on morphological grounds. Karyotypic similarities support the recognition of Gastrophryne as a genus separate from Microhyla. Among the New World genera, Glossostoma (2n = 26) and Chiasmocleis (2n = 24) are the most distinctive karyotypically. Among the 22 chromosome genera, Gastrophryne and Hypopachus are very similar and Elachistocleis is allied to them, Arcovomer is similar to Hamptophryne, and Stereocyclops is most distinctive. The Asian species, Kaloula pulchra, may be a complex as it shows unusual variation in karyotype (2n = 24, 28) and call. The 22 chromosome karyotype of Rhinophrynus dorsalis shows marked, presumably convergent, similarities to some 22 chromosome microhylids and leptodactylids.
3893344|In an analysis of protein variation among geographic populations of the zig-zag salamander, Plethodon dorsalis, Larson and Highton found that the amount of genetic divergence is much greater than occurs within most other species of Plethodon. A re-examination of patterns of genetic variation in P. dorsalis indicates that the three most divergent groups should be recognized as different species. Plethodon dorsalis ranges from Illinois and Indiana south to northern and western Kentucky and western Tennessee. Plethodon ventralis sp. nov. ranges from south-central Kentucky, southwestern Virginia, and eastern Tennessee south to northwestern Georgia, northern Alabama, and northeastern Mississippi. Plethodon angusticlavius is found in the Ozark Mountains of Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Missouri. A transect through a contact zone between P. dorsalis and P. ventralis in Lincoln County, Kentucky, indicates that there is a narrow hybrid zone <13 km in width between the two species. There is concordant variation in four diagnostic allozyme loci through the hybrid zone, and hybrid populations are genetically more variable than populations of P. dorsalis and P. ventralis on either side of the hybrid zone.
3893267|The reproductive ecology of female Kuhl's wart frog Rana (Limnonectes) kuhlii, one of the fanged frogs, was studied under natural conditions in subtropical Taiwan. Egg-laying by females of R. kuhlii occurred asynchronously throughout a three-month study period, and was aggregated at five sites along an 81-m transect of a small creek. Rana kuhlii is unusual among anurans in that females are generally smaller than their mates (67.6% of 34 amplexed pairs), and typically lay multiple clutches. Females each occupied stable residence sites along the transect during non-breeding intervals, usually away from the main oviposition sites. Amplexus or oviposition occurred on average 14.5 m (maximum 54.5 m) away from each female's residence site. The frequency of oviposition (including amplexus) was observed on average on 3.1 occasions for each female (maximum nine), and including presumed occasions (based on spatial movement patterns) was estimated to occur on average on 3.9 occasions (maximum 10), during the 50 nights surveyed. The inter-clutch period for each female averaged 12.7 days (minimum three days). Females laying multiple clutches usually laid at different sites and mated with different males for each clutch. Several aspects distinguish the multiple clutching of R. kuhlii from other anuran species laying multiple clutches. Possible explanations for the high frequency of oviposition by females of R. kuhlii are discussed.
24634297|The introduction of exotic tree species may interfere with conservation efforts for natural habitats, including grasslands in coastal sand dunes. Natural plant cover is used by several species in coastal dunes of Buenos Aires, Argentina, among them the lizard Liolaemus wiegmannii. Here we study the habitat use and abundance of this lizard inhabiting a psammophytic grassland within this ecosystem, where Acacia longifolia was recently introduced. Surveys and lizard sampling were conducted along 40 transects distributed in four independent zones of 75 ha, each with a different degree of invasion impact. We measured structural and thermal features in relation to A. longifolia and native plants. The lizard L. wiegmannii was three times more abundant in zones with  25% coverage of A. longifolia. The Jacobs selectivity index showed that all age classes selected native shrubs and avoided A. longifolia trees. These results were similar in greenhouse experiments. However, we found no differences in the use of any of these plants' (introduced or native) leaf litter. Structural and thermal characteristics of the habitat under the shrubs seemed to be more favorable for the physiological performance and behavior of L. wiegmannii, whereas the lower temperatures under A. longifolia might explain the lower presence of lizards in areas where this tree was introduced.
3892339| Thermal time constants were determined for an arboreal frog, Hyla cinerea, and a semiaquatic frog, Rana sphenocephala, exposed to a step-change in air temperature from 30-15 C. Mean time constants and equilibrium body temperatures were significantly greater and area-specific cutaneous evaporative water loss rates significantly lower in the arboreal species. There was a strong correlation between thermal time constant (, in minutes) and body mass (M, in grams) for both species. The slope of the body mass regression equation for H. cinerea
3891492|The annual gonadal cycle in a tropical pond turtle, Lissemys punctata granosa was studied and possible dominating role of some environmental factors was analyzed. The seasonal cyclic gonadal changes were divided into six phases. The onset of gonadal activity and preparatory phase in normal habitat were recorded during March with the increasing day length. A progressive increase in gonadal activity continued through the succeeding months and the peak, with breeding activity, was encountered during July-August which coincided with the longest day length of the season. Successive regression started after breeding in September reaching a minimum during November-December, the shortest day period. An enhanced gonadal activity was registered between vernal and autumnal equinox with long days. Temperature and humidity were found to be the important complimentary factors with additive effects in making the sexual cycle a final success. Refractory and resting phases stretched from November to early February, concurrent with the short day-length period.
3892772|Assimilated food energy is partitioned into four compartments: maintenance, growth, reproduction, and stored energy in the form of lipids. Food availability is limited in many natural systems, so organisms face trade-offs in allocating energy to these competing compartments. We conducted a dietary study with female marbled salamanders, Ambystoma opacum, to examine the relationship between food level and energy allocation patterns. Feeding treatments produced differences in total lipid amounts, growth rates, and reproductive traits. Females in the high-food treatment group exhibited larger body size, higher lipid levels, greater proportions of total lipids, and larger clutch size than low- and medium-food animals. In addition, 60% of the high-food females were reproductive at the end of the experiment, compared to 42% of the females sustained at medium-food levels and 12% on the low-food regimen. After removal of an apparent outlier from analyses, a female's mean egg size and egg lipid investment per egg depended on food level through its effect on body size; larger females tended to have bigger eggs. Collectively these results suggest that food availability affects traits related to individual fitness and may also influence the population dynamics of a species.
3892372|Experiments with Sceloporus undulatus in Kansas and Uta stansburiana in Texas tested the alternate hypotheses that food shortage, predator pressure, or a combination of the two are responsible for the previously observed, presumably adaptive, increase in size of hatchling-sized animals late in the season. Hatchling-sized Sceloporus undulatus in Kansas were subject to increasingly severe food competition as the hatching season progressed in 1978 and 1979. Larger juveniles previously had exhibited increased survivorship late in the season, but this advantage did not accompany the increase in competition in 1978 and 1979. Juvenile Uta stansburiana in Texas were subject to reduced food competition as the hatching season progressed in 1980. A survival advantage for larger juveniles decreased with the decrease in competition. Both supplemental feeding and predator-exclusion decreased the advantage of large size early in the hatching season.
4497945|Several aspects of escape behavior are predictable by escape theory based on expected costs due to predation risk and escaping. Although the function of pursuit-deterrent signaling is to dissuade predators from attack, relatively little is known about relationships between specific components of escape and the signaling behavior. I studied effects of the risk factor distance from refuge on flight initiation distance, distance fled, probability of entering refuge, and the distance between predator (an approaching human) and prey when pursuit-deterrent display begins (display distance) in the Cuban curly-tailed lizard (Leiocephalus carinatus). I also investigated whether starting distance (distance between predator and prey when approach begins) affects escape behaviors. As predicted by escape theory, flight initiation distance and distance fled were greater and refuge entry was less probable at greater distance from refuge, indicating that qualitative predictions of escape theory apply to pursuit deterrent signalers. Starting distance did not affect escape behaviors, presumably because it did not affect perceived risk, but might do so at a faster approach speed. Display distance and flight initiation distance were identical in the data set analyzed, but individuals sometimes perform tail displays prior to fleeing. Interspecific variation in the timing of pursuit-deterrent displays is discussed, as are possible reasons for observed differences in the effect of starting distance.
3892660|Morphological characters drawn from soft anatomy, squamation, and the literature were used to construct a phylogenetic hypothesis for the New World colubrid snake tribe Lampropeltini. The tribe includes Arizona, Cemophora, Lampropeltis, Pituophis, Rhinocheilus, and Stilosoma. North American species of Elaphe are also part of this radiation. A number of Old and New World colubrid species were used as outgroups. Lampropeltini is defined by a single synapomorphy, the presence of an intrapulmonary bronchus which is lacking in all outgroup species and Senticolis. The analysis suggests the following relationships: (New World Elaphe + (Bogertophis + (Pituophis + (Arizona + (Lampropeltis + Rhinocheilus + (Cemophora + Stilosoma)))))). The recently described monotypic genus Senticolis is removed from the tribe Lampropeltini and placed in the tribe Colubrini.
3893635|Lizards that forage from ambush do not exhibit prey chemical discrimination, but might enhance foraging efficiency by staying longer at ambush posts bearing chemical prey cues. By presenting chemical stimuli to free-ranging lizards, we tested whether Platysaurus broadleyi had longer giving-up time (i.e., time at an ambush post) in the presence of insect prey stimuli. The lizards remained no longer at tiles labelled by prey chemicals than control substances, but giving-up times were greater at tiles labelled by a plant food (fig). Ambush foragers may not use prey chemicals to assess the quality of ambush posts.
3892901|The mating behavior of a population of the tree frog Hyla arborea was studied during a peak in its reproductive season. Males called from the edge of a pond and occasionally engaged in interactions involving aggressive calling and non-physical displacement of other calling males. Some silent males were also present in the chorus. Amplexus occurred only after females approached calling males and made physical contact with them. Calling males were significantly larger than amplectant males, and amplectant males were significantly larger than a random sample of males. Significant positive size-assortative mating was found for the 45 amplectant pairs measured. The dominant frequency of the advertisement call was found to be significantly correlated with the size of males. The large-male mating advantage observed may be a result of different strategies (calling versus non-calling) adopted by males of different sizes. A mechanistic explanation based on the ontogenetic changes in female sensitivity to auditory frequency is suggested to explain the observed size-assortative mating.
25209084|Most animals forage under the risk of predation. An animal may balance the benefits gained from obtaining adequate nutritious forage with the risk of falling prey to a predator by employing alternative, adaptive foraging tactics. We examined the foraging tactics employed by a central place forager, Gopherus polyphemus, as it foraged away from a refuge. We directly observed foraging paths of juvenile G. polyphemus and analyzed them using correlated random walk models. We also compared the sinuosity of foraging paths to the sinuosity of an optimal central place forager. Observed net squared displacement was greater than expected for outbound foraging paths and inbound return paths, but these paths could not be distinguished statistically from a correlated random walk. Sinuosity was less than expected for an optimal central place forager. Juvenile tortoises direct movement away from their burrows while foraging. Juveniles may give up the security of remaining near their burrows to forage until satiation.
3892597|In two-choice discrimination experiments, female painted reed frogs (Hyperolius marmoratus) favored calls broadcast from loudspeakers associated with suitable approach perches over those without such perches when the stimuli were identical. In experiments pitting perch presence against female preferences for low frequency and high intensity stimuli, no preferences were observed. Although the effect was confined to bright moonlit nights, it may offer males whose call sites are surrounded by suitable vegetation a considerable mating advantage.
3893341|We studied a population of European treefrogs (Hyla arborea) during the breeding seasons in 1990 and 1991. All treefrogs were individually marked and their ages were determined by skeletochronology. Adult year-to-year survivorship was 37% and 20% for males and females, respectively, but this difference was not statistically significant. There were also no significant differences in age-specific survival rates. Males outnumbered females at the breeding site in both years; the observed sex ratio was 1.52:1 and 2.15:1 in 1990 and 1991, respectively. In general, males and females reached maturity at 2 yr, and the oldest individuals found were 6 yr in both sexes. Body size and age were positively correlated in both males and females. However, there was a decrease in growth rate with increasing body size and age in both sexes, resulting in considerable overlap of body size among different age classes, especially for older frogs. The age structure of the breeding population differed considerably between the two study years. This difference in the age structure was correlated with yearly differences in the amount of rainfall during the reproductive season, which mainly affects larval survivorship and, thus, adult recruitment.
3893258| This study examined the relative performance of larval American toads (Bufo americanus) inhabiting different habitats (isolated pools and the main channel) of an intermittent third-order stream in west-central Kentucky. Larval mortality was 100% in six of eight isolated pools because of habitat drying, mortality was 98% in each of the two longer lasting pools. None of the cohorts tracked in the main channel died from desiccation. Density effects on larval diets and life-history traits also varied between habitats. Algal (food) standing crops were significantly negatively correlated with larval densities in isolated pools but not in the main channel. As epilithic chlorophyll a concentrations decreased in isolated pools, larvae proportionally included more detritus in their diets. Associated with these patterns, larvae inhabiting isolated pools metamorphosed at a significantly smaller size than those in the main channel. These results suggest that intraspecific competition for periphyton is more likely to occur in isolated pools than in the main channel. Between-habitat variation in larval performance may have major effects on the dynamics of natural toad populations. 
3892701| We present morphological and natural history data on Epipedobates pictus and three additional taxa currently regarded as synonyms of the former: Epipedobates braccatus, E. flavopictus, and E. hahneli. Topotypes of the four species were examined. Morphological data on tadpoles and adults, in addition to distribution patterns and vocalizations, indicate that the four taxa represent distinct species. Two groups are evident within them: (1) the slender-bodied, Amazonian E. hahneli with small flash marks on the thighs and a low-finned tadpole, and (2) the robust bodied, almost extra-Amazonian E. braccatus, E. flavopictus, and E. pictus with large flash marks on the thighs and tadpoles with fins of moderate height. /// Apresentamos dados morfolgicos e de histria natural de Epipedobates pictus e mais trs espcies correntemente consideradas como sinnimos daquela: Epipedobates braccatus, Epipedobates flavopictus e Epipedobates hahneli. Toptipos e/ou material tipo das quatro espcies foram examinados. Dados morfolgicos de girinos e adultos, alm dos padres de distribuio, indicam que os quatro taxons aqui considerados representam espcies distintas. Dois grupos so evidentes entre estas espcies: (1) E. hahneli, amaznico, com corpo delicado, pequenas manchas coloridas nas coxas e girinos com nadadeiras pouco desenvolvidas, e (2) E. braccatus, E. flavopictus, e E. pictus, praticamente extra-amaznicos, com corpo robusto, grandes manchas coloridas nas coxas e girinos com nadadeiras moderadamente desenvolvidas. A relao destas espcies com as outras correntemente colocadas no grupo de E. pictus, incluindo E. hahneli,  de difcil anlise no presente estgio de conhecimento e merece revises futuras. 
3892240|Egg production by desert tortoises was estimated at two sites in San Bernardino, California: Ivanpah Valley in 1980 and 1981 and Goffs in 1983, 1984 and 1985. Mean clutch frequencies were estimated for 1980 (1.60) and 1981 (1.10) from mass changes observed among sexually mature females weighed every 1-2 wk. Mean clutch frequencies in 1983 (1.89), 1984 (1.57) and 1985 (1.75) were estimated from periodic X-rays of females. Clutch sizes were also determined from radiographs. Tortoises at Goffs typically laid 1-2 clutches during May and June, but one female failed to lay eggs in 1984 and single tortoises laid three clutches in 1983 and 1985. If tortoises laid two clutches, the second was faintly visible in X-rays within 9-10 days after the first was laid. Eggs were laid about 22 days after they were visible in X-rays. Goffs data showed that tortoises <196 mm in body length were more likely to lay one clutch than larger females. Mean clutch frequencies were positively correlated with winter rainfall, but summer rains also apparently contribute to reproductive energetics of tortoises. Clutch sizes were positively correlated with body size. With this effect removed, the following generalizations emerged: (1) clutch size did not differ between years, (2) if two clutches were laid, first and second clutches did not differ in size, (3) females laying but one clutch of eggs laid larger ones than those laying two clutches, and (4) variation in clutch sizes of different individuals was greater than comparable variation within the same tortoises. The overall mean clutch size at Goffs (4.50) is low-relative to clutch sizes reported in the literature. This may be related to the fact that the mean body size of adult females at Goffs (220 mm) is significantly less than mean sizes of adult females in 13 of 16 other populations in California. Only 26 (46%) of 57 eggs moved to predator-proof nests in May-June 1984 hatched by the end of October. None of 17 apparently viable eggs left in protected nests until 3 May 1985 hatched.
3892756|Tadpoles and adults of American toads, Bufo americanus, were forced to sprint at different body temperatures. Tadpoles sprint at 80%, or better, of their maximal sprint rate between 17 and 36 C, whereas adults achieve the same performance level over a narrower range of 21-34 C. In a laboratory thermal gradient with a wet sandy substratum, presumably well-hydrated juvenile toads preferentially select body temperatures that tend to optimize sprint performance. In a thermal gradient with a dry substratum, presumably dehydrated juvenile toads select body temperatures that minimize loss of water. In a thermal gradient with both wet and dry substrata, juvenile toads generally remain on wet substrata and select temperatures available in those wetter environments at which they can best approach maximal sprint performance. They typically avoid dry substrata that would result in dehydration, even when those environments offer temperatures conducive to better sprint performance. Juvenile toads, owing to their diurnal habit and small body size, are more able than adults to regulate body temperature through behavioral selection of thermal microsites. Indeed, adult American toads in nature likely rarely achieve body temperatures necessary for optimal locomotor performance. We hypothesize that the thermal optimum for locomotion in B. americanus evolved in response to selective pressures on juveniles.
3891981| Aggressive behavior among individual frogs (Colostethus collaris) is described. Both sexes engaged in such activities, but   did so more commonly than  . Aggressive acts on the part of   included throat display and pulsation, striking an intruder's snout with her chin, pushing, chasing, and leaping on an intruder's back or head. Among   all the above behavior patterns except throat display and pulsation were seen; "lunging" toward intruder and "pushup" display, were observed in one  each. 
3893033| A new species of leptodactylid frog is described from the Serra das Cabras in So Paulo, southeastern Brazil. The new species is a member of the Hylodes lateristrigatus group and is characterized by its small size and high number of notes per call. Descriptions of the tadpole and advertisement call and information on natural history are provided. 
3890983|Seasonal and diel activity of Callisaurus draconoides were studied at Saratoga Springs, Death Valley National Monument, California. The species was active from February through October, with maximum numbers active during summer (May-July). Immature lizards were active slightly earlier than adults. Phenology of creosote bush was observed to be a reliable indicator of commencement of activity of C. draconoides in the spring. Diel activity varied seasonally. Daily activity in all seasons commenced at T
3891586| Sexually immature  and  tiger salamander larvae (Ambystoma tigrinum) from local Colorado populations were injected intraperitoneally on alternate days during the normal breeding season with 25 g testosterone, 25 g estradiol-17, 25 g progesterone, testosterone + estradiol, testosterone + progesterone, or estradiol + progesterone for 40 days. The animals were maintained on natural April-May photoperiod in dechlorinated tap water at 15 C. Only testosterone treatment induced development of a male-type cloaca in immature  or  larvae. The minimum dose of testosterone that increased cloacal development significantly as compared to untreated animals or saline-injected animals (p < 0.01) during November-December was 0.0325 g/g body weight or 0.25 g/7.7 g larva on alternate days. Estradiol reduced significantly (p < 0.01) the cloacal response to testosterone, but progesterone had no effect. 
3893181| We describe the external morphology of a new giant lizard found alive on La Gomera Island (Canarian Archipelago), which had been previously described from subfossil bones. Adult size (SVL 135-190 mm) is comparable with the two largest living species (G. simonyi and G. stehlini) of the genus. It differs from the other species of Gallotia in the low number of temporal scales (21-27), presence of one elongate interprefrontal scale (linearly depressed in center) that is very infrequent in most of its congeners (small when it is present), having two distinctive lateral lines of small blue spots, and in having a blackish-brown dorsum and ventral parts ivory white. According to subfossil data, based on tooth morphology and body size, this lizard seems to correspond to the putatively extinct subspecies (G. simonyi gomerana). This taxon is sufficiently distinct to be treated as a full species, G. gomerana. Molecular data analysis from mtDNA sequences (cytochrome b and 12S rRNA) indicate that G. gomerana is closely related to G. simonyi and G. intermedia. After prospecting 70 localities in La Gomera, we only found a very small and threatened population of this species in Valle Gran Rey, in the western part of the island and living in an area of less than 1 ha. A small population size (only six individuals are known) and a large number of feral cats in their habitat makes this lizard the most endangered vertebrate of the Canaries and Europe and one of the most threatened in all the world. The species is suspected to be on the brink of extinction, so conservation measures are urgently needed, including a captive breeding plan at Valle Gran Rey, close to the natural habitat. /// En el presente trabajo se describe la morfologa externa de un nuevo lagarto gigante hallado en la isla de La Gomera (archipilago canario), el cual haba sido descrito a partir de huesos fsiles. Su talla (LHC: 135-190 mm) es comparable con la de los otros dos lagartos gigantes del gnero (G. simonyi y G. stehlini). Difiere en general de las otras especies de Gallotia en el bajo nmero de escamas de las regiones temporal (21-27), presencia de una escama alargada interprefrontal (deprimida linealmente en el centro) muy poco frecuente en la mayora de las otras especies (reducida cuando existe), adems de presentar dos lneas de pequeos ocelos azules en los flancos del cuerpo, un dorso marrn-negruzco y partes ventrales de color blanco marfil. De acuerdo con los datos presentados por Hutterer (1985), basados en la morfologa de los dientes y la talla del animal, este lagarto parece corresponder con una de las dos subespecies extintas descritas por este autor (G. simonyi gomerana). Despus de estudiar la morfologa externa del nuevo lagarto, y teniendo en cuenta las claras diferencias existentes con las restantes especies, este lagarto debe ser considerado como una especie (G. gomerana). Datos moleculares, basados en las secuencias de ADN mitocondrial (citocromo b y 12S rARN), indican que G. gomerana est ntimamente emparentado con G. simonyi y G. intermedia. Despus de prospectar 70 localidades en La Gomera solamente se pudo detectar una pequea poblacin de esta especie en Valle Gran Rey (extremo Oeste), la cual se encuentra muy amenazada y ocupa menos de 1 ha. El reducido tamao de su poblacin y el gran nmero de gatos asilvestrados presentes en este lugar hacen que este lagarto sea en la actualidad el vertebrado ms amenazado de las islas Canarias y Europa, siendo adems uno de los que presenta una situacin de conservacin ms delicada en todo el mundo. Estos datos indican que la especie se encuentra al borde de la extincin por lo que se han de tomar medidas urgentes de conservacin que incluyan un plan de cra en cautividad en Valle Gran Rey, en las inmediaciones de su hbitat natural. 
3891204|The courtship behavior of the Mexican turtle, Chrysemys scripta taylori, is described and contrasted with the courtship display of Chrysemys scripta elegans. C. s. taylori is endemic to the Cuatro Cienegas basin and is relatively isolated from other species of emydine turtles. C. s. elegans ranges widely over central and eastern United States and is sympatric over parts of its range with several other species of Chrysemys. C. s. taylori lacks the sexually dimorphic foreclaws used by C. s. elegans in its courtship display. The much simpler precopulatory behavior of C. s. taylori is less stereotyped than that of C. s. elegans and more characteristic of unspecialized turtle courtship. It is suggested that these courtship differences reflect the lack of need for behavioral isolating mechanisms under conditions of relative geographical isolation.
3893317|We tested the hypotheses that intrasexual female aggression increases following oviposition, and that heightened post-ovipositional aggression functions in the defense of nesting sites in female collared lizards, Crotaphytus collaris. Daily focal observations on seven females prior to and after oviposition revealed that both agonistic intrasexual aggression and travel rates were higher during the five days following oviposition than during the five days before eggs were laid. These results support the hypothesis that intrasexual female aggression increases following egg laying in this species. However, intrasexual female encounters following oviposition did not consistently occur near to nesting sites, and females did not always construct their nests close to home range core areas as would be expected if nests are defended. Indeed, some females constructed nests distant from their home ranges and did not remain near their nests following oviposition. Our results are not consistent with the hypothesis that increased post-ovipositional aggression functions in the defense of nests in females of C. collaris. Alternatively, we suggest that heightened post-ovipositional aggression functions to re-establish ownership of home ranges and to prevent intrusion by competitors after the one to two day absence required to dig a nest and deposit eggs.
3891808|Six Crotalus viridis and 6 Crotalus enyo were observed once per week for 8 successive weeks in each of two situations: a clean cage and a cage containing mouse odors. Snakes were placed into each situation for 5 min, and all tongue flicks were recorded. Although the snakes had been fed weekly until the initiation of this study, they were offered no food during the 8-week experimental period. During weeks 1-4 the mean rate of tongue flicking (RTF, per min) in the clean cage was statistically indistinguishable from the mean RTF in the cage with mouse odors. Hence, the snakes exhibited no differential chemosensory response to the two cages while they were deprived of food for the first month. However, during weeks 5-8 the mean RTF in the cage with mouse odors increased significantly compared to the rate in the clean cage, indicating that increasing hunger resulted in greater sensitivity and/or responsiveness to prey odors. We suggest that hunger-related increase in chemosensory response to prey odors may be the basis for foraging behavior in rattlesnakes.
3891885|A stable genetic polymorphism for color (green or brown dorsum) exists in Rana pipiens Schreber. Developmental rates of tadpoles were studied at two sites in Larimer County, Colorado. Synchronous breeding in both populations allowed mean dates of egg deposition to be estimated. The length of the larval period was estimated as the number of days between the mean date of egg deposition and the date of capture of an incompletely metamorphosed frog. In both populations the brown morph had a shorter larval period than the green morph. The proportion of the brown morph was higher in samples taken early in the emergence period, supporting the interpretation that tadpoles of the brown morph developed more rapidly. Both morphs, however, had similar rates of development during the metamorphic climax. The frequency of the brown morph was highest at ponds presumed to have higher tadpole mortality due to increased predation by vertebrates, which supports the hypothesis that the brown morph has a selective advantage during the tadpole stage.
3893438|We describe a new species of torrent-dwelling bufonid frog of the genus Ansonia from northern Thailand. Ansonia inthanon is morphologically similar to Indian members of the genus but differs from them in ventral coloration and skin texture. Occurrence of this species in this region connects disjunctly distributed congeners from southern India and the Malay Peninsula and Borneo.
3891615|Thirteen captive-reared adult eastern kingsnakes (Lampropeltis getulus), which had never eaten any prey other than laboratory mice, were exposed to 7 prey-odor extracts in 6 series of tests. Each extract was presented on a swab in random order to the subjects and tongue-flicks directed at the swab were counted. There were no significant differences in the responses to mouse, snake and chicken extracts. However, these 3 odors caused generally greater responses than human scent, distilled H
3893282|Zoo and aquarium herpetologists can provide an ontogeny of learning opportunities to reach a broader audience from the general visitor to graduate students. An example of a program for the general visitor is the Reptile Discovery Center at the National Zoological Park. In this project, three reptile houses were changed into learning centers that allowed people to pace their learning, make choices, manipulate objects, and talk with interpreters. Zoo programs for secondary students are rare, but some zoos have explorer scout training posts or conservation clubs for this audience. There are programs in zoos for the training of zoo herpetologists. The Santa Fe Community College in Gainesville, Florida offers such a training course. The National Zoological Park and other zoos provide undergraduate and graduate student grants to do research with animals in a zoo setting. A few zoos even offer postdoctoral research fellowships to work with zoo animals. In spite of the above programs, there is no real formal liaison between a zoological garden or aquarium and an academic institution. A liaison is described in which a university and a zoo could cooperate in a graduate program in conservation biology. The university could provide the students and the formal course work while the zoo could provide office space and animals. Although the ontogeny of learning opportunities is great in zoos and aquariums, most institutions have not taken the opportunity to reach a broader audience with herpetology.
3892775|We examined the effects of egg qualities and incubation temperatures on characteristics of hatchling American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis). Alligator eggs were collected from the Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge, Louisiana, and transported to the Savannah River Ecology Laboratory near Aiken, South Carolina. Eggs from each clutch were initially incubated at either 30 C to produce only females or 34 C to produce only males. After 40 days of incubation, the eggs were distributed among four final temperatures (28, 30, 32, and 34 C) for the remaining third of development. Egg and hatchling lipids were extracted with petroleum ether and hatchling nitrogen content was determined using the micro-Kjeldahl procedure. Egg yolk averaged 40.7% non-polar lipids and parental investment ratios (hatchling yolk lipids/egg lipids) averaged 66% and did not vary significantly among incubation treatments. Individual hatchling characteristics (snout-vent length, carcass lean dry and lipid mass, yolk sac lean dry and lipid mass) were not significantly influenced by initial incubation temperature and, with the exception of hatchling yolk lean dry mass, were not significantly influenced by final incubation temperatures. Multivariate analysis of hatchling characteristics revealed that maternal effects and incubation temperatures during the final third of development appear to have major impact on hatchling characteristics. Based on these results, the "decision" to produce primarily male or female offspring would first be based on characteristics of the female parent and secondarily on the nest temperatures influenced by nest site selection. The effects of nest temperatures would first determine the sex through the first two-thirds of incubation and subsequently influence the quality of the offspring during the final third of development.
3892123|The larval period and metamorphosis of Eurycea bislineata were studied in two populations in the Blue Ridge Mountains of North Carolina. Monthly sampling over a 15-mo period in 1981-1982 at both sites and a more intensive sampling program at one site in the summer of 1983 showed that in both populations larvae metamorphose 1 or 2 yr after hatching. Growth rates were higher and metamorphic sizes were greater in the lower elevation population. Metamorphosis occurred in late spring and early summer; in a given year, 2-yr larvae metamorphosed first, followed by the larger members of the 1-yr class. There was a sharp decline in average metamorphic size midway in the metamorphic season when transformation was completed among 2-yr larvae and shifted to 1-yr larvae. The incidence of metamorphosis among 1-yr old larvae appeared to be less than 15%. Comparison of these results with those of earlier studies revealed no correlation between length of larval period and growth rates among populations of this species in the southern Blue Ridge.
3892056| A recent study by Schwaner of tigersnakes from offshore islands of South Australia documented inter-island variability in average body sizes, degree of sexual size dimorphism, adult sex ratio, and population structure. These variations were interpreted as adaptations to different prey availability (especially, prey sizes) on different islands. From this hypothesis, one would expect less variability in these characteristics in tigersnakes from mainland areas because of the greater geographical homogeneity in types and sizes of prey available on the mainland. This prediction was tested by measurement and dissection of 860 tigersnakes from throughout the taxon's range. Results were generally consistent with prediction. Mainland snakes fed mainly on frogs whereas island snakes fed mainly on mammals and birds. Island snakes averaged larger than mainland conspecifics. Very few juvenile snakes were collected on islands, perhaps reflecting low juvenile survivorship because of scarcity of small prey. Geographic variation in sexual size dimorphism and adult sex ratios occurred but may be due to sampling error rather than any real biological difference. Data are presented also on sex ratio at birth (1:1), fecundity (x = 18.4, range 7-39), offspring size (12-22 cm SVL), incidence of infertility among oviductal ovocytes (11%), seasonal timing of the female reproductive cycle, and proportion of adult females that were reproductive (52%, suggesting "biennial" reproduction). No significant geographic variation was evident in reproductive biology. Overall, the ecological differences observed between island and mainland tigersnakes were consistent with the hypothesis that these variables are influenced by the types of prey available. 
40931026|Recently four subspecies of Chironius multiventris were recognized as valid distinct species: C. m. foveatus, C. m. multiventris, C. m. cochranae, and C. m. septentrionalis. Although C. foveatus and C. septentronalis clearly deserve specific status, a re-evaluation of the characters pointed in the literature as diagnostic of C. multiventris and C. cochranae does not support their recognition as valid distinct taxa. Additionally, our analysis of the scutellation pattern, continuous characters, and hemipenial morphology of 34 specimens, and of the available data in literature, shows that there are no significant differences between them. We therefore suggest that C. cochranae should be synonymized with C. multiventris.
40602628|Despite their high diversity and importance as top predators in many ecosystems, the ecology of many snakes remains poorly understood. This situation is especially true at low latitudes, as few attempts have been made to quantify patterns of space usage by tropical snake species. Here, we describe macro-and microhabitat use by the abundant pit viper Bothrops asper in the lowlands of Costa Rica. Specifically, we used radiotelemetry to monitor nine female and four male adult snakes at La Selva Biological Station between 2004 and 2006. We determined macrohabitat usage and availability on the basis of the movements of individual snakes and analyzed selection using compositional analysis. Microhabitat was quantified by a series of structural characteristics, and groups of locations were compared using multivariate ANOVA and discriminant function analysis. In our study, B. asper demonstrated a positive selection for swamp habitat and avoidance of human-disturbed areas by both male and female snakes. Microhabitat usage did not differ between males and females, but did differ for all individuals between daytime observations, when snakes were typically inactive, and nocturnal observations, when snakes moved to more exposed areas and foraged using ambush tactics. Microhabitat characteristics were significantly nonrandom at both times, suggesting that B. asper actively select particular sites for both diurnal retreat and nocturnal foraging sites. These data emphasize that the contrasting ways in which animals may utilize resources at separate times or for different activities should be considered in studies of overall habitat selection.
3893235|Multivariate analysis of body proportions, skin texture, and coloration characteristics of brown frogs (Rana macrocnemis and R. camerani) from 14 Georgian populations confirms the existence of two, geographically distinct groups of populations. Frogs in the first group (R. macronemis) are characterized by a smooth skin, a pale spotted pattern, absence of a mid-dorsal stripe, and a small inner metatarsal tubercle. Frogs in the second group (known as R. camerani) possess a rugose skin, a conspicuous pattern of dorsal spots, a mid-dorsal stripe with contrasting borders, and a large metatarsal tubercle. The first group occurs in the uplands of the Great Caucasus and other forested areas while the second group occurs in the treeless uplands of the Near East. A stepped cline exists between them, with parallel variation in eight morphological characters. Other characters analyzed vary independently of the cline. Fully diagnostic (fixed) morphological characters separating the groups were not observed. Some characters previously used for taxonomic purposes are shown to be associated with local ecological conditions. We conclude that R. macrocnemis is a single, though polytypic, species composed of two interbreeding evolutionary lineages.
3891659|Seasonal activities and movements of the California canyon tree frog, Hyla cadaverina, were investigated in southern California during the periods of April 1968 through September 1970 and from April 1973 through January 1974. In spring and summer the frogs perch on large boulders, near deep pools of water, along the course of streams. In fall and winter they move into deep, moist crevices located on the hillsides surrounding the streams. Here they spend the winter in a semi-dormant state. The observed alternation from summer habitats to winter habitats appears to be an adaptation to avoid desiccation, predation, and high water from heavy rains, during the winter season.
3892638| Samples of Liolaemus monticola, from five localities in the montane Coastal Range in central Chile, from sites south and north of the Maipo River, showed great intra- and interpopulation karyotypic variation and were grouped into two allopatric races: the southern race with 2N = 34 and the northern race with 2N = 38-40. The chromosomal differences between the races in number and morphology could be explained by centric fissions, pericentric inversion, and an increase in microchromosomes. Statistically significant differences in the distribution and number of chiasmata were also established. The southern chromosomal race is polymorphic for an apparent fusion rearrangement between pairs 5 and 7 in 4.68% of the population. The populations of the northern chromosomal race are highly polymorphic for the fission polymorphism in pair 3 (25%) and were fixed for the fission in pair 4. The heterozygotes exhibited meiotic irregularities at diakinesis and metaphase II with 10-18% of aneuploid spermatocytes. The two chromosomal races were separated by the Maipo River, which appeared to function as a barrier to gene flow between them. The origin of the chromosomal rearrangements, the population cytogenetics, and the meiotic recombination patterns resulting from chromosomal heterozygosity are compared with the situation previously described for L. m. monticola in the Andean Range. We discuss the evolution of this complex in central Chile. /// Muestras de Liolaemus monticola monticola de cinco localidades ubicadas al Norte y Sur del Ro Maipo, en el Rango de la Cordillera de la Costa de Chile Central, mostraron una gran variabilidad cariotpica intra e interpoblacional. Estas muestras fueron agrupadas en dos razas cromosmicas y aloptricas: la raza Sur con un 2N = 34 y la raza Norte con un 2N = 38 a 40. Las diferencias cromosmicas en nmero y morfologa, pueden explicarse por fisiones cntricas, inversin pericntrica e incremento de microcromosomas. Diferencias estadsticamente significativas fueron establecidas para el nmero y distribucin de quiasmas. La raza cromosmica Sur result polimrfica para una posible fusin entre los pares cromosmicos 5 y 7, en un 4.68% de la poblacin. Las poblaciones de la raza cromosmica Norte, altamente polimrficas para la fisin del par 3 (25%), mantienen fija la fisin del par 4. Los heterocigotos presentan meiosis irregulares en las diaquinesis y en las Metafases II, donde se observ un 10 y 18% de espermatocitos aneuploides. Estas dos razas cromosmicas estan separadas por el Ro Maipo que parece funcionar como una barrera al flujo gnico entre ambas. Se compara el origen de los rearreglos cromosmicos, la gentica de poblaciones y los patrones de recombinacin, que resultan de la heterocigocidad cromosmica con la situacin previamente descrita para L. m. monticola del rango de la Cordillera de los Andes. Se discute la evolucin de este complejo en Chile Central. 
3892444|Contrary to a previous report, female Hemidactylium scutatum possess a common tube to the spermathecal tubules similar to that found in females of all other plethodontids that have been examined. My results, however, are consistent with those of earlier workers who noted that a common tube to the spermathecae is absent in female salamanders of other families. Since the common tube to the spermathecae is present in all lineages of plethodontids and absent in other salamander families, this character likely was present in the common ancestor of extant plethodontids and is an autapomorphy for the family. Ventral glands are symplesiomorphic for salamanders. Spermathecal tubules are synapomorphic for all families except Sirenidae, Hynobiidae, and Cryptobranchidae. A spermathecal anatomy like that found in extant Ambystomatidae could resemble the ancestral state from which the common tube to the spermathecae of the Plethodontidae was derived.
25209132|Two new grass lizard species, previously confused with Takydromus formosanus, were identified in Taiwan using mitochondrial DNA sequences. In the present study, 40 morphological characters and their taxonomic significances were assessed using principal components analysis and discriminant analysis. The three species can be distinguished by morphology of body sizes, dorsal and caudal scales, and most importantly, by male coloration during the breeding seasons. The present study increases the total number of Takydromus to 19 species, of which 10 are insular endemics, with six only occurring in Taiwan.
3892274|Cloacal gland tubules of adult male Eurycea lucifuga and Eurycea longicauda from monthly samples grouped on the basis of position, morphology, and histochemical nature of their secretory products into seven distinct glandular regions: Kingsbury's, dorsal pelvic, dorsolateral pelvic, caudal pelvic, anterior ventral, posterior ventral, and vent glands. Each gland, or major subdivision, is characterized by morphology and glandular product. Histochemical activity of glandular epithelia and presence of secretory product in tubule lumina during the breeding season (but not outside of it) confirm the control of these glands by reproductive hormones and primary function during breeding activities. Histochemical data support the view that the spermatophore cap is produced by Kingsbury's and the pelvic glands and the base by the caudal pelvic and ventral glands.
4497952|A new species of Sibon in the S. annulatus species group is described from the Mosquitia region of northeastern Honduras. The new species differs from all other members in the group in ventral and dorsal coloration. Within this group, the new species appears to be most closely related to S. dimidiatus and S. miskitus.
3891728| A group of sibling desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizi) were measured at hatching and at intervals afterwards for 3 years. Extraordinary mean increases in carapace length of 176% (156.3%-226%), 43% (39%-48%), and 11% (10%-13%) were observed for the first 3 years of growth, respectively. Mean carapace lengths at the end of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd years corresponded approximately with those of G. agassizi measured previously by other investigators after 11, 17, and 18 years of growth, posthatching. The weight and length relationship is described by a geometric type curve whose equation is: wt (grams) = 0.00049  carapace
4497951| A new arboreal species of Rhinella is described from the humid montane forest of Manu National Park in the Cordillera Oriental of southern Peru. The new species can be distinguished from all known Rhinella by a unique combination of external and osteological characters as well as by molecular data. The new toad is compared to R. arborescandens and R. veraguensis with respect to external characters. On the basis of morphological and molecular data, the new taxon is closely related to R. chavin, R. nesiotes, and R. festae. Although DNA data indicate that a member of the R. veraguensis group (R. nesiotes) is its sister taxon, the new species is not closely related to other members of this species group (e.g., R. veraguensis). In addition, DNA data indicate that the R. veraguensis group as it currently is defined is paraphyletic. Until additional studies are completed on the phylogeny of these South American toads, we refrain from assigning the new taxon to a species group. /// Se describe una nueva especie arborcola del gnero Rhinella de los bosques montanos hmedos del Parque Nacional del Manu en la Cordillera Oriental del sur del Per. La nueva especie se distingue del resto de las especies del gnero Rhinella por una combinacin de caractersticas externas y osteolgicas as como por datos moleculares. Esta nueva especie se compara con R. arborescandens y R. veraguensis respecto a las caractersticas morfolgicas externas y osteolgicas. 
23352105|We describe a pentaploid froglet (LLLRR; three Pelophylax lessonae and two Pelophylax ridibundus genomes) that has never been reported before within the Water Frog (Pelophylax esculentus) hybrid complexes. The pentaploid specimen was found among almost all triploid siblings obtained from a diploid female P. esculentus (LR) crossed with a diploid male P. lessonae (LL). We confirmed ploidy levels of the parents and the offspring by karyotyping, microsatellite analysis (18 loci), and measurements of DNA content and erythrocyte size. Microsatellite analysis indicated that the pentaploid originated from a tetraploid ovum (LLRR) fertilized by a haploid sperm (L). Surprisingly, the erythrocytes of the pentaploid were not proportionally larger than in triploids, despite a higher DNA content. Only 6.7% of the erythrocytes were distinctly large, whereas the others varied strongly in shape and size; besides typical ovoid mature erythrocytes there were small, tear-shaped, or enucleated ones. We discuss the possibility of loss of some cytoplasm by large erythrocytes as a result of mechanical damages during circulation through the narrow vessels; when the erythrocytes achieve a relatively higher surface-to-volume ratio, they may function more effectively in a proper gas exchange.
3892689|The temporal relationship between the initial exposure to a habitat and the development of a territorial bond was studied in the laboratory. We isolated reproductively active males in simulated territories and sequentially exposed them to conspecific intruders and tape recorded advertisement calls at four time intervals: <1 day, 1 wk, 2 wk, and 7 wk. Residents exhibited aggression immediately following introduction to the simulated territories but were significantly more aggressive after 1 wk. There was not a significant increase in the level of aggression between 1 wk and any of the subsequent test periods.
3892142| Eggs of painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) were incubated at temperatures of 22.0, 27.0, and 32.0 C on substrates with water potentials of -150, -300, and -1100 kPa using a 3  3 factorial design. The thermal and hydric environments affected fluxes in water between eggs and their surroundings during the course of incubation. Eggs lost the greatest amount of water during incubation at high temperature and low water potential, and gained the greatest amount of water at low temperature and high water potential. Both the thermal and hydric environments also affected mass, linear dimensions, and composition of hatchlings. The effects of each environmental variable were independent of the effects of the other. Hatchlings from eggs incubated at high temperatures or on substrates with low water potentials were smaller and had larger residual yolks than those from eggs at lower temperatures or on wetter substrates. Embryos from eggs incubated at low temperatures or on wet substrates mobilized more non-lipids from their yolks than embryos at higher temperatures or on dry substrates. In addition, embryos from eggs on dry substrates catabolized more lipids and fewer non-lipids than those from eggs on wet substrates. Environmentally induced variation in development may be important to survival and fitness of individuals after hatching. 
40602634|A new species of the genus Goniurosaurus (Squamata: Eublepharidae) is described from Yingde, Guangdong Province, China: Goniurosaurus yingdeensis sp. n. It can be discriminated from other known congeners by having 10-13 precloacal pores; dorsal ground color of head, body, and limbs in adults dark brown; posteriorly rounded nuchal loop situated low on the nape of the neck; five body bands between the nuchal loop and the caudal constriction; tail length and snout-vent length almost equal in individuals with original tail; the base of claws being sheathed by four scales; and short conchoidal lateral scales at claw base.First-hand data on the natural history of G. yingdeensis, and an expanded key to the genus Goniurosaurus, are provided. Being found outside the known geographical distribution of the genus Goniurosaurus, this is the first record in Guangdong Province in southern China.
3893011|The literature on squamate embryos consistently refers to embryos lying left side adjacent to the yolk. This orientation was quantified in 179 embryos of 20 species of five families of Australasian squamates. The embryo was always oriented left side adjacent to the yolk. Search of the literature revealed that amniote embryos are also usually referred to as lying left side adjacent to the yolk. This orientation, if verified in other, non-squamate groups, may be a derived character for amniotes and may provide the initial developmental clue to other directional morphological asymmetries.
3893471| We describe a new species of Ischnocnema from upper montane rainforest in La Paz, Bolivia. Unlike its congeners, the new species possesses notched ungual flaps, a short dorsolateral fold, and a small axillary gland. The new species resembles I. sanctaecrucis and is the third species of Ischnocnema known from Bolivia. /// Describimos una especie nueva de Ischnocnema procedente de bosque hmedo de montaa, Departamento La Paz, Bolivia. Se distingue de los dems especies del gnero por tener estuches ungulares con mellas, un pliegue dorsolateral corto, y una pequea glndula axilar. La especie nueva se parece a I. sanctaecrucis, y es la tercera especie de Ischnocnema registrado para Bolivia. 
3892718| A new species of Eleutherodactylus inhabiting the Montaas del Mico, the Sierra de las Minas, the Sierra de Santa Cruz, the Sierra de Merendn, and the Sierra de Chinah, Guatemala, and the Maya Mountains, Belize, is described. This species is placed in the rugulosus group and is characterized by a strongly tuberculate dorsal integument, including eyelids entirely covered with tubercles; relatively large finger discs, a pad on Finger III 62-83% length of tympanum in adult females, 40-45% in adult males; no nuptial excrescences; no vocal slits; strongly developed inner tarsal fold extending about halfway from inner metatarsal tubercle to heel; toes bearing moderately developed lateral keels, vestigial (basal) webbing; and venter dusky in males and females. Ecologically, this new frog differs from other members of the rugulosus group because it usually is found well away from streams. This moderate sized species is sexually dimorphic in body size (males to 36.3 mm, females to 65.3 mm SVL), tympanum length, and dorsal body coloration. /// Aqu se describe una nueva especie de Eleutherodactylus que habita las Montaas del Mico, la Sierra de Santa Cruz, la Sierra de Merendn, y la Sierra de Chinaj, Guatemala. Esta especie es asignada al grupo rugulosus. Se caracteriza por poseer un integumento dorsal altamente tuberculoso, incluyendo prpados completamente cubiertos por tubrculos; discos de los dedos de los pies relativamente grandes, en el Dedo III la almohadilla digital es 62-83% el tamao del tmpano en hembras adultas, 40-45% en machos adultos; no tener excrecencias nupciales; no tener hendiduras vocales; poseer un pliegue tarsal interno fuertemente desarrollado que se extiende hasta la mitad de la distancia entre el tubrculo metatarsal y el taln; los dedos de los pies tienen quillas moderadamente desarrolladas y una membrana basal (vestigial); y el vientre negruzco tanto en machos como en hembras. Esta nueva rana difiere de otros miembros del grupo rugulosus por su ecologa, usualmente siendo encontrados bastante lejos de riachuelos. Esta especie de tamao moderado es sexualmente dimrfica en cuanto al tamao del cuerpo (machos hasta 36.3 mm, hembras hasta 65.3 mm SVL), el largo del tmpano, y la coloracin del cuerpo. 
3893291|Becoming a professional herpetologist involves participation in professional societies, attendance at their meetings, and publication in their journals. Selection of the appropriate societies in which to participate is an important decision of every graduate student. We review the organization of the three professional herpetological societies based in the United States (American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists, The Herpetologists' League, and Society for the Study of Amphibians and Reptiles) and the international World Congress of Herpetology. We list the committees available for graduate student participation and describe the awards, grants, and other services offered to them. We describe the attributes of the graduate programs in these societies and point out that one's professional growth is limited only by the level at which he or she chooses to participate. We stress that the vitality of these scientific societies depends on the continued dedication of our younger colleagues. A list of other professional herpetological societies around the world and their journals is included, along with information on Internet access.
3893381|We describe the prey, seasonal patterns of feeding, and coelomic fat mass storage in a tropical population of the diamondback watersnake (Nerodia rhombifer werleri) and relate these data to the reproductive cycle of the studied population. Snakes were collected on the Papaloapan River, nearby lagoons, and as road kill near Tlacotalpan, Veracruz, Mexico in 1987. Diet and feeding frequency were determined by stomach content analysis of preserved snakes. The diet consisted primarily of fish (seven identified species belonging to six families). Of the adults examined, 21% of the 95 males and 32.5% of the 77 females contained food. In all age and sex classes of snakes, the feeding frequency did not differ between the wet and dry seasons. For adult males and adult females, coelomic fat mass was higher in February, March, and April than in other months. The variation in mass of the fat bodies was greater in adult females than in adult males. In females, low fat reserves may account for the low frequency of reproduction and the small litter sizes found in our studied population. In males, low fat reserves are correlated with decreased size of the diameter of the seminiferous tubules and the sexual segment of the kidney.
3893275| We describe a new species of treefrog from the cloud forest of the Sierra de Los Cuchumatanes of northwestern Guatemala. This frog is a member of the fringe-limbed group of hylids and may be distinguished most easily from other members of the group by the poorly developed dermal fringe along the lower outer edge of the forearm and a mere trace of a fringe on the tarsus. This new species also is characterized by its large size (84.1 mm SVL), fingers that are two-thirds webbed, nearly fully webbed feet, and lack of integumentary-cranial co-ossification. This new species most closely resembles Hyla echinata, which occurs to the west of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in the Sierra de Jurez of Oaxaca and which is the probable sister-species. /// Se describe una nueva especie de rana arborcola del bosque nuboso de la Sierra de Los Cuchumatanes en el noroeste de Guatemala. Esta rana es un miembro del grupo de hylidos de extremidades con flecos. Se distingue ms facilmente de los otros miembros del grup por poseer un fleco dermal lateroventral pobremente desarrollado en el antebrazo y tener solamente trazas de el en el tarso. Esta nueva especie tambin se caracteriza por su gran tamao (84.1 mm largo hocico-cloaca), manos palmeadas dos tercios, patas casi completamente palmeadas y la falta de coosificacin integumentaria cranial. La nueva especie se asemeja mayormente a Hyla echinata, especie que habita al oeste del Istmo de Tehuantepec en al Sierra de Jurez, Oaxaca, y estas son probablemente especies hermanas. 
3893228| When animals differ visibly in competitive ability, contests are predicted to be settled quickly. We tested the hypotheses that body size and experience influence agonistic displays in contests between adult male zigzag salamanders, Plethodon angusticlavius. We paired males of either the same size (1 mm SVL length) or of different sizes (4 mm difference in length) and observed their behavior for 30 minutes. Both large and small males exhibited significantly more threat displays when paired with other males of the same size than when paired with males of different sizes, indicating an effect of relative body size. Absolute body size also influenced agonistic behavior; when tested against same-size opponents (symmetric contests), large salamanders were more aggressive than small salamanders. Recent experience influenced the behavior of small males but not of large males. Qualitatively, the highest levels of aggression were exhibited by large salamanders in symmetric contests and the lowest levels were by small salamanders with no recent experience that were in asymmetric contests. Therefore, the factors influencing the level of aggression in a given contest may be complex, including size relative to that of the opponent, absolute body size, and experience. 
3892519| Geochelone carbonaria and G. denticulata were studied in a rainforest in northwestern Brazil, where the two species are syntopic. During the 20-mo study, 227 tortoises were marked, and G. carbonaria outnumbered G. denticulata by >5:1. Although more males than females were marked for both species, sex ratios did not differ significantly from 1:1. Sexual dimorphism in size and shape was very pronounced for G. carbonaria but was slight for G. denticulata. The direction of size dimorphism (males larger than females) agrees with predictions of sexual selection theory, and the peculiarities of male shape seem to facilitate mating in G. carbonaria and combat in G. denticulata. Overall, the two species were similar in general body size at Marac, Brazil, where individuals of G. carbonaria were relatively large compared to museum specimens and literature records from other geographic locations, and G. denticulata were slightly smaller. 
3892514|Color pattern variability in a sample of C. tigris from Snow Canyon, Washington Co., Utah suggested that intergradation of local subspecies might be responsible. Five samples from the area of suspected intergradation were compared with reference samples of Cnemidophorus tigris tigris and C. tigris septentrionalis. Reference samples were distinguished by color pattern differences, discriminant scores, and GAB, GIPBT, and COS meristic characters. Evidence of intergradation, independent of color pattern recombinations, included intermediate discriminant score and meristic character means and the concordant clinal distribution of uncorrelated meristic characters. Populations of C. t. tigris and C. t. septentrionalis have made contact east of the Beaver Dam and Virgin Mountains in southwestern Utah and northwestern Arizona. Intergradation was particularly evident for sample sites 950-1000 m in elevation, where a mixture of community elements from both Mohave Desertscrub and Great Basin Desertscrub habitats is supported. Morphological evidence indicates that free intergradation has taken place and substantiates a subspecific level of divergence between these forms.
3892862|We compare the fang morphology of the Asiatic cobra species, with particular reference to the occurrence of spitting behavior. The two nonspitting species, Naja naja and N. oxiana, have unmodified fangs with large venom discharge orifices; the other seven species, which have all been reported to spit, show varying degrees of reduction in discharge orifice size. There is considerable variation in the degree of fang modification among the species of spitting cobras, and only a small reduction in discharge orifice size seems to enable spitting. Some species show geographic variation in fang structure, and N. philippinensis shows sexual dimorphism in discharge orifice size.
23255786|The Green Anole (Anolis carolinensis) has three stereotyped head bob displays (labeled A, B, and C) which it differentially uses during directed hetero- and consexual exchanges. We found free-ranging males advertise (i.e., nondirected signaling) with the same three displays in a complex but consistent manner. From videotapes of 10 adult males recorded across breeding and postbreeding seasons, we analyzed 2308 nondirected displays from two functional subsets of the advertisement context"monitor" (stationary males signaling from monitoring sites) and "travel" (males signaling while moving between monitoring sites). Using five hypotheses to guide the analysis, we found breeding males (1) used all three display types during both monitor and travel; (2) averaged mostly C displays during monitor (ratio of C:A + B = 4:1); (3) increased A and B displays four-fold during travel (C:A + B = 1:1); (4) averaged a four-fold lower display rate during monitor than during travel (displays/min = 0.8 vs. 3.5, respectively); (5) averaged three-fold more volleys of displays (i.e., a rapid succession of displays) during monitor than during travel (ratio of volleys:singly performed displays = 1.7:1 vs. 0.5:1, respectively); (6) averaged longer volleys during monitor than during travel (displays/volley = 3.3 vs. 2.5, respectively); and (7) appended the "shudderbobbing" modifier (rapid, shallow bobs) to a third of all displays. Males maintained these seven tendencies into the postbreeding, but with much reduced frequencies. The nondirected signaling during monitor and travel are respectively similar to that of long- and short-range aggressive signaling used by contesting males, and bears little similarity to the signaling males use toward females. From our data and those of other studies, we argue that males intend their nondirected signaling for an unidentified male audience (i.e., intrasexually selected), and not for an unidentified female audience (i.e., intersexually selected).
3893576| A new species of Eleutherodactylus is described from the lowlands of northwestern Ecuador. The new species is a small frog (snout-vent length <23 mm) characterized by: expanded and spadate disc cover on some fingers (usually III and IV) and most toes (usually III-V); bifid palmar tubercle; and brown dorsum with dark brown W-shaped scapular mark. A detailed osteological description of the new species is provided. Some of the osteological characters include relatively large nasals, small sphenethmoid, eight procoelous presacral vertebrae, manus with six carpal elements, and pes with four tarsal elements. A small portion of the frontoparietal fontanelle is exposed between the frontoparietals. Although the new species is small, there is no loss of skull bones and phalangeal elements. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Eleutherodactylus del bosque tropical del noroccidente del Ecuador. La nueva especie tiene una longitud rostro cloacal <23 mm, discos en forma de espadn en los dedos de la mano (generalmente en los Dedos III y IV) y en la mayora de los dedos del pie (generalmente en los Dedos III-V), tubrculo palmar bfido y dorso caf con una mancha caf oscura en forma de W a nivel escapular. Se provee una descripcin detallada de la osteologa craneal y postcraneal; entre algunas de las caratersticas osteolgicas de la nueva especie estn: nasales relativamente grandes, esfenetmoides pequeo, mano con seis elementos carpales y pie con cuatro elementos tarsales. La fenestra frontoparietal est parcialmente expuesta entre los frontoparietales y el esfenetmoides. A pesar del tamao de la nueva especie, no hay reduccin en el nmero de huesos craneales ni en el de las falanges. 
3892132|The extant holotype of Testudo rostrata Thunberg, 1787 is redescribed. Long conceived as a junior synonym of Trionyx cartilagineus (Boddaert), 1770, examination of the holotype indicates that T. rostrata is a senior synonym of Trionyx sinensis Wiegmann, 1835.
3892055|Artificial pools of three sizes were established in natural surroundings to determine whether colonization by predatory insects and tadpole survival were affected by pool size. After the passage of several weeks to allow such colonization, the pools were stocked with 1-wk-old larvae of Hyla cinerea. Subsequently, disappearance of the larvae and densities of predatory insects were monitored, but larval disappearance was attributed to predation only when it exceeded loss from predator-free pools. Most larval mortality occurred within 1 wk after introduction. Pools of the smallest size had significantly lower densities of predatory insects and significantly lower disappearance of larvae than larger pools. These results suggest that reduction of predation on larvae has been a major advantage of evolutionary shifts of anuran oviposition sites to small quantities of water.
3892973|Nest defense generally is widespread within salamanders of the family Plethodontidae. This behavior reduces egg depredation and is thought to enhance female fitness. However, defense may not be an evolutionarily optimal behavior if it decreases the lifetime fitness of a female. We used dynamic programming to examine a mechanistic model of nest defense in female plethodontid salamanders. We found that within a particular brooding season, female fitness increases with time, clutch size, and body size. Further, fitness is very sensitive to the probability of attack by a potential predator. Nest defense generally maximizes female fitness only if the female is large enough to sustain the energetic demands of defense and has relatively few eggs remaining in her clutch, so that the fitness gain from successful defense exceeds its potential costs in terms of mortality or decreased energy reserves. The range of clutch sizes for which defense is optimal increases if defense has relatively low risk, or is likely to be successful, or if expected future reproduction is small.
3892393|Taxonomic history of emydine turtles in the Chrysemys-Pseudemys-Trachemys complex is reviewed. The extensive controversy on generic assignment of these turtles (Chrysemys sensu stricto or sensu lato) has resulted from different morphological, biochemical and paleontological interpretations. Nevertheless, most evidence suggests a broad trichotomy among painted turtles (C. picta), sliders (scripta series), and cooters (floridana, concinna and rubriventris series). These groups appear to be as divergent from each other as they are from the genus Graptemys. We propose that recognition of Chrysemys, Trachemys, and Pseudemys as distinct genera is the most natural, utilitarian, and conservative arrangement. Generic accounts including synonymies and descriptions are presented.
3892681|The type series of Bolitoglossa dunni Schmidt contains representatives of two distinct species of salamanders. Bolitoglossa dunni is redescribed and a description of the species heretofore subsumed in dunni is provided. In addition, two new species of this group from cloud forest localities in southwestern Honduras are also described. Brief comments are also made on the El Salvadorean populations previously assigned to B. dunni.
3891949|Clutch size in lizards of the southwestern United States ranged from 1-47, with most species laying from 4-10 eggs/clutch. Larger species tended to lay larger clutches, and clutch size within species was generally correlated with body size. Although larger species laid larger eggs, the increase of egg size with body size was disproportionate such that the ratio of egg: body weight decreased in larger species. Conclusive evidence for multiple clutches is presented for 10 species.
3893080|We studied ontogenetic changes in venom toxicity of the pitvipers Bothrops jararaca and B. alternatus in order to evaluate the relationship between venom action and diet. Toxicity tests ( LD
3892724|We measured standard metabolic rate (SMR) for two small monitor lizards (Varanus caudolineatus and V. acanthurus) between 2400-0900 h, after the lizards had rested for at least 8 h and fasted for 60 h. There were no significant differences in mass-specific
3892800|Genetic variation was investigated in the Plethodon vandykei species group by examination of 24 presumptive enzyme loci from nine populations in western Washington and the northern Rocky Mountains. Eight loci were polymorphic in at least one population. Mean heterozygosities varied from 0.00-0.04. Nei's genetic distances between populations varied from 0.00-0.37. Samples from the Olympic Mountains and Willapa Hills in western Washington were virtually identical at 24 loci. Samples from the Cascade Mountains were differentiated from the coastal Washington samples by a mean genetic distance of 0.14. Populations from the Rocky Mountains were separated from the Cascade Mountain and coastal Washington samples by mean genetic distances of 0.29 and 0.33. respectively. These data suggest long term isolation and divergence of populations in the Rocky Mountains from related forms in western Washington. Based on our analysis, we recommend recognition of the Rocky Mountain populations of this complex as Plethodon idahoensis.
3891609|Records in the British and United States Virgin Islands from 1975 to 1976 are listed for Osteopilus, Eleutherodactylus, Geochelone, Ameiva, Anolis, Iguana, Hemidactylus, Sphaerodactylus, Mabuya, Amphisbaena, and Alsophis.
3891906|The method of venom transportation from the venom duct into the fang has never been adequately explained although many suggestions have been made as to how it might occur. In this paper the anatomy of the venom duct/fang area is considered and a method of venon transportation proposed.
25621913|We describe a new species of colubrid snake of the genus Coniophanes from the Pacific coast of Michoacn, Mexico. This species is known from a single adult female collected near sea level in dry deciduous forests. The new species is most similar to C. piceivittis, C. schmidti and C. taylori. It shares with these three species 25 scale rows at midbody, a small sub-preocular scale, and a pattern of three dark brown stripes over a pale brown body. The new species differs most noticebly from the other three in possessing a narrower dark vertebral stripe. Coniophanes p. taylori is elevated to a species status, therefore the C. piceivittis group consists of four species.
3893054|I analyzed intraspecific relationships, biogeography, and taxonomy of Xantusia henshawi occurring in southern California by constructing a gene tree phylogeny using mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence data from the cytochrome b region. Three well-supported haploclades show high degrees of sequence divergence in contrast to a generally conservative morphology. Fault zones and their associated habitat features in the form of fault valleys, canyons, and arroyos geographically separate the different gene tree haploclades. This suggests that the evolution of X. henshawi is tied to the occurrence of stable exfoliating granitic features that are lacking in riparian and flood plain corridors. Sequence data indicate that X. h. gracilis evolved from within one of the three haploclades of X. henshawi and represents an exclusive lineage. Xantusia henshawi remains non-exclusive. Under the evolutionary species concept, results of this study in combination with those of previous studies warrant the elevation of X. h. gracilis to full species. This study has assisted in hypothesizing previously unknown barriers to gene flow that have contributed to the evolution of X. henshawi and X. gracilis.
3892092|There are six common venomous snakes on Taiwan: two elapids and four viperids. The hemipenial characteristics of these snakes are described in detail. Comparisons of the hemipenial structures reveal intergeneric and interspecific variations and similarities indicating taxonomic relationships among the species.
3893243|We studied ontogenetic variation in the shape of the skull among species of Caiman using principal component analysis. Comparison of multivariate allometric coefficients and ontogenetic trends between size and shape reveals that C. sclerops and C. yacare have similar ontogenetic processes, and they are more related to each other than either is to C. latirostris. Allometric relationships of the characters measured are similar in all species studied. The greater differences were in the width measurements, with higher coefficients in shape (second principal component) for C. latirostris, and length measurements with higher coefficients in shape for C. yacare and C. sclerops. The ontogenetic process leading to change in skull shape in the group seems to be plesiomorphic for elongation and derived for broadening. Statistical comparison of the ontogenetic trends with models of allometric heterochrony suggests that C. latirostris has diverged from the other species by a neotenic process, and that C. sclerops is separated from C. yacare by ontogenetic scaling (progenesis).
3892767|We used mark-recapture techniques from August 1991 through September 1993 (52 sampling days) to study habitat use and movement of Nerodia taxispilota. We captured 411 individuals and estimated a linear density of 43 individuals/km of river habitat. River sections exhibiting the highest number of captures were clustered within 200 m of backwater areas; brown water snakes were not randomly distributed and were significantly associated with the steep-banked outer bends of the river and availability of potential perch sites. Recaptured individuals (n = 50) reaffirmed this habitat association by remaining in or moving to straight sections and outside bends of the river (90% of recaptures) with steep banks (88%) and a moderate to abundant concentration of perch sites (86%). Most recaptured individuals of N. taxispilota (70%) were found <250 m from their previous capture site, but six moved >500 m, and three moved >1 km. Ten of 11 individuals that moved >10 m/day between captures did so from 12 August through 15 October, indicating a possible seasonal movement pattern. Distance moved by individuals was not associated with size, sex, or number of days between captures; however, only large (>80 cm snout-vent length) individuals (n = 8) crossed the river (approximately 100 m). We found significant relationships between snout-vent length of basking individuals and perch height, perch exposure, and perch substrate. This is the first published study of the spatial ecology and movements of N. taxispilota in natural populations.
3891448|The diet of the desert tortoise, Gopherus agassizii, was determined from three areas at the base of the Grand Wash Cliffs above Lake Mead, Arizona, from an area in the New Water Mountains, Arizona, and from the central Beaver Dam Wash, Utah. Thirty-two kinds of plants, bird feathers, mammal hairs, snake and lizard scales, and arthropod parts were classified from the microhistological analysis of fecal droppings from desert tortoises. Foxtail brome, globemallow, slim tridens and threeawn made up > 80% of the tortoise diets from the Grand Canyon areas. Threeawn, slim tridens, bush muhly and slender janusia made up > 90% of the diets from the New Water Mountains. Foxtail brome and redstem filaree made up > 80% of the tortoise diets from the Beaver Dam Wash area.
3891254|Distribution, habitat, activity, feeding behavior, and eggs of the snake Cemophora coccinea copei in North Carolina are described.
3892683|There are approximately 30 species of Southeast Asian frogs that are characterized by one or more unusual secondary sex characteristics. Enlarged heads, hypertrophied jaw muscles, odontoid processes in the lower jaw, and males larger than females occur in various combinations across these taxa. Additionally, in four species, the males lack advertisement calls. We performed a cladistic analysis to examine whether these species constitute a monophyletic group and whether voicelessness evolved more than once among these species. Results of the analysis on 19 taxa using 40 variable characters indicate that (1) these species are a monophyletic group and (2) the loss of the male advertisement call has occurred more than once. These findings are in conflict with a recent proposed taxonomy for the species. The phylogenetic hypothesis for this group suggests that the evolution of an unusual breeding behavior in the basal part of the lineage led to subsequent diversification of breeding modes in this group on a level similar to that seen across all anurans.
3893561| Hyla circumdata (Cope, 1870) occurs in subtropical and tropical rain forests, distributed over mountain ranges of the Brazilian Plateau, mainly in the Serra do Mar and Serra da Mantiqueira ranges. Samples of the northern sector of Serra da Mantiqueira revealed distinctive characters when compared to samples from the southern sectors of Serra da Mantiqueira and Serra do Mar, which suggest that the former is a new species. The new species is characterized mainly by large size (snout-vent length 57.5-70.0 mm in males; 55.3-67.2 mm in females), absence of vocal slits in adult males, and a large tympanum. /// Hyla circumdata (Cope, 1870) se distribui em reas de floresta tropical, principalmente nos complexos da Serra do Mar e da Mantiqueira. Amostras populacionais do setor setentrional da Serra da Mantiqueira revelaram caracteres distintivos quando comparadas a amostras do setor sul da Serra da Mantiqueira e da Serra do Mar, indicando que as primeiras constituem uma nova espcie, descrita neste trabalho. A nova espcie  caracterizada principalmente pelo tamanho grande (comprimento rostro-cloacal 57.5-70.0 mm em machos; 55.3-67.2 mm em fmeas), ausncia de fendas vocais em machos adultos e tmpano grande. 
3892124|I studied growth and maturity by mark-recapture in a central Arkansas population of Opheodrys aestivus. Growth rate was a decreasing linear function of body size and differed according to sex. Females grew faster than males and reached a greater size. Mean body sizes of first year cohorts, size plots of known age snakes, and mean body sizes of the largest snakes were in agreement with size-age curves developed from growth rate equations. Males first bred in the spring at 21 mo of age. About half of the females first bred in the spring at 21 mo of age and half the following spring at 33 mo. Growth and age at maturity were similar to other colubrid and elapid species of similar size.
3892295|Current models of polygynous mating systems predict greater variance in reproductive success among males than among females. The sources of variation of breeding success remain poorly known. A population of the lizard Anolis carolinensis was studied to determine the variance in breeding success among males as measured by sightings of matings and ability to control areas that overlap females during a prolonged breeding season. Males seen mating were larger, heavier, and observed more often than males not seen mating. Estimates of the number of females overlapped by individual males also supported the hypothesis that larger males have greater mating success than smaller males. Effects of patterns of receptivity and female choice upon the mating system of A. carolinensis are discussud.
3890821| A Patagonian lizard, Liolaemus ceii, from the Lonco Luan plateau in Neuqun is described. This species is characterized by a high number of scales around the middle of the body (more than 100), heterogeneous, rounded dorsal scales, and a dark grayish brown dorsum marked with white dots. 
40931034|Territoriality has been well-documented in terrestrial plethodontid salamanders. However, most studies of territoriality have focused either on defense of single cover objects or on defense of areas of forest floor. In nature, cover objects tend to occur in groups, and little is known about how cover-object distributions affect territory defense and salamander spatial associations. We manipulated cover-object spacing within a home range and used mark-recapture data to examine the effects of these manipulations on intra-and intersexual spatial associations in the red-backed salamander, Plethodon cinereus. Similar total numbers of salamanders were found in the different treatments, and salamanders moved between cover objects with similar frequency regardless of cover-object spacing. However, male spatial associations were affected by cover-object spacing, with males never found simultaneously under adjacent cover objects. Furthermore, the spatial associations of males and females differed among the cover-object spacing treatments. Males and females shared the same cover object 76% of the time when cover objects were adjacent, but only 37% of the time when cover objects were separated by 1 m. Our results suggest that P. cinereus often use multiple cover objects within a home range, and that males may defend these while they are using them. Additionally, males and females appear to adjust their use of cover objects with respect to the home ranges of opposite sex salamanders.
3893184| We reassess the phylogenetic relationships among the species of the neotropical genus Hemiphractus (Hylidae: Hemiphractinae), including a species only recently described. Parsimony analysis of 48 morphological and behavioral characters resulted in a single most parsimonious tree: ((H. helioi (H. scutatus, H. fasciatus)) (H. johnsoni (H. bubalus, H. proboscideus))). Loss of digital pads and other characters on the feet appear to be associated with terrestrial habits of several species. Our analysis supports a previous hypothesis concerning the sequence of events related to the evolution of casqued heads and co-ossification of cranial skin. The present distribution of the species partially corresponds to a previously proposed model of speciation of Andean frogs and may have been influenced by both geological events in the Andes and climatic events through the Quaternary. /// Reevaluamos las relaciones filogenticas de las especies del gnero neotropical Hemiphractus (Hylidae: Hemiphractinae), incluyendo una especie recientemente descripta. El anlysis de los cuarente y ocho caracteres morfolgicos y de comportamiento ha dado como resultado slo un rbol ms parsimonioso: ((H. helioi (H. scutatus, H. fasciatus)) (H. johnsoni (H. bubalus, H. proboscideus))). Nuestro anlisis apoya una hiptesis previa relacionada con la sequencia de eventos relacionados con la evolucin de las excercencias de la cabeza y la co-osificacin de la piel del crneo. La actual distribucin de las especies corresponde a un modelo de especiacin para los anuros de los Andes propuesto previamente, y puede haber estado influenciado tanto por eventos geolgicos que ocurrienron en los Andes como por eventos climticos durante el Cuaternatio. 
3892280|Aggregation of Coleonyx variegatus in diurnal shelter sites is shown to be a statistically valid phenomenon, confirming earlier reports based on subjective impressions. Preliminary data on causative factors suggest that limited burrow availability promotes aggregation. Experiments in which two individuals were placed in cages having an excess of burrows revealed no indication of interindividual attraction. However, these results do not exclude the operation of social factors in aggregation. On the contrary, pilot data provide hints that the sexes may differ in aggregative behavior. We hypothesize that lizard density, sex, and physical variables such as temperature and moisture may be associated with joint burrow occupancy.
3891757|X-ray photography permits nondestructive measurement of clutch size in gravid freshwater turtles. A primary advantage of this method over dissection is that intraindividual variation in size of subsequent clutches can be determined. The technique should be applicable to any species of egg-laying amniotic vertebrate.
3891523|Lower vertebrates of the Princeton Quarry local fauna, Fort Union Formation, north-western Wyoming (late Paleocene, Tiffanian) include late surviving forms from the Cretaceous and earlier Paleocene, early records of Eocene and later taxa, and a few unique forms. These localities provide the earliest records of the salamander genus Amphiuma, the frog family Rhinophrynidae, the amphisbaenian reptiles, and the emydine turtle Ptychogaster. The latter has its first record outside of Europe. The amphisbaenian Oligodontosaurus is placed in a new and primitive family Oligodontosauridae. Two taxa are represented by articulated material, Amphiuma jepseni and Opisthotriton kayi, both elongated salamanders. The latter species includes skull, hyoid and postcranial material, the best yet found for the taxon. The Princeton Quarry sample is notable for reduced diversity of turtles, lizards, and crocodilians when compared with some Cretaceous and other Paleocene North American sites, for its high proportion of amphibians and reptiles interpreted as burrowing or cryptic forms (7 of 12 taxa), and for the absence of fishes (a few fragments referable to the fish Amia occur in one of the other localities). The site of deposition is interpreted as a swampy or boggy forested region lacking streams or other bodies of water that would have permitted the entrance of fishes.
3892275|Urinary bladders are found in adults of some species of lizards and not in others. We report here that urinary bladders are present in the neonates of six species of iguanid lizards that lack bladders as adults (Sceloporus jarrovi, S. magister, S. poinsetti, S. undulatus, Urosaurus ornatus, and Uta stansburiana). These bladders are filled with dilute fluid in both oviparous and viviparous species. Within a few days after birth, the bladder lumen begins to collapse and the bladder eventually degenerates to a finger-like vestige in adults.
3891560|We describe a technique using the hormone oxytocin (or preparations presumably containing it) to obtain viable eggs from gravid female turtles without evident harm either to the females or the eggs. Injection of 1-4 units/100 g body weight usually induces oviposition by smaller animals, whereas 0.5-1 unit/100 g generally suffices for larger turtles. In our sample of 266 injected turtles, 255 individuals representing 36 species and 7 families responded to treatment; 12 animals produced more than one clutch during the course of our study. Only one specimen died despite repeated use of the technique. Nesting behavior followed injection in several instances.
3891596|Using radiotelemetric methods, body temperature was studied in the black-headed rock python, Aspidites melanocephalus under field conditions in northern Queensland, Australia. When termite nests were present, A. melanocephalus entered these subterranean environments which are characterized by stable temperature conditions. However, when termite nests were not available, the black-headed rock python utilized direct sunlight for heating and behavioral adaptations such as posture type to maintain desired temperatures and prevent cooling.
3893601|I present a phylogeny of the Latin American snake genus Chironius based on 36 external morphological and hemipenal characters. Data from the literature for the 20 recognized species of Chironius were combined with data I collected from 20 outgroup taxa. I assessed the monophyly and in-group relationships of Chironius using both parsimony and methods. Two optimal trees were obtained using parsimony criteria; the genus Chironius is supported as monophyletic with 93% bootstrap support from six unambiguous synapomorphies, including an even number of scale rows at midbody. A Bayesian analysis of the data supports the monophyly of Chironius with a posterior probability of 100%. Both analyses inferred similar topologies; recognized species groups are partially supported, but this analysis suggests that revision of the genus is necessary. I propose elevation to full species status of taxa within the carinatus, fuscus, multiventris, and quadricarinatus species groups on the basis of morphological features unique to each taxon. Future molecular work is necessary to resolve the remaining taxonomic issues within Chironius.
3892500|Burrow use and population densities of tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) were investigated from 1975-1980 in two dissimilar areas of remnant forest, Ruston Bush and Keepers Bush, on Stephens Island in Cook Strait, New Zealand. Large numbers of fairy prions (Pachyptila turtur; Procellariiformes) breed on Stephens, and their densities were higher in Ruston Bush than in Keepers. Tuatara mainly used prion burrows, though they are able to dig their own. Burrows were either simple (containing a single prion nesting chamber) or complex (containing two or more nesting chambers). Most burrows in the Keepers plot were simple while those in Ruston tended to be complex. Only one tuatara was found in a burrow at a time. Individual tuatara used several burrows, and several tuatara used the same burrow at different times. Most tuatara used burrows in close proximity to each other, the median distance between successive burrow captures being 0.7 m in Ruston and 0.6 m in Keepers. Tuatara may defend their sole occupancy of a burrow. Some large adults showed preference for certain burrows whereas juveniles showed little site tenacity. Incubating fairy prions can evict tuatara from burrows. During prion breeding seasons, tuatara were found more often in burrows unoccupied by birds and burrows containing chicks than in burrows containing adult birds. Although more burrows were present in Ruston than in Keepers, similar population densities of tuatara were calculated to be in each area (Ruston: 1500/ha, Keepers: 1420/ha). This is attributed to there being fewer bird-occupied burrows in Keepers.
3892407| Eleutherodactylus izecksohni, a member of the E. guentheri cluster, is described from the Parque das Mangabeiras, in the City of Belo Horizonte, State of Minas Gerais, Southeastern Brazil. The new species inhabits small gallery forests along creeks in the slopes of Serra do Curral, which is part of the Espinhao Mountain Complex. 
3893607|The stream-type larval forms of the hemidactyliine plethodontid salamanders Gyrinophilus porphyriticus, Pseudotriton montanus, and P. ruber show subtle interspecific variation in pigmentation and body proportions. I tested the hypothesis that morphological divergence is correlated with adaptive diversification in habitat selection by evaluating the ecological distribution and habitat affinities of larvae of these species in the Chattooga River watershed of the southern Blue Ridge Physiographic Province. Pseudotriton montanus was observed in a single habitat, a bottomland swamp in the floodplain of a third-order stream. Both G. porphyriticus and P. ruber showed an affinity for springs, although the latter had a wider distribution in higher-order streams and small ponds. In springs, larvae of G. porphyriticus showed a greater preference for rheocrenes and a proclivity for burrowing in the coarse substrates of these habitats; in contrast, larvae of P. ruber were more common in limnocrenes and helocrenes, which have finer substrates, and were usually observed among decaying leaves or beneath surface rocks and logs. The habitat associations and behaviors documented herein reinforce earlier interpretations of the adaptive significance of morphometric variation among larvae of the three species.
3892817|Free-ranging, radiotagged prairie rattlesnakes (Crotalus v. viridis) in southcentral Wyoming were presented warm models of mice devoid of mouse odors to determine whether detection of prey-derived chemical cues is required to elicit striking. The snakes readily struck at the models, which suggests that visual and thermal cues are sufficient and odor cues unnecessary for the release of predatory strikes.
3892547|Ten enzyme loci (superoxidase dismutase, glutamate dehydrogenase, alcohol dehydrogenase, isocitrate dehydrogenase, phosphoglucomutase, hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, mannose phosphate isomerase, malate dehydrogenase and malic enzyme) were examined in sympatric populations of Egernia modesta and both plain-backed and pattern-backed Egernia whitii. Five fixed allele differences (at hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, mannose phosphate isomerase, malate dehydrogenase and malic enzyme loci) indicated reproductive isolation between E. modesta and E. whitii. Apart from color pattern variation within E. whitii, no morphological differentiation was evident.
3893305| We describe a new large species of Tantilla from the Sierra Norte region of the Sierra Madre Oriental of Puebla, Mexico. This species most closely resembles Tantilla schistosa in color pattern, but differs by being much larger in size and having different scutellation. It differs from all other species of Mexican Tantilla by having a uniformly dark brown dorsum and head, and a pale cream venter. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Tantilla de la Sierra Norte de Puebla, Mxico, regin perteneciente a la Sierra Madre Oriental. Esta especie parece estar mscercanamente relacionada a Tantilla schistosa en patrn de coloracin, pero se diferencia por ser de talla ms grande y diferencias en escutelacin. Difiere de todas las especies mexicanas del gnero Tantilla por tener el dorso y la cabeza uniformemente caf oscuro y el vientre crema claro. 
3890973|An adult arboreal green pit viper, Bothrops bilineatus from South America, twitched its pink tail in the presence of lizards. Successful luring of one anole was observed. Advantages of caudal luring to this species are discussed. We argue that the red tail of at least one Old World pit viper is related to a stress-provoked protective tail display.
3892820|Premetamorphic mortality of Ambystoma annulatum was 99.9% in two ponds in southwestern Missouri. Mortality was greatest during the first 2 mo and during the metamorphic period. The premetamorphic pattern of survival was intermediate between Type II and Type III. Assuming identical annual recruitment, we estimated that the breeding population would be replaced in 3-6 yr. Estimated premetamorphic production was
4497947| We examined the terrestrial-nonbreeding ecology of a migratory salamander Salamandrella keyserlingii (Hynobiidae) inhabiting wetlands, using a large grid of 160 pitfall traps without drift fences near a breeding fen, during the April-May breeding and June-October nonbreeding seasons (1995-1997). Activity of salamanders near the fen was heaviest during September over three consecutive years, providing evidence for fall immigrations toward terrestrial hibernacula, unrelated to mating. The number of September immigrants was positively correlated with precipitation on the preceding day. More than 90% of all breeding immigrations (172/189, 1996-1997) occurred with air temperature at 0000 h  2 C. The number of breeding immigrants was positively correlated with air temperature at 0000 h or 0400 h on the same day and precipitation on the preceding day. Males began their breeding immigration earlier than females in 1997, but simultaneous movements of male and female immigrants occurred in 1996. Larger males emerged earlier from hibernation in 1996, but emergence was size-independent in 1997. Breeding immigrants chose a directional heading toward the fen. Within each sex or age class, there was no difference in body size between individuals associated with two riparian vegetation regions, forest and marsh. Whereas males and juveniles preferred a wet marsh area compared to a dry forest habitat, females did not exhibit a habitat preference except that females emigrated farther from the fen than males. Sex ratios during the terrestrial phase varied with a female-biased ratio of 1.28 through a male-biased ratio of 4.61. 
3893311| A new species of the hylid frog genus Osteocephalus from the upper Amazon Basin of Ecuador and Peru is described. It most closely resembles O. planiceps, but it differs in the absence of pale stripes on the heels and above the vent, in being smaller, and lacking brown spots on the flanks. The new species, O. yasuni, is unique within Osteocephalus in having extensive yellow ventral coloration. /// Se describe una nueva especie de rana del gnero Osteocephalus del Parque Nacional Yasun, Ecuador. Es una especie de tamao mediano que se parece ms a O. planiceps que a ninguna otra especie de ese gnero y de la cual se diferencia por ser ms pequea y carecer de puntos cafs en los flancos y lneas plidas en los talones y alrededor de la cloaca. Osteocephalus yasuni se distingue de las otras especies de Osteocephalus por tener una coloracin ventral amarilla. 
3893211| A new species of Micrablepharus with the fourth supralabial below the eye, five to eight femoral pores, and four longitudinal white stripes is described from the central Brazilian Cerrados. Micrablepharus atticolus, sp. nov., is broadly sympatric with Micrablepharus maximiliani. Micrablepharus glaucurus and M. dunni are considered synonyms of M. maximiliani. /// Uma nova espcie de Micrablepharus, caracterizada por apresentar a quarta supralabial sob o olho, cinco a oito poros femorais e quatro faixas brancas longitudinais  descrita para os Cerrados centrobrasileiros. Micrablepharus atticolus, sp. nov.,  amplamente simptrica com Micrablepharus maximiliani. Micrablepharus glaucurus e M. dunni so considerados sinnimos de M. maximiliani. 
3892251|Two new species of fringe-limbed treefrogs are described, one from the Sierra de Omoa of western Honduras and the other from the Sierra de las Minas of eastern Guatemala. Tadpoles of the Honduran species are described. Comparisons are made to the other members of the Hyla tuberculosa group of fringe-limbed hylids, and available information on the biology of the two new species and others in the group is summarized.
3890834|The aggressive displays of nine species of Costa Rican Anolis are presented. Emphasis is given to detailed description of dewlap characteristics and display-action-patterns and to an attempt to relate the displays to the phylogeny and ecology of the various species. Evidence suggests that the display tends to be simple in species of simple anole faunas and complex in those of complex faunas. This is interpreted as resulting from the need for species recognition. Complex display in a wide ranging species that contacts a large number of other species would reduce the probability of confusion in different parts of the geographical range. Examples are given of possible effects of the habitat on display characteristics. Display behavior seems to be useful as a taxonomic tool at the level of the species group.
3891869|Desert tortoises, Gopherus agassizii, generally were active in the spring and fall. They often became active during and after infrequent showers and thunderstorms, and drank from temporary pools of standing water even when air temperatures were suboptimal (9-15 C). In several instances tortoises constructed shallow catchment basins which held water for as long as six h. Thus tortoises can obtain drinking water by modifying their environment. Following small amounts of rainfall (5.6 mm) in July 1976, six tortoises increased an average of 9.2% in body weight; this increase was due to ingestion of water. Drinking may be an important source of water for this species.
3893431|Stebbins (1949) regarded the western North American plethodontid salamander Ensatina eschscholtzii as a polytypic species with seven subspecies distributed in a ring around the Great Valley of California. The terminal subspecies overlap in southern California. This complex has been considered a classical example of a circular overlap or "ring species." In a series of studies on the molecular evolution of this complex, David B. Wake and his associates concluded that the hypothesis that Ensatina eschscholtzii is a single ring species either could not be rejected or is supported by their molecular data. I reexamined their data and conclude that the data do not support the ring species hypothesis. Instead, the data suggest an alternative hypothesis: the E. eschscholtzii complex is a superspecies, with at least 11 groups that are most likely parapatric and allopatric species and semispecies. Four of these are cryptic forms. Evidence favoring this hypothesis is as follows. (1) Allozyme data indicate extraordinarily large genetic distances between most groups (Nei D values as high as 0.77), indicating that some groups probably have been differentiating independently of each other since the late Miocene or Pliocene epochs. Thus they would be regarded as different species by those systematists favoring the evolutionary or phylogenetic species concepts. (2) There is considerable concordance between geographic patterns of variation in coloration, allozymes, and cytochrome b sequences. This often is observed between species but rarely between freely interbreeding subspecies. (3) Patterns of geographic allozyme variation indicate a small amount of genetic differentiation within most groups (Nei D < 0.16), typical of that found within other vertebrate species whose populations are interbreeding throughout their ranges. (4) Patterns of geographic differentiation among groups reveal narrow zones where parapatric taxa come into contact. There sometimes is abrupt, coincident change in both coloration and allozyme frequencies in these zones, with a variable amount of hybridization, typical of species' or semispecies' contacts in other animals. Thus they would be regarded as different species by most systematists favoring the biological species concept, except for those that restrict the concept to species that never hybridize with any other taxon. (5) Cytochrome b sequences indicate a low amount of sequence divergence within most groups (usually <4%), typical of within-species comparisons, while sequence differences between groups are larger (5-17%), typical of between-species comparisons in other non-avian vertebrates. The pattern of geographic variation in cytochrome b is mostly concordant with that in allozymes although, in one case, introgression of allozymes appears to be more extensive through the hybrid zone than the maternally inherited cytochrome b haplotype. (6) Considerable reproductive isolation has evolved between the only two pairs that are sympatric (xanthoptica and northern platensis; eschscholtzii and klauberi), and there is yet no molecular evidence of hybridization between central oregonensis and northern platensis at the only other (parapatric) contact between the blotched interior forms and the unblotched coastal forms. (7) The hypothesis that most of the differentiation throughout both the coastal and inland chains of populations is due to gradual differentiation correlated with geography is not supported by the molecular data. I suggest a different hypothesis: that allopatric speciation occurred during long periods of isolation among the highly differentiated groups of this complex.
3891640| Desmognathus fuscus and Desmognathus ochrophaeus were studied over a 6-wk period by mark-recapture and removal methods. Density is 
3891503|The spermatophore of Ambystoma cingulatum is similar to that of Ambystoma opacum being truncate and essentially quadrangular in shape. These similarities are interpreted as adaptations to the terrestrial courtship of both species. The spermatophore of Ambystoma mabeei, deposited in the water, resembles that of Ambystoma jeffersonianum having a wide base, tapered stalk and well defined horns on the platform.
3893125|The Bonaire island whiptail lizard, Cnemidophorus murinus, feeds primarily on plant materials but avoids those containing toxic compounds. I conducted experiments to determine if the lizards would learn to discriminate palatable (containing tomato juice) and distasteful (quinine hydrochloride added) artificial fruits (= "fruits") based on their color or location. In experiment 1, lizards were trained for 19 days with red (palatable) and green (toxic) fruits placed in vegetation. During days 20-21, only palatable fruits were presented; the lizards fed substantially more on red fruits. In experiment 2, all fruits were the same color at a site (green in vegetation at one site, red along a stick fence at another). Fruits placed at half the locations were consistently palatable and half toxic. After 11 days of training, only palatable fruits were presented at all locations at each site. Lizards fed more on the formerly always palatable fruits at one site (fruits in vegetation) but not at another (fruits placed on the uniform fence). Experiment 3 trained lizards with fruits (red toxic, green palatable) attached to the ground (low cost to approach and to test fruits). After 15 days of training, the lizards approached red and green fruits equally often. However, when the fruits were later placed into vegetation at the site (higher cost to approach the fruits), the lizards fed more on the green fruits. These experiments demonstrate that populations of C. murinus show rapid changes in behavior when presented with novel foods and suggest that individual lizards learn color and location as cues to avoid or to approach food items.
3893487| We describe a new species of Hypsiboas from the slopes and summit of Auyn-tepui in Canaima National Park, Bolvar State, Venezuela. The new species resembles H. sibleszi, but it differs from that species in having pale green dorsal coloration with numerous small chromatophores, dorsolateral white stripes that extend from the tip of snout to the groin when present, pale interorbital bar absent, a transparent yellow venter, yellow-colored digits and webbing, a more extensive webbing on hands and feet, a prepollical spine not protunding, very narrow nasals partially fused with sphenethmoid, a moderate-sized frontoparietal fontanelle, and an advertisement call consisting of three or four notes with a dominant frequency between 3010 and 3488 Hz. New data on the vocalization, osteology and distribution of H. sibleszi are provided. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Hypsiboas de las laderas y cima del Auyn-tepui, Parque Nacional Canaima, estado Bolvar, Venezuela. Externamente esta nueva especie se asemeja a Hypsiboas sibleszi, pero difiere de ella en tener una coloracin dorsal verde plido con numerosos y pequeos cromatforos, con o sin bandas dorsolaterales blancas que cuando estn presentes se extienden desde la punta del hocico, sin banda blanca interorbital, coloracin ventral amarillo plido traslcido, dgitos y palmeadura amarillenta, mayor palmeadura en manos y pies, espina preplica no protuberante, nasales muy delgados y parcialmente fusionados con el esfenetmoides, fontanela frontoparietal de tamao medio, y un canto formado por 3-4 notas con una frecuencia dominante entre los 3010 y 3488 Hz. Se presenta nueva informacin osteolgica, de canto y distribucin de H. sibleszi. 
3891203|Newly metamorphosed Bufo americanus moved predominantly at right angles to their home shore, in the direction toward the shore, when released in water or on land and able to view the sun. When the sun was obscured, no clear evidence of orientational abilities was found. Directional choice appeared to be random when only the stars could be seen.
3892891|A hybrid rattlesnake is described from the Peloncillo Mountains of southwestern New Mexico, USA. This specimen possesses features that favor either Crotalus lepidus or C. willardi, but it is easily distinguished from either of these presumed parental species. Crotalus willardi is reported for the first time from the Peloncillo Mountains.
3891965|One-hundred seven female Desmognathus ochrophaeus were moved 2 m from their nests during the summers of 1972 and 1973 in a simulation of natural displacement. Seventy-eight (73%) then returned to their nest within 24 h. Behavioral studies conducted in the field and laboratory confirmed the ability of females to find and distinguish their eggs among other unattended clutches. Females were readily attracted to unattended eggs, and occasionally selected and brooded eggs of a conspecific in preference to their own. When this occurred, the preferred clutch was usually more advanced in development. Behavioral experiments indicate that olfaction is the sensory modality most important to the female in recognizing her clutch. The effectiveness of olfactory cues as a reinforcer of the female-clutch bond apparently increases as a clutch develops.
23254556|Although estimates of survival and population density are available for several snake populations, most of these are for populations in northern temperate environments. Here we present the results of a 3-yr markrecapture study for an African species, the Namaqua Dwarf Adder (Bitis schneideri). We estimated survival, recapture probability, and population density by marking 279 adders (121 males, 108 females, 50 juveniles) on two study sites along the Namaqualand coast of South Africa. We recaptured 54 individuals (27 males, 23 females, 4 juveniles), yielding absolute recapture rates of 20.4% and 17.9% at each site respectively. The adult sex ratio of our sample did not differ significantly from equality. We fitted eight models that included both individual-dependent and time-dependent covariates to our recapture data, and compared models using Akaike information criterion corrected for small samples. The best models included snoutvent length and search effort covariates. Mean (SD) estimated monthly apparent survival was low (0.86  0.11 and 0.86  0.12), as were mean recapture likelihoods (0.06  0.04 and 0.06  0.01). Population density estimates were similar for the two sites (7.52  3.62 ha -1 and 8.31  7.38 ha -1 ). Juvenile snakes exhibited higher survival than adult females, which, in turn, had higher survival than adult males. Juveniles had a lower recapture probability than adult males or females. The likelihood of an individual leaving the study area was 6.8% and 9.4% per month for the larger and smaller sites, respectively. On the basis of our measures of apparent survival and emigration, we estimate annual survival rates of 39% and 56% for the two sites respectively. Population characteristics of B. schneideri differ substantially from those of other viperids, highlighting the need for additional population studies of African snakes.
4497965| Island populations are convenient models of large-scale evolutionary processes and provide natural replicates of evolution. Recently founded island populations also provide an opportunity to study populations derived from few individuals, and these populations, in particular, often show rapid diversification. Here we report morphological and molecular data for the tngara frog, Physalaemus pustulosus, from three different islands of Panama: Coiba, a large island with a rather old tingara frog population; Isla Grande, a small island with a fairly recent population of tngara frogs, and Barro Colorado Island (BCI), a large island artificially created by flooding to form the Panama Canal about 100 yr ago. Frogs from the two natural islands, but not those from BCI, were significantly larger than frogs from the mainland, which is consistent with the "island rule" stating that small species on islands tend to be larger while large species tend to be smaller than their mainland relatives. Genetic diversity, estimated from allelic richness at seven microsatellite loci, was drastically reduced in the Isla Grande population, whereas heterozygosity was not reduced. This result suggests that this island population of frogs went through a severe and recent bottleneck. 
3893646|Two new species of Cnemaspis Strauch, 1887 are described from Pulau Tioman and Pulau Aur in the Seribuat Archipelago, Pahang and Johor States, respectively, off the southeast coast of West Malaysia. The Pulau Tioman species was previously allocated to C. nigridia by earlier workers, but is distinguishable from all other species on the basis of squamation, color pattern, and maximum size attained. The second new species from Pulau Aur is the first record of Cnemaspis from that island and is similarly distinguished from all other species on the basis of squamation and color pattern.
3893272|The purpose of this paper is to explore relationships among frogs that have been (variously) placed in the Ranoidea. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted on data sets including 10 morphological characters and sequences from portions of the 12S, 16S, and
3892990|Spermatozoal synapomorphies for the Squamata s. strict. are extension of the flagellar fibrous sheath into the midpiece, the paracrystalline nature of the subacrosomal cone, a single perforatorium in place of the two or three of Sphenodontida and Chelonia, loss of the endonuclear canal, presence of sinuous mitochondria (though a columnar form is intuitively preferred), intermitochondrial dense bodies, an epinuclear electron-lucent region, and, equivocally, arrangement of the dense bodies as periodic rings. Each of the taxa "Sauria," Scincomorpha, Scincidae, and Iguania is not monophyletic. A suite of character states of the sperm of Varanus gouldii is known in the Sphenomorphus and egernid (Tiliqua scincoides) groups of the Scincidae and in the teiid, Cnemidophorus sexlineatus, although some are also seen in the agamid Pogona barbata. Cladistically, Pogona forms the sister-taxon of Varanus, but only the presence of ovoid perforatorial basal plates, which are not entirely similar, appears to be a varanid-agamid synapomorphy and is homoplasically present in Eugongylus group skinks. Snakes appear to be the sister-group of a Eugongylus group skinks + pygopod clade. Snake sperm have multilaminar sperm cell-membranes (an apomorphy shared only with the Pygopodidae) and are unique in the Squamata in the immense elongation of the midpiece; further, snake apomorphies are reduction of the epinuclear electronlucent region and reduction or loss of the perforatorial base plate, and greater development of extracellular tubules than is known in any other squamate. Varanid-snake, iguanid-snake, and teiidlacertid relationships are not cladistically upheld.
25209087|A new species of Indian striped Ichthyophis is described on the basis of six specimens from near the Western Ghats town of Madikeri, southern Karnataka (where it is sympatric with its congener I. beddomei), plus a seventh specimen of less certain provenance. The new species is distinguished from all other striped Ichthyophis by its combination of color, numbers of annuli and teeth, position of tentacular aperture, and the distribution and numbers of scale rows. A dichotomous key is provided to separate the four striped species of Ichthyophis of the Western Ghats.
3892906| We present the diet of the two Amazonian tortoises, Geochelone carbonaria and G. denticulata, based on feeding observations and scat examinations of free-ranging individuals in the rainforest of Marac, northwestern Brazil. Fruits were prominent in the diet throughout the year, but especially in the wet season; flowers were prominent in the dry season. Tortoises consumed live and dead foliage, stems, fungi, soil, sand, pebbles, and animal matter throughout the year. To examine the characters potentially associated with observed food preferences, we analyzed samples of several food and non-food items for nutrient concentrations and fermentability. Typically eaten foods had high relative abundance and calcium concentrations, while preferred foods had high fermentabilities, high concentrations of total minerals, nitrogen and phosphorus, and low calcium to phosphorus ratios. Nutrient profiles for preferred and rejected items were similar, and nearly converse that of regularly eaten items. Concentrations of the nutrients analyzed cannot be used to predict diet choice. 
3891180|A comparison of reproductive cycles between western painted turtles, Chrysemys picta bellii from the southwestern (New Mexico) and northeastern (Wisconsin) portions of the range discloses only moderate intrasubspecific geographic variation. In both areas spermatogenesis begins in late April or early May and maximum testicular size and spermiogenesis is attained in August. Testicular regression begins in September but is less extreme in turtles from Wisconsin. Follicular growth begins in August (Wisconsin) or September (New Mexico) and some follicles mature by May; ovulation and oviposition occur from May through mid-July. Ovarian quiescence begins in July and lasts about one month longer in turtles from New Mexico. Mean clutch size for turtles from Wisconsin and New Mexico is 10 and 9 respectively. About half of the turtles in both localities produce 2 clutches per year; about 14% from New Mexico produce 3. The larger clutch size in Wisconsin results in comparable reproductive potentials in the two localities, possibly as a result of Wisconsin's shorter reproductive season and its effect of concentrating all the available reproductive energy into two clutches.
3893617| Proctoporus bolivianus is a gymnophthalmid lizard species that occurs at high elevations in the Andes Mountains of southern Peru and Bolivia. Extensive morphological variation in populations collected in the Department of Cusco, Peru, suggested the presence of cryptic species. To assess this possibility, we reconstructed morphological and molecular phylogenies of 13 populations of this species and also used a character-based approach to examine the morphology in more detail. We found P. bolivianus to be composed of three distinct lineages that are separated by substantial genetic distances. We erect two new species to contain unnamed lineages within the P. bolivianus complex. These three species are found within a small geographic area and are likely differentiated because of historical geographic barriers in the extreme landscape of the central Andes. /// Proctoporus bolivianus es una especie de lagartija de la familia Gymnophthalmidae que occure a grandes elevaciones en el sur del Per y Bolivia. Una gran variacin morfolgica en poblaciones colectadas en Cusco, Per sugeri la presencia de especies crpticas. Para evaluar este fenmeno, construimos filognias morfolgicas y moleculares de 13 poblaciones de esta especie, y tambin examinamos caracteres morfolgicos en ms detalle. Encontramos que P. bolivianus est compuesto por tres linajes distinctos, separados por distancias genticas grandes. Aqu describimos dos especies nuevas de estos linajes, sin nombres disponibles. Estas tres especies occurren dentro de un mbito geogrfico pequeo y probablamente evolucionaron por barreras histricas en los Andes centrales. 
3892786| The "cozumela complex" of parthenogenetic teiid lizards is currently identified by three taxa: Cnemidophorus cozumela cozumela from Isla Cozumel, Quintana Roo, Mxico; C. c. maslini from scattered localities in Campeche and Quintana Roo, Mxico, Guatemala, and Belize; and C. rodecki from Islas Contoy and Mujeres and the adjacent mainland of Quintana Roo, Mxico. We used 59 individuals of C. c. cozumela, 126 individuals of C. c. maslini, and 48 individuals of C. rodecki and principal components and canonical variate analyses of meristic characters to resolve patterns of morphological variation within and among the three taxa. The principal components analysis identified three primary groups of individuals corresponding to the three taxa presently recognized. Collectively, each taxon exhibits approximately the same level of morphological distinctiveness; 92% of C. cozumela, 98% of C. maslini, and 100% of C. rodecki were assigned to the correct a priori group by a jackknifed classification in canonical variate analysis. We propose species level status for C. c. maslini to reflect a level of morphological divergence commensurate with that seen between C. c. cozumela and C. rodecki. Cnemidophorus maslini is comprised of a minimum of three meristically distinctive groups: MC-A from coastal Campeche, Mxico, MC-B from coastal Campeche, approximately 13 km southwest of MC-A, and MG from northern Guatemala. A small sample from southern Quintana Roo and a single specimen from Belize may represent a fourth group. In the absence of evidence for polyphyly, these four subsidiary groups of C. maslini can be referred to as the Cnemidophorus maslini complex. 
3892908|In a population of Uta stansburiana stejnegeri, in Crane Co., Texas, summer rainfall influenced prereproductive growth rate and two of three variables the following spring: (1) the sizes of adult females and (2) size of their first clutch but (3) not of their eggs or offspring in the first clutch. Some of the environmental effect on clutch size was indirectly due to the effect on body size. However, most (73%) of the variance of clutch size was independent of that of body size. The environment during the breeding season influenced both size of clutch and, especially, size of offspring. Second clutches decreased in size relative to first clutches independent of female body size. This decrease was prevented in the laboratory by eliminating changes in both food intake and photothermal periodicity during the vitellogenic periods. For field-collected late-vitellogenic and ovigerous females, two factors were significantly negatively correlated with egg and hatchling size but not with clutch size: time in terraria prior to oviposition and time in the egg-laying jars prior to oviposition. Dry incubation conditions reduced hatchling size slightly but significantly. Comparing field-caught with laboratory-raised females suggested that (1) egg and offspring size can be environmentally influenced dramatically and disproportionately from clutch and adult body size whereas clutch and adult body size are influenced more in proportion to each other, (2) clutch and body size variations may be more heritable than egg or offspring size, and (3) clutch and body size may be correlated genetically.
3892997|The occurrence of a previously undescribed species of Pholidobolus in the Huancabamba Depression represents the second species of the genus from Peru. The description of this species further increases the level of endemism of the Huancabamba Depression herpetofauna. The new species and P. annectens (and possibly P. anomalus) are proposed to represent a clade based on two synapomorphies-possession of a single transparent palpebral disc and absence of lateral fold. The status of the poorly known P. anomalus is addressed. In addition, a single specimen of P. montium is reported from Colombia. This specimen seems to represent the first record of Pholidobolus from Colombia, even though P. montium long has been suspected to occur in extreme southern Colombia. A key is provided to the seven currently recognized species of Pholidobolus.
3893602|A new species of treefrog is described from Chapada Diamantina in the central State of Bahia, Brazil. The new species is a member of the Bokermannohyla pseudopseudis group, characterized by its small to medium size, head as long as wide, snout short, rounded in dorsal view and nearly truncate in lateral view, eyes and tympanum large, and forearm and prepollex well developed. The new species can be distinguished from the other species of the B. pseudopseudis group by its voice and the shape of its head and snout. It is smaller than B. saxicola and B. pseudopseudis, and has a less developed forearm and prepollex than B. ibitiguara males. The tadpole and vocalizations are described and information on natural history is provided.
3893558| We measured the critical thermal maxima (CTMax) of tadpoles of Buergeria japonica inhabiting streams and geothermal hot springs. The CTMax of all B. japonica tadpoles was over 41 C, indicating that the tadpoles are heat-tolerant. At Rushan, we monitored the temporal and spatial distribution of tadpoles over a 24-h period in a 220 cm  70 cm plot that is fed by a geothermal hot spring. The thermal profiles of the plot varied seasonally, but the highest water temperature selected by tadpoles remained similar (ca. 37 C). In the winter, the thermal range of the plot was lower (29.5-40.6 C), and tadpoles could be found in the majority of the plot. In contrast, during the spring and summer the temperature ranges of the plot were higher (33.1-43.8 C and 33.0-42.4 C, respectively), and tadpoles could be found only in the cooler sections of the plot, especially around 1000 h with direct solar radiation. These results suggest that extreme heat tolerance and behavioral thermoregulation (i.e., heat avoidance behavior) are the main means by which B. japonica tadpoles cope with the high temperatures in geothermal hot springs. 
3892470|The total period of embryonic development in an oviparous reptile may be divided into two phases: a period when eggs are retained in utero and a subsequent period of development after oviposition. I use the term Pre-laying Fraction (PLF) to indicate the proportion of the total developmental period for which the eggs are retained in utero; PLF may be defined either under field conditions or from laboratory incubation at constant temperature. I assessed PLF in four ways: (1) regular sampling of field populations; (2) measurement of gestation and incubation periods at constant temperature in the laboratory; (3) comparison of embryonic developmental periods in oviparous and viviparous forms; and (4) determination of the stage of embryonic development at oviposition. A combination of published records and original data reveals a wide range of PLF's, and hence an apparent continuum of egg-retention strategies between "pure" oviparity and viviparity. Turtles, crocodilians and a few squamates which oviposit soon after ovulation are at one end of this continuum. Viviparous squamates are at the other extreme. Surprisingly, most oviparous squamates are midway between these two endpoints, retaining eggs in utero for about half of the total period of embryonic development.
25209116|We describe a new species of anole of the Norops schiedei group from western Guatemala. A distinctive suite of characters distinguish it from the remaining species of the group (e.g., prenasal scales fused to circumnasal; most midventral scales weakly keeled; all scales in prefrontal depression strongly keeled; scales comprising supraorbital semicircles about same size as scales between semicircles; all keels on dorsal surface of head oriented nearly longitudinally; hemipenis large and bilobate).
41406806|The Flint Hills region of Kansas and Oklahoma encompasses the largest, contiguous tallgrass prairie in North America and is an important conservation area for many tallgrass-prairie species. We conducted a radiotelemetry study with the use of temperature-sensitive transmitters to characterize the spatial ecology of two species of snakes within a portion of this contiguous grassland. We monitored Eastern Yellow-Bellied Racers (Coluber constrictor flaviventris) from 2006 to 2008 and Great Plains Rat Snakes (Pantherophis emoryi) from 2007 to 2008 at the Konza Prairie Biological Station in the northern Flint Hills. Although racers (mean = 67.3  10.6 m, n = 12) and rat snakes (mean = 41.3  4.7 m, n = 12) differed in the distance moved per day, they did not differ significantly in home-range size. The minimum convex polygon (MCP) home range averaged 11.45 ha (SE = 3.06, n = 12) for racers and 15.06 ha (SE = 2.48, n = 12) for rat snakes. By analyzing the autocorrelation of locations (Mantel correlograms), we found that racers exhibited irregular movements, whereas rat snakes exhibited long periods of inactivity between directed movements. The body temperatures of racers were significantly greater in woody (30.7  0.4  C) than in grassy habitats (29.8  0.3 " C). The body temperatures of rat snakes were significantly greater aboveground (26.9  0.3  C) than underground (26.1  0.2  C). Our study benefits the conservation of native snakes by elucidating space requirements and providing a baseline for comparisons between contiguous and fragmented landscapes.
3893281|A one-semester undergraduate course in herpetology is described, together with suggestions that can bring such courses into contact with those attitudes and values that are redefining liberal education as we enter the 21st century. Emphasizing both classical and contemporary research, instructors must discuss the diversity of questions, approaches, and methods that characterize past and present herpetology, including theory-driven basic science and conservation work aimed at threatened and endangered taxa and habitats. Most important, students must be pushed beyond facts, definitions, and binomials, so that skill is developed in generating hypotheses and in designing studies to test them. Critical thinking within the context of natural history has enormous capacity to enrich liberal education, to enrich appreciation of all subdivisions of herpetology, and to ensure the continued presence of the course within the core of the curriculum. Courses taught in this way will grow in popularity and enrollment, resisting the various entropic forces threatening to sweep natural history to the backwaters while other materials rush along in the mainstream.
3890842|Adult oak toads collected from a breeding congregation and tested in an aquatic arena in full view of the sun showed no directional preference. The toads were retested in both aquatic and terrestrial situations after two weeks in artificial environments which provided both terrestrial and aquatic compartments. After training, toads moved on a compass course in an inland direction in both aquatic and terrestrial tests.
3893206|Movement patterns in the western box turtle, Terrapene ornata luteola, were estimated from both repeated sightings on a road and radiotelemetry. Home ranges were smaller than those expected from random movements. Turtles in the study area may have larger home ranges (mean area of 1.6 ha, minimum polygon method, mean maximum diameter of 276 m) than box turtles in more mesic habitats. No significant differences in home range size or distances moved were observed between sexes, and overlap was considerable. Turtles moved farther on the road than off the road and the road may have increased the size of the home range of some turtles. Turtles were most active when ambient temperatures were 13-24 C, solar radiation was
3891439|Bone ash samples of the osseous shell of 73 individuals representing 12 species of testudinid and chelydrid turtles collected in southeastern USA (Alabama, Georgia and Florida) were assayed for
3892426|Carlia bicarinata lives in a seasonal environment and has a seasonal reproductive pattern. Large yolked follicles appear in October; gravid females (with two oviducal eggs) occur from December through June. Spermatogenesis occurs year round, but testicular enlargement occurs from September through April. Sexual maturity is obtained in both sexes at about 38 mm snout-vent length. The histology of the ovary and the testis is described. Corpora lutea are short-lived, and no atretic follicles were observed. Interstitial cells are rare in both testis and epididymis; spermatogenesis is uniform throughout the entire testis.
3891978| Four new subspecies of the lizard Sphaerodactylus copei are described from the Haitian Tiburon Peninsula and Ile de la Gonve. Variation in  pattern of S. c. cataplexis is reviewed. A presumed history of S. copei is presented, along with ecological and altitudinal data. S. copei is compared with S. rosaurae from the Islas de la Baha, Honduras, and the two taxa are regarded as specifically distinct. 
3892427|Breeding coloration of females in Holbrookia propinqua consists in part of orange pigment which develops prominently along the sides, on the ventral tail surface, and to a lesser extent elsewhere on mature females in the reproductive season, and fades during the colder months. This color pattern was experimentally induced in pre-reproductive females during spring by a series of daily injections of progesterone. Detectable intensification of orange color required from two to six days. No color changes were observed among untreated females, oil-injected controls, or estradiol-injected females. Orange coloration was also induced during the breeding season by single injections of testosterone propionate. H. propinqua is a relatively fragile lizard for traumatic experimental procedures commonly used in studies of morphological color changes. Females suffered high mortality rates from ovariectomy and steroid treatment.
3893644| We describe a new species of lizard of the genus Abronia from the Sierra Madre del Sur of Guerrero, Mexico. This species previously was confused with its presumed sister taxon Abronia deppii. The discovery to the north of the Balsas Basin of additional specimens referrable to A. deppii and a morphological comparison of these specimens to the populations of Abronia inhabiting the highlands of Guerrero to the south of the Balsas Basin clearly indicate that distinct species are present on each side of the Balsas Depression. Examination of the type material of A. deppii reveals that this name should be associated with the northern populations, and the southern population, often allocated to A. deppii, is an undescribed species. This new species is distinguished from A. deppii by having enlarged knob-like posterior head scales, no azygous scale between interparietal and interoccipital, a greater number of scale whorls on unregenerated tail, a greater number of infralabial scales, and dorsal and ventral coloration differences. We discuss the natural history of the new Guerrero species. /// Se describe una especie nueva de lagartija del gnero Abronia proveniente de la Sierra Madre del Sur, Guerrero, Mxico. Esta especie fue confundida en el pasado con A. deppii. El hallazgo de especmenes provenientes de la parte norte de la cuenca del Balsas y su estudio morfolgico, indican que las poblaciones de Abronia que habitan las tierras altas al sur de la cuenca del Balsas deben ser reconocidas como un taxn diferente. A. martindelcampoi sp. nov. se distingue de A. deppii por presentar las escamas posteriores de la cabeza alargadas y redondeadas a manera de perilla; por la ausencia de una escama ziga entre la interparietal y la interoccipital; por presentar un mayor nmero de hileras de escamas en la cola, no regenerada; mayor nmero de escamas infralabiales y por las diferencias en coloracin dorsal y ventral. Se agregan comentarios sobre la historia natural de A. martindelcampoi. 
4497970| We describe four new species of anoles (genus Anolis) from the Serrana de Tabasar, west-central Panama. Two of the new species are most similar in external morphology to a cluster of Central American species that are short-legged (fourth toe of adpressed hindlimb reaches only to tympanum), have a single elongated prenasal scale, smooth ventral scales, and slender habitus, often delicate. They differ from the other species in this cluster by hemipenial morphology and scalation characteristics. One of the new species appears to be most similar to A. pachypus and A. tropidolepis from which it differs by male dewlap coloration and its very small dorsal head scales. The fourth new species appears to be most similar to A. laeviventris from which it differs by its multicarinate head scales, lack of heterogeneous flank scalation, and an overall green coloration. 
3891510|Field surveys of leiopelmid frogs in New Zealand show ecological separation of the sympatric Leiopelma archeyi and L. hochstetteri, but habitats of the allopatric L. archeyi and L. hamiltoni are similar. Differences in coloration, size, and body proportions are described. Snout-vent lengths of frogs are 7-37 mm in L. archeyi, 10-44 mm in L. hochstetteri, and 10-49 mm in L. hamiltoni, while an undescribed subfossil species probably attained 100 mm. Leiopelma archeyi and L. hamiltoni are similar in body proportions, but L. hochstetteri is more robust, with broader limbs and body but shorter snout and digits. Sexual dimorphism of the forelimbs occurs in L. hochstetteri, but not in the other two species. Amplexus and breeding of Leiopelma in captivity are detailed, including the development of L. hamiltoni which was previously unknown. The frogs appear to be mostly nocturnal, although some captive L. archeyi emerged from cover by day. Leiopelma hamiltoni on Maud Island emerged in greater numbers and tended to climb higher up in vegetation on wet nights. This study further emphasizes the dichotomy between L. hochstetteri and the other two closely related species. A revised identification key to the three species and their larvae is presented.
3892367|Carr proposed that sea turtles learn characteristic components of their natal beach early in life. Keen olfaction and possibly other senses would then be used for the return to their natal beach for nesting. Verification of this hypothesis, using experiments designed to "artificially imprint" turtles to a new beach, has been hampered by several aspects of sea turtle life-history. Laboratory tests suggest that loggerheads (Caretta caretta) will acquire a food preference and that this preference has an olfactory component, but that food imprinting does not occur because preference for the initial food is lost rapidly. A preliminary laboratory attempt at "artificially imprinting" on chemical cues is equivocal. An alternative to the imprinting hypothesis is a "social facilitation model" proposed by Hendrickson. This hypothesis supposes sociality for maturing turles in which first-time nesters encounter and follow experienced adults to the nesting beach, which they "learn" by olfactory and other navigation systems. The latter model appears to have parsimonious attributes, thus warranting increased consideration for at least some populations.
3891454|The occurrence of "northern" and "southern" herpetological species, ecologically incompatible today, from late Pleistocene sites in northern Mississippi, northwestern Georgia and north-central Florida is interpreted as reflecting a more equable climate than at present; the northern forms indicating cooler summers, the southern forms and large land tortoises of the genus Geochelone indicating milder winters.
3891265|A collection of 242 lizards from the Tokelau Islands, Polynesia included 7 species, 3 not previously recorded there.
3891527|Eight adult diamond-backed water snakes (Natrix rhombifera rhombifera) were presented chemical extracts of normally eaten prey objects at 90- or 360-s intervals. The prey-attack response, elicited by these chemical extracts, was observed to habituate as a function of its repeated elicitation during the course of extract presentations. Dishabituation was also noted when snakes were presented with a novel chemical stimulus.
23255782|Females should behave in ways that maximize lifetime reproductive success (the "selfish mother" hypothesis [SMH]). Very often, this will mean that female behavior during reproduction maximizes fitness of the current batch of offspring. In some cases, however, females may maximize lifetime reproductive success by behaving in ways that are neutral, or even detrimental, to current offspring fitness. The "maternal manipulation hypothesis" (MMH), proposed by Shine (1995), argues that females should behave in ways that maximize fitness of the current batch of offspring. We argued, however, that if researchers focus solely on measuring benefits to offspring of female behavior during reproduction, they will not consider the possibility that female behavior is neutral or even detrimental to offspring fitness, thereby missing an important facet of behavior during reproduction. Here we reply to comments by Shine (2012) and DeNardo et al. (2012), mainly to emphasize our point that contrasting the MMH and the SMH as if they operated exclusively and independently is not productive, because females enhance their lifetime reproductive success by enhancing current offspring fitness or their own long-term fitness, or both.
3893302| We describe a new species of Hylodes from Parque Estadual do Ibitipoca, Conceio do Ibitipoca, Municipality of Lima Duarte, State of Minas Gerais, southeastern Brazil. The new species is a member of the Hylodes lateristrigatus group, and it is characterized by small size, snout rounded in dorsal view and protruding in lateral view, presence of vocal slits and sacs, upper surface of finger discs without well developed scutes, dorsum light brown to gray with dark blotches, and details of the advertisement call. Descriptions of the tadpole, vocalizations, and information on natural history are provided. The tadpole has a ventral depression anterior to the coiled intestine, as in other species of the genus. Hylodes meridionalis (Mertens), previously considered a member of the H. nasus species group, is transferred to the H. lateristrigatus species group. 
3893506| A new species of gymnophthalmid lizard is described from the montane forests of the Pennsula de Paria in northeastern Venezuela. The new species is one of three gymnophtalmid species known to be endemic to the region, and the fourth species of Riama from Venezuela. It is likely the sister species to R. shrevei of Trinidad, but can be distinguished from the latter species by having a nasoloreal suture, fewer scale rows encircling the midbody, and by having a higher number of transverse dorsal scale rows. /// Se describe una nueva especie de lagartija (Gymnophthalmidae) proveniente de los bosques montanos de la Pennsula de Paria en el noreste de Venezuela. La nueva especie es una de las tres especies de gymnophthalmidos endmicas de la regin y es la cuarta especie de Riama de Venezuela. Se trata probablemente de la especie hermana de R. shrevei de Trinidad, pero se distingue de esta especie por poseer sutura nasoloreal, un menor nmero de escamas alrededor de la mitad del cuerpo, y por poseer una mayor nmero de hileras de escamas dorsales transversales. 
3892349|Adult male Varanus indicus are larger than adult females. Minimum size at sexual maturity is greater in males than females. The ratio of males to females is 1.3, indicating that both sexes are about equally abundant. There is no seasonal testicular cyclicity, and sexually mature males had testicular sperm year-round. Male fat body mass was fairly stable throughout most of the year but increased slightly during the latter part of the wet season. Ovary mass was greater during the dry season, and corpora lutea were present in a number of females taken during the early part of the dry season. Female fat body mass was greater during the dry season. Female fat body mass began to increase during the mid- to latter part of the wet season and declined by the mid- to latter part of the dry season. Thus, reproduction in V. indicus on Guam seems to occur during the dry season. Males may utilize accumulated fat for reproductive behavior rather than for spermatogenesis. If so, mating may take place towards the end of the wet season and early dry season. Ovulation occurs early in the dry season. The positive correlation between female fat body mass and ovary mass may indicate that yolk deposition takes place shortly before ovulation. Although the egg incubation period is not known for V. indicus, if comparable to other varanids, the eggs should hatch during the wet season.
3891587|The pipid frog Xenopus romeri from the Paleocene of Brazil is related to the living African species X. tropicalis. Shelania pascuali, from the Eocene of Argentina, is referred to Xenopus. These occurrences of a presently African group in South America are interpreted as evidence of evolution of the genus while Africa and South America were still part of the same continental mass, i.e., prior to 90 million years before the present (Early Cretaceous). Pipids are interpreted as a Southern Hemisphere (Gondwanan) group, related to their complementary northern (Laurasian) relatives the Palaeobatrachidae. No evidence is found to support the recent suggestion that Antarctica was the site of frog origins.
3893117| We describe a new species of Xenosaurus from the state of Guerrero, Mexico. This species differs from its congeners by characteristics of lepidosis and color pattern. The posterior border of the nuchal collar extends transversely across the middle of the neck, the dark dorsal bands are mottled in adults, and the venter has transverse series of dark scales extending to about midventer. The supraorbital semicircles are separated by two scales, the dorsal tubercles are low and flat and separated from each other by a distance of 2-4 tubercle diameters, and there are 33-37 transverse ventral scale rows. The type-localty of the new species is isolated from the geographically most proximate population of Xenosaurus by about 250 km. /// Describimos una nueva especie de lagartija del gnero Xenosaurus del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Esta especie difiere de sus congneres en caractersticas de lepidosis y patrn de coloracin. El borde posterior del collar nucal se extiende transversalmente atravs del medio del cuello, las bandas dorsales oscuras estn moteadas en adultos, y el vientre tiene series transversales de escamas oscuras que se extienden hasta la mitad del vientre. Los semicrculos supraorbitales estn separados por dos escamas, los tubrculos dorsales son bajos y planos, separados entre s por una distancia de 2-4 dimetros de tubrculo. Hay 33-37 filas transversales de escamas ventrales. La localidad tipo de esta nueva especie est aislada de la poblacin geogrficamente ms prxima de Xenosaurus por casi 250 kilometros. 
3891920| The scincid lizard Carlia peroni (Dumril and Bibron 1839), long thought to be conspecific with one of several Australian forms, is recognized as a distinct species known at present only from Timor, Semau and probably the north coast of Wetar. The stated type locality of Ile de France (= Mauritius) is almost certainly in error and the type locality is here restricted to Timor. Carlia spinauris (Smith 1927), originally described from Timor, is placed in the synonymy of C. peroni. The holotype of C. peroni is redescribed and variation in most of the known specimens is reviewed. Information on the reproduction and ecology of the species is also summarized. Various specimens in the fusca section of the genus from Waigeo (one of the two type localities of C. fusca), Amboina and Timor (the type localities of C. schlegeli) are discussed. 
3893034|We describe an advanced anguimorph lizard from the Albian (Early Cretaceous) of Utah. The taxon lacks at least one important feature (retracted nares) of Varanoidea, and for this reason is referred to the Necrosauridae, a fossil group characterized by a combination of anguoid and varanoid characters. Nonetheless, the fossil bears several advanced characters (such as widely-spaced, trenchant, plicidentine, marginal teeth lacking replacement pits) suggesting relationship to Varanoidea, and others (form of the maxilla, suggesting a blunt, rounded snout; osteoderm pattern and ornamentation) reminiscent of Helodermatidae; the closest comparison is with Late Cretaceous Paraderma, which represents the first record of that family. Regardless of specific affinities, the unnamed taxon represents the earliest occurrence of terrestrial Platynota, partly occluding a major gap in the fossil record of lizards, and documents the presence of this group of highly predaceous squamates in the Early Cretaceous of North America. Like living varanoids, especially helodermatids, the taxon from Utah may have included relatively large prey in its diet.
3892269|Clutch size and frequency were assessed for loggerhead turtles, Caretta caretta, nesting at Little Cumberland Island, Georgia, in order to examine annual variation in reproductive characteristics. Mean annual clutch size varied significantly (P < 0.01) over a 19 yr period from 1965-1983, although significant differences were found only between mean clutch sizes in the highest
3893214|We studied the phylogeny, taxonomy, and historical ecology of emydine turtles (genera Clemmys, Emydoidea, Emys, and Terrapene) using a wide range of behavioral, morphological, life history, and ribosomal DNA characters. Results of parsimony analyses of the 77 informative characters yielded two minimum length trees, differing within Terrapene but agreeing with the hypothesis: ((((C. insculpta, C. muhlenbergii) C. guttata) C. marmorata) (Emys, Emydoidea) Terrapene). This result suggests that, contrary to a recent analysis of the rDNA data alone, Emys, Emydoidea, and Terrapene form a monophyletic clade, and also, contrary to most previous hypotheses, Clemmys is paraphyletic. These results have implications for studies of the evolution of the mode of sex determination, terrestriality, and mechanisms of plastal closing in this group.
3893559| In the present paper, (a) I discuss the validity of the name Lacertus mabouya Lacepde, 1788 (currently placed in the genus Mabuya Fitzinger, 1826); (b) I designate a neotype for this West Indian species; and (c) I describe this neotype, which differs from Mabuya sloanii (Daudin, 1802) on several morphological characters. This work is a first step toward revising the neotropical members of the genus Mabuya. 
3893372|I performed a displacement experiment with free-ranging adults of Anolis cristatellus, a tropical lizard species whose year-around space-use requirements are limited to small arboreal territories. Because A. cristatellus is a relatively sedentary species, selection for a generalized spatial orientation would seem unlikely. However, more than two-thirds of 25 lizards returned to home territories within an average of 3 d when relocated 11-62 m (equivalent to 2-26 territory diameters) to presumably unfamiliar release localities. Within the conditions of the study, there was no significant effect on returning success by displacement distance, sex, or body size. The returning performance of A. cristatellus supported two inferences. First, considering the costs and risks of traveling through unfamiliar habitat, returning to a specific location from a distant release point indicated the relative importance of a familiar home range to survival and reproduction by both sexes. Second, returning performance indicated that A. cristatellus can at least generalize between familiar and unfamiliar views of landmarks to determine a novel route between its displaced site and its home locality (i.e., pilotage). I suggest that the spatial ability demonstrated by A. cristatellus has not been selected in the context of "homing," a phenomenon absent to this non-ranging species. Instead, the spatial cognition demonstrated by pilotage could be selected as a social mechanism, whereby a resident can spatially place itself, mates, competitors, and predators relative to its three-dimensional home range. By avoiding surprise, a resident who can anticipate encountering specific individuals at particular localities within its home range will gain a social advantage.
3893098|Variation in relative width of the head and alveolar surfaces of the jaws in map turtles (Graptemys) is associated with the degree of molluscivory in adult females. Adult males are substantially smaller in body size and are primarily insectivorous, and they take few mollusks regardless of their relative head width or alveolar width. We assessed functional relationships within and between the sexes using comparative analyses (independent contrasts and squared-change parsimony) of the residuals of regressions of head width on plastron length and alveolar width on head width. Residuals of head width and alveolar width were significantly correlated within females but not within males in all comparative analyses. Residuals of each regression were significantly correlated between males and females for a subset of analyses. Our results suggest that evolutionary changes in relative head width have been correlated with changes in relative alveolar width in females of Graptemys due to a functional relationship that is related to the tendency to feed on mollusks. Males have exhibited changes in the two characters similar to changes in females over evolutionary time, probably as a result of genetic covariation, but due to males' primarily insectivorous nature, changes in the two characters have not shown significant correlation with one another.
3892163|Horned lizards, genus Phrynosoma, show a range in dietary habits, such that some species are more strongly myrmecophagous (ant-eating) than others. The relationship between skeletal morphology and dietary specialization was examined by correlation and stepwise regression analyses. Five of seven morphological variables from the mandible and epipterygoid are significantly correlated with the mean percentage of ants in the diet. Epipterygoid length, height of the coronoid process, vertical diameter of the mandible, and length of the mandible posterior to the coronoid process are all negatively correlated; length of the tooth row is positively correlated. Stepwise regression analysis selected epipterygoid length as the single best predictor of diet in Phrynosoma. The best two-variable model includes epipterygoid length and vertical diameter of the mandible, and has an
3893301| We describe a new species of Bufo from the eastern slopes of the Cordillera Oriental in Colombia. The relationship with the phenetic group Bufo typhonius and genus Rhamphophryne is discussed. /// Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Bufo, de La Cordillera Oriental de Colombia, en el Departamento del Caquet. Se discuten las relaciones de parentesco con especies pertenecientes al grupo fentico Bufo typhonius y al gnero Rhamphophryne. 
3891075|Ambystoma ordinarium inhabits and regularly reproduces in mountain streams in the state of Michoacan, Mexico. Eggs are deposited singly to undersurfaces of objects in the streams. Clutch size averaged 109. Ova have an average diameter of 2.8 mm and three distinct capsules not including the vitelline membrane and capsular cavity. Eggs laid in summer and winter, the uniform size classes of larvae, and the presence of animals in breeding condition summer and winter indicate reproduction through most or all of the year. Neoteny is common but some individuals metamorphose in all populations studied. Sexual maturity is attained at 70-75 mm SVL. Larvae and neotenic adults show some adaptations to the stream environment: reduced fins, reduced gills, loss of balancers, early development of limbs and digits. However, the persistence of the ypsiloid cartilage, fully developed fins in hatchlings, and only slight morphological changes in larvae towards the stream type suggest a recent invasion of the stream environment.
3893242|We examined the variation in a number of meristic characters in the lizard Anolis oculatus on the island of Dominica, West Indies. Both males and females were sampled from 33 localities on the island, encompassing a wide variety of ecological conditions present. We studied patterns of variation univariately and multivariately. Geographic patterns are portrayed by contouring of locality mean scores. All characters studied were significantly different between sites and sexes. Plots of the ordination scores show that while there is evidence of geographic variation, there are no clear or distinct groupings. Females show broadly the same patterns as males. We then investigated possible causes of these patterns using partial Mantel (matrix correlation) tests to test multiple hypotheses. These hypotheses consisted of selection by various facets of the environment, including altitude, temperature, rainfall, and vegetational type, and an isolation-by-distance model represented by geographical proximity. The partial Mantel test rejected the null hypothesis of no association with environmental patterns for generalized scalation. Partial Mantel tests of individual characters showed that rainfall seems to be an important predictor for many scalation characters, although other correlations were also present. We review the evidence for and against natural selection on reptilian scale numbers in the light of this evidence. However, when the scores on the first canonical variate are contoured, consistent differences are revealed between populations in the southern and northern parts of the leeward (Caribbean) coast, which are not markedly different in prevailing ecological conditions. Clearly other causal factors are important, but their nature is not obvious.
3891518|Thermal tolerances of embryos of six species of Japanese frogs were determined by exposing embryos at selected developmental stages to high temperatures for 2 or 6 h. Tolerance levels were low in initial stages of development, but increased with development toward a plateau from gastrula to late embryonic stages, and then decreased in early larval stages. The six species showed similar patterns in thermal tolerance during development, but differed in the value of critical temperature, which was correlated to the environmental temperatures for embryonic development in the field.
3892821| Until recently, the life history of Crotalus horridus, the only wide-ranging woodland rattlesnake in eastern North America, has remained poorly documented. Three reproductive traits in females were studied by mark-recapture in northeastern New York near the northern limits of the species' range. Samples of 75-143 females per year were obtained in 460 capture days between April and October over 8 yr (1981-1988). Females reached maturity at approximately 84 cm snout-vent length (SVL) and 460 g body mass. Body size (x  1 SE) of mature nongravid females was 91.5  0.4 cm SVL (n = 236) and 617  8.5 g mass (n = 250). Mean body mass of gravid females was 814  11.8 g (n = 172) and of postpartum females 508  10.4 g (n = 87). The annual proportion of gravid females varied significantly (
3890984|Seasonal variations in live body weights and major body components were recorded for captive box turtles maintained in an outdoor pen near Athens, Georgia. Data collected over a two-year period indicated that there were no significant differences in the times of emergence from winter dormancy by either adult males, females or juvenile turtles. There were no significant differences in body weight attributable to sex at any season of the year. Analyses of variance indicated that there were no significant effects of season on the average live body weights of either males, females or juveniles. Biomass analyses of 12 adult turtles indicated no significant effect of season on either total body water or total body fat reserves. Fat indices of the box turtles, like those reported for other species of temperate-zone reptiles and amphibians, were much lower than those reported for temperate-zone migratory birds.
3892334| The salamandrid genus Tylototriton Anderson 1871 is partitioned. Four extant species (asperrimus, kweichowensis, taliangensis, verrucosus) are retained in Tylototriton. Two extant species (andersoni, chinhaiensis) are placed in Echinotriton gen. nov. The fossil record of salamandrids similar to Tylototriton is reviewed. We suggest that Salamandra laticeps Goldfuss 1831, Tylototriton weigelti Herre 1935, and Tylototriton kosswigi Herre 1949 belong to Tylototriton (sensu stricto). Tylototriton primigenius Noble 1928 is thought to be a synonym of Chelotriton paradoxus Pomel 1853, or at least a species of Chelotriton. Echinotriton is not represented in the fossil record. 
3893521|We describe three new species of a cryptic species complex of Cophixalus from southeastern New Guinea and adjacent islands. They are readily distinguished from all other Papuan species by their small size, presence of vocal slits in males, absence of toe webbing, relatively long legs, short snouts, and vertical lores. Their calls consist of a series of high-pitched peeps. Intraspecific color pattern is highly variable and variant patterns are shared among species. Members of this complex can be distinguished from each other on the basis of adult body size, extent of development of the first finger and disc, snout width, tympanum size, and advertisement calls. The new species are among the most common frogs where found. Two of the species are currently known only from their type localities, but the third ranges more broadly in the Southeast Peninsula of New Guinea and D'Entrecasteaux Islands.
3893599|Reproduction in a population of painted dragons, Ctenophorus pictus (Agamidae), in semi-arid South Australia was studied over two years with distinctly contrasting climatic conditions. Data were collected from wild lizards to assess the influence of inter- and intra-seasonal conditions on reproductive characters of the small, short-lived lizard during a very wet year and a season with average rainfall. Females began to develop ova at the end of winter (August) and laid eggs during the spring and early summer, coinciding with the period of testicular enlargement in males. Potentially four, or possibly more, clutches of 2 to 4 eggs (mean 2.6) were produced by females each year. Egg moisture content varied considerably and ranged between 45 and 79% (mean 66%) of total egg mass. Eggs contained less moisture in the wet year (1992-93). Females containing oviducal eggs were marginally larger in the wet year of 1992-93 than in 1991-92. Eggs collected late in the reproductive season were significantly larger than those collected earlier. A 'parental investment' model can be used to explain this intra-seasonal shift in egg size. When adjustments for female size were made, reproductive investment was consistent between the two years of the study, with no difference in egg mass, clutch mass or clutch size detected. The reproductive strategy of C. pictus remained remarkably invariant considering the dramatic difference in climatic conditions between the two years of the study.
3891552| Eggs of the common snapping turtle, Chelydra serpentina, were incubated at constant temperatures of 20-35C. Incubation was successful at temperatures of 22-30C. Duration of incubation was inversely related to temperature. The rate of development during the final weeks of incubation appeared to be independent of temperature. 
3891335|Dissections of snakes representing ten species and subspecies of Tantilla show that seven lack a functional left oviduct. Mean length of the vestigial oviduct varies among species; a statistically significant difference was found between T. planiceps atriceps and T. gracilis. Selection pressures associated with fossorial habits are thought to be the likely cause of oviducal loss. Future systematic studies of species presently in this genus should consider this characteristic.
3891806|The relationships between male body size, fertilization capabilities, and mating success were studied in the American toad (Bufo americanus) in east-central Illinois. There was no correlation between body size of males and females in mated pairs, and laboratory studies revealed no optimum male/female size ratio with respect to fertilization efficiency. Males collected in amplexus were no larger than unmated (calling) males, and the distribution of size differences between individuals in amplexed pairs did not differ from that expected from random matings between females and mated males. Male mating success appears to be independent of body size.
3891286|A study of the complex of characters associated with mouth opening was undertaken in the salamander subfamily Desmognathinae. An atlas-mandibular ligament restricts the lower jaw and the mouth is opened by raising the skull. The mechanism functions such that the mandible is held firmly against the quadrate when the mouth is open. The broad atlantal-condylar facets of the atlas and the stalked occipital condyles serve to accentuate the swing of the skull dorsally. Stream bottom feeding is postulated as having been a selective force for the evolution of this unique jaw mechanism.
3891569| Aspects of reproduction were compared in populations of Chrysemys picta from Wisconsin (C. p. bellii), Illinois (C. p. bellii  marginata), Tennessee (C. p. dorsalis  marginata) and Louisiana and Arkansas (C. p. dorsalis). Age and minimum size at maturity are least in Louisiana dorsalis (  2-3 years, 60 mm plastral length;   4 years, 100 mm plastral length) and greatest in Wisconsin bellii (  4-5 years, 96 mm plastral length;   8 years, 136 mm plastral length). Spermatogenesis begins earlier and ends later in more southern populations. August is the peak month for sperm production in all areas studied. Seasonal changes in testicular size are more pronounced in southern than northern populations. Testicular lipid cycles complement the spermatogenic cycle; lipids accumulate in interstitial and Sertoli cells during gametogenic quiescence and are largely depleted by the peak of spermatogenesis. Female reproductive cycles are also protracted in more southern areas. From Louisiana to Wisconsin nesting seasons diminish from 10 to 6 weeks and periods of gonadal quiescence from 3 months to 1. Mean clutch size and maximum number of clutches range from 4.1 eggs and four (possibly five) clutches in Louisiana dorsalis to 10.7 eggs and two clutches in Wisconsin bellii. Adaptive significance of body size and clutch size in different populations is discussed. Variation of these characteristics seems more the result of inheritance than environmental inducement. 
3892313| The morphological similarity among all living varanids, and reports of catholic diets in many species, give an impression of varanids as relatively unspecialized carnivores. However, detailed studies of four sympatric taxa reveal major interspecific differences in habitat use, diets and reproductive biology. Of two large terrestrial species studied, one (V. panoptes) is found mainly in riparian habitats and eats many aquatic prey. Its sibling species, V. gouldii, is restricted to woodland habitats and eats terrestrial prey. Of two semi-aquatic taxa studied, one (V. mitchelli) is often arboreal and changes its diet (arthropods and fishes) and habitat seasonally with the advent of wet-season flooding; V. mertensi is more highly modified for aquatic life and feeds primarily on freshwater crabs. Overall, habitat similarity between species is highly correlated with dietary similarity. Males grow up to 3 the mass of females in the two terrestrial taxa, but there is no sexual difference in body size in the semi-aquatic species. The terrestrial goannas are active year-round (and breed in the wet-season) whereas the semi-aquatic species are most active in the wet-season (but breed in the dry-season). Interspecific similarities include diurnal activity (with a peak in mid-morning) and broad taxonomic composition of the diet (with many invertebrates, few vertebrates). Diets of these varanids in the Alligator Rivers region differ from those of conspecifics in other areas, based on examination of museum specimens. The morphological similarity among varanids may mask major ecological differences among species, among populations within a species, and among individuals within a population. Opportunistic exploitation of local conditions may be a key feature of varanid ecology and may result in significant temporal and microgeographic variation in diets. 
24634294|Survival, growth, and fecundity are considered as the three main components of the life cycle of any living organism. The relative contribution of these three components to average fitness may vary drastically among populations of single species. Examining this interpopulation variation and understanding its causes can provide insight on the particular selection pressures that drive phenotypic divergence among populations. We conducted a demographic study of eight distinct populations of the viviparous lizard Sceloporus grammicus in central Mexico. We estimated variation among populations in stage-specific survival, growth, and fecundity. Using these data we constructed site-specific population projection matrices to estimate population growth rates, which we interpreted as measures of the average fitness of each population. Elasticity analysis was used to calculate the relative contribution of the three life-cycle components to population growth rates. The three life-cycle components had relatively high elasticity values, which meant that survival, growth, and fecundity contributed similarly to fitness. However, some variation was found among populations. We searched for potential associations between the observed interpopulation variation in these measures of relative importance for average fitness and interpopulation variation in temperature, rainfall, population density, microhabitat availability, degree of human-induced disturbance, and overall mortality. None of these environmental factors or their interactions could explain the observed interpopulation variation in the relative importance of the life-cycle components. Our results provide insight about how these viviparous lizards allocate resources to survival, growth, and fecundity in different environments.
3891686|Observations on the salamander Mertensiella luschani antalyana revealed that females are viviparous, normally bearing 2 completely metamorphosed young on the soil. Parturition occurred in October, November, December, and January. The gestation period is probably 1 year plus a few months.
3892703|A new tree frog, Rhacophorus aurantiventris, is described from the northern part of Taiwan. The frog is dark green with orange-red belly. The habits and habitat of the new species are also described.
3893436|We studied the density-dependent aspects of growth, development, and survivorship of arboreal tadpoles of Chirixalus eiffingeri in bamboo forests at the Experimental Forest of the National Taiwan University at Chitou, Taiwan, from May-September 1995. Newly hatched tadpoles were randomly assigned to one of the three treatments: low (LD), medium (MD), and high density (HD) (six, 18, and 54 tadpoles/bamboo stump, respectively), and each treatment consisted of 15 replicates. Tadpoles of Chirixalus eiffingeri are obligatorily oophagous; thus, growth, development, and survivorship of tadpoles are totally dependent upon trophic egg availability. Tadpoles in all treatments increased in mass during development, but LD and MD tadpoles grew faster and weighed significantly heavier than HD tadpoles by week 5. During the first five weeks of development, the biomass increase of tadpoles (BMI) in successful nests was substantially greater than zero and was significantly different between treatments, indicating that female frogs are capable of increasing the supply of trophic eggs as the tadpole number increased in MD and HD treatments. Body size at metamorphosis was density-dependent but the time required to reach metamorphosis was not, which was different from earlier studies on pond breeders. This discrepancy is probably due to the different feeding habits (i.e., herbivory versus oophagy) and size-selective feeding behavior. Results suggest that the energetic reserves of female frogs for brooding strongly affect the growth, development, and survivorship of tadpoles.
3891175|Gravid female collared lizards, Crotaphytus collaris develop a series of lateral and dorsolateral orange spots, probably under the influence of progesterone. Daily injections of progesterone induced increased orangeness. Estrogen injections produced no detectable change. However, when the lizards received injections of estrogen for the eight days preceding progesterone treatment, the onset of color change in response to progesterone was hastened by several days. No changes in final intensity of the orange spots or in rates of increase in orangeness after its onset were detected after pretreatment with estrogen.
3893387| We describe a new species of the genus Liolaemus from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. The morphology of the new species, L. arambarensis sp. nov, is compared to other species of Liolaemus of the "wiegmannii" group. The new species is distinguished from others members of this group by a dorsal color pattern with a medium dorsal white stripe and two dorsolateral stripes, two rows of juxtaposed brown marks resembling triangles, delimited by a white bar; nasal scales oriented dorsally; a complete row of dorsally oriented lorilabial scales between the subocular and supralabial scales; a moderate number of scales around the mid-body; flat temporal scales; flat head scales; and a transversely divided frontal. Liolaemus arambarensis sp. nov. is omnivorous, oviparous, and exhibits sexual dimorphism in color and size. /// Uma nova espcie do gnero Liolaemus do Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil  descrita neste trabalho. A morfologia da nova espcie, L. arambarensis sp. nov,  comparada s espcies de Liolaemus do grupo "wiegmannii." A nova espcie se distingue dos demais membros desse grupo pelo padro de colorao dorsal com uma faixa branca mdio dorsal e duas faixas dorsolaterais, duas fileiras justapostas de marcas marrons lembrando tringulos, limitadas por uma barra branca; escamas nasais orientadas dorsalmente; um linha completa de escamas lorilabiais entre as escamas subocular e supralabial orientada dorsalmente; um nmero moderado de escamas ao redor do corpo escamas temporais planas; escamas da cabea planas; e, frontal dividida transversalmente. Liolaemus arambarensis sp. nov.  omnvoro, ovparo e com marcante dimorfismo sexual em cor e tamanho. 
3891584| The mental hedonic glands of the plethodontid salamander Eurycea quadridigitata were studied by gross dissection, light microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. The mental hedonic gland cluster of   is composed of 21-50 simple, tubular exocrine glands that extend in a fan-like manner from excretory pores at the base of the mandibular symphysis horizontally between the geniohyoideus muscle and the intermandibularis posterior muscle. These glands hypertrophy from August through February correlating with the mating season as determined by presence of sperm in the vas deferens. Cellular organelles and seasonal changes in the cytological features of mental hedonic glands are typical of exocrine gland secretion and the proposed glycoprotein product. 
3892706| Anolis schiedii (Wiegmann) is redescribed from the cloud forest of central Veracruz, Mexico. It can be distinguished from the other species in the A. schiedii group by its slightly enlarged postanals, high number of middorsal scales, fusion of nasal and postrostral scales, complete circumorbital rows formed by both small and slightly enlarged scales, and relatively large dorsal head scales. /// Se redescribe a Anolis schiedii (Wiegmann) del bosque de neblina del centro de Veracruz, Mxico. Se distingue de las otras especies en el grupo A. schiedii por tener postanales ligeramente agrandadas, un elevado nmero de escamas mediodorsales, fusin de las escamas nasales y postrostrales, hileras circumorbitales completas, formadas por escamas pequeas y medianas, y escamas dorsales de la cabeza relativamente grandes. 
3892301|The excurrent ducts of the reproductive system of male salamanders show great variation among species of several families, with those of two species of Eurycea being the simplest yet described. Each testis of E. longicauda and E. lucifuga is drained by 5-6 equally spaced transverse tubules passing directly from the central testicular duct to the vas deferens. There is no longitudinal collecting duct between the testis and vas deferens, and no histological regionalization of the transverse tubules nor vasa deferentia. Renal corpuscles, present in at least a reduced condition in the epididymal nephrons of other species, are not present in either species of Eurycea. Histological and histochemical features of the ducts of both species reflect seasonal activity.
3891624| Plethodon cinereus in northeastern Tennessee attains sexual maturity during the 3rd year of life. Increase in snout-vent length is  15 mm and 8 mm in the 1st and 2nd years, respectively; little growth occurs after attaining sexual maturity. Mating takes place from December to March with egg deposition probably occurring the following June. Mortality of post-reproductive   apparently approaches 100%. Mean clutch size of 8.4 eggs and X snout-vent length of 43.5 mm (95% confidence limits =  0.3 and  0.96 mm respectively) are similar to estimates reported for northern populations. 
3892711| Hatching and emergence success were examined in 43 natural nests of the Mediterranean loggerhead turtle (Caretta caretta) in the Gksu delta, Turkey. Overall clutch size averaged 90.3 eggs (range 42-151). Of all eggs deposited, 58% hatched. In nine nests no hatching occurred, caused by repeated inundation in seven of these. In the successful nests, mean hatching success was 77%. Here egg failure was caused by microbial infection, infertility, embryonic mortality, and developmental abnormalities. Of all successfully hatched young, 18% failed to emerge from the nest. Straight carapace length of the hatchlings that failed to emerge was significantly lower than that of the successful ones. Emergence failure was highly correlated with a strongly compressed, solid beach sand type. 
3891535| Karyotypes of the frogs Telmatobufo australis and Caudiverbera caudiverbera are described and compared. Both species have 26 chromosomes. Karyological similarities (chromosomal number and morphology) existing between the two genera suggest a phyletic affinity between Telmatobufo and Caudiverbera. However, T. australis shares the same chromosomic formula with South American and African leptodactylid frogs having 26 chromosomes. /// Se describen y comparan los cariotipos de Telmatobufo australis y Caudiverbera caudiverbera. Ambas especies tienen 26 cromosomas. Las similitudes cariolgicas (nmero y morfologa cromosmica) que existen entre los dos gneros sugieren una afinidad filtica entre Telmatobufo y Caudiverbera. Por otra parte, Telmatobufo australis comparte la misma frmula cromosmica con los leptodactlidos sudamericanos y africanos con 26 cromosomas. 
3891974|Sceloporus holmani from the late Pliocene of north-central Kansas, USA, is referred to the genus Phrynosoma. The fossil record of Phrynosoma is discussed.
3892127|The testicular cycle of a population of painted turtles, Chrysemys picta, was studied for a 2 yr period in central Virginia, USA. Age at maturity was 3-4 yr at minimum plastron lengths of 72-77 mm. Most of the variation in testis mass occurred within and among months, while variation between years was minimal. Testis mass cycle was concordant with the spermatogenic cycle. Seasonal changes followed the typical postnuptial pattern of spermatogenesis in which testicular growth and recrudescence begins in spring, followed by peak size and spermiogenesis in August, and regression in fall and winter. A multiple regression model ranked the variables seminiferous tubule diameter, plastron length, month, and year from most important to least important, respectively, according to their contribution to the variation in testis mass; together they accounted for 80% of the variation.
3890849|A new subspecies of Cnemidophorus gularis is described from the arid tropical scrub region of eastern and central Queretaro, Mexico, at an elevation of 500 to 1550 meters. The new subspecies is a giant among the populations of C. gularis and differs not only in size, but in having a completely spotted dorsum and hind limb in large adults, a narrow vertebral light stripe in juveniles and young adults, and generally a sky blue chest and abdomen. The squamative features of the new form provide a basis for comparison with other Mexican populations of C. gularis, and with Queretaro and Hidalgo populations of C. scalaris as well. Problems in distribution and possible hybridization are also discussed. Several aspects of the lizard's natural history are considered. Average egg clutch size in Queretaran populations occurring at lower elevations (500-1100 m) is shown to be smaller than the average egg clutch size in the higher areas (1370-1550 m). Elevational differences in choice of food items are described and observations on habitat preference, predation, and active body temperatures are briefly discussed.
3892168|Karyotypes of 15 species of New Guinean microhylid frogs belonging to five genera are reported. Thirteen species have 2N = 26 chromosomes consisting of five large and eight small pairs. Pair nos. 1 and 5 are metacentric, nos. 2, 3, and 4 are submetacentric or subtelocentric, and most small pairs are metacentric. Cophixalus pansus is tetraploid with 4N = 52 chromosomes; its haploid set is similar to that of C. riparius. Barygenys flavigularis has 2N = 32 chromosomes. Its karyotype seems to have arisen from a 26-chromosome karyotype through centric fissions in three large pairs and subsequent pericentric inversions. A species of the C. variegatus group, here designated as sp. 1, is unique in possessing many subtelocentric and submetacentric small pairs. Two species, here designated as B. aff. flavigularis and C. variegatus group sp. 2, differ markedly in their karyotypes from B. flavigularis and C. variegatus group sp. 1, respectively, and they should be treated as distinct species. Karyological comparisons suggest that the two New Guinean subfamilies, Asterophryinae and Genyophryninae, are closely related to each other and that they are karyologically conservative, sharing the primitive karyotype with the Malagasy subfamily Cophylinae and some South American microhylids.
25209110|Females of some temperate-zone snake species appear to exhibit thermophilic behavior during gestation, resulting in differential habitat use between gravid and nongravid individuals. We investigated thermoregulation of 13 female cottonmouths (Agkistrodon piscivorus) near their northwestern range limit in southwestern Missouri during mid-summer. Mean preferred body temperature (23.4 C) and preferred body temperature range (
41238985|Florida is home to several introduced animal species, especially in the southern portion of the state. Most introduced species are restricted to the urban and suburban areas along the coasts, but some species, like the Cuban Treefrog (Osteopilus septentrionalis), are locally abundant in natural protected areas. Although Cuban Treefrogs are known predators of native treefrog species as both adults and larvae, no study has demonstrated a negative effect of Cuban Treefrogs on native treefrog survival, abundance, or occupancy rate. We monitored survival, capture probability, abundance, and proportion of sites occupied by Cuban Treefrogs and two native species, Green Treefrogs (Hyla cinerea) and Squirrel Treefrogs (Hyla squirella), at four sites in Everglades National Park in southern Florida with the use of capture-mark-recapture techniques. After at least 5 mo of monitoring all species at each site we began removing every Cuban Treefrog captured. We continued to estimate survival, abundance, and occupancy rates of native treefrogs for 1 yr after the commencement of Cuban Treefrog removal. Mark-recapture models that included the effect of Cuban Treefrog removal on native treefrog survival did not have considerable Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) weight, although capture rates of native species were generally very low prior to Cuban Treefrog removal. Estimated abundance of native treefrogs did increase after commencement of Cuban Treefrog removal, but also varied with the season of the year. The best models of native treefrog occupancy included a Cuban Treefrog removal effect at sites with high initial densities of Cuban Treefrogs. This study demonstrates that an introduced predator can have population-level effects on similar native species.
3892281| Miniature temperature-sensitive radiotransmitters were attached to 15 filesnakes (Acrochordus arafurae) in Magela Creek in tropical Australia. These snakes were monitored daily, or more often, for intervals from 2-24 days (x = 14 days). Filesnakes are entirely aquatic. Habitat utilization was highly seasonal: snakes were restricted to billabongs during the dry-season but spread out into shallowly-inundated grassland at the onset of the wet-season. Telemetered snakes were relatively sedentary by day (mean displacement = 19 m), moving only to stay under the shadows of overhanging trees. This behavior may reduce avian predation. Nocturnal movements were extensive, especially during the wet-season (mean displacement = 141 m). Home ranges (0.1-4.7 ha by the uncorrected convex polygon technique) were larger than those of most previously-studied snakes, possibly because of the large body size of A. arafurae. Body temperatures of telemetered snakes averaged 26 C in the dry-season, 30 C in the wet-season, and were very similar to water temperatures. These snakes tend to be thermoconformers, but their temperatures are less variable than those of the surrounding water. Filesnakes are remarkably homoiothermic, with average body temperatures varying <2 C over a 24-h cycle during the wet-season. 
3893009|Histological sections of cloacae from males and females of four species of Necturus and from females of the monotypic Proteus anguinus were examined by light microscopy. Although proteids are paedomorphic in many other morphological characters, the cloaca is fully metamorphosed. No interspecific variation was noted in Necturus. Males of Necturus are similar in basic cloacal anatomy to that of other genera in the Salamandroidea, except that in Necturus the posterior ventral gland is relatively smaller and a characteristic evagination of the floor of the cloacal tube occurs just anterior to the cloacal orifice. Contrary to a previous report, the male vent gland is well-developed and has tubules throughout the cloacal chamber. Females of Necturus possess numerous spermathecae and ventral glands, synapomorphies in the Salamandroidea. In Proteus anguinus, an additional group of tubular glands of uncertain homology secrete onto the surface of the epidermis just caudad to the cloacal orifice. Posterior to the vent, Necturus possesses skin glands deep to the dermis, a unique extradermal position for such glands in amphibians. Comparisons of cloacal anatomy do not resolve phylogenetic relationships of proteids, but these data may be useful in needed studies on courtship and spermatophore transfer in the family.
3891709|Levels of morphological character variation of many South American plethodontid salamanders remain virtually unknown due to small sample sizes of the species collected. Within the past 9 years additional specimens have been obtained from Ecuador and Brazil of several closely related species: Bolitoglossa altamazonica, Bolitoglossa chica, Bolitoglossa peruviana, and Bolitoglossa sima. An evaluation of "standard" morphological characters previously used to differentiate the species is presented. Analysis of ranges, means and coefficients of variation for these characters within and between species indicates extensive overlap such that most of the characters are not diagnostic when used singly. Many morphometric characters are highly correlated with overall body size; it is therefore more fruitful to compare these characters simultaneously with snout-vent length. The species are best distinguished by a combination of dorsal coloration, snout-vent length, and number of maxillary teeth. There are only minor differences in habitat preferences.
3890745|Two types of holocrine secretory structures are found in the gekkonid epidermis. "Generation glands" produce their secreted material in association with periodic skin-shedding, while "preanal organs" are morphologically and chronologically independent of the general body epidermis. Because of the unique nature of the lepidosaurian epidermis, with its characteristic synchrony of germinal activity over the entire body surface, it is argued that generation glands are per se less specialized structures than preanal organs. It is therefore postulated that preanal organs were derived from generation glands. Existence of either or both of the gland types, and the probability of multiple cases of parallel evolution in regard to them, within and between taxa, suggest that care should be exercised in using these glandular structures in systematic investigations.
3892155|Sampling of Desmognathus monticola over a 2.5-yr period at one locality in southwestern North Carolina provided information on age structure, growth, and maturation of this species. Larvae of both D. ochrophaeus and D. monticola were taken to compare their larval development. The larval periods of the two species are essentially identical, extending for 9-10 mo from August-September to May-June. Larvae of D. monticola are slightly larger than those of D. ochrophaeus, and neither species shows appreciable growth during the larval phase. After metamorphosis, individuals of D. monticola usually spend at least two more years as juveniles. Growth of juveniles is slight in the colder half of the year, and is greatest from about 1 May to 1 August in the warmer half. Males reproduce for the first time in their 4th or 5th yr, but females do not oviposit initially until age 5 or 6 yr. In comparing D. monticola with other southern Appalachian Desmognathus, particularly D. ochrophaeus and D. quadramaculatus, it is evident that adult body size varies directly with age at maturation among species. I propose that variation in egg size and age at maturation, rather than growth rate, accounts for most of the interspecific variation in adult body size in Desmognathus.
3893577| Principal components analysis of 24 morphological and color-pattern characters scored for 634 specimens reveals four distinct, geographic groups within Phrynosoma coronatum. The four groups can be diagnosed on the basis of color pattern characters, but there are nearly discrete differences in morphological characters as well. Morphological evidence of hybridization has been detected between two groups. The four morphological groups are likely genetic entities given the close correspondence between the morphological patterns in Phrynosoma and genetic units detected in Urosaurus. Therefore, the four groups of coast horned lizards are treated as separate species. Latinized names (blainvillii, cerroense, coronatum) are available for three of the four taxa. The subspecies frontale and schmidti cannot be adequately distinguished by the multivariate analysis and are placed in the synonymy of P. blainvillii. In addition, a new species, Phrynosoma wigginsi, is described from the eastern side of the Sierra de Guadalupe and Sierra de La Giganta in the central Gulf Coast region of the peninsula of Baja California. Diversification in Phrynosoma has occurred via allopatric speciation and the geographic juxtaposition of these morphological groups provides additional evidence for two ancient transpeninsular seaways. /// Un anlisis de componentes principales basado en 24 cracteres morfolgicos y de color para 634 especimenes revela cuatro groupos distintos dentro de Phrynosoma coronatum. Estos groupos parecen tener distribuciones aloptricas, pero la evidencia morfolgica sugiere que donde existe una zona de contacto entre dos groupos, se occure la hibridisacin. Los cuatro groupos difieren por cracteres distintos de color y cracteres morfolgicos casi distintos. La correlacin entre los patrones de la divergencia en Phrynosoma y la divergencia genetica en Urosaurus sustenta el argumento que los groupos de Phrynosoma tienen una base genetica. Por eso, yo reconozco los cuatro groupos como especies distintas. Los nombres latinos (blainvillii, cerroense, coronatum) son aprovechables por tres de los cuatro groupos. El analisis de componentes principales no puede distinguir las subespecies frontale y schmidti, y se las ponen en la sinnimia de P. blainvillii. Adems, se describe una especie nueva, Phrynosoma wigginsi, de lado oriental de la Sierra de Guadalupe y Sierra de la Giganta en la regin central de la costa del Golfo de California. Diez cracteres que tienen valores altos en el componente primero no demuestran patrones fuertes de la variacin clinal a travs de California y la peninsula de Baja California. Los patrones de la divergencia morfolgica en Phrynosoma presentan ms evidencia para dos vias maritimas antiguas. 
3891260|A new subspecies of the Hispaniolan snake Darlingtonia haetiana is described from the Montagne Noire in southeastern Haiti. New information on variation and distribution of D. h. haetiana and D. h. perfector is given.
3892733|Data on cloacal anatomy were gathered for 128 species of salamanders, representing 48 genera and the nine extant families. Twenty-five characters were recognized, but after resolution of polymorphisms and elimination of autapomorphies, only 12 characters remained for use in phylogenetic analyses at the family level. Weighting the characters equally and using branch-and-bound parsimony algorithms, 15 (PAUP) or 9 (Hennig86), equally parsimonious cladograms were revealed, each with 19 steps and a consistency index of 0.63. The variation in phylogenies is due to opposing hypotheses concerning convergence or reversal in two characters: the extent of epidermal lining in the cloaca, and the presence of primary and secondary folds in the cloacal tube. The strict consensus cladogram gives the topology: Sirenidae (Hynobiidae, Cryptobranchidae (Amphiumidae (Salamandridae (Ambystomatidae, Dicamptodontinae (Rhyacotritoninae, Plethodontidae, Proteidae))))). These results and consensus analyses with other cladograms based upon morphological data support the notion that the Salamandroidea, as defined by Duellman and Trueb (1986), is a monophyletic group and that internal fertilization evolved once, and is a synapomorphy for the suborder. Male and female cryptobranchids and hynobiids possess one type of cloacal gland that is not highly dimorphic, and may be a courtship gland that functions in the production of chemical signals during reproductive activities. In the Salamandroidea, portions of the cloacal gland mass (male dorsal and vent glands, female ventral glands) retain the ancestral anatomy and presumed function, while other portions have evolved structural and functional differences relating to spermatophore formation (male pelvic and ventral glands) and storage of spermatozoa (female spermathecae). Courtship glands have been secondarily lost or reduced in some of the Salamandroidea, especially in plethodontids, in which selection apparently has led to adaptations for delivery of courtship pheromones by skin glands rather than reliance on a cloacal source.
3892717| Two new species of Eleutherodactylus of the milesi group are described from the Atlantic slopes of Guatemala. These new species are among the largest and most tuberculate members of the group. Eleutherodactylus stadelmani, long considered to be a junior synonym of E. milesi, is recognized as a valid species. A key is provided for the identification of species in the E. milesi group. /// Dos nuevas especies de Eleutherodactylus del grupo milesi son descritas de la bocacosta Atlntica de Guatemala. Estas dos nuevas especies son los miembros ms grandes y tuberculados de este grupo, difiriendo adems de otros miembros del grupo por vaias otras caractersticas morfolgicas. Eleutherodactylus stadelmani, considerado por mucho tiempo un sinnimo joven de E. milesi, es reconocido como una especie vlida. Eleutherodactylus matudai no es considerado en el presente trabajo como miembro del grupo milesi. Una clave para la identificacin de los miembros del grupo de E. milesi es proporcionada. 
3892962|We used a common garden experiment to determine if local populations of Jordan's salamander (Plethodon jordani) vary in levels of intraspecific aggression. Levels of aggression did not differ significantly among six populations in the northern, central, and southern portions of the range of P. jordani. In addition, levels of aggression in paired populations in close proximity to each other were no more similar than those in paired populations selected from throughout the range of P. jordani. Levels of aggression increased with the absolute size of the contestants in one intensively studied population; however, the mean size of individuals did not differ significantly among the six populations that were compared.
3893154|This study investigated ontogenetic variation in toxicity of tadpoles of the introduced toad Bufo marinus to three species of native Australian aquatic invertebrate predators. Crayfish (Cherax quadricarinatus) and dytiscid beetles (Hydaticus vittatus) consumed early, mid, and late developmental stages of larval Bufo without apparent ill effect. Belostomatids (Lethocerus insulanus) also preyed upon early developmental stages of Bufo without apparent ill effect, but they experienced significant mortality after preying upon mid and late developmental stages of these tadpoles. There was intraspecific variation in the toxic effects of mid and late developmental stages of tadpoles on L. insulanus; consumption of these stages was fatal to some individuals but not to others. The observed inter- and intraspecific variation in toxicity was not related to the number of tadpoles consumed. Such variability may reflect variation in toxicity among individual tadpoles, or variation in susceptibility to toxins of Bufo within and among predatory species. The results demonstrate that the toxicity of larval B. marinus increases ontogenetically. However, not all native aquatic invertebrate predators are adversely affected by this increase in toxicity.
3892360|In non-mammalian vertebrates, embryonic nutrition is derived primarily from egg-yolk proteins (vitellogenins) synthesized in the liver and transported via the blood to the oocytes. We have characterized the vitellogenic cycle of two turtles (Chrysemys picta and Sternotherus odoratus). Plasma vitellogenin levels are correlated positively with ovarian growth and with levels of plasma estrogen during the annual reproductive cycle. Vitellogenesis appears to be an estrogen-specific, dose-dependent response that can be inhibited by progesterone and testosterone. In addition, a pituitary component with properties similar to mammalian growth hormone appears to be an important synergist in the response to estrogen. Steroid-binding properties and intracellular distribution of an estrogen receptor in the turtle liver is reported, and the involvement of this receptor in vitellogenesis is discussed. Comparative studies using Anolis, Nerodia, and Chalcides indicate a similar estrogen-dependent vitellogenic response, but in the latter species the molecular weight of vitellogenin is much less than in other species studied. Molecular reduction and a functional role for other gonadal steroids may be implicated as important evolutionary steps in development of viviparous forms in which dependence upon yolk has been replaced by placentation.
3893138| I conducted a study of population subdivision and genetic diversity among populations of the giant river turtle Podocnemis expansa using microsatellite DNA markers. Turtles were sampled from four nesting beaches distributed within 100 km of one another along the Middle Caquet River in Colombian Amazonia. I detected significant genetic differentiation within the Caquet basin with Weir and Cockerham's F
3893396| I describe a new species of telmatobiine leptodactylid frog, Atelognathus ceii, from the Andean range of Patagonia, near La Tapera, Region XI, southern Chile. Atelognathus ceii differs from all other species of Atelognathus in the presence of a round, protruding structure (enlargement of ventral pupillary nodule) on the lower border of the iris. It is also distinguished from its congeners in having an anteriorly expanded omosternum, a well ossified sphenethmoid, and a unique combination of external morphological characters. The significance of the discovery of a new species of Atelognathus living within the distribution of the austral temperate forest of Nothofagus is discussed. /// Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Atelognathus colectada 1 Km al oeste de La Tapera, XI Regin, Chile. La nueva especie, Atelognathus ceii, se encontr debajo de rocas que bordean una pequea laguna ubicada a unos 450 msnm, en las cercanas del paso internacional Ro Cisnes-Ro Fras. La communidad vegetal dominante en el rea es el bosque bajo de ire (Nothofagus antarctica) ecotonal con la estepa de altura. Atelognathus ceii es facilmente distinguible de sus congneres principalmente por la presencia de una estructura protruyente en el borde inferior del iris, similar a los meniscos superior e inferior descriptos por Cei (1969) para el gnero Somuncuria. Otros caracteres diferenciales son la estructura del omoesternn, el grado de osificacin del esfenoetmoides y una nica combinacin de caracteres exomorfolgicos. El hallazgo de esta especie en relacin con el bosque austral de Nothofagus refuerza las hiptesis de Lynch (1978) y Cei (1984) de un origen del linaje en relacin con los bosques patagnicos del Terciario, y una posterior adaptacin a los ambientes de lagunas baslticas de la rida estepa patagnica, desarrollndose numerosos endemismos a nivel especfico y subespecfico. 
3893167|We describe a new species of Xenobatrachus from the Bewani and Hunstein Mountains of northwestern Papua New Guinea. It is closely similar to X. mehelyi and X. subcroceus, but it keys out to the X. rostratus species group as defined by Blum and Menzies. It differs from the former species in body size, relative leg length, and advertisement call. It differs from its other 15 congeners in morphological and color pattern attributes and advertisement call, and it represents another frog species apparently endemic to the northern coastal ranges of New Guinea, further supporting identification of this area as a center of regional biotic endemism. This reflects the offshore origin of these ranges in the Solomons Are system, followed by accretion to the New Guinea mainland during the past ten million years.
40931018|The northern Madagascar spider tortoise (Pyxis arachnoides brygooi), is endemic to the coastal Mikea forests of southwest Madagascar. Very little is known of P. a. brygooi's ecology; however, it is suspected that the range is now very fragmented, with remaining populations facing significant threats from habitat destruction and poaching for food and the pet trade. A line-transect survey was undertaken that systematically surveyed the suspected historical range of this subspecies. The results were incorporated into a GIS database, which revealed that the distribution was confined to 20.5% of the suspected historical range, across three fragmented populations covering 499.6 km. It appears that a zone of intergradation has developed in a transitional area between the southern range of P. a. brygooi and the northern range of P. a. arachnoides. The results of this survey are currently being applied to management plans for newly gazetted protected areas in the region, in an effort to safeguard these relatively small remaining populations.
3893470|We analyzed the iliosacral joint and iliolumbaris muscle anatomy of the species of Pseudinae, based on the two types of articulations defined by Emerson. Unusual characters should be expected in the pseudine iliosacral articulation structure, given their aquatic habits and evolutionary history. In fact, the presence of a ligamentous cap joining the ilium with the sacral diapophysis has not been described previously, and may be unique to pseudines. This particular group lacks a single pattern of iliosacral articulation for the whole subfamily, and the articulations are not strictly referable to any of the types or subtypes described by Emerson. The iliosacral articulation is interspecifically variable within Pseudinae and is intermediate between the articulations of Type IIA and IIB.
3892984|Female water pythons from a population in tropical Australia were captured shortly before oviposition and their eggs were incubated under constant conditions. We obtained data on 1605 eggs and 1285 hatchlings from 111 females to evaluate factors influencing reproductive output. Most reproductive traits varied only slightly between the 2 yr of the study. Successive clutches by the same female were consistent in mean egg and offspring sizes, hatching success, and oviposition date. Whether or not an adult-size female python reproduced in a given year was a function of her body size and her condition. The proportion of reproductive animals was highest at intermediate body sizes, apparently because the largest females could not gather enough energy for reproduction as well as maintenance costs. Clutch sizes and egg sizes were directly affected by maternal body length and maternal condition, but these effects were obscured by a strong indirect effect: a tradeoff between egg size and clutch size. Date of hatching depended primarily on date of oviposition (which in turn differed among subpopulations within our study area, apparently due to thermal factors), but incubation periods also differed between years. Maternal body condition after oviposition was influenced by pre-oviposition condition and relative clutch mass. Path analysis revealed a series of strong effects, both direct and indirect, in the relationships among reproductive variables.
3892809| Eleutherodactylus petrobardus is named from the Cordillera Occidental of the Andes in the Departamento de Cajamarca, Peru. The new species is most similar to E. cajamarcensis, E. unistrigatus, and E. versicolor. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Eleutherodactylus de la Cordillera Occidental en el norte del Per. La nueva especie es ms similar a E. cajamarcensis, E. unistrigatus, y E. versicolor. Dos de estas especies, E. cajamarcensis y E. lymani viven tambin en las laderas pacficas de los Andes en el norte del Per. 
3893544|Many aquatic amphibians live in habitats with low visibility. In such habitats, chemical cues may be more reliable than visual cues for predator recognition. Adult perrenibranchiate graybelly salamanders, Eurycea multiplicata griseogaster, occupy clear-water streams with low levels of sedimentation and relatively few visual obstructions. In a previous laboratory experiment, graybelly salamanders distinguished between chemical stimuli from predatory fish (banded sculpins, Cottus carolinae) and nonpredatory tadpoles (Rana sphenocephala). In the present study, when only visual cues were available, salamanders did not distinguish between sculpins and tadpoles. Instead, they reduced activity in response to both predatory and nonpredatory heterospecifics in comparison to a blank control, indicating an alarm response to general disturbance rather than recognition of the specific predator, per se. To confirm that chemical stimuli are important under natural conditions, we tested whether graybelly salamanders in a natural stream habitat distinguished between chemical stimuli from sculpins, nonpredatory fish (stonerollers, Campostoma pullum), and a blank control. In contrast to their response to the nonpredator treatments, salamanders quickly moved away from the sculpin stimulus and then burrowed into the gravel substrate. Therefore, even for salamanders from clear-water habitats, chemical stimuli are more effective than visual stimuli for recognition of visually cryptic predators.
3892423|We conducted experiments using the apparatus and design followed by Wassersug and Hessler (1971) and Wassersug (1973) to test the aggregative behavior of tadpoles of Rhinophrynus dorsalis in response to visual and olfactory stimuli. Results neither supported nor refuted the hypothesis that either stimulus is used as a mechanism for school formation. The exercise did lead to doubts about the experimental design. Some ambiguity resulted from the fact that the significance of the results depended upon the way in which the data were analyzed. Several alternative methods were considered. We also observed tadpoles reared in isolation to determine the effect of prior social conditioning on aggregative behavior. Isolates grew less than group-reared animals, were less active, and exhibited a strong avoidance reaction when subsequently exposed to conspecifics.
3892315|I examined the vulnerability of a series of sizes (developmental stages) of tadpoles (Rana clamitans) from semi-permanent ponds in New York to predation by three instars of predaceous diving beetles larvae (Dytiscus verticalis). Generally, tadpole vulnerability decreased with increasing tadpole size and increased with increasing predator size. The effect of tadpole size as an antipredator defense on predator capture efficiency is examined. The probability that a tadpole survives the first attack of a predator as a function of tadpole and predator size is also discussed.
3892838|Immobility is a potentially important antipredator behavior in salamanders, especially for those possessing noxious skin secretions. The duration of immobility in 15 species of terrestrial salamanders (Plethodon) varied among species. Most salamanders (78.8%) became immobile when initially contacted under field conditions, and remained immobile from 1-180 s. Immobility duration was inversely correlated with substrate temperature and covaried with air temperature, but snout-vent length (SVL) had no effect on duration. Only immobility times of Plethodon shenandoah were significantly different from any other species. Substrate temperature, air temperature, SVL, and species accounted for only a small percentage of the variance (r
3892072|Tadpoles of Hyla gratiosa, Rana catesbeiana and R. utricularia accumulated little lactate during 30 s of intense swimming from 4-27 C in the laboratory or in the field. Their anaerobic scopes are therefore considerably lower than those of adult anurans. Concentrations of lactate and pyruvate in R. catesbeiana tails also changed little with 30 s of burst swimming at 23 C, but phosphocreatine was completely depleted by this activity. Our results are consistent with the view that the hydrolysis of phosphocreatine and not anaerobic glycolysis yields most of the energy utilized during intense, short-term swimming in anuran larvae. The immobility that anuran larvae often exhibit after a predator attack may result from depletion of phosphagen stores and a limited ability to synthesize ATP by glycolysis.
3892787|The current nominal species Nactus pelagicus represents a species complex that includes bisexual and unisexual populations. Four karyotypic morphs are known, but previous authors have noted that populations do not differ in gross external morphology. In this study, a comparison of samples from five bisexual and five unisexual populations confirms a high level of morphological uniformity (mensural and meristic) within and between samples. Morphological differences are slight but, in some cases, significantly different. Although the differences are slight, multivariate analyses (PCA, DFA) segregate some bisexual populations from unisexual ones and support the specific recognition of the bisexual populations (N. multicarinatus-southern Solomon Islands and Vanuatu) and the unisexual populations (N. pelagicus-southern Vanautu, New Caledonia, and Oceania). Lectotypes are designated, and type-localities are restricted for both species; each species is redescribed.
24634326|We describe a new species of frog of the genus Kaloula (family Microhylidae) from Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia based on morphological evidence. The new species has previously been mistaken with K. baleata, which it most closely resembles. Kaloula indochinensis sp. nov. can be distinguished from its congeners by the following combination of characters: maximum snoutvent length 53.7 mm; finger tips expanded into wide discs; the majority of specimens with two subarticular tubercles on the fourth toe; inner and outer metatarsal tubercle slightly raised, inner metatarsal tubercle shorter than first toe; absence of dorsolateral stripe; and large, bright, orange-yellow axillary and inguinal spots.
3892358|Histological analyses were performed on the right testis, ductus epididymidis, ductus deferens, and renal sexual segment from 45 Agkistrodon piscivorus collected in Perry County, Alabama, from June-September 1979 and March-October 1980. Levels of circulating testosterone were determined monthly by radioimmunoassay. Testicular recrudescence began in April. Agkistrodon piscivorus exhibited postnuptial spermiogenesis beginning in June and peaking in July and August. Circulating testosterone levels and hypertrophy of the renal sexual segment paralleled spermiogenic activity. Spermatogenesis terminated in October. Spermatozoa were stored overwinter in the efferent ductules, ductus epididymidis, and ductus deferens. No seasonal changes occurred in the diameters of the ductus epididymidis, ductus deferens, or interstitial cell nuclei.
3892067| In the lowlands of the central Dominican Republic, two subspecies of Anolis distichus meet. We investigated this area of contact between A. d. ignigularis and A. d. dominicensis using dewlap color, scalation and electrophoretic characters. Although scalation differences between these subspecies were minimal, both dewlap color and several electrophoretic markers indicated a rapid transition from one form to the other. Estimates of the width of the zone ranged from 5-30 km. Overall estimates of gene exchange and observed heterozygote deficiencies at the GPD locus suggest gene flow between these two subspecies is impeded in some way. The presence of apparent backcross individuals indicates that this blockage is not complete. No information about the age of the contact or mean individual dispersal distance is currently known, making it impossible to determine which genetic model best describes this situation. 
3892206|Allozyme data are used to investigate the parentage of an aberrant rattlesnake from west Texas. A phylogenetic evaluation of the electrophoretic data leads to the hypothesis that the specimen is a hybrid between the Mojave rattlesnake, Crotalus scutulatus, and the prairie rattlesnake, C. viridis viridis.
3893052|I investigated dispersal of adult water frogs between adjacent ponds, located within 2 km
3891713|The effect of insulin and glucagon on the rate of glucose absorption from the small intestine of Uromastyx microlepis was studied. An in vivo method, involving the use of loops of small intestine of the anesthetized lizard, was used. Insulin had no effect on glucose absorption. The increase in glucose absorption from alloxan-treated lizards is due to insulin deficiency rather than from the cytotoxic effect of alloxan, since such effect was reversed by the addition of insulin. In both glucagon and cobaltous chloride-treated lizards there was no change in glucose absorption.
3893109|We utilized a variety of standard and phylogenetic contrast regression techniques to investigate the relationship between ventricle mass of preserved male specimens and reported dehydration tolerance for a variety of amphibian species. There were significant correlations between arcsin-transformed relative ventricle mass (percent of body mass) and relative dehydration tolerance (percent of body mass) for all amphibians, for all anurans, and for all neobatrachians. The residuals of the log-log regressions relating ventricle mass and mass lost at dehydration tolerance point with body mass were significantly correlated, again for all amphibians, for all anurans, and for all neobatrachians. The results of the phylogenetic regressions parallel the results of the standard regressions, though two species determine the relationship. We conclude that ventricle mass and dehydration tolerance are correlated in neobatrachian anurans and suggest a mechanism for their coevolution. An important consequence of this study is the potential use of morphologic measurements of museum specimens for screening of extreme tolerance or vulnerability of a species to stress, without having to perform lethal physiological experimentation on live animals.
3893648|A new species of Gongylosoma is described from Pulau Tioman, a small island 38 km off the southeast coast of Pahang, West Malaysia, in the South China Sea. This species differs from all other Gongylosoma in having a single, enlarged, posterior temporal; chinshields of equal size; and a thin nuchal band that contacts a vestigial vertebral stripe. The new species forms a clade with G. nicobariense from the Nicobar Islands and G. longicauda from Borneo, Java, and Sumatra and is the sister species of the latter.
3891846| Populations of the slimy salamander Plethodon glutinosus were monitored from May 1977 through May 1978 on two study sites at Cunningham Falls State Park, Maryland, and three sites near Centerville, Pennsylvania. A total of 1,242 salamanders were individually marked and 5-30% of the marked animals at each locality were recaptured one or more times. Estimates of density ranged from 4180-8440 salamanders per hectare using the Schumacher-Eschmeyer index. Measurements from recaptures show that growth is rapid during the summer months for young animals and slower in older individuals. There is no growth over the winter months. Age at first reproduction for females is similar at all study sites (5 yr of age), but size at maturity varies. The number of ovarian eggs increases significantly with snout-vent length. Sex ratios vary seasonally from about 57-72%   in May to about 32-47%   in September. Estimates of mortality indicate that P. glutinosus may have a Type III survivorship schedule. 
3891907|The activity of Colostethus nubicola in Panama was studied (a) by hourly census of ten 1- m
3893627| Salamanders of the Pseudoeurycea bellii complex are widespread in Mxico north and west of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. They are the largest terrestrial plethodontids and have distinctive color patterns consisting of a general black ground color with strikingly bold red-orange marks in different patterns on the dorsal surface. At present three species are recognized: P. bellii (widespread, with two subspecies), P. gigantea (restricted to a small area of eastern Mxico), and P. naucampatepetl (known only from the vicinity of the type locality in west-central Veracruz). A phylogenetic analysis based on two mitochondrial genes (cytochrome b and 16S RNA) finds support for three main clades, one including P. gigantea and P. naucampatepetl, another including the Oaxacan samples, and a third including P. bellii. New morphological data, DNA sequences, and limited allozymic information provide evidence that the Oaxacan clade comprises two species. The name P. boneti is resurrected from synonymy and applies to northern Oaxacan populations, while a new species is described from extreme western Oaxaca at elevations lower than have been recorded elsewhere for members of the complex. 
3892408| Taylor and Smith (1945) described Ambystoma lacustris from Lake Zumpango, north of Mexico City. Two taxonomic problems with this nominal species are: (1) the collection locality of the specimen designated holotype of A. lacustris and (2) the question of whether animals in Lake Zumpango represent a species different from those found at other localities in the Basin of Mexico, specifically Lake Texcoco. Although all paratypes of A. lacustris were collected at Lake Zumpango, the nearly transformed holotype was part of a collection taken from Lake Texcoco. Thus, the name Ambystoma lacustris is a junior synonym of Ambystoma velasci (Dugs). Because of the similarity of Ambystoma populations in the two lakes, the one in Lake Zumpango does not merit species recognition. 
3892873| A new Telmatobius from three localities in the Cordillera Oriental of Bolivia is described. Telmatobius yuracare sp. nov. occurs in fast-flowing streams in cloud forest and appears to be completely aquatic. Males differ from other species in the genus in having a large humeral spine. Oral disc features of the tadpoles are typical of the meridional group. /// Una especie nueva de Telmatobius completamente acutica es descrita para arroyos de aguas fras en los bosques nublados andinos de los departamentos de Cochabamba y Santa Cruz, Bolivia, entre 2050 y 2900 m. Los caracteres larvales adscriben la especie al grupo meridional. Telmatobius yuracare sp. nov. difiere de todas las dems especies del gnero principalmente por la presencia en los machos de una espina humeral muy desarrollada. 
3893626|In streams, reach-scale physical habitat (i.e., pool, run, riffle, cascade; hereafter mesohabitat) is viewed as an important control on the distribution of organisms. However, there is limited understanding of stage-specific mesohabitat associations in species with complex life histories and of associated causes and population-level implications of these distribution patterns. In intensive field surveys, I found that larvae and adults of the stream salamander Gyrinophilus porphyriticus (Plethodontidae) displayed similar associations with pools and riffles. However, larvae were negatively associated with cascades and adults were negatively associated with runs. Adults had no effect on the survival, growth, or activity of larvae in a controlled experiment, suggesting that stage-specific negative associations were not a function of intraspecific interactions. These negative mesohabitat associations may be related to the size-distribution of interstitial spaces in cascades and runs, which were biased against larval and adult body sizes, respectively. My results indicate that incorporating reach-scale habitat structure in sampling programs is critical for accurate assessments of stream amphibian populations, and that perturbations altering reach-scale habitat structure may differentially affect life history stages of G. porphyriticus.
3892213|Hyla favosa, Hyla leucophyllata, and phenotypic intermediates between these species were discovered in microsympatry in southeastern Peru. The genetic composition of individuals of all three phenotypes was analyzed using starch-gel protein electrophoresis to test the validity of species level status for H. favosa and H. leucophyllata. Twenty-two presumptive gene loci were scored. No alleles diagnostic of the two pure phenotypes were found. Phenotypic intermediates were genetically indistinguishable from the two pure forms and could not be categorized as hybrids. Genetic distances among pairwise comparisons of phenotypes were low (D* = 0.031-0.081). The three phenotypes lack diagnostic genetic differences, are morphologically similar, and seem to breed syntopically. The available data support the hypothesis that the three phenotypes belong to a single species.
3892097| The movement patterns of juvenile American crocodiles, Crocodylus acutus, were observed in Gatun Lake, Panama, by nighttime censusing and radiotelemetry in February and March 1981. Ten juveniles (nine 10 mo old, one 22 mo old) were radiotelemetered for an average of 233 fixes for each individual. The 10 mo old animals stayed within 300 m of the nest and had home ranges averaging 330 m of shoreline; 80% of movements occurred within core areas averaging less than 200 m. The 22 mo old animal dispersed about twice as far and included within its range at least twice as much shoreline as the younger animals. On the basis of sharp reductions in the strength of the radio signals when animals submerged, I inferred that 35-45% of the animals were in exposed locations on the surface during the day, and <65% at night. Movements between locations were rare from 0900-1700 h, increased markedly after dusk, peaked around 0300 h, and dropped to near zero 2 h after dawn. Nocturnal movements were significantly reduced during periods of bright moonlight, although the percentage of animals exposed at the surface did not noticeably change. /// En 19 de febrero de 1980 equip 10 Crocodylus acutus juveniles con radiotransmisores y los solt en el punto donde fueron capturados. Durante el prximo mes obtuve un promedio de 10 determinaciones de posicin ("fixes") para cada animal, cada hora del da, por un total de aproximadamente 2400 determinaciones de posicin ("fixes"). Durante todo el estudio los animales permanecieron cerca del sitio donde haban eclosionado; la mayora de los miembros de la postura del ao anterior permanecieron a menos de 300 m del nido. Estos animales de 10 meses de edad habitaban un espacio promedio de slo 330 m de litoral, y ms del 80% de sus movimientos ocurrieron dentro de un rea focal promedio de menos de 200 m. De manera que estos C. acutus eran decididamente ms sedentarios que los que han sido observados en otras localidades. En base a las variaciones en la potencia recibida por las seales de radio se pudo inferir que de 35-45% de los animales se encontraban en la superficie durante el da, aunque sus movimientos horizontales ocurrian raramente de las 0900 a las 1700 h. Los movimientos aumentaron dramaticamente despus del anochecer, llegando a su mximo a las 0300 h, y bajando cerca de cero dos horas despus del amanecer. Los movimientos durante la noche disminuyeron significativemente durante perodos con brillantes claros de luna, aunque el porcentaje de animales en la superficie no fue afectado notablemente por los niveles de luz durante la noche. 
3891440| Samples of Sceloporus magister were collected along the lower Colorado River (between Bullhead City, Mohave County, Arizona and the Mexican-American International Boundary) during spring, summer and fall of 1973. Individuals utilized trees and rocks primarily and foraging and basking occurred in morning and late afternoon. Data on feeding indicate that S. magister takes any available food item, including arboreal and terrestrial insects, varied larvae, spiders, isopods, and occasionally lizards. Larger lizards utilized greater variety of prey sizes than smaller lizards. Fatbodies in adult   were small throughout breeding season and increased in size after breeding season. Females carrying eggs did not exhibit decreased fat body size. Testes were maximum size in March and April and minimum size in September. Spermatogenesis was apparent in April and spermiogenesis occurred in May. Clutch size averaged 12.3 (range, 10-18). 
3892671|We report the karyotypes of 16 species of New Guinean and Australian microhylid frogs belonging to seven genera. The majority have 2N = 26 and a karyotype that consists of five large and eight small chromosome pairs. The karyotype of Sphenophryne schlaginhaufeni, 2N = 30, has six acrocentric pairs, and may have arisen by centric fission from a 2N = 24 karyotype. Copiula fistulans and Sphenophryne sp. B have 2N = 24, while Xenobatrachus mehelyi has 2N = 22. The most parsimonious explanation for the reduction in diploid number involves tandem fusion of one of the smaller elements onto one of the larger chromosomes in C. fistulans and Sphenophryne sp. B. The karyotype of X. mehelyi may be derived by a two stage process involving inversion to produce two small acrocentric pairs which subsequently fuse to produce a larger biarmed chromosome. Four species of Sphenophryne from Australia are karyotypically very similar to one another, providing support for the close relationship suggested by their morphology. Similarly, karyotypes of three species of Australian Cophixalus were identical to one another, showing the same morphology and NOR location, consistent with a close relationship.
3893460|We describe a new species of Chiasmocleis from the municipality of Una, in the Atlantic Rainforest of southern Bahia, northeastern Brazil. The new species is the smallest member of the genus and is characterized by having an ovoid body; a truncate snout in dorsal view, rounded snout in profile; no webbing on hands and feet; fingers lacking disks, toe tips slightly expanded; fingers and toes weakly fringed (less fringed in females), with few lateral dermal spines in males and none in females; the dorsal surface of body and limbs with dermal spines in males, absent in females; in preservative, color on dorsum uniformly grayish brown, paler brown on dorsal surface of limbs; posterior surface of thighs with a white, longitudinal line; and belly boldly marbled in brown and pale cream.
3890619|In Costa Rica Dendrobates granuliferus has definitive territorial behavior involving vocalization, posture, and combat. Only males defend territories. Males scout ahead for oviposition sites and lead females to these sites. Females have a uniform courtship behavior consisting of rubbing the head and chin of the male with her head. Oviposition and fertilization take place terrestrially while the frogs are in a vent to vent position, facing away from each other; there is no amplexus. Each female apparently lays several small clutches per breeding season.
3893201|A reanalysis of our allozyme data (Dowling et al., 1996) for four slowly-evolving loci in 215 species of snakes by Buckley et al. (2000) concluded that because of ties in genetic distances our published UPGMA tree had "little resolution, indicating that these data are highly ambiguous regarding higher-level snake phylogeny." They also concluded that "the high degree of resolution in the published phenogram is an analytical artifact." Our study was intended to obtain information on lower-level relationships for the snake species that we had available, and it provided support for some current hypotheses of snake relationships at that level. Buckley et al. (2000) reached their conclusions because in their analysis they used only strict consensus trees and did not randomize the order of their input data. By randomizing data input order and using a majority-rule consensus tree, we show that there is considerable phylogenetic signal in our data.
3893380|Larval anurans are known for having diverse diets, but there have been relatively few studies examining their assimilation of natural foods or how they cope with variation in available resources. In our study, we estimated assimilation of food resources of two species of larval anurans that were presented with benthic substrates from a set of natural ponds. Assimilation was measured during a week-long experiment during which we renewed substrates and collected feces daily. Larvae of wood frogs (Rana sylvatica) and spring peepers (Pseudacris crucifer) were given benthic substrates from ponds shaded by deciduous forest vegetation as well as from unshaded ponds. We measured organic content in the foregut of tadpoles and from their feces. Estimates of assimilation efficiency were lower than those reported for tadpoles consuming artificial food. Both species experienced reduced assimilation efficiency on closed canopy food resources, but did not differ in their abilities to assimilate organic matter from either type of food resource. However, wood frogs processed more food during the experiment. Our results suggest that natural variation in composition of food resources among ponds could have important effects on tadpole performance and provide some support for interspecific differences in food utilization consistent with relative patterns of performance and distribution.
3893528|Barking frogs (Eleutherodactylus augusti) are distributed from southern Mexico along the Sierra Madre Occidental into Arizona and the Sierra Madre Oriental into Texas and New Mexico. Barking frogs in Arizona and most of Texas live in rocky areas in oak woodland, while those in New Mexico and far western Texas live in rodent burrows in desertscrub. Barking frogs in each of the three states have distinct coloration and differ in sexually dimorphic characters, female vocalization, and skin toxicity. We analyzed advertisement call variation and conducted a phylogenetic analysis using mitochondrial DNA sequences (ND2 and tRNA regions) for barking frogs from these three states. Advertisement calls of frogs from Arizona were significantly longer in duration, higher in frequency, and had longer duration pulses than those of frogs from either New Mexico or Texas; frogs from these latter two sites were indistinguishable in these call variables. Phylogenetic analysis showed deep divisions among barking frogs from the three states. Differences in call structure, coloration, and mitochondrial DNA sequences strongly suggest that barking frogs in Arizona are reproductively isolated from those in New Mexico and Texas. Our results indicate that either northern populations are connected via gene flow through southern Mexico (i.e., they are subspecies as currently recognized), or represent independent lineages as originally described (i.e., western barking frogs, E. cactorum in AZ, and the eastern barking frogs, E. latrans in NM, TX).
3891763|The gekkonid genus Diplodactylus is composed of two lineages that are formally recognized here as subgenera. The presence or absence of a caudal gland-system and its associated ejection mechanism, plus the form of the postcloacal bones, are the primary features used to distinguish between the two subgenera (Diplodactylus, Strophurus). The subgenus Diplodactylus encompasses the vittatus, steindachneri, stenodactylus, and conspicillatus species-groups, and the subgenus Strophurus accommodates the strophurus, elderi, and michaelseni species-groups.
3890827|The appendicular skeleton of the rare lizard Shinisaurus is described. Comparisons with Xenosaurus are made, and differences are noted on the shape of the interclavicle and the proportions of the hind limb. Differences in the vertebral column were more marked than in the appendicular skeleton. The relationships of Shinisaurus presented by McDowell and Bogert are supported.
3893603|A new, lowland species of Ansonia is described from the Endau-Rompin National Park in southern peninsular Malaysia based on having a unique eye color and dual vocal slits, as well as a unique combination of head, body, digit, and color pattern characteristics. This new species is the southernmost member of the genus in continental Asia and emphasizes the importance for additional field work in southern Malaysia.
3892049|Chromosome number and morphology were determined for five species of Dendrobatidae (Anura: Amphibia)-Dendrobates auratus (2N = 18), Dendrobates pumilio (2N = 20), Dendrobates granuliferus (2N = 20), Dendrobates histrionicus (2N = 20), and Phyllobates lugubris (2N = 24). The variability within the genus Dendrobates already reported in the literature was confirmed. Intrageneric variations in chromosome number and morphology may be useful for phylogenetic analysis.
23352174|Where fecundity, mortality, immigration, or emigration differ among species, genotypes, environments, sexes, or age and size classes, we must expect differences in the composition and dynamics of populations and communities. However, as shown in this study on all-hybrid populations of the hemiclonal waterfrog Pelophylax esculentus, the reverse conclusion is not necessarily true: Population differences in genotype composition were not paralleled by differences in genotype-specific age and size distributions. We investigated 12 ponds with different ratios of diploid (LR) and triploid (LLR and LRR) hybrids and tested whether the pond-to-pond ratio differences result from differential survival of the three genotypes under different ecological conditions (selection hypothesis). This should then be reflected in the age and size distribution of the frogs. Age (determined through skeletochronology) and size (measured as snoutvent length) were related to eight ecological variables that in previous studies had been found to affect genotype ratios: temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, pond size, amounts of submerged and floating pond vegetation, and proportions of forest and wetland area within 20 m of the pond. Only two of these eight variables had a significant effect on growth and survival: frogs in larger ponds were, on average, older and larger than frogs in smaller ponds, and body size also increased with water temperature. Since these relationships did not differ between genotypes and sexes, we conclude that ecological conditions are unlikely to exert their influence on population structure via differential individual performance. The conclusion is supported by our finding that across the 12 study ponds there was no significant relationship between the proportion of a particular genotype  sex category and the average age and size of the individuals belonging to that category. An alternative to the selection hypothesis is offered by the recently proposed gamete pattern hypothesis. It states that pond-to-pond differences in genotype ratios arise from different gamete production patterns of LLR, LR, and LRR males and females. But, so far, support for this hypothesis is also weak.
3892194|Simple linear regression indicated that prey size (length and dorsal surface area), shape (length/width ratio), and the predator-prey distance at the time of prey detection were positively correlated with the responsiveness of treefrogs (Hyla cinerea) in the laboratory. Feeding response was inversely related to the prey item's perceived size (i.e., subtended visual angle), the speed of crawling prey, and the rate at which prey were perceived to move (i.e., subtended angular velocity). A multiple linear regression model indicated that treefrogs responded more slowly to distant items and more quickly to prey that exhibited large visual angles (i.e., large and nearby items), large length/width ratios (i.e., elongate items), and high crawling speeds. Six out of eight prey species elicited response times that were significantly different from a reference species not normally included in the treefrog's natural diet. Finally, treefrogs consistently discriminated among prey that were morphologically and behaviorally similar regardless of their phylogenetic relationship.
3891606| Loggerhead must turtles in north Florida are active throughout the year. The   mature in 5 to 6 years (x plastron length = 60 mm). Follicular enlargement begins in late August or September and is continuous through the following June. Ovulation and oviposition occurs from October through July;   continue to yolk follicles to replace those ovulated during that period. Egg size averages 28.5  17.2 mm and is not significantly correlated with  plastron length or clutch size. Incubation time averages 101 days. Clutch size ranges from 1 to 5, the mode being 2, and is positively correlated with  size. At least 2 or 3 clutches are laid per year. 
3892479|Death-feigning behavior in Rhabdophis t. tigrinus from Japan always involved an initial flattened neck display, which may enhance the effectiveness of the subsequent, motionless condition, rather than being aposematic. Eleven other behavior patterns were comparatively infrequent. Because death-feigning occurred only when ground surface temperatures were lower than those associated with active, crawling individuals, it may be a secondary defensive strategy compared to active escape.
3891206|Ecological data were gathered on five sympatric species of Leptodactylus over a two month period from a study site in Amazonian Ecuador: L. discodactylus, L. knudseni, L. mystaceus, L. pentadactylus, and L. wagneri. Three species have broad niches (L. knudseni, L. mystaceus, and L. wagneri); two have narrower niches (L. pentadactylus, L. discodactylus). L. wagneri apparently is a broad-niched species over much of the Amazon Basin, indicating that the species is well adapted to changing environments and is probably an excellent colonizer species. L. discodactylus has relatively low niche overlap with all the other species; L. pentadactylus has moderate overlap with L. knudseni, L. mystaceus, and wagneri; L. wagneri, mystaceus, and knudseni have broadly overlapping niches. The latter three species each belong to different species groups within the genus. Male L. mystaceus and wagneri call from different microhabitats within the same general habitat (clearings), male L. discodactylus call from a distinct habitat (stream seepages). Two distinct call strategies are employed. The first is a loud call used to attract females from some distances; males call each night during the breeding season, larval success is relatively independent of individual rainshowers. Leptodactylus mystaceus utilizes this strategy. The second strategy, used by L. discodactylus and L. wagneri, is characterized by a weak call used to attract females over a short distance; calling correlates with heavy rains and larval success is greater if mating correlates with heavy rain activity. Neither male L. mystaceus or wagneri demonstrated any chorus structure. Female L. mystaceus have relatively small clutches of large, unpigmented eggs, L. discodactylus have large clutches of small, unpigmented eggs, and L. wagneri have very large clutches of small, pigmented eggs. No differences in female temporal reproductive patterns were evident over the study period. Leptodactylus wagneri larvae occur in dense, extremely active schools. Individual L. wagneri larvae apparently are not distasteful to aquatic insect predators.
3892751|Four new species of Madagascan skinks (Amphiglossus) are described from rainforest localities surveyed in the east, southeast, and northwest between 1988 and 1991. Most of these species were collected using pitfall traps with drift fences. Amphiglossus mandokava was collected at Manongarivo (northwest), A. minutus at Manongarivo (northwest) and Ambatovaky (east), A. anosyensis from the Anosy Mountains (southeast), and the fourth species, A. punctatus, from several localities from the eastern escarpment (southeast and east). Amphiglossus mandokava may be another semi-aquatic skink, like A. waterloti and A. astrolabi. Amphiglossus punctatus is the first member of the genus known to be viviparous.
3891893|The surface activity and distribution patterns of five species of anurans inhabiting a watershed in the Chihuahuan Desert were studied from 1970-1974. Adult toads Bufo debilis, Bufo cognatus, Scaphiopus hammondi, Scaphiopus bombifrons and Scaphiopus couchi exhibited short periods of activity immediately following rain events. Juveniles of these species were active for as long as 55 days in the bottom of the ephemeral lake where vegetative cover and fissures in the clay-silt soil provided shelter and modified the microclimate due to reduced evaporation. Less than 1% of the juveniles of S. bombifrons, S. hammondi and B. debilis survived to adult size. The importance of spatial separation within the flooded playa during breeding and possible character displacement of breeding calls are documented and their importance in maintaining this desert anuran community is discussed.
3893531|Female-specific reproductive coloration is widespread among lizards, prompting several hypotheses to explain the possible function(s) of such coloration in females. I tested four of these hypotheses using observational and experimental field studies of free-ranging collared lizard females, Crotaphytus collaris, which develop orange markings on the lateral torso in association with the reproductive cycle. Orange markings did not appear to function for advertisement to female competitors because females rarely displayed their coloration during interactions with consexual competitors, and markings developed well before the occurrence of peak aggression among females. By contrast, females frequently displayed their lateral torso when courted by males. The number of displays given to courting males did not differ in females that had and those that had not yet developed orange markings, suggesting that female coloration does not function for sexual recognition in collared lizards. Females developed orange pigmentation while they matured their first clutches, and markings were maintained between and throughout the production and oviposition of the second and third clutches. Male courtship encounters with females having naturally developed markings were longer and involved more male displays than those with females that had not yet developed their coloration, suggesting that development of coloration by females functions to stimulate male courtship when females are receptive. To test this hypothesis, I established nine female pairs of size- and age-matched females that had early vitellogenic eggs, but had not yet developed reproductive pigmentation. Female pairs were each residents on the territories of nine different males. One female in each pair was painted with orange spots and bars to mimic the natural orange coloration and the other with light brown to match the natural background coloration of female C. collaris and mask naturally developed pigments. Males began courting orange-painted females within 2 h, and, on average, orange females were courted over five times more frequently than brown females. The difference in courtship frequency did not appear to result from males avoiding brown females because the average distance between males and females in the two treatment groups was similar. These results support the hypothesis that reproductive coloration in C. collaris females stimulates courtship rather than signaling rejection of courtship to males.
3892047| Analyses of data on allozymes, morphometrics, structural characters, and coloration resulted in the definition of nine species of Gastrotheca in the Andes of Ecuador and southern Colombia. Some populations that previously were referred to G. riobambae are recognized as new species: G. espeletia from the pramos of southern Colombia and northern Ecuador, G. litonedis from the Cuenca Basin in Ecuador, and G. pseustes from the Andean cordilleras south to the Loja Basin. The range of G. riobambae is restricted to elevations mostly below 3000 m from the Ro Chonta south to the Riobamba Basin. Gastrotheca marsupiata lojana Parker, 1932 is placed in the synonymy of G. monticola Barbour and Noble, 1920, and G. cavia Duellman, 1974 is placed in the synonymy of G. riobambae (Fowler, 1913). A phylogeny based on shared derived electromorphs shows G. pseustes to be grouped with G. griswoldi and marsupiata from the Andes of Peru. Among all of the other species from the Andes of Ecuador, the two species having direct development (G. orophylax and plumbea) are most closely related to G. litonedis, monticola, and psychrophila from southern Ecuador; these five species together are related to G. espeletia, riobambae, and ruizi from northern Ecuador and southern Colombia. 
25209088|Three new species of Pristimantis are described from montane forests and pramos at elevations of 1900-3200 m in the Cordillera de Huancabamba in the northern Peruvian departamentos de Cajamarca and Piura. The new species are assigned to the Pristimantis unistrigatus Group and are compared with species from southern Ecuador and northern Peru. One of the new species has a black W-shaped occipital fold, and the groin, anterior and posterior surfaces of the thigh the concealed surface of tarsus, and axilla are blackish brown with yellowish-orange or reddish-orange flecks. The second species has an olive green dorsum with black and brown flecks, and a yellow groin and the anterior and posterior surfaces of thighs are yellow. Another species is unique in having blue flecks in the groin and on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the thigh and ventral surfaces of the shank. /// Se describen tres especies nuevas procedentes de bosque montano y pramo entre 1900-3200 m de elevacin en la Cordillera Oriental en los Departamentos de Cajamarca y Piura. Se asignan las nuevas especies al grupo de Pristimantis unistrigatus y son comparadas con las especies del sur de Ecuador y norte de Per. Una de las nuevas especies tiene un pliegue occipital negro con forma de "W" adems de ingles, superficies anterior y posterior de los muslos, superficie escondida del tarso y axila de color marrn negruzco con marcas naranjo-amarillo o naranjo rojizo. La otra especie tiene el dorso verde oliva con manchas negras y marrones adems de ingles y superficies anterior y posterior de los muslos color amarillo. La ltima especie se caracteriza por tener manchas azules en las ingles, superficies anterior y posterior de los muslos, y en el lado ventral del tarso.
3891412| The present study demonstrates that Hemidactylus frenatus has a vocal repertory of three functionally, physically distinct calls that are important in its social behavior. The multiple chirp (MC) call is the most common and is closely associated with agonistic behavior and territorial defense. The MC call has a consistent temporal pattern of chirps, and call rate varies directly with air temperature. Diel calling periodicity was investigated for the MC call and calls were observed to increase from dusk to a high in the early morning hours. Increasing call counts were positively correlated with numbers of active geckos. The churr call is infrequently heard, occurring only during aggressive encounters between  , and is thought to function as intimidation. The single chirp (SC) call is frequently heard and is closely associated with distress. The SC call may facilitate escape from predators. The acoustic behavior of H. frenatus is compared to that of other species of geckos and some correlates found. 
3892116|Alternative biochemical characters, including gene duplication, gene silencing, tissue-specific distribution of gene products, and isozyme patterns, are investigated in prairie rattlesnakes, Crotalus viridis viridis. Proposals are made for standardizing locus and allelic nomenclature to facilitate interstudy comparison of biochemical data. A previous report that three loci encode L-lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in viperid snakes is not substantiated. A tissue-specific posttranslational modification of mannose-6-phosphate isomerase (MPI) in skeletal muscle, which potentially leads to misinterpretation of the number of loci encoding this enzyme system, is detailed. Similar discrepancies are reported for glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PDH), phosphoglucomutase (PGM), phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (PGDH), and superoxide dismutase (SOD). A protein survey of 10 tissues (eye, brain, gonad, skeletal muscle, heart muscle, kidney, lung, liver, stomach, and duodenum) shows that four tissues (heart and skeletal muscle, kidney, and liver) are required to resolve allelic occurrences and locus homologies at 53 presumptive gene loci in C. v. viridis. Variations in tissue-specific gene regulation between the alligator (Alligator mississippiensis), western whiptail lizard (Cnemidophorus tigris), and C. v. viridis are noted. Three- and four-banded LDH isozyme patterns expressed in different tissues likely result from posttranslational modification and preferential binding (or instability) of subunit pairs. Interlocus heteropolymers are not observed in creatine kinase (CK), G3PDH, and SOD. Guidelines for proposing the evolutionary polarity of character states are provided, and biochemical characters are shown to be valuable for phyletic investigations at several taxonomic levels.
3891198|Three specimens of Constrictor constrictor were periodically exposed to mice prey which, on different occasions, were either normally active, anesthetized, or dead. The time required for the snakes to attack the prey was inversely related to activity level of the prey.
3891882|Giant crab spiders of the genus Olios are distributed in the same rain forest microhabitats as preadult Eleutherodactylus coqui. The ability of these spiders to capture E. coqui of different sizes was investigated by offering frogs, suspended by threads, to crab spiders in the field. Results indicate that survival of frogs is dependent on their size and that larger frogs survive encounters with spiders more often than smaller frogs because the larger individuals are able to escape after capture by kicking free of the spiders.
3892273| An adult specimen of Ambystoma from northern Indiana shares morphological characters with both triploid A. platineum and diploid A. tigrinum, and it is identified as a hybrid between them. Discriminant function analyses developed from samples of the parental species placed the hybrid with either parent. The hybrid had erythrocytes similar in size to tetraploid A. platineum  A. texanum from Illinois. This hybrid was collected with a series of A. platineum, suggesting that at this locality the triploids use sperm of A. tigrinum to stimulate cleavage of their eggs, with occasional syngamy occurring. 
3892516|Oviductal anatomy of H. propinqua is described. The anterior and middle vagina have transverse folds between which sperm are stored. Sperm are also stored in sac-like seminal receptacles which appear to be formed by twisting of the folds in the anterior vagina. These seminal receptacles are located between the vaginal epithelium and circular muscle. In the posterior vagina are longitudinal folds which do not store sperm. In the crypts of the middle and anterior vagina, sperm heads are oriented perpendicularly to and penetrate the epithelium in areas having a well-developed ciliary border. Sperm were stored in seminal receptacles throughout the 78-day observation period, but the number of sperm stored decreased significantly during the latter part of the study. Some captive females produced new clutches of eggs in the absence of males, indicating a potential for use of stored sperm. Large numbers of sperm occurred in the vaginas of freshly captured females having large preovulatory follicles, suggesting that mating frequently occurs shortly before ovulation.
3893570| Pond-breeding amphibians frequently encounter roads during their movements across the landscape to reach their breeding, summering, or hibernation sites. Through night driving surveys conducted each summer from 1995-2002 on a 20-km stretch of secondary road within a national park of eastern Canada, I evaluated whether road traffic had cumulative effects on amphibian abundance over this period. I also investigated the effect of nightly variations in traffic intensity on the number of amphibians killed on the road. I recorded a total of 4643 amphibian crossing events during the 37 surveys. I did not detect any decreasing trend in abundance for amphibian roadside populations over the 8 years. The number of dead American toads (Bufo americanus) increased with increasing traffic intensity. The number of ranid frogs (Rana clamitans, R. pipiens, and R. sylvatica) dead on the road was greatest when many individuals were moving on the road and at moderate traffic intensities (approximately 10-18 vehicles/h). In contrast, spring peepers (Pseudacris crucifer) dead on the road increased with decreasing traffic intensity. The number of ambystomatid salamanders (Ambystoma laterale and A. maculatum) dead on the road, on the other hand, did not respond to traffic intensity. Nonetheless, results indicate that subtle variations in traffic intensity as those observed in this study (i.e., 5-26 vehicles/h) can increase mortality on the road for certain amphibian species. Future studies in landscape ecology should routinely consider measures associated with roads, such as the proximity and density of roads, when investigating amphibian abundance patterns in wetlands. /// Les amphibiens se reproduisant en tangs rencontrent frquemment des routes lors de leurs dplacements entre les sites de reproduction, d'estivage et d'hibernation. J'ai valu la prsence d'effets cumulatifs de la route sur les patrons d'abondance des amphibiens. J'ai galement tudi l'effet des variations de l'intensit du trafic sur le nombre d'amphibiens crass sur la route. Pour ce faire, j'ai effectu des suivis nocturnes en automobile au cours des ts 1995  2002 sur un tronon (20 km) de route secondaire situe  l'intrieur d'un parc national de l'est du Canada. Au total, 4643 traverses d'amphibiens furent dtectes lors des 37 suivis effectus. Je n'ai dtect aucune baisse d'abondance des amphibiens pendant les 8 annes de l'tude. Nanmoins, les variations de trafic entre les nuits influencrent le nombre d'individus crass sur la route pour plusieurs espces d'amphibiens. Le nombre de crapauds amricains (Bufo americanus) crass sur la route a augment avec l'intensit du trafic alors que celui des grenouilles ranides (Rana clamitans, R. pipiens et R. sylvatica) crases sur la route tait le plus lev  des intensits de trafic modres (ca. 10-18 vhicules/h) et lorsqu'il y avait de nombreux individus vivants sur la route. Par contraste, le nombre de rainettes crucifres (Pseudacris crucifer) crases a augment avec une diminution de l'intensit du trafic. Le nombre de salamandres ambystomatides (Ambystoma laterale et A. maculatum) crases sur la route n'a pas vari selon l'intensit du trafic. Les rsultats indiquent que les variations subtiles d'intensit du trafic nocturne (i.e., 5-26 vhicules/h) peuvent augmenter le nombre d'individus crass sur la route chez certaines espces d'amphibiens. Des mesures de densit ou de configuration des routes devraient tre considres systmatiquement dans les tudes en cologie du paysage visant  expliquer les patrons d'abondance des amphibiens dans les milieux humides. 
3893556| Effective amphibian conservation must consider population and landscape processes, but information at multiple scales is rare. We explore spatial and temporal patterns of breeding and recruitment by eastern spadefoot toads (Scaphiopus holbrookii), using nine years of data from continuous monitoring with drift fences and pitfall traps at eight ephemeral ponds in longleaf pine-wiregrass sandhills. Breeding events (25 adults at a pond within a month) occurred 23 times on nine occasions at seven of the eight study ponds, but substantial recruitment (100 metamorphs) followed only five events. Recruitment ranged from 0-4648 among ponds. Only four ponds functioned as population "sources", and only during some years. The other ponds, and even "source" ponds during some years, functioned either as "sinks," where breeding occurred with no resulting recruitment, or were not used at all for breeding. Most recruitment occurred during four years. Recruitment was correlated with adult breeding effort, but only during some years. Recaptures were rare, and inter-pond exchange of adults was minimal and short-distance (<130 m; one was 416 m). Most (83.5%) individuals captured were metamorphs, and 15.9% were 51 mm (est. 4 yr). We conservatively estimated a 7-yr lifespan. Adult "population" trends clearly reflected breeding effort rather than numbers per se; capture rates fluctuated dramatically among years, but showed no overall trends during the 9-yr study. Our paper is provides empirical information that can be used to generate realistic metapopulation models for S. holbrookii as a tool in conservation planning. 
3892203|Electrophoretic analysis of Chiapan populations of Bolitoglossa resplendens reveals great similarity to Guatemalan populations of the morphologically similar B. lincolni. Study of additional specimens from populations of salamanders in the Cuilco Mountains of Guatemala reveals greater genetic variability than detected previously. Accordingly, B. resplendens is considered to be a junior synonym of B. lincolni.
3891872|The tadpole of the Chilean frog Insuetophrynus acarpicus is described. The larvae have the 2/2 tooth row formula and live at the edge of a cold stream.
25209079|Many animals exhibit pronounced shifts in ecology (e.g., habitat use, diet) as they grow. The central goal of this study was to determine whether habitat use and movement patterns of juvenile black ratsnakes (Elaphe obsoleta) differed from patterns previously documented for adult ratsnakes and to determine the conservation implications of any changes identified. We found a shift in habitat use by black ratsnakes with body size; juveniles used macrohabitats and microhabitats in proportion to their availability, unlike adult black ratsnakes that have been shown to prefer forest edges at both scales. Frequency of movement declined with body size, whereas distance traveled per move increased with body size. Habitat selection and movement patterns may be a result of ontogenetic shifts in thermoregulatory behaviour associated with changes in body size, or alternatively, may reflect size-related variation in predation risk. Home range size and fidelity, and fidelity to hibernacula all increased with body size. Despite ontogenetic changes in habitat use and movement by ratsnakes, recommendations regarding critical habitat for adults of this species should be adequate to protect juveniles.
3892664|The Caribbean region has been a center for debate about processes that gave rise to current species distributions. This dialogue is of particular interest to herpetologists, because much of the terrestrial vertebrate fauna is composed of amphibians and reptiles. Some workers have examined patterns of evolution and distribution of these organisms and concluded that widespread dispersal is the primary process explaining current biogeography; others have examined these same data and concluded that vicariance associated with complex tectonic movements is the primary biogeographic process. In this essay, we review Caribbean biogeography, focusing on a recent study of albumin immunological data. These data were interpreted as demonstrating that lineages on the Greater Antilles were too recent in origin, relative to the mainland as well as among islands, to be explained by vicariance. A novel hypothesis was presented, drawn from recent geological evidence of an extraterrestrial bolide impacting on the northern coast of the Yucatan at the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary. The location, timing, and magnitude of the impact as well as concomitant tsunamis were used to explain why recent dispersal appears to explain the origin of current herpetological lineages in the Caribbean. We re-examine the geological and immunological data that were used to generate the bolide hypothesis. Additionally, we use Brooks Parsimony Analysis to analyze phylogenetic patterns of Caribbean taxa. From these data, we conclude that (1) estimates of timing of Caribbean tectonic events are poorly constrained, (2) considerable immunological data are of sufficient age to conform to the predicted timing of vicariant events associated with the Greater Antilles, (3) dispersal events between the mainland and the Greater Antilles as well as among the Greater Antillean islands can be documented with immunological evidence provided that assumptions of evolutionary rates and direction of travel are examined carefully, (4) consistent patterns of phylogenetic relations of Caribbean taxa suggest a common history for many taxa, and (5) the pattern exhibited in conclusions 2 and 4 are sufficient to invoke vicariance as an important force in shaping current diversity within the Caribbean.
3891656|Southern leopard frogs, Rana utricularia, freshly captured near Austin, Texas, discriminated the odor of their home pond water from that of a control in an olfactometer. After two months of laboratory confinement, these frogs repeated this discrimination.
3893490| Based on external morphological and osteological characters, Phrynopus fallaciosus and Phrynopus flavomaculatus are placed in the Eleutherodactylus nigrovittatus Group, and the latter is reported for the first time in Peru (Departamento de Piura). Based on external morphological characters, Phrynopus laplacai is considered to be a junior synonym of P. wettsteini. The type locality of P. wettsteini in Peru is considered as doubtful, and the distribution of the species seems to be restricted to Bolivia. Based on external and internal morphological characters, including comparatively large testes, Phrynopus spectabilis is placed in the synonymy of Pleurodema marmorata. Males of several species of Phrynopus have Finger I (and Finger II in P. cophites) with a nuptial pad, a character that was thought to be restricted to Eleutherodactylus within eleutherodactyline frogs. A new, small species of Phrynopus is described from the Andes in southern Peru. /// En base a caracteres morfolgicos y osteolgicos, Phrynopus fallaciosus se transfiere a Eleutherodactylus, y colocado en el grupo Eleutherodactylus nigrovittatus; Phrynopus flavomaculatus se retorna a Eleutherodactylus flavomaculatus, colocado en el grupo E. nigrovittatus, y se reporta por primera vez para Per (Departamento de Piura). Phrynopus laplacai se sinonimiza a P. wettsteini en base a caracteres morfolgicos externos. La localidad tipo de P. wettsteini en Per es dudosa y la distribucin de la especie parece estar restringida a Bolivia. Phrynopus spectabilis se sinonimiza a Pleurodema marmorata en base a caracteres morfolgicos externos e internos, incluyendo testculos comparativamente grandes. Los machos de muchas especies de Phrynopus presentan el Dedo I (y el Dedo II en P. cophites) con una almohadilla nupcial, un carcter que se pensaba estaba restringido a Eleutherodactylus dentro de las ranas Eleutherodactyline. Una nueva y pequea especie de Phrynopus se describe procedente de los Andes al sur de Per. 
3892256|Preliminary observations suggest that there are differences in feeding behavior among frogs with different diets. A biomechanical model is presented which relates prey characteristics and feeding behavior of frogs to morphological variables of the jaws and skull. Measurements were taken on frogs with three different types of diets to test the predictions of the model. Congruent with model predictions, frogs that eat relatively small, slow prey have relatively short jaws and a symmetrical feeding cycle where equal amounts of time are spent catching and bringing prey into the mouth; frogs that eat relatively large, slow prey have relatively long jaws and an asymmetrical feeding cycle where time to prey capture is less than the time to bring prey into the mouth; and snail-eating frogs have lower jaws with a relatively long distance from the insertion point of the adductor muscle mass to the jaw articulation. These results suggest a form-function correlation between diet and skull shape in frogs, but more tests of the model are suggested.
3892569| The mud turtle (Kinosternon subrubrum) does not vary geographically in body size, but the number of eggs per clutch is significantly higher at cooler latitudes. Scrutiny of a single population in South Carolina revealed a decrease in average clutch size during the egg-laying season. Although female body size, climate and season may be independently or interactively important in influencing clutch size in K. subrubrum, a high, unexplained variance indicates the influence of other factors. Multiple clutches within a season by individuals are frequent among South Carolina K. subrubrum and two clutches per year may be laid in cooler regions. Although clutch size did not vary annually in South Carolina, clutch frequency and the proportion of females laying eggs did. Both males and females reach maturity at 70-80 mm in carapace length throughout the geographic range. No evidence exists that sex ratios vary significantly from 1:1 in any populations. Population size estimates (x = 371; SE = 35) for a South Carolina population were determined for 10 years. 
3891823|Previously unreported nesting localities of the hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata) are described from inner shelf cays of the northern Great Barrier Reef of Australia. Nesting density, adult size, clutch size, incubation success, and nest destruction are discussed for these rookeries.
3893053|Population ecology requires reliable population samples. We assessed sampling reliability for black rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta) using 1724 captures obtained by two different methods: trapping at communal hibernacula and opportunistic capture of snakes at large. Recapture intervals indicated that opportunistic captures were biased by size (larger snakes were over-represented) but not by sex. Furthermore, opportunistic captures of snakes seen on roads (while observers were driving) had a stronger size bias than other opportunistic captures. Trapping at hibernacula sampled the respective hibernacula populations reliably, but the hibernacula populations themselves were not representative samples of the local population. Among 13 hibernacula, sex ratios ranged from 31-65% females and age structure from 42-86% sexually mature individuals. Because rat snakes can take many years before they join communal hibernacula, young snakes were under-represented in all hibernacula samples. We found highly significant differences in the size and sex composition of our samples from the Ontario population and from samples from a population in Maryland (from published data). Those differences seem more likely to be a consequence of biases associated with how snakes were sampled at each location than a reflection of real population differences. We recommend that future sampling of rat snakes include opportunistic sampling of snakes at large combined with sampling at several hibernacula. Also, researchers sampling snakes should assess biases in their samples, because biases that are not recognized will be more problematic than those of which researchers are aware.
3891689|Monthly samples of male six-lined racerunner lizards, Cnemidophorus sexlineatus, were collected in central Oklahoma. The reproductive state, degree of fat body deposition, and adrenal volume were determined. Seasonal behavioral changes of captive males were recorded. Testicular hypertrophy and sperm production commence in late May coincident with the onset of intraspecific aggressive and sexual behavior. The breeding season ends in late July when testes are quiescent and sexual and aggressive behavior ceases. Testicular recrudescence occurs in September but sperm production is delayed until the following May. Fat body deposition is seasonal; depletion occurs during the breeding period and maximal deposition occurs prior to autumnal aestivation. Adrenal gland volume is maximal during the summer breeding season and minimal in autumn.
3891213|The tadpoles of four nominal species of Atelopus (certus, ignescens, minutus, and spumarius) are described and illustrated. The tadpoles of A. certus, ignescens, and spumarius are like that of the previously known A. varius in having a large ventral mouth and suctorial disc and a median anal tube. Insofar as known, all species of Atelopus deposit unpigmented eggs in strings in torrential streams, except minutus, which lays pigmented eggs in strings in ponds. The tadpoles of minutus have small anteroventral mouths and dextral anal tubes; in both of these characters they are like the tadpoles of Dendrophryniscus brevipollicatus, which deposits its pigmented eggs singly in bromeliads. Tadpoles of two species of Melanophryniscus also have small anteroventral mouths, but these have median anal tubes; the eggs of Melanophryniscus are pigmented and deposited singly in water-filled cavities in the ground. It is suggested that on the basis of life history data minutus does not belong in the genus Atelopus.
40931024|One of the most important life-history traits for organisms is age at first reproduction. The benefits of early reproduction often trade off with survival of the female and/or with her growth. Prey availability has been shown to be important in determining strategies for adult trade-offs of reproductive traits in snakes, but its impact on maturity has rarely been studied. We examined the role of energy intake on the brown house snake, Lamprophis fiiliginosus, on trade-offs in growth, maturity, and reproductive traits. Six female full-sibling offspring from 10 wild-caught dams were raised on either a high diet (50% of their body mass per week) or a low diet (20% per week) until they mated and laid eggs. Both diet and family influenced growth rates. Forty-eight out of 60 snakes mated, and 37 of these laid eggs within the 20 months. Mean days to first mating was nearly 100 days earlier for animals on the high diet. Within each treatment females did not differ from each other in mating age. The females on the low diet mated at a smaller size than the females on the high diet and laid fewer eggs. However, when adjusted by female snout-to-vent length as a covariate clutch size did not differ between diets. These results suggest there is a minimum size and age below which females will not ovulate. Females with faster growth may bypass that minimum even though earlier reproduction would produce a faster generation time. The trade-off with increased reproductive output in these bigger females may offset the benefits of an earlier maturity and produce equivalent fitness. Finally, we provide evidence that age of maturity may have an additive genetic effect, i.e., may be heritable and thus evolvable based on a significant family effect.
3893482|The daily rhythm of behavioral thermoregulation in sleepy lizards (Tiliqua rugosa) was studied in laboratory thermal gradients under a 12L:12D photoperiod in autumn and spring. In both seasons, lizards showed distinctive daily rhythms of behavioral thermoregulation, selecting their highest body temperatures during the late photophase and lowest ones during the late scotophase or early photophase. When lizards were subjected to a period of constant darkness at both seasons, this rhythm persisted and free-ran with a period of 24.7 h, indicating that it is an endogenous circadian rhythm. Furthermore, the expression of this circadian rhythm varies seasonally in the amplitude of its free-running rhythm and in the phase at which the minimum T
3892040| The water snakes, Natrix sipedon and Regina septemvittata are able to use the sun for compass orientation. Both species were trained in outdoor rectangular aquatic tanks with a shoreline at one end. Following a minimum of 72 hours training, the snakes were released individually at the center of an outdoor circular aquatic test arena. Directional responses were scored when they made contact with the arena wall. N. sipedon responded by orienting along the trained axis in the direction of the water, while R. septemvittata exhibited a bidirectional response along the trained axis. When both species were phase shifted by a 6-hour change in light cycle, their orientation was altered by 90. The difference in the natural history of the two snakes is discussed as a possible basis for the variation in response of the two species. 
3891888|Larvae of the predaceous diving beetle Dytiscus verticalis acquired an avoidance of the unpalatable newt Notophthalmus viridescens. After aquiring an avoidance of sections of the tail from adult newts, larval beetles avoided cotton swabs dipped in an extract of newt skin. The beetle larvae continued to avoid pieces of newt tail after 48 and 96 h, but there was a significant reduction in the level of avoidance after 144 h. This acquired avoidance by a major aquatic insect predator might explain the selective advantage of kinship aggregations in unpalatable larvae of amphibians.
3891484|Eleutherodactylus roseus and E. taeniatus, previously known from holotypes, are reported from several localities and redescribed, as are E. gaigeae and E. subsigillatus. Eleutherodactylus chalceus (Peters) is the oldest name for the frog called E. areolatus (Boulenger). Syrrhopus molinoi Barbour is placed in the synonymy of E. ridens (Cope). Eleutherodactylus caryophyllaceus, E. gaigeae, E. ridens, and E. subsigillatus are reported for the first time from western Colombia.
3893585|We tested the roles of shelter and prey odor cues on the prestrike movement patterns of the dusky pigmy rattlesnake, Sistrurus miliarius barbouri. In the first experiment, prey odors-mouse, frog, lizard, plus control-were presented in various combinations with and without shelters. The pigmy rattlesnake initially preferred sites with both frog odor and shelter. However, this changed over a 23-h period so that shelter alone became the most preferred feature of the microhabitat choices. The initial 2 h pigmy response was similar to that reported for the western rattlesnake (Crotalus viridis), in that they responded differently to the four choice combinations of shelter and prey odor. This initial pigmy response differed in that only frog odor (but not mouse or lizard odor) affected their initial choices. Our work also indicates that when foraging, novel prey odors (frog) initially attracted their attention, but preference for this odor soon declined. In the second experiment, we examined the preference for prey odors by simultaneously presenting all three prey odors plus control (water). The snakes exhibited no prey odor preference during the first 2-h or during the total 23-h of the trials. In both experiments, the pattern of circadian activity was the same. Circadian activity showed two peaks, one shortly before onset of the nocturnal phase and the second just before midnight; thereafter, activity gradually declined so that most snakes were in, and remained in, a shelter by morning when the diurnal phase began. In these experiments, active movement in pigmy rattlesnakes occurred nocturnally and by day they remain in settled locations. While in such settled positions, the pigmy rattlesnakes coiled into stereotypic ambush postures facing the opening in their shelter where prey would most likely pass.
3893594|Time spent pursuing, capturing, and subduing prey, and time spent preparing and swallowing it all affect profitability of a prey item (net energy gain/handling time). In the diet selection model of classical optimal foraging theory, handling time is constant for each prey type, but several factors affect it in some predators. We studied factors that might cause time spent to capture and handle prey by broad-headed skinks (Eumeces laticeps) to vary between and within prey types. Pursuit time did not vary with prey (cricket) size in experimental conditions. In three experiments using crickets of the same size, handling times for the first prey eaten were shorter when more prey were simultaneously present. Reduced handling time likely maximizes number of prey captured before the remaining prey escape. Preparation time (capture to initiation of swallowing) did not vary with prey number, but swallowing time decreased with number of prey present. This result suggests that lizards must prepare crickets thoroughly for digestion by bites puncturing the exoskeleton, which constrains them from decreasing preparation time. However, lizards can reduce handling time by swallowing more quickly, increasing the likelihood of capturing additional prey. Handling times were shortest for hungry skinks and longest just before statiation. Two factors may contribute to the increase in handling time with degree of satiation: (1) Motivation to capture prey declines as a predator becomes satiated, removing the reason for shortening handling times when groups of prey are present; (2) as the stomach and the esophagus are filled, mechanical constraints may slow swallowing. Preparation time, number of bites, swallowing time, and handling time increased with cricket size. Consequently, although it appears that the largest prey were the most profitable for sizes of crickets studied, this may not be true for other ranges of prey size. Preparation time was shorter for prey bitten on the head than on the side or back, but prey orientation during swallowing did not affect swallowing time. In summary, (1) when prey are present simultaneously, total energetic profit may be increased by reducing handling time, and (2) handling for specific prey types vary with satiation and handling method.
3891259|The hemipenes of three taxa of Leptotyphlops are described, compared and figured. All have in common a swollen basal area that rests in the base of the tail and functions to direct the hemipenis forward and outward. L. melanotermus is different from the subspecies of L. goudotii in hemipenial structure. The two subspecies, although similar externally, are different in details of hemipenial morphology.
3892343|The gross karyotypes of all six valid species of Seychellean caecilians are described and compared to the karyotypes of other species. The karyotypes are all remarkably similar, each having a diploid number of 26 chromosomes, no heteromorphic pairs in either sex, and no obvious markers. Three groups of chromosomes occur in each species: a group of four pairs of large, mostly metacentric chromosomes, a group of eight pairs of metacentrics and submetacentrics of intermediate size, and a single pair of very small chromosomes, which are metacentric in the four species of Grandisonia and telocentric in Hypogeophis rostratus and Praslinia cooperi. There are also minor differences among species in the centromeric position of chromosomes 4, 10, and 12. The karyotypes of the Seychellean species are unique among the known karyotypes of caecilians, and most similar to the karyotypes of the two Central American species Dermophis mexicanus and Gymnopis multiplicata. These new karyotypic data are consistent with the hypothesis that the Seychellean species form a monophyletic unit and inconsistent with the phylogenetic scheme of Lescure et al. (1986), which places Grandisonia and Hypogeophis in separate families.
3893161|Scats were collected from outside crevice refuges of the skink Egernia stokesii from six populations in the Warruwarldunha Range, South Australia. There were small scats present in late summer soon after the birth of juveniles. Over two years, these small scats had significantly less plant material than large scats, and a higher percentage of them contained the remains of insects than did large scats. Also over two years the large scats showed more plant material and fewer had insect remains in late summer, when juveniles were present, than in mid summer, before juveniles were born. In laboratory trials, adults and juveniles were fed either an all plant diet or an all insect diet. Juveniles consumed more insects per gram of body mass than adults. Juveniles scatted more than adults on both diets. In the laboratory, adults had consistently larger scats than juveniles, independent of the diet. This implies that large and small scats from the field were deposited by adult and juvenile lizards, respectively. The field data suggest that juveniles have more insects in their diet than adults, and that adults change their diet away from insects when juveniles appear in the population. This could result from altered foraging behavior or from a response to the presence of feeding juveniles.
3892783| After a predatory strike and release of mice, rattlesnakes must distinguish the trail of the fleeing envenomated mouse from odors of other rodent trails to relocate successfully the dispatched prey. Foremost among cues that the snake uses are odors of the particular mouse struck and odors related to the injected venom. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the separate importance of each cue, in order to assess the discriminating preferences of snakes. We performed two experiments. (1) We established a baseline for the snakes to confirm the snake's ability to discriminate between envenomated and non-envenomated prey. (2) We presented the same group of snakes with a choice between prey odor and venom-induced odor. This was done by first laying one mouse scent trail, then after the trail was made allowing the snake to strike the same mouse thereby gaining chemosensory cues of this mouse. The second trail was made with a mouse injected by syringe with the snake's own, reconstituted venom. Snakes, therefore, were presented with two choices during each trail: one with a non-envenomated mouse, but the mouse they later struck; the other trail of a different mouse, but of a mouse envenomated with the snake's own venom. Our results suggested that neither venom effects nor individual scent alone elicit a typical trailing behavior. Perhaps when those cues are in contradiction to each other, the snakes simply abandon the trail. Abandoning a poorly differentiated prey odor trail may also represent a snake's response to detection of poorly envenomated prey. /// Las serpientes de cascabel, al predar en roedores, normalmente enfrentan el problema de relocalizarlos despus de la mordida en un ambiente qumicamente complejo. Parte esencial en el proceso de relocalizacin, es la habilidad para diferenciala huella qumica especfica del individuo envenenado. El olor individual del ratn y los efectos colaterales de la inyeccin del veneno crotlico en este, son dos de los factores ms importantes en el mencionado proceso. De esta forma, el propsito de este estudio fue el de evaluar, por separado, la importancia de cada uno de estos dos factores en el comportamiento predador de estas serpientes. Dos experimentos fueron llevados a cabo: en el primero fu establecido un experimento control para confirmar la habilidad discri-minatoria en las serpientes utilizadas. En el segundo experimento, al mismo grupo de vboras les fueron presentadas, por separado, las dos huellas qumicas a distinguir. Esto se logr de la siguiente manera: primero el olor individual de un ratn (sin envenenar) fu depositado al frotar su vientre contra el piso de la caja experimental. Segundos despus, este mismo individuo fue presentado a la serpiente en turno, para que esta al morderlo, lo reconociera. La segunda huella qumica fue hecha con otro ratn previamente inyectado con el veneno de la misma serpiente, usando una aguja hipodrmica. Este segundo individuo nunca entr en contacto fsico con la serpiente durante el experimento. Nuestros resultados indican que ninguna de las huellas qumicas utilizadas, por separado, producen una respuesta tpica de relocalizacin. Posiblemente, las serpientes de cascabel requieran de ambas huellas para identificar, y entonces relocalizar a la presa. Por lo tanto, se sugiere que el abandono de una huella qumica incompleta o contradictoria, pueda significar un comportamiento adaptativo en estas serpientes. 
3891275|Rate of evaporative loss in Notaden bennetti is dependent upon amount of activity. Neither standard rate of loss nor vital limit show any adaptive differences in comparison to other species. However, N. bennetti is behaviorally adapted to dry habitats by (1) selecting high humidities, (2) reducing activity during desiccation, (3) aggregating when moisture conditions are unfavorable, (4) burrowing (emerging only when surface moisture is abundant), and (5) not burrowing in extremely dry soils. The extent of desiccation influences the frequency of burrowing and aggregation. These responses are not modified by lighting conditions and do not seem to be greatly influenced by an internal activity rhythm.
3891848|A cave hibernaculum in western Missouri, USA, was used by Elaphe obsoleta and Coluber constrictor. Thermal characteristics of the hibernaculum were recorded over 4 hibernation seasons. Air and surface temperatures near the entry of the hibernaculum were higher than at the rear of the den during early fall and spring but the thermal gradient was reversed in winter. Locations of snakes were correlated with these thermal clines. Our data support the hypothesis that entry into and exit from dens by snakes are dependent on reversals in the thermal gradient between surface and subsurface.
3893141|Previous studies of lizard mating systems have provided morphological and ecological hypotheses that may explain variation in male reproductive success. We present the results of a field study of factors associated with pairing success in males and females of the lacertid lizard Psammodromus algirus. Operational sex ratio was male biased and varied during the mating season. Early in the season, large females frequently paired sequentially with two males. However, late in the season, small females tended to pair with only one male. This suggests that male-male competition was stronger for larger females at the beginning of the mating season or there were fewer fertile females available. Pairs were observed together for 1-4 days, suggesting pre- or postcopulatory mate guarding behavior. Male pairing success was primarily influenced by morphological traits; males with larger heads, larger snout-vent lengths, and more ornamentation paired with more females. Male home range size and number of females overlaped did not affect male pairing success. More active males, which may have selectively moved within home ranges of paired females, had higher pairing success than less active males. The temporal distribution of receptive females seemed to favor polygyny. However, only the largest males were successful in competition for females throughout the mating season.
3891269|At water temperatures below 15 C, Ambystoma tigrinum moved in response to oxygen and thermal gradients, remaining in shallow water during the day and returning to deep water at night. Under these conditions, activity was reduced. In the absence of thermal and oxygen gradients at water temperatures below 15 C, movements were random. At water temperatures above 15 C, movement was random and activity increased. Temperature appeared to be the most important factor governing winter and spring activity and light seemed most important in governing summer activity.
3890967|Bufo mexicanus Brocchi, 1879, having a rounded inner metatarsal tubercle, is removed from the synonymy of Bufo speciosus and is applied to a highland population of toads in western Mexico. These toads, having dark, but dim, pectoral and ventrolateral pigmentation may be known as Bufo microscaphus mexicanus, new combination.
3892174|Sound pressure levels (SPL) were measured at various positions around male Centrolenella fleischmanni calling from the surfaces of broad-leaved plants. The frogs were not directional sound sources, but the configuration of the calling site sometimes resulted in directional beaming of calls. Measurements of SPL made on the side of leaves on which males were perched were much higher than those made on the opposite side. When recorded calls were broadcast through natural vegetation at the chorus site, there was considerable attenuation of sound over distances of less than 3 m. Variations in calling site acoustics may influence male success in attracting females, but there is no evidence that males choose calling sites because of their acoustic properties.
3892887|The cloacal region of female Salamandrina terdigitata from seasonal samples was studied by light and transmission electron microscopy. Externally this region is quite flat and the cloacal orifice a lipless slit leading to a cavity formed of a cloacal tube and chamber, the walls of which are lined with predominantly mucigenous epithelium. Connected to these cavities are two tubular, exocrine gland complexes ensheathed by myoepithelium, spermathecae, and ventral glands. The spermathecal tubules contain sperm from autumn to spring. During the same period, the glandular epithelium produces a secretion which is mixed with sperm in the tubule lumen. The gland ducts of the spermathecae open separately into the cloaca, in areas lined with ciliated epithelium. In ventral glands, secretory epithelium is particularly active during the laying period, suggesting that the secretion of this glandular complex plays a role during oviposition.
3891700| Variation in the coral snake, Micrurus diastema, from the Yucatn Peninsula is discussed in light of 6 additional specimens from critical areas of Quintana Roo, Mxico. Two specimens are reported that lack black body rings. The color pattern characteristic of specimens from the northern Yucatn Peninsula and the color pattern found in the southern Yucatn Peninsula, Belize, and northern Guatemala appear to change abruptly between Felipe Carillo Puerto and Playa del Carmen, Mxico, thereby supporting the validity of subspecies in those areas. 
3893354|The technique of counting growth rings to estimate age of turtles is widespread in the scientific literature. Review articles to date have provided primarily lists of authors who have found the technique useful or not, but these reviews have failed to evaluate properly how well the technique actually works. In an attempt to examine how well the published literature supports a biologically meaningful relationship between age and number of growth rings, we surveyed 145 scientific papers that have used counts of rings on scutes to estimate age of individual turtles. Of the 145 papers surveyed, the authors of 44 papers, which comprised 49 case studies, presented data testing the use of growth ring counts for a population of turtles. Of these 49 case studies, 6 reported that the use of the technique was reliable for aging their turtle species past sexual maturity, 15 reported its use to be reliable for aging turtles to young adult (i.e., sexual maturity), 8 reported its use to be reliable for aging juvenile turtles, 2 found it to be reliable with no age limit given, and 8 reported its use unreliable as a method for aging their turtles. The remainder of the case studies presented data that were difficult for us to interpret as reliable or unreliable. Although 22 papers addressed the pattern of growth ring deposition, only four case studies had sufficient data to indicate that a consistent number of rings was added each year. In this paper, we illustrate how the widespread use of this technique ultimately has led to its acceptance without the rigor of tests of its validity or accuracy. We conclude that (a) studies attempting to calibrate the relationship between growth rings and age are few, (b) a majority of the papers that we surveyed referenced other papers that did not themselves include a test justifying growth ring counts as an estimate of turtle age, (c) aging turtles from counts of growth rings might be feasible in some types of studies, for some species at some locations, but only after calibrating the relationship between ring counts and age for each circumstance, and (d) there is currently no justification for generalizing the use of growth rings to estimate turtle age for many species.
3892402|An experiment was conducted to study the interactions between paired males of the red-backed salamander, Plethodon cinereus, when both were residents of neighboring areas and the amount of food received per individual was asymmetric (i.e., "low" and "high" levels). The low food level was the minimum number of Drosophila virilis required per day by a salamander, without loss or gain of body mass; the high food level was double that amount. Salamanders fed low food levels spent significantly more time inside the burrow and in escape behavior. This suggests that males in food-poor territories avoid escalated aggressive disputes with males in food-rich territories.
40931031|Toads in northern climates may spend seven months or more in hibernation; therefore, behavioral decisions related to hibernation are important for survival. We examined factors influencing the timing and nature of movements to hibernation sites by western toads (Anaxyrus boreas, formerly Bufo boreas) at three study areas in north-central Alberta, Canada, with the use of radiotracking. We found that small toads arrived at the general vicinity of their hibernation sites earlier than larger toads. Entry date into hibernation sites was similar for toads of all sizes. Arrival and entry dates were both significantly related to temperature and/or day length. Larger toads moved to hibernation sites later in the year and moved along straighter paths to reach these sites. We propose that larger toads are older individuals that are familiar with their landscape and locations of suitable hibernacula and that they maximize their fitness by remaining at good foraging grounds as late in the year as possible.
3892296|A model is developed to estimate mean age-specific fecundity for sea turtle populations. Information on the numbers of eggs laid by female turtles of known relative ages is used to estimate the mean number of eggs that will be laid by females that are reproducing at a given age. Information on the frequencies of interseasonal nesting intervals is then used to adjust mean age-specific fecundities to reflect the substantial proportion of females in each age class that do not reproduce in a particular season (i.e., at a particular age). The model is developed with data collected on adult female loggerhead turtles, Caretta caretta, nesting on Little Cumberland Island, Georgia, USA, from 1969 through 1981. The model is applicable to species of both marine and freshwater turtles in which individual females may not reproduce each year (i.e., at each consecutive age).
23254564|In spite of Amazonia's large biodiversity, we still understand relatively little about how it evolved. Phylogeographic studies help us to understand the spatial and temporal context in the diversification of organisms, but only a few such studies have been done in Amazonia, where regional and local variation exists that may have been influenced by different events or similar events at different times. Here we test whether, and to what degree, the phylogeographic structure of faunal elements reflects a recently proposed geological scenario for the establishment of the lower AmazonTocantins basins in eastern Amazonia. We test an area cladogram that assumes that the Amazon River represents the first potential barrier (3.6 million years ago [mya]), followed by an eastwest separation south of the Amazon caused by the paleo-Tocantins River (2.5 mya), and most recently by the shift of the lower Tocantins eastward to its present course (60008000 yr ago). We examined mtDNA (520 base-pairs [bp] of 16S, 815 bp of cytochrome b) of two widely distributed and distantly related lizard species, Gonatodes humeralis (Sphaerodactylidae) and Kentropyx calcarata (Teiidae). The phylogeographic structure of G. humeralis indicates that the species is characterized by deep splits between localities, preventing us from recovering well-supported relationships between populations. Kentropyx calcarata haplotype networks and our Bayesian mtDNA tree identify a number of clades that we compare through an AMOVA. The overall phylogeny of K. calcarata was partially congruent with the geological scenario, but some unforeseen relationships were also recovered. Our results reinforce the potential of phylogeographic studies to help understand the recent evolution of Amazonia, and at the same time point to the necessity of refined sampling and the use of multiple molecular markers in such studies. Apesar da grande biodiversidade existente na Amaznia, ainda conhecemos relativamente pouco como ela evoluiu. Estudos filogeogrficos ajudam a entender o contexto espacial e temporal da diversificao dos organismos, mas apenas poucos estudos desse tipo foram feitos na Amaznia, que apresenta variaes locais e regionais que podem ter sido influenciadas por diferentes eventos, ou por eventos similares em tempos distintos. Testamos aqui se, e em que grau, a estrutura filogeogrfica de elementos da fauna reflete um cenrio geolgico proposto recentemente para a bacia do baixo AmazonasTocantins, na Amaznia oriental. Testamos um cladograma de rea que assume que o Rio Amazonas representa a primeira barreira potencial ( 3.6 milhes de anos atrs, mya), seguida por uma separao leste-oeste ao sul do Rio Amazonas causada pelo paleo-Tocantins (2,5 mya), e mais recentemente pelo deslocamento em direo leste do baixo curso do Rio Tocantins (68 mil anos atrs). Examinamos o mtDNA (520bp de 16S e 815 bp de citocromo b) de duas espcies de lagartos amplamente distribudas e no proximamente relacionadas, Gonatodes humeralis (Sphaerodactylidae) e Kentropyx calcarata (Teiidae). A estrutura filogeogrfica de G. humeralis indica tratar-se de uma espcie caracterizada por separaes profundas entre localidades, impedindo-nos de recuperar, com bom suporte estatstico, a relao entre elas. Em K. calcarata, as redes de hapltipos e a rvore Bayesiana obtidas a partir do mtDNA apontaram para uma srie de clados que foram comparados atravs de uma AMOVA. As relaes filogenticas obtidas para essa espcie foram parcialmente congruentes com o cenrio geolgico, mas algumas relaes inesperadas tambm foram recuperadas. Nossos resultados reforam o potencial de estudos filogeogrficos em ajudar a entender a evoluo recente da Amaznia, e apontam simultaneamente para a necessidade de amostragens refinadas e o uso de marcadores moleculares mltiplos em tais estudos.
3893255| We investigated annual reproductive and fat body cycles of Agama impalearis in the central Jbilet Mountains (Morocco) throughout 1993 and 1994. The breeding season is relatively long, beginning around mid-March (just after emergence from winter dormancy) and lasting 6-7 months. Development of the testes and epididymis were synchronous; testes volume and epididymis diameter reached maximum sizes during April-July and then showed a postreproductive regression throughout late summer and during autumn. Follicle and oviduct diameters were largest in females between May and August. Fat body size showed similar annual changes during the two years of study. However, in females lipid stores remained at a very low level during spring and summer 1993, coincident with the relatively low winter rainfall. Male fat bodies were largest during the spring mating period and just after the summer reproductive period. Oviposition took place between late May and early September, and the first hatchlings appeared in mid-July after an incubation period up to two months; 44.4% and 51.4% of females collected in late spring, respectively in 1993 and 1994, simultaneously contained oviductal eggs and vitellogenic ovarian follicles, suggesting production of two clutches per year. Larger females produced larger clutches than smaller females (r = 0.53,
3890826|The stomach contents of 337 Metcalf's salamanders, Plethodon jordani metcalfi, and 435 red-legged salamanders, Plethodon jordani shermani, were examined. There was great similarity in the foods utilized by the two. Ants were the most important food of both forms but were more important in P. j. metcalfi. Other prominent foods were spiders, insect larvae, springtails, millipedes, centipedes, mites and snails. A greater diversity of foods was eaten by P. j. metcalfi than by P. j. shermani. Smaller items such as ants, mites and springtails accounted for decreasing percentages of food by volume in the large size groups, and the reverse was true for some of the large items, especially millipedes and earthworms. There were no distinct seasonal changes in food habits.
3890666|Male H. versicolor, H. chrysoscelis, and H. arenicolor of the Hyla versicolor species group of tree frogs have two vocalizations in addition to the mating call; a release call and a territorial call. The release call, in comparison with the territorial call, appears poorly tuned on a sound spectrogram, is shorter in duration, and is usually given in an irregular series dependent, in part, on the length of time a male is in contact with another male. The territorial call appears well tuned, is longer in duration, and is given in sets of one to four calls in response to calling males nearby or a human imitation of a frog mating call. The release call appears to function as a mechanism of sex identification. The territorial call appears to function as a spacing mechanism in high density choruses. The spacing produced may aid the females in locating a particular male for mating, rather than functioning as a male-male competitive mating mechanism.
3891595| On the Caribbean coast of Colombia, 80 Caretta   were tagged. Recoveries showed an average internesting interval of 15 days (range 13-20). Nesting season starts late in April and goes on until August. Up to 4 nestings were observed by an individual turtle, but this number by no means seems to be the maximum. Clutch size (x) in 185 nests was 107 eggs (range 58-163). Observations of individual turtles gave evidence of increasing clutch size with successive renesting. This was supported by the finding that the monthly mean clutch size of the whole Buritaca nesting colony also increased as the breeding season proceeded. First long term returns indicated a two-year breeding cycle of Caretta in Colombia. 
3892384|The population of salamanders on Mt. Carmel, Israel, was studied during 10 yr; 72 adult salamanders were captured and released. Male: female ratio was 1.4:1. The recapture rate was high mostly during the same season, but even after 8 yr animals were still recaptured. Males were recaptured more often than females and were more active in their phenology. They appeared early in the season and remained for longer periods near the breeding sites. They were slightly longer and less heavy than the females. This relic population of salamanders is comparatively small, leading a precarious life in the xeric Mediterranean environment on Mt. Carmel.
3892812|Relationships within Spea were examined by means of a phylogenetic analysis of allozymic and morphological data. The products of 21 electrophoretic loci were resolved for the four species of Spea and two species of Scaphiopus which were used as an outgroup. Fifteen loci and one morphological character varied within Spea. Discrete character coding of allelic arrays was analyzed using PAUP and yielded a single shortest tree with a length of 25.5 steps and a consistency index of 0.843. A parsimony analysis of allelic frequencies using FREQPARS resulted in the same shortest tree with a length of 87.84. This tree shows the following relationships: S. multiplicata (S. hammondii ("S. intermontana" + S. bombifrons)). The two samples of "S. intermontana" shared no alleles at nine loci and do not appear to be sister taxa, suggesting that the geographic variation and taxonomic status of this species should be investigated further.
3892018|The desert iguana, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, is capable of an adaptive immune response. A single intraperitoneal injection of antigen (keyhole limpet hemocyanin) results in the production of passive hemagglutinating and precipitating antibody. An enhanced secondary response to a second injection, given 60 days later, suggests the existence of an immunological memory. Antibody synthesized during both primary and secondary responses appears to be a 2-mercaptoethanol sensitive, low molecular weight beta globulin.
25621915|The Geckolepis fish-scale geckos, which exhibit extreme skin and scale autotomy, and are endemic to Madagascar and the Comoros, have long been considered problematic concerning species recognition, with the last review of the group made by Angel (1942). Here we report the results of our morphological study, which examined 178 specimens representing most of the intact museum specimens that are currently available. We find a total of three valid species within the genus Geckolepis: G. typica Grandidier, 1867; G. maculata Peters, 1880; and G. polylepis Boettger, 1893. We consider three previously described taxa: G. petiti Angel, 1942; G. typica anomala Mocquard, 1909; and G. typica modesta Methuen and Hewitt, 1913, as junior synonyms of G. typica; and G. humbloti Vaillant, 1887, as a junior synonym of G. maculata. We designate MNHN 1994.1748 as the lectotype of Geckolepis typica. For each recognized species we provide a diagnosis and new description, summarize individual variation, and describe geographical distribution. We also present an identification key for the group discuss systematic and biogeographic issues and the unusual scale fragility of Geckolepis.
3893100|Increasing reports of amphibian limb malformations from many parts of North America have prompted investigations into the potential causes of these abnormalities and their implications for amphibian populations. Over a two-year period, we monitored the frequency and composition of morphological abnormalities in four amphibian species (Hyla regilla, Taricha torosa, Bufo boreas, and Rana catesbeiana) from two California ponds. The frequency of abnormalities differed significantly by species, life-history stage, pond, and season. Generally, the frequency and severity of abnormalities were greater in the amphibians from Frog Pond over those from Hidden Pond, and in larval stages over emerging and adult amphibians. Larvae of T. torosa exhibited the highest rate of abnormalities, ranging from 15-50%, followed by larval and metamorphic H. regilla (10-25%), and finally by metamorphic B. boreas and R. catesbeiana, both of which had rates of less than five percent. Within each species, the composition of abnormalities was strongly consistent between years, ponds, and early life-history stages. We recorded the most severe malformations in H. regilla, and more than 60% of the abnormalities in treefrogs involved extra hindlimbs, femoral projections, and skin webbings. Similarly severe, the abnormalities of R. catesbeiana were dominated by extra and missing hind- and forelimbs. In B. boreas and T. torosa, the most common morphological abnormalities were missing limbs and digits, which accounted for approximately 75% and 95%, respectively, of their total abnormalities. Potential causes of the observed abnormalities, including infection by the trematode Ribeiroia, and the conservation significance of amphibian malformations are discussed.
3892753| A new species of Sphaerodactylus is described from Loma El Pen in the Cordillera Oriental of the Dominican Republic. It is a banded species that appears to be related to two species also occurring in the eastern Dominican Republic: S. samanensis Cochran and S. callocricus Schwartz. It differs in having fewer dorsal scales, more hair-bearing scale organs, a postsacral patch and ocelli, more crossbands, and in lacking a scapular patch and ocelli. 
3893342|We raised wood frogs, Rana sylvatica, from eggs in replicated outdoor ponds at three densities (four, eight, and 16 tadpoles/250 l) to produce tadpoles that differed in size at metamorphosis. Individuals were then reared in containers in the laboratory to determine if the size-advantage produced during the larval stage carried-over to the time of first hibernation. We also infected metamorphs with a parasitic lungworm, Rhabdias ranae, to determine its direct and interactive effect on host growth and survival. Tadpoles from low-density ponds were, on average, 40.7% (0.51 g) heavier at metamorphosis than those from high-density ponds. Juvenile frogs that were heaviest at metamorphosis were also 14.7% (0.53 g) heavier at the time of their first hibernation. Growth rate estimates for juveniles originating from low- and high-density ponds were identical, showing that the advantage in size at hibernation was due to differences in mass at metamorphosis, not differences in growth rate. We detected no effect of lungworm infection on growth or survival, probably because worm numbers in the lungs were low and because worms were rapidly lost from hosts after a single exposure to parasite larvae. The degree to which an individual's performance during one stage is linked to performance during a subsequent stage may be an important life-history characteristic for a species with a complex life cycle, particularly one in which overwinter survival and reproductive success are size- or condition-dependent.
3891449| Oxygen consumption, total evaporative H
3892708|I investigated the relative importance of olfactive and visual cues in mate recognition by males of Triturus montandoni and T. vulgaris. Four experimental devices were used, a Y-maze and three different kinds of tunnels. I performed three kinds of tests, the test males being offered the choice between (1) female versus blank, (2) female versus male, and (3) male versus blank. Male newts significantly preferred the end arm containing females over the blank arm when olfactive stimuli were provided. The presence of a male in the female versus male test did not influence female choice of the tested male. Male newts could not discriminate visually between the sexes, showing only a slight preference for the end arm containing an animal, independent of sex. In the control tests, males were not attracted by the end arm containing males when olfaction was involved, but they were slightly attracted visually, perhaps by the movements of the source animal. In the initial stages of courtship, identification of species and sex is of most importance, and mate recognition success is an important part in male-male competition for females. The present results suggest that for mate location, male newts depend almost entirely on olfactive signals. No significant differences were observed in mate recognition between the two species tested. I suggest that male newts of different species behave similarly during the first stages of courtship behavior. Mate recognition may be an important component of sexual selection in newts. Sexual selection might favor males that can identify potential mates quickly and correctly, especially in ponds where different species reproduce.
3891594| Testicular cycles of the colubrid snakes, Masticophis taeniatus and Pituophis melanoleucus are described. Testes are regressed April-May; recrudescence begins in June. Spermiogenesis occurs in both species during late summer-early autumn.   emerge from hibernation in April with sperm from the previous autumn stored in the epididymis and ductus deferens. Breeding activity commences in April and continues into early summer. Sperm is present in the ductus deferens throughout the year. Interstitial cell nuclei diameters are at maximum sizes during autumn and spring. Minimum sizes were recorded in summer. 
3890620|Fully viable hybrids between Ambystoma dumerilii and A. mexicanum resulted from both artificial insemination and observed interspecific courtship. Hatchling larvae of A. dumerilii were slightly larger than those of A. mexicanum, but resembled them in major morphological and pigmentary features which are shared also with A. tigrinum. Size and pigmentation of hybrid hatchlings resembled the maternal species, but pigmentation and body proportions of older larvae were intermediate. The interdigital webbing of A. dumerilii developed as toes developed and was of intermediate extent in hybrids. The unique dorsal fimbriae of A. dumerilii developed early in larval life but did not appear in hybrids. Larvae of A. dumerilii, A. mexicanum and their hybrids grew at comparable rates, but A. mexicanum matured earlier than A. dumerilii; hybrids matured somewhat earlier than either parental species. Five of 16 hybrids transformed. The relationship of A. dumerilii to other species of Ambystoma would be represented better by placing it in the tigrinum species-group rather than in its own monotypic subgenus.
3893502| We used data from 10 years of continuous, concurrent monitoring of oak toads at eight isolated, ephemeral ponds in Florida longleaf pine-wiregrass uplands to address: (1) did weather variables affect movement patterns of oak toads?; (2) did pond hydrology and the condition of surrounding uplands affect pond selection by adults or juvenile recruitment?; (3) were population trends evident?; and (4) did a classical metapopulation model best represent their population ecology? Of 4076 oak toads captured, 92.2% were adults. Substantial (n  30 exiting juveniles) recruitment occurred only three times (once each at three ponds during two years). Males outnumbered females (average for all years 2.3:1). Most captures occurred during May-September. Adult captures during June-August increased with heavier rainfall but were not influenced by the durations of preceding dry periods. Movement patterns of metamorphs suggested that oak toads emigrated when moisture conditions become favorable. Pond use by adults was correlated with maximum change in pond depth (May-September). Juvenile recruitment was negatively correlated with minimum pond depth and the number of weeks since a pond was last dry, and positively correlated with the maximum number of weeks a pond held water continuously. The number of breeding adults and juvenile recruitment were highest at ponds within the hardwood-invaded upland matrix. The direction of most immigrations and emigrations was nonrandom, but movement occurred from all directions, and the mean direction of pond entry and exit did not always correspond. A total of 21.1% of individuals was recaptured; 13.3% of first captures were recaptured during the same year, and 7.7% during a subsequent year. Only 1.9% of captured oak toads moved among ponds, mostly within a distance of 132 m. We did not detect adult population trends over the 10-yr studied. Presence or absence at ponds in any given year was a poor indicator of overall use. We saw little evidence of local extinction or "rescue," but were unable to determine whether juveniles returned to natal ponds or colonized new ponds for breeding as adults. Oak toad conservation can best be ensured by maintaining multiple ponds within a landscape to increase the probability of recruitment within the landscape neighborhood during at least some years and at some ponds, and to increase the likelihood of interpond movement. 
3892438|Previous reports of loggerhead musk turtle (Sternotherus minor) reproduction have not attempted to control for variation in latitude, local population differences, and annual variation. This study attempts to control for these variables by analyzing turtles from one population (at the southern edge of its range) for one reproductive season. Female musk turtles mature after 6 yr and at approximately 60 mm plastron length. Vitellogenesis begins in mid-September and the first clutch is laid in late October. Oviposition continues until mid-June when follicular regression begins. A brief but distinct ovarian quiescent period is evident in August. Mean clutch size is 3.0 (range = 1-5; mode = 3). Four clutches per year are common and some females probably produce five. Similarities with previously studied populations of S. minor include timing of the reproductive cycle, mean female size, and size and age at maturity. Mean clutch size in S. minor in Central Florida is significantly larger than elsewhere. This difference is explained by more females producing three eggs. Annual reproductive potential is enhanced in the Central Florida population, presumably due to greater resource availability.
3893641| We describe a new species of Stefania from the summit of Cerro Autana in Amazonas, Venezuela. It is the westernmost species hitherto known for the genus, being 200 km northwest of Cerro Huachamacari, the nearest known locality for any other Stefania. The new species is distinguished from other species of Stefania by the following combination of characters: fronto-parietal ridges present but reduced, foot webbing basal, discs on fingers and toes small, post-tympanic warts absent, and head as long as wide. Based on these traits, the species can be placed in the Stefania evansi group of Rivero. /// Describimos una nueva rana del gnero Stefania de la cumbre del Cerro Autana, estado Amazonas, Venezuela, siendo la especie ms occidental hasta ahora conocida del gnero, a 200 km NW del Cerro Huachamacari, el punto ms cercano de donde se conoce otra especie. La nueva especie se distingue del resto de especies del gnero por la combinacin de los siguientes caracteres: crestas frontoparietales presentes pero reducidas, palmeadura pedial basal, discos en manos y pies pequeos, ausencia de tubrculos en la regin post-timpanica, cabeza tan larga como ancha. De acuerdo con estos caracteres, la especie es asignada al grupo S. evansi de Rivero. 
25621916|We describe a new species of the formerly monotypic genus Mesobaena from the northern part of the State of Par, Brazilian Guiana. This species is characterized by having a very pointed snout, two supralabials and two infralabials, of which second ones are elongate and enormous, small eye visible under ocular, ocular very elongate, autotomy annulus poorly marked or absent, absence of dorsal, lateral and ventral sulci, and presence of vertical flat, unsegmented band-like structure with concave lateral edges on tip of tail. Hemipenis without spines or distinct ridges on proximal third, sulcus spermaticus only on proximal third. We make comparisons with other South American amphisbaenids, and provide a key to the amphisbaenids of the Guianan Region. The species is fossorial and inhabits Amazonian tropical rainforest forest near creeks. This is the second species known of the genus, which seems to be restricted to the Guiana Shield and immediate surroundings.
40931025|We used radiotelemetry to study the movements and habitat use in a population of Nerodia fasciata fasciata in the upper coastal plain of South Carolina from 2002 to 2006. Snakes that were surgically implanted with radiotransmitters were tracked during late spring of each year and located most days until the onset of hibernation in mid-November. Data were divided into summer and fall for seasonal analysis. Most home-range estimates and associated measures were significantly smaller during fall. Banded watersnakes used shoreline and littoral zone habitats in excess of their availability and used open water and terrestrial habitats relatively infrequently. Shoreline habitats were used more often during the fall, whereas littoral zone habitats were used more in the summer. Movement frequency was high relative to what has been reported for other Nerodia species. Females used shoreline habitats more than males, whereas males used littoral zone habitats more frequently.
3893266|Ovoviviparity and viviparity have been described as derived reproductive modes in urodeles. Moreover, several authors have suggested that viviparity represents an adaptive solution to the harshness of high-altitude environments. Populations of Salamandra salamandra display ovoviviparity and viviparity as polytypic and polymorphic reproductive modes. This variation enables a test of the classic adaptive hypothesis of viviparity from a microevolutionary perspective. Comparative analysis using Felsenstein's independent contrasts and phylogenetic autocorrelation methods in six populations of S. salamandra have shown non-significant associations between altitude of populations and viviparous traits. Although these preliminary results must be corroborated with the study of more populations, we suggest an internalist hypothesis that takes into account the ubiquitous production of unfertilized, nutrient eggs in viviparous females. Thus, viviparity might have evolved as a byproduct of intraoviductal competition for resources by developing larvae. In this context, an exaptive scenario rather than an adaptive scenario might explain the origin of viviparity in S. salamandra and other urodeles.
3891675|To describe the diurnal thermal ecology of Coleonyx brevis, field and laboratory data were recorded on body temperatures, substrate temperatures, and temperatures of rocks used as shelters. The strong correlation between body and rock cover temperatures, as well as laboratory observations of geckos elevating their bodies into contact with a warmer rock cover, suggests that these lizards behaviorally thermoregulate while under cover. On cool, sunny days when solar radiation raises rock temperatures higher than air and substrate temperatures, this behavior results in higher body temperatures and possibly in increased metabolic efficiency. To contrast thermal strategies of active C. brevis and Coleonyx reticulatus, activity and preferred temperature data were considered. It is concluded that C. brevis is active at night at suboptimal temperatures and has adopted a eurythermic strategy, an adaptation that has enabled successful exploitation of nocturnality. Coleonyx reticulatus is active at temperatures considerably lower than C. brevis. Field observations suggest that C. reticulatus inhabits a highly sheltered, crevice microhabitat which may be important in maintaining a low temperature, mesic environment for this species.
3891089|Cutaneous transparency has permitted the observation of skeletal and muscular movements and the flow of pigmented water through unanesthetized tadpoles of Rana fuscigula. Urethane anesthetic changes the frequency and amplitude but not the essential mechanism of gill irrigation. The intermandibularis muscle (M3b) is inactive during rhythmic gill breathing, but it contracts in response to tactile stimulation of the lower lip. Its effect is to move the lower lip and its denticles forward like the labial movement during rasping of food from substrata. Notwithstanding the different habitats of the tadpoles, the gross anatomy and movements of the branchiomeric apparatus of R. fuscigula are similar to those of R. catesbeiana. However, the buccal papillae of R. fuscigula are much more prominent than those of R. catesbeiana. Both species have a valvular ventral velum, two rhythmically alternating force pumps in front of the gill clefts, and an intermittent, auxiliary force pump in the opercular lining. A pharyngeal bypass in both species also permits the shunting of some buccal water directly into the gill cavity.
3892624|Predation on embryos of the natterjack toad, Bufo calamita, by predaceous tadpoles of two sympatric early-breeding anurans, Pelobates cultripes and Pelodytes punctatus, was quantitatively studied in natural ponds. Predation may cause a decrease of 36-100% in the hatching success of individual clutches. Control clutches laid in tadpole-free ponds registered an insignificant decrease. Clutch size and egg size did not affect the probability of survival of embryos to predation. Laboratory experiments showed that tadpoles of P. cultripes eat more embryos than do tadpoles of P. punctatus. Larger tadpoles of both species consumed embryos at a higher rate than smaller ones, and younger embryos were less preyed upon than prehatchlings.
3891091|Mud turtles are active in New Mexico from mid-April to mid-October but consume food only until mid-September. Maturity of both sexes is attained in the sixth or seventh year. Maximum sperm production and testicular size is in August and September. Testicular regression begins in October and November and minimum testicular size is in May. Interstitial cells are smallest in October, accumulate carbohydrate in June, and are largest in May, the probable period of most active mating. Follicular enlargement begins in September or October, is slowed during winter, and is resumed in spring. Ovulations occur from mid-May to mid-June and all eggs are laid by 1 July. About four eggs are laid per clutch and evidence indicates that only one clutch of eggs is laid per year.
3892200|Eggs of the pleurodiran chelonian Emydura macquarii were incubated at constant temperatures (20, 25, 26, 28, 30, 32 C) and water potentials (-710, -2140, -3550 kPa) and resultant hatchling sex was recorded. An equal sex ratio resulted from all conditions of incubation. A sample of adults from the same population as the eggs was significantly biased towards females.
3891860|Predation on small mammals is of common occurrence in some coastal populations of the western terrestrial garter snake (Thamnophis elegans). These snakes often handle mice by coiling loops of the body around the prey, much in the manner of constrictors. This coiling behavior, however, is quite variable and unstable, unlike that shown by other constricting species. There is no clear relationship between snake size and size of small mammal taken in field or laboratory. Rather, a restricted size range of mammals is eaten by a restricted size range of snakes. Coiling behavior seems to be a means of immobilizing prey rather than killing it, although death of prey sometimes occurs. Although limited anatomical evidence suggests that T. elegans should be more capable of handling difficult prey such as mice than are other sympatric species of garter snakes, T. elegans may not be very efficient at capturing small mammals in the field.
3893320|A recent publication (de Fraipont, Clobert, and Barbault-Evolution 50:391-400, 1996) reached two heterodox conclusions concerning the evolution of reproductive modes in squamate reptiles. Firstly, "reversals" from viviparity back to oviparity have been almost as frequent as "forward transitions" of oviparity to viviparity. Secondly, maternal egg-guarding has not facilitated the evolution of viviparity. However, methodological problems in the analysis make these conclusions tenuous. In particular, the analysis (1) relied upon poorly supported (as well as strongly supported) transitions, (2) counted particular transitions more than once, (3) placed too much emphasis on differences between very distantly related higher taxa, and (4) contained consistent biases in the raw data, so that many egg-guarding taxa must have been incorrectly scored as lacking egg-guarding. A reanalysis of the (family-level) data reveals little support for reversals from viviparity back to oviparity while the relationship (if any) between egg-guarding and viviparity cannot be ascertained without additional data.
3891643|Stomach contents of 329 terrestrial adult migrants and immature efts of the red-spotted newt, Notophthalmus viridescens were examined. All specimens were collected in July and August from leaf litter of a northern hardwood-hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) forest in Cooperstown, New York, USA. The diets of adults and efts were qualitatively and quantitatively similar as indicated by the Spearman rank correlation coefficient statistic.
3892819|Individual and populational variation in antipredator behavior and responsiveness to snakes was studied for Bolitoglossa subpalmata from populations at elevations with and without predatory snakes. Salamanders living in snake-free habitats at high elevation had a lower overall frequency of antipredator response (tail display) to snake tongue contact. Intra-populational variation, studied with repeated testing of individuals, was composed primarily of inter-individual, and not intra-individual, variation. Within each of two populations, over two-thirds of the individuals were consistent in their response (either posturing or not posturing) following snake tongue contacts. The high elevation population differed from the lower elevation population, not by showing a general decrease in responsiveness, but by having a lower frequency of individuals that consistently responded and a higher frequency of individuals that consistently did not respond. These results suggest that the populational differences in response are due to relaxed selection for tail displays following snake tongue contact in high elevation populations.
3891900| The eleutherodactyline frog genus Euparkerella is reported from the Amazon Basin of Ecuador (E. lochites sp. nov. from the Cordillera del Condor, Morona-Santiago Province) and northern Per (E. myrmecoides sp. nov. from the vicinity of Iquitos, Depto. Loreto). The new Amazonian species require modification of the generic definition; although the new species are clearly more similar to one another than either is to E. brasiliensis, generic partitioning of Euparkerella cannot be supported. 
3892677|We studied the behavior and mating success of a natural population of painted reed frogs, Hyperolius marmoratus, over 28 consecutive nights at the height of the breeding season. The operational sex ratio (OSR) was strongly biased towards males on every night. Larger choruses were characterized by a greater absolute number of females than small choruses. However, no relationship was found between chorus size and the OSR. Males showed a high degree of site fidelity both within and between nights. However, high male turnover between nights resulted in distributions that were largely independent from night to night. There was a strong positive relationship between the spatial location of males and females over the 28 nights so that most matings occurred where male density was highest. Male body size did not influence mating success over the 28 nights, within nights, or within local groups of males (males within 3 m of a pair). The mating success of males within nightly choruses was not influenced by nearest neighbor distance or the density of males in the immediate vicinity of amplexing pairs (local male density). Mating success of individual males was best predicted by chorus attendance. Male size did not influence chorus attendance, site fidelity, or the number of consecutive nights that males were present at the breeding site. Males that mated on one night had a significantly higher probability of mating the following night than males that did not mate the previous night. There was no evidence of positive assortative mating.
3892643|Pseudemydura umbrina nests in full daylight and typically during rain-bearing, low pressure weather fronts. The nesting action pattern of P. umbrina is unique because the nest cavity is constructed with the forelegs, with the female being head-down in the hole; during this stage, the hindlegs are only used to push soil material, which accumulates beside the female, behind and out of the hole. Nest digging in P. umbrina may have evolved from the typical turtle nesting pattern by an alteration and expansion of the stage of nest site preparation, which now incorporates the actual digging of the nest chamber, and a drastic reduction, or omission, of the typical stage of digging the egg cavity with the hindlegs. The other stages of nesting in P. umbrina follow the well-defined sequence of steps of chelonian nesting.
3893300| Eastern brownsnakes (Pseudonaja textilis) from south-eastern Australia are alert, well camouflaged, secretive, fast moving, and dangerously venomous, and they spend much of the time hidden in burrows. Thus, direct observation of this species is difficult. However, distinctive patterns in environmental thermal heterogeneity, coupled with knowledge of the thermal preferenda of the snakes, enabled us to infer their location and activity based on remotely monitored body temperatures (obtained from surgically implanted radio transmitters). We used data on 40 radio-tracked snakes to evaluate patterns of thermoregulation, activity, and habitat use. Captive snakes actively selected body temperatures around 31 C, and free-ranging snakes displayed similar body temperature levels while active. From data on temperatures of the soil, operative models, and shaded air, we could identify activity schedules of the snakes (especially, times of emergence from and retreat into burrows). Snake activity was bimodal over the year, with the highest incidence of above-ground activity in late spring and late summer. Thermal profiles suggest that inactive snakes in burrows spent most of their time at approximately 20 cm depth, but they moved to shallower depths at some times (e.g., during summer, when they sometimes spent entire nights above ground) and deeper at other times (e.g., 40 cm in winter). Reproductive females remained with their eggs after oviposition in mid-summer, about 30 cm under the soil surface. Burrow temperatures were frequently high, so that the snakes did not need to emerge in order to elevate body temperature. Overall, the telemetered snakes spent an average of 56% of active-season days, 64% of all days, and 93% of all hours below ground. Hence, this species largely depends on in-ground temperature for thermal energy exchange. 
3893407|We describe a new species of Centrolene from the highlands of western Guyana. The only other described Centrolene known from the Guianan Shield is C. gorzulai which differs from the new species in jaw shape, texture of the skin, peritoneal coloration, condition of the prepollex, and presence of an inner metatarsal tubercle. The only centrolenid genus previously recorded from Guyana is Hyalinobatrachium. Other than members of the genus Hyalinobatrachium, this new Centrolene is the only described centrolenid to have a white hepatic peritoneum. The new species is unique among all members of the genus Centrolene in the absence of guanophores (white pigment) in the parietal peritoneum. The new species does not conform to any of the currently recognized species groups of the genus Centrolene.
3892512|Phylogenetic relationships among five of the seven known species of Elgaria were analyzed using a cladistic approach to the analysis of allozyme data. A total of 34 loci and 75 alleles were surveyed in the analysis. The suggested phylogeny is similar to that postulated by previous workers on the basis of morphological data. Among the taxa included, Elgaria kingii and E. panamintina are sister taxa, E. paucicarinata is the sister group to the clade containing these two, and E. coerulea and E. multicarinata are outgroups to the rest of Elgaria, with E. coerulea probably outside of E. multicarinata. Elgaria cedrosensis and E. parva were not included in the analysis, but morphological and distributional data suggest that E. cedrosensis is allied with E. paucicarinata and E. parva with E. kingii.
3891178|Cnemidophorus parvisocius is a small teiid of the sexlineatus group. It occupies the more xeric portions of the Tomellin Canyon of southeastern Puebla and northcentral Oaxaca, Mexico. Its habitat is the cactus-thorn scrub forest. The species is highly variable with clines in color pattern, and some scale counts so that the northwestern members of the species are conspicuously different from those of the southeast. The animals tend to form small coveys occupying favorable sites. No territorialism in respect to each other nor hierarchies were observed. Instead, an efficient homogeneous distribution of the members of a covey is accomplished through mutual repellence of each other. Like most lizards in hot, dry areas their activity is confined to the cooler part of the day; but their temperature preference changes over a period of 3 hours from an average of 36.7 C to 40.1 C. Air temperature seems to be the factor regulating their diurnal activity.
41406808|We describe a new species of Gastrotheca from the Rio Abiseo National Park of the San Martin Region in the Andes of northern Peru. The description is based on a series of 29 specimens that were collected between 1989 and 1999 at two localities (Pampa del Cuy, Alpamachay) in the wet puna of the national park between 3380 and 3470 m elevation. The new species has a snout-vent length of 46.9-57.7 mm (53.5  3.0) in females (n = 21), and 35.3-43.8 mm (41.6  3.2) in males (n = 6). In life, the dorsum is pale grayish brown with reddish-brown paravertebral markings or blotches, and the venter is cream. Females have a single median, dorsal brood pouch and release tadpoles in water as indicated by two specimens found at Gosner Stages 45 and 46. The new species is distinguished from all of its congeners by having the dorsum with two reddish-brown paravertebral markings bearing prominent longitudinal ridges and warts. The new species differs from the two other species of Gastrotheca (G. ossilaginis, G. phalarosa) known from the Region San Martin by lacking integumentary-cranial co-ossification (present in G. ossilaginis), by having the skin on dorsum with prominent longitudinal ridges and warts (dorsal skin shagreen in G. ossilaginis), and in producing tadpoles (direct development in G. ossilaginis). The new species most closely resembles G.phalarosa. Both species produce tadpoles, have fingers and toes with lateral fringes, and Finger I larger than Finger II. Gastrotheca phelloderma differs from G. phalarosa by having the skin on dorsum with prominent longitudinal ridges (absent in G. phalarosa), the venter granular (smooth except granular on posterior part of belly and proximal posteroventral surfaces of thighs in G. phalarosa), a palmar tubercle (absent in G.phalarosa), a long and distinct inner tarsal fold (barely evident on distal fifth of tarsus in G. phalarosa), and the throat and belly grayish tan (black with white spots in G. phalarosa). Describimos una nueva especie de Gastrotheca del Parque Nacional del Ro Abiseo, Regin San Martn, en los Andes del norte de Per. Basamos la descripcin sobre una serie de 29 especmenes colectados entre 1989 y 1999 en dos localidades (Pampa del Cuy y Alpamachay) en la puna hmeda del parque nacional entre 3380 y 3470 m de altitud. La nueva especie mide 46.9-57.7 mm (53.5  3.0) de longitud hocico-cloaca para las hembras (n = 21) y 35.3-43.8 mm (41.6  3.2) para los machos (n = 6). Las hembras tienen una bolsa incubatriz nica y depositan renacuajos en cuerpos de agua, como indicado por el hallazgo de dos especmenes en estadios de Gosner 45 y 46. La coloracin in vivo es marrn claro a gris con bandas o manchas paravertebrales marrones-rojizas en el dorso, y crema en el vientre. La nueva especie se distingue de las dems especies de Gastrotheca por tener un dorso con dos bandas paravertebrales marronesrojizas y tubrculos y pliegues longitudinales prominentes. La nueva especie difiere de las dos otras especies de Gastrotheca (G. ossilaginis, G. phalarosa) conocidas de la Region San Martn por carecer de co-osificacin craneal integumentaria (presente en G. ossilaginis), por tener la piel del dorso con tubrculos y pliegues longitudinales prominentes (ausentes en G. ossilaginis), y por producir renacuajos (desarrollo directo en G.ossilaginis). La nueva especie se asemeja ms a G. phalarosa. Ambas especies producen renacuajos, tienen dedos con pliegues laterales, y dedo manual I ms largo que el II. Gastrotheca phelloderma se diferencia de G. phalarosa por tener piel dorsal con pliegues longitudinales prominentes (ausentes en G. phalarosa), vientre granular (liso en G. phalarosa excepto por piel granular en la parte posterior del vientre y las superficies posteroventrales proximales de los muslos), tubrculo palmar (ausente en G. phalarosa), por tener un pliegue tarsal interno largo y conspicuo (poco visible en el quinto distal del tarso en G. phalarosa), y garganta y vientre gris oscuro (negros con manchas blancas en G. phalarosa).
41406818|This article describes the external and buccopharyngeal morphology, chondrocranium, and cranial muscles in tadpoles of Pleurodema thaul from Argentina. Further comparison was made with larvae of other Pleurodema species, particularly P. bufoninum. The larvae of P. thaul possess: (1) tooth row formula 2(2)/3(l), (2) single to double row of marginal papillae with wide rostral gap, (3) presence of long processus pseudopterygoideus, (4) pars alaris and pars corpora of the cartlago suprarostralis joined by both proximal and distal connections, and (5) larval processus oticus present. In the light of the available evidence, the larvae of Pleurodema are characterized by (1) medium size (total length = 35.4-48.7 mm); (2) medium-sized tail (0.63 times of total length); (3) rounded snout; (4) nostrils closer to the eyes than to the snout; (5) vent tube opening medial; (6) tail tip rounded; and (7) oral disc subterminal with angular constrictions and rostral gap present. In Leiuperidae, the cartilaginous distal connection between pars alaris and pars corpora of the cartlago suprarostralis is present only in Pleurodema. In addition, all Pleurodema studied to date have processus pseudopterygoideus (shared with Eupemphix and Physalaemus marmoratus). Finally, within Pleurodema, the larval processus oticus is present only in P. thaul and P. bufoninum.
3891410|A hibernaculum excavated in midwinter in northern Utah contained 17 Coluber constrictor and 9 Thamnophis elegans. Total live-weight biomass was 2.19 kg. Cloacal temperatures averaged 5 C and were significantly correlated with increasing depth between 1.0-1.6 m. Snakes were not in a supercooled state. Body temperatures appeared close to both species' probable critical thermal minima; all individuals could crawl slowly when extracted. Individuals were hibernating singly, and in groups of two, three, and six. There was no sex or species segregation, but segregation by size was evident. Snakes in larger groups were apparently no warmer than single individuals. Fat-body index of Coluber was not significantly different from pre- or post-hibernation indices, indicating little utilization of fat-body reserves during hibernation. We question a hypothesis, previously advanced by others, that a large Crotalus aggregation metabolizes fat-body lipids and generates heat during hibernation.
3893082|Field studies of nocturnal geckos have revealed that many species actively thermoregulate during both the day and the night. Data from laboratory studies indicate that geckos prefer body temperatures greater than those experienced during activity in the field, but data on diel patterns of temperature preference are inconsistent. We measured preferred body temperature
3892996| A new species of Tepuihyla is named from the eastern edge of the Guiana Shield in Guyana. The new species extends the range of the genus eastward to Guyana and to a lower elevation than previously known. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Tepuihyla del lmite este de la altura de Guayana en Guyana. La especies nueva extiende el rango del gnero hacia el este a Guyana y a una elevacin ms baja de la conocida anteriormente. 
3892289| Eleutherodactylus repens is named from Volcn Galeras, Departamento Nario, Colombia. This pramo-inhabiting species is most closely allied to E. leoni, found in cloud forests. With the discovery of E. repens, the myersi and pyrrhomerus assemblies of the unistrigatus group most be combined. 
3892012|Parotoid venoms of the toads Bufo americanus americanus and Bufo woodhousei fowleri were differentiated using vertical polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Electrophoretic differences between the venoms of the two taxa were evident both visually and on densitometer readings of the electrophoretic gels. The most apparent difference was that certain proteins in the venom of B. w. fowleri migrated more rapidly.
3892961|The ability of a predator to detect and identify substrate odors of prey can enhance its foraging success. Likewise, the production (or lack of production) of odors by prey may be used as a defense against predation. The ringneck snake (Diadophis punctatus) detects substrate odors originating from its prey, a territorial salamander (Plethodon cinereus) capable of autotomizing its tail as an antipredator defense mechanism. We performed experiments to determine (1) if substances from the bodies and tails of these salamanders are equally attractive to the snakes and (2) whether individuals of D. punctatus respond similarly to substrate odors of "tailed" (tails mostly intact) and "tailless" (tail-autotomized) residents of P. cinereus. The snakes showed an increase in the number of tongue flicks directed toward swabs containing substances from the ventral surface of the tail of P. cinereus relative to the ventral surface of the body. In addition, adults of D. punctatus spent a greater amount of time on the side of a chamber with substrate odors from tailed residents versus a control (substrate odors of Drosophila virilis), but they did not show a difference in behavior in the presence of substrate odors from tailless residents as compared to D. virilis. Thus, the expendable tail of P. cinereus is more attractive to D. punctatus than the body, possibly enhancing the chance of survival of these salamanders during predatory encounters.
3893649| I describe a new species of the Geophis dubius group from the northern slopes of the Sierra de Jurez of Oaxaca, Mexico. The new species is most similar to G. carinosus. A previously unknown population of the G. dubius group from the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in Oaxaca is also reported. /// Se describe una especie nueva del grupo Geophis dubius de la ladera norte de la Sierra de Jurez en Oaxaca, Mxico. La nueva especie es ms similar a G. carinosus. Se reporta una poblacin previamente desconocida del grupo G. dubius del Istmo de Tehuantepec en Oaxaca. 
3891963| Distribution and identification of the species of Kinosternon in northeastern Mexico are discussed. Five species have been recorded from a single drainage (Ro Pnuco). The southernmost extent of the range of K. flavescens, and the northernmost extent of the ranges of K. integrum (in eastern Mexico), K. herrerai, and K. scorpioides occur in this area. Kinosternon hirtipes is known from only a single problematical locality in the Atlantic drainage of the area. Kinosternon flavescens, K. herrerai, and K. scorpioides are sympatric on the Atlantic coastal lowlands. Nomenclatural problems and errors in the literature are rectified. A key to the species in northeastern Mexico is included. 
3893636|I investigated the early life history of the salamander Amphiuma means. Although adult A. means are entirely aquatic, eggs are often found above water levels in areas from which water has receded. A series of experiments was performed using three egg clutches of A. means collected from organic sediment at the bottom of a dried lake in northern Florida. The first experiment demonstrated that eggs of A. means hatch in response to inundation with water, and aquatic larvae completely resorbed their gills in about 2 wk. Eggs that hatched at later dates produced larger hatchlings in all three clutches and larger juveniles at metamorphosis in two clutches. A second experiment indicated that hatchlings can survive, on average, over 125 d without feeding by using resources from their yolk reserves. The third experiment showed that eggs are capable of surviving an average of 110 d (SD = 47.2 d) on moist substrate without hatching. Some eggs hatched onto the substrate without inundation, and resulting hatchlings could survive on this substrate without inundation for an average of 21 d (SD = 26.1 d). Five eggs produced hatchlings without gills during this experiment, suggesting that this species may bypass the larval period completely if eggs are not inundated. My experiments suggest that the eggs of A. means may be specialized for development in terrestrial nest chambers. Information on development and larval ecology of A. means from my study can be applied to future evaluations of the evolutionary relationships of salamander families.
3891509|Between 1973 and 1975 river turtles (genus Podocnemis) were studied in the region of Leticia, Colombia, and along the lower reaches of the Putumayo River in Colombia. Detailed information was collected concerning the nesting behavior, eggs, and characteristics and placement of nests for Podocnemis unifilis. Female P. unifilis apparently use the tail to arrange eggs during laying. Filling of the nest is in four distinct, but over-lapping, phases: filling, packing, sweeping, and stamping. The clutch for one animal under observation (41) was equal to the largest ever recorded for this species. Human predation is incessant and may have significantly altered nesting behavior.
41239004|We redescribe the exceedingly rare, tetradactyl Philippine scincid lizards of the genus Brachymeles. Before the recent discovery of a second museum specimen of Brachymeles wrighti, and the rediscovery of B. elerae in the wild, these two species were known from a combined three museum specimens, all collected in the early 1900s. Since that time, biotic surveys in the region, including recent efforts focused at the recognized type localities for both species, resulted in the rediscovery of extant populations of B. elerae. Based on re-examination of type material, complete mensural and meristic data for a recently recovered museum specimen, as well as our recently collected material, we redescribe these two rare species, providing the first, complete diagnostic illustrations of head scalation and hand and foot morphology, and we comment on their taxonomie and phenotypic affinities, and conservation status.
3892459| A new species of leptodactylid frog, Atelognathus salai, is described from basaltic lagoons near Lago Buenos Aires on the eastern slopes of the Andes in the Southern Patagonian Provincia de Santa Cruz, Argentina. The type locality lies between the ranges of other species in northern Patagonia and that of A. grandisonae in southern Chile. /// El hallazgo de un nuevo leptodactilido del genero patagnico Atelognathus en Santa Cruz, aqu descrito, representa un dato biogeogrfico de particular inters. Las especies de Atelognathus hasta ahora conocidas se localizaban en Neuqun y Ro Negro, con la unica excepcin del raro A. grandisonae de la Isla Wellington, en el sur de Chile, a mas de 900 km de distancia. La nueva forma, Atelognathus salai, considerada en este trabajo como una especie afin a A. praebasalticus de Neuqun, ha sido descubierta al norte del Lago Buenos Aires, a unos 1100 m de altura, en un paisaje subandino de lagunas y pedregales baslticos similares a los de Neuqun, y en los bordes de los bosques relictos de Nothofagus pumilio, en progresiva degradacin en aquella zona. Se analiza la combinacin de los caracteres morfolgicos que sustentan la posicin taxonmica de A. salai, discutiendo su presente condicin de aislamiento gentico. Se pone enfasis en la presencia de estas poblaciones de Atelognathus en la vecindad de los bosques de Nothofagus. La vinculacin de los ahora tan especializados Atelognathus con una antigua herpetofauna mesfila terciaria, aparece reforzada por este hallazgo. 
3891498| Cnemidophorus tigris was studied from March through October 1973 on the lower Colorado River. The wide foraging strategy was employed for capture of prey and the diet consisted of a variety of invertebrates, primarily terrestrial and fossorial. The composition of the diet fluctuated seasonally, apparently in response to insect availability. May and June represent the peak breeding season and   produced eggs from late May through late August. An inverse relationship was apparent between testes weight and fat body weight during the breeding season. Mean clutch size was 2.9 (1-5) and hatchlings were observed in July and again in September. Fat bodies of adult   did not cycle as in  , presumably due to individual differences in reproductive condition. Immatures possessed little or no abdominal fat suggesting that most energy is partitioned into somatic growth. Comparisons with sympatric species showed seasonal fluctuations in the amount of dietary overlap with Callisaurus draconoides, an iguanid which frequently occurs in the same habitat. A majority of the dietary overlap was attributable to common use of seasonally abundant prey occurring at the interface of the foraging microhabitats of C. tigris and C. draconoides. Information on reproduction in sympatric species is summarized. 
3892394|The variations in the relationships of the m. adductor mandibulae and the mandibular ramus of the trigeminal nerve are reviewed for eleutherodactyline frogs in particular and "leptodactyloids" in general. Only two conditions ("S" or "E") occur in eleutherodactyline leptodactylids depending on whether or not the mandibular ramus of the trigeminal nerve passes lateral ("S") or medial ("E") to the m. adductor mandibulae externus superficialis. The "E" condition is derived and is postulated to be a synapomorphy uniting 65 species of Eleutherodactylus and the three species of Hylactophryne as the Middle American clade of Eleutherodactylus. The clade is distributed from the southwestern United States southeastward to northern South America.
3892861|Mitochondrial DNAs from North American parthenogens of the Cnemidophorus cozumela species group (C. c. cozumela, C. c. maslini, C. rodecki, and an undescribed allodiploid species, "sp. G") were compared to those of their respective bisexual parental species to investigate matrilineal history and age. The maternal parental species were identified as C. angusticeps for C. rodecki and both subspecies of C. cozumela, and as C. motaguae for sp. G. The minimum mtDNA divergence between each of the parthenogenetic taxa and their respective bisexual maternal ancestral species was <1%, considerably lower than divergences among bisexual species. This indicates that the origin of the parthenogenetic lineages was recent relative to speciation events among bisexual Cnemidophorus. The mtDNAs of C. cozumela and C. rodecki were phenetically and phylogenetically distinct, suggesting that the two species had separate hybrid origins.
3892366|Canadian populations of the red-sided garter snake (Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis) have a severely limited yearly period for growth and reproduction. Breeding occurs immediately on emergence from winter dormancy, before annual gonadal recrudescence occurs. Because this temporal dissociation of gonadal function and reproductive behavior is unlike that occurring in other vertebrates, T. sirtalis presents an array of related questions concerning the role that physiology plays in controlling reproductive behavior. Attractivity of females is the result of a pheromone produced in the liver and related chemically to vitellogenin, a precursor of yolk. This pheromone communicates potential fecundity. Male sexual activity requires a period of winter dormancy, and sexual behavior appears to be independent of the presence of the testes and pituitary. Sexual receptivity of females is effected by environmental temperature.
3892955|Heretofore, all phrynosomatid genera, except Sceloporus, were considered to have a complete gular fold. This characterization is inaccurate for the genus Phrynosoma. Eight species have a medially interrupted gular fold, and four others have a polymorphic morphology (interrupted versus complete gular fold). There is considerable inter- and intraspecific variation in the width of the median gap of the gular fold. There is also variation in the gular fold's scale morphology and ornamentation within some species. None of this variation is correlated with geographic areas or subspecies but occurs within local populations. The high coefficients of variation and the polymorphisms noted in some species of Phrynosoma argue for rapid evolutionary change in the gular fold, presumably toward its eventual loss. The absence of the gular fold in Sceloporus and its inferred ongoing loss in Phrynosoma are considered to be independent evolutionary events.
3892086| I measured cloacal temperatures of both male and female Gerrhonotus coeruleus from two populations along the coast of California (Monterey and Mendocino counties) throughout the season when females are reproductively active (May-August). Mean body temperature for all females (x = 25.3 C; SE = 0.4) was significantly higher (P < 0.05) than mean male body temperature (x = 24.0 C; SE = 0.5) and variance in mean body temperature was significantly lower (
24634323|Predation is a dominant and influential factor in most ecological communities. However, little is known about how the federally endangered Barton Springs Salamander, Eurycea sosorum, responds to predators. Using captive-hatched (predator-nave) salamanders, we examined the antipredator response of E. sosorum to chemical cues from (1) native Western Mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis), (2) introduced Redbreast Sunfish (Lepomis auritus), (3) native Largemouth Bass (Micropterus salmoides), and (4) a blank water control. Salamanders decreased activity (antipredator behavior) in response to all fish treatments but not to the blank water control. There was no difference between the response to the G. affinis and L. auritus, but salamanders responded less to these treatments than to M. salmoides. The antipredator response to G. affinis may be an ontogenetic hold over as G. affinis has been found to consume amphibian larvae and eggs. In an additional study to test whether antipredator behavior was a generalized response to all fish species, we found that E. sosorum did not respond to small, nonnative, nonpredatory Guppies (Poecilia reticulata). This suggests that the observed behavior in our first experiment represents antipredator behavior specific to the species tested. Overall, these results indicate that E. sosorum has innate recognition of predatory fish, and that the stronger antipredator response to M. salmoides over the other fish species may be an outcome of risk assessment. The antipredator response to G. affinis has management implications as G. affinis is sympatric with the largest population of E. sosorum, and may be consuming both eggs and larvae of these salamanders.
23255780|In many taxa of squamate reptiles, thermal conditions during incubation affect fitness-relevant phenotypic traits of the offspring. Therefore, a gravid female can enhance the fitness of her offspring by selecting appropriate thermal regimes. The maternal manipulation hypothesis (MMH) attributes phylogenetic shifts in a broad array of maternal traits (such as nest-site selection, prolonged uterine retention of eggs, and shivering thermogenesis) to selective advantages driven by embryonic developmental plasticity: mothers enhance the viability of their offspring by providing "better" incubation conditions. In Herpetologica 68:147-159, Schwarzkopf and Andrews (2012) pointed out an alternative possibility: that reproduction-induced shifts in maternal thermoregulatory tactics have evolved because they enhance maternal, not offspring, fitness. Although possible on logical grounds, this alternative hypothesis is inconsistent with available evidence on squamate biology, especially with the diversity of thermoregulatory modifications induced by reproduction. Most reproduction-associated shifts in maternal thermoregulation likely reflect benefits to offspring (as posited by the MMH), or are nonadaptive consequences of ecological shifts that are enforced by reproduction.
3891529| Helicops yacu, sp. nov., is described from Moropon, Departamento de Loreto, Per. H. yacu differs from all its congeners in having a maximum of 27 dorsal scale rows and the eye constituting < 9% of head length, but it appears to have an affinity to H. pastazae and H. polylepis. 
3891453| Antipredator mechanisms of 19 species of Neotropical salamanders were studied. Defensive postures generally fell into eight categories: body arched, body elevated, body coiled, limbs extended, limbs clasped, tail arched, tail elevated, and tail undulated. Individual salamanders often used several of the above postures simultaneously. Flipping falls into three categories: coil-uncoil, running, and serpentine. Coil-uncoil flipping is most prominent in the Central American species of Chiropterotriton and the genus Oedipina while running flipping is most prominent in Mexican Chiropterotriton. Serpentine flipping was observed only in Oedipina uniformis. Although listed as coil-uncoil, the flipping of the genera Bolitoglossa and Pseudoeurycea remains to be analyzed. Between 65% and 100% of the individuals of each species became immobile when initially contacted in the field. Immobility was also timed in both field and laboratory when the salamander was dropped 10 cm, rolled onto its back, and from time of righting after being rolled until first movement. Bolitoglossa subpalmata, Chiropterotriton dimidiatus, and Chiropterotriton multidentatus were tested at 4, 12, and 20C to study the effect of temperature on immobility. Adult and juvenile B. subpalmata remained immobile longer at lower temperatures than at higher temperatures while young remained immobile longest at 12C. Both species of Chiropterotriton remained immobile longest at temperature extremes although only in C. multidentatus not in breeding condition was this relationship significant. At 4C large B. subpalmata remained immobile longer than small animals. There was no such relationship at 12 or 20C or for any temperature for C. multidentatus. Massed trials testing indicated neither an increase nor a decrease in duration of immobility for any size class of B. subpalmata, C. dimidiatus, or C. multidentatus at any temperature. Trials indicated that salamanders that remain immobile when faced by a predator survive more often than those that move. Predator reaction to B. subpalmata and C. multidentatus confirmed that salamanders do posture and/or flip to escape predation. Blue jays (Cyanocitta cristata) avoided B. subpalmata after contact, therefore, indicating noxious properties in this salamander. The importance of noxiousness, immobility, morphology, postures, behavioral ontogenetic changes, coloration, and environmental parameters to Neotropical salamanders is discussed. 
3890674|A comparison of the responses of black ratsnakes, Elaphe obsoleta, and bullsnakes, Pituophis melanoleucus, to lowered ambient temperature was made. Oral temperatures, cloacal temperatures, and electrocardiograms of snakes were recorded as the ambient temperature was lowered from 26 C to -4 C at a rate of 1 C per 10 min in an environmental chamber. Body temperatures of both species were above the ambient temperature and the differences between the body temperatures of the two species were significant. Marked changes in cardiac activities were seen in both species at body temperatures below 5 C.
3892395|We examined 63 specimens of Coluber constrictor from Colorado and Utah using eight external morphological characters that have been used to distinguish C. c. mormon from C. c. flaviventris. We grouped the snakes into three Operational Taxonomic Units (OTU's) in a transect across the Rocky Mountains: the eastern Front Range foothills in Colorado; the intermountain region (western slope of Colorado and northeastern Utah); and the western foothills of the Wasatch Mountains in Utah. Statistically significant variation among the OTU's was discovered for ratio of tail length to total length, number of ventral and subcaudal scales, and number of dentary teeth. However, variation is clinal with nearly complete overlap from one end of the transect to the other for each character, suggesting a wide zone of intergradation in the intermountain region. We do not believe reported differences in reproductive parameters between Great Plains and Great Basin racers are sufficient grounds for recognition of species, because clutch size is both geographically variable and dependent on the environment. The distribution of C. constrictor is similar to that of other reptiles with transmontane distributions in the western United States, and we suggest two possible routes of dispersal across the Continental Divide in southwestern Wyoming. Thus, elevation of C. c. mormon to species status is not supported by morphological, reproductive, or zoogeographic evidence.
41238992|Mortality of juvenile (<122 cm total length; TL) American Alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) attributed to cannibalism on Orange Lake, Florida was examined. Alligator web tags used in markrecapture studies were found in 12% of 267 stomachs sampled from alligators >168 cm TL. Captive alligators retained 76% of force-fed tags during a 588-d tag-retention trial. Models relating the probability of tag recovery to the annual probabilities of juvenile survival, cannibalism, tag retention, adult survival, and adult harvest suggested that cannibalism may on average remove 6-7% of the juvenile alligator population annually. Vulnerability continued to 140 cm TL (age 6-8 yr). Cannibalism of juveniles may serve to regulate the alligator population on Orange Lake. Alligator cannibalism may vary widely among populations, depending on demography and environmental conditions. The role and importance of cannibalism in alligator population dynamics should be more fully assessed and environmental and population factors that influence cannibalism identified to better evaluate management programs.
3892412| The tadpole of the endemic Chilean frog Telmatobufo bullocki is described. The larva is of the mountain-stream type with the 2/3 tooth row formula and a broad buccal disc. /// Se describe por primera vez el renacuajo de la rana endmica de Chile, Telmatobufo bullocki. La larva es del tipo de arroyo de montaa, posee la frmula dentaria 2/3 y muestra un ancho disco oral. 
3891896|Eurycea junaluska is described on the basis of 23 metamorphosed specimens from Graham County, North Carolina. Eurycea junaluska differs from all other non-neotenic Eurycea in its nondescript color pattern characterized by a brownish, mottled dorsum with dorsolateral stripes lacking or broken into a series of small dots or thin wavy lines. In body proportions, E. junaluska grossly resembles E. bislineata, but sympatric samples differ in that E. junaluska possesses relatively longer forelimbs and a relatively shorter tail. Eurycea junaluska also differs from sympatric E. bislineata by possessing longer prevomerine teeth series.
3892241|Long-distance movement by turtles is ascribed to four distinct categories: (1) nest site selection, (2) seasonal migration, (3) departure from unfavorable habitat conditions, and (4) movement by males in search of females. Each category is discussed in terms of its applicability to the relocation of desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) as a management response to habitat loss. One conclusion is that insufficient information is available for G. agassizii in any of the movement categories at this time and intensive research efforts must be undertaken before relocation programs with predictable results can be established.
3892924| A new species of the genus Phrynopus is described from the cloud forest of the Andes of Bolivia. Phrynopus kempffi differs from Phrynopus laplacai, the other species known from the country, by its smaller size and its ventral color pattern: cream with large black spots. This is hitherto the southernmost species described in this genus. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Phrynopus, perteneciente al grupo peruanus, habitante de bosques nublados de Bolivia entre los departamentos de Santa Cruz y Cochabamba. P. kempffi difiere de P. laplacai, la nica otra especie registrada en Bolivia hasta el momento, por su piel lisa, su pequeo tamao y su diseo y coloracin dorsal y ventral. 
3891868|The karyotype of Rana sphenocephala from North Carolina is more similar to that of Rana pipiens than to a previously published karyotype of R. sphenocephala from Louisiana. The karyotype of Rana areolata is distinct from both karyotypes of R. sphenocephala and the karyotype of R. pipiens. All three species have the common ranid diploid number of 26.
3892074|The snout-vent length (SVL) and lipid content of Ambystoma tigrinum from an ephemeral pond were determined throughout the larval period. Mean lipid concentration was highest for newly hatched larvae collected 26 April (11.72% of any matter) then sequentially decreased to a low of 0.50% lipid for larvae captured 1 June. Lipid content then increased to ca. 5% throughout the remainder of the study. Larvae increased in length from a mean of 9.5 mm SVL on 7 June to 60.4 mm SVL on 30 August and exhibited the greatest range in size of collected larvae on 28 June. Larger body length was significantly (P < 0.05) related to increased lipid content in premetamorphosed larvae >20 mm SVL. Newly metamorphosed individuals were first captured 5 July and were present throughout the remainder of the study. Lipid values, length data and appearance of metamorphosed individuals indicated completed development and emigration by the most rapidly developing larvae in early July while other larvae remained in the pond. Variation in developmental rate of larvae may be adaptive since temporal existence of the pond is not predictable. Variable developmental rates within populations may insure survival of at least some larvae during dry years yet also allow for marked increase in reproductive output during years when a pond retains water.
3893088|We employed three techniques for sampling amphibians (nocturnal stream searching, pitfall traps with drift fences, and automatic tape recording of anuran calls) concurrently for six nights at 20 forest sites in south-east Queensland, Australia, to compare their performance. Nocturnal stream searching was the most sensitive sampling technique, detecting the most species with the fewest nights of survey. Pitfall trapping was the least sensitive sampling technique. On average, a minimum of four nights of survey was required to detect the range of amphibian species present at a site. Nocturnal stream searches and automatic tape recorders were robust in the range of conditions encountered during the survey, with no significant relationships found between temporal or spatial variation in their performance and weather or site conditions. This systematic study represents one of few to compare different techniques for sampling amphibians in a given region, and the first such study to compare automatic tape recording of anuran calls with other, more traditional sampling techniques.
3892492|Eleutherodactylus parapelates is described from the Massif de la Hotte of the Haitian Tiburon Peninsula. It is a large burrowing species that vocalizes from enclosed underground chambers and is most similar to E. hypostenor and E. ruthae. Together, these three species form a subgroup within the inoptatus group, which now contains six large Hispaniolan Eleutherodactylus.
3892422|The most southern snake of the genus Liophis, L. sagittifer, is redefined. Its sexual dimorphism, geographic variations in color, pattern, ventrals, subcaudals and scale row reductions are discussed in light of the two major plant formations (monte and chaco) in which it occurs. It is shown that L. trifasciatus is a synonym of L. sagittifer and that L. modesta is a valid subspecies of L. sagittifer.
3892166| A new species of lizard, Norops naufragus, is described from the humid Atlantic versant of Hidalgo, Mxico. This species is placed in the schiedii group and is easily diagnosed from its congeners on the basis of morphological and allozymic characters. The composition and interspecific relationships of members of the schiedii group are discussed. 
3892950|Between 1990 and 1993, adult male olive ridley turtles (Lepidochelys olivacea) were captured at their breeding ground, in the Gulf of Papagayo, on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica. We attached radio (VHF) and satellite (UHF) transmitters to 11 reproductively active males (as verified by serum testosterone measurements and laparoscopy) to monitor their movements in and from the breeding ground. Telemetered males departed the Gulf of Papagayo by late September, which coincided with a notable decrease in the number of males that we observed in the breeding ground and with the mid-season peak in the number of females emerging to lay eggs at Nancite Beach. We suggest that males of L. olivacea depart nearshore breeding grounds at mid-season because most of the females already have mated.
3892417| Abronia mitchelli is described from the cloud forest on Cerro Peln in the Sierra Jurez, Oaxaca, Mxico. This species is most similar to species inhabiting highland regions adjacent to those of the Sierra Madre-Mesa del Sur of Oaxaca. 
3891887|Sound pressure levels of mating calls of 17 subtropical African frogs were measured in the field. Peak levels ranged from 92 dB (measured at 25 cm) to 120 dB (measured at 50 cm). No clear relationship was found between species size and call intensity. Intraspecific variation in sound pressure level of calls ranged from 0.5 dB to 10.5 dB. Successive mating calls of most individuals varied by 1.5 dB or less. The sound fields surrounding calling animals were directional in 6 of the 7 species examined.
3891550| Three new species of the Eleutherodactylus unistrigatus group are named from Amazonian Per. Eleutherodactylus imitatrix is known only from the type locality in the Ro Pachitea drainage. Eleutherodactylus mendax occurs in the cloud forests on the eastern slope of the Andes and in the lowland rain forest, whereas Eleutherodactylus toftae is widespread in the lowland rain forests of central and southern Amazonian Per. 
3891634| Philodryas borellii Peracca is resurrected from the synonymy of Philodryas psammophideus Gnther. Philodryas werneri Mller and Philodryas patagoniensis haywardi Laurent are placed in the synonymy of P. borellii. 
3893066|A cladistic analysis of Cnemidophorus ceralbensis and the six allopatric subspecies of C. hyperythrus based on morphology, color pattern, and karyotype data supports the following hypothesis: (espiritensis, hyperythrus), (danheimae), (franciscensis), (carmenensis, pictus). This polytomy is consistent with the geological origin of the islands upon which the species occur. Evidence is presented for the specific recognition of the subspecies of Cnemidophorus hyperythrus.
25209130|We describe a new species of Pristimantis from a cloud forest at 2450-2800 m in the Cordillera Oriental in southern Ecuador (Zamora Chinchipe). The new species has a maximum snout-vent length of 17.9 mm (average SVL of 21 males = 12.3 mm  1.2, and of 19 females = 15.9 mm  1.3). This new species is the second smallest frog from Ecuador and smallest Pristimantis. Morphologically and phylogenetically, the new species is similar to P. caeruleonotus and P. colodactylus. It is distinguished from them and its congeners by its size, tuberculation, a distinct color pattern consisting of tan blotches on dorsum, spots on a brown venter, minute brown spots on anterior and posterior surfaces of the thighs, and other morphological features. Determination of small body size in frogs is discussed and meristic data of 40 minute frogs are compiled. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Pristimantis para la ciencia proveniente de altitudes entre 2450-2800 m en los bosques nublados de la Cordillera Oriental del sur de Ecuador (Provincia Zamora Chinchipe). La especie nueva tiene una longitud rostro-cloacal (LRC) mxima de 17.9 mm, (LRC promedio de 21 machos = 12.3 mm  1.2, y de 19 hembras = 15.9 mm  1.3). Esta especie nueva es la segunda ms pequea rana de Ecuador, y la ms pequea del gnero Pristimantis. Morfolgica y filogenticamente la especie nueva es similar a P. caeruleonotus y P. colodactylus. Se distingue de ellas y de sus congneres por su tamao pequeo, tuberculacin, un patrn de color distintivo que consiste en manchas dorsales marrn y manchas redondeadas caf en la zona ventral, y puntos caf en las superficies anteriores y posteriores de las piernas, y por otras caractersticas morfolgicas. Se discute sobre la determinacin del tamao ms pequeo en ranas y se recopilan datos de medidas de las 40 ranas ms pequeas.
3893036| The taxonomic status of Guatemalan and Chiapan (Mexico) populations previously assigned to Rhadinaea hempsteadae are reviewed: Rhadinaea hempsteadae (sensu stricto) is restricted to the Sierra de las Minas and the highlands of Alta Verapaz, Guatemala and Rhadinaea stadelmani is resurrected for the populations in the Sierra de los Cuchumatanes and Montaas de Cuilco, in northwestern Guatemala. Populations from the Meseta Central and the Northwestern Highlands of Chiapas, Mexico, differ from the others in features of scalation, dentition, coloration, and hemipenial morphology, and are described as a new species. The distribution of Rhadinaea godmani in Mexico and Guatemala is delineated, and sympatry with R. hempsteadae is confirmed for the first time. /// Se revisa la situacin taxonmica de las poblaciones Guatemalteco y Chiapaneca (Mxico) anteriormente asignadas a Rhadinaea hempsteadae: Rhadinaea hempsteadae (sensu stricto) se restringe a la Sierra de las Minas y las tierras altas de Alta Verapaz, Guatemala, y Rhadinaea stadelmani se resucita para las poblaciones de la Sierra de los Cuchumatanes y Montaas de Cuilco, al noroeste de Guatemala. Las poblaciones de la Meseta Central de Chiapas y las tierras altas del noroeste de Chiapas, Mxico, difieren de las dems en algunas caractersticas de las escamas, dientes, y morfologa de los hemipenes; estas poblaciones representan una especie nueva. Se delimita la distribucin de Rhadinaea godmani en Mxico y Guatemala, y se confirma por primera vez la simpatra con R. hempsteadae. 
40602630|A new Ceuthomantis is described from the Sarisariama tepui in southeastern Venezuela. The new species was collected in 2002 and reported previously as Pristimantis cf. cavernibardus. Herein important differences are highlighted as diagnostic for the new species, fitting the recently described family Ceuthomantidae from the Guianan Shield. The biogeography of the genus and family is discussed. Un nuevo Ceuthomantis es descrito de Sarisariama, un tepuy en el sureste de Venezuela. La nueva especie fue colectada en 2002 y reportada previamente como Pristimantis cf. cavernibardus. Se resaltan importantes diferencias diagnsticas de la nueva especie, que se ajusta a la recientemente descrita familia Ceuthomantidae del Escudo Guayans, y se discute la biogeografa de la nueva familia y gnero.
3891780|Skeletons of the sawback turtles Graptemys flavimaculata of the Pascagoula River and Graptemys nigrinoda of the Alabama and Black Warrior rivers are compared. The major osteological difference between G. flavimaculata and G. nigrinoda involves the relative width of the prefrontal process of the frontal, which is broad in G. flavimaculata and narrow in G. nigrinoda. The rostral projection of the basisphenoid, also distinctive in these two species, is broad in G. flavimaculata and narrow in G. nigrinoda. A posteriorly directed projection of the palatine process of the premaxilla meets the vomer within the fossa nasalis in G. nigrinoda; this projection is not found in G. flavimaculata. Adult G. nigrinoda have a flattened carapace whose maximum height is through the spines of the second and third vertebral scutes, whereas adult G. flavimaculata have a steeply sloped carapace whose maximum height is through the spine of the second vertebral scute. The spines of the vertebral scutes are high and laterally compressed in G. flavimaculata and low, broad, and knob-like in G. nigrinoda. Analysis of other osteological characters, including the presence or absence of ridges and shelves on the parietals, squamosals, postorbitals, and supraoccipital, and broadening of the skull and alveolar surfaces, serves to separate the genus Graptemys into "narrow-headed" and "broad-headed" species groups.
3891932|Growth is more rapid in carnivorous juvenile Ouachita map turtles, Graptemys pseudogeographica ouachitensis, from an organic mud-bottomed lake than in juveniles of a primarily herbivorous population from a lotic inorganic sand-bottomed habitat. Adults grow slowly and irregularly and reach similar maximum sizes in both populations regardless of diet or habitat.
3891990|"Tadpole nests" are circular depressions formed in soft layers of fine sand and silt in the basins of shallow ponds and streams. During the past 6 years in Oklahoma, over 30 temporary pools and the anuran larvae inhabiting them have been obsrved. The formation of tadpole nests by anuran tadpoles has been observed on one occasion in a pool basin newly formed by road construction, 25 km east of Norman, Cleveland County, Oklahoma. These circular depressions were made by the feeding activities of tadpoles of Bufo americanus charlesmithi and Pseudacris streckeri and further developed, modified, or destroyed by aquatic beetles, snails, fairy shrimp and tadpoles. Observations indicated that depressions apparently identical to those formed by anuran tadpoles, can also be formed during the egg laying process of tadpole shrimp, Apus longicaudatus. The formation of tadpole nests during the feeding activities of anuran tadpoles frequently means the survival of many xeric forms from desiccating conditions.
3892750|I examined large, paired, imbricate scales that overlap on the midline (internasals, prefrontals, frontoparietals, parietals, nuchals, anterior chin scales, and preanal scales) for direction of overlap (left over right or right over left) in families of Australasian squamates. There was a distinct trend in all dorsal head scales for the left member to overlap the right with the exception of the parietals in pygopodids and the internasals and prefrontals in hydrophiids where right overlapped left, and the prefrontals in scincids where no trend was evident. Ventral head scales (anterior chin scales in scincids) showed no trend. Preanal scales showed a strong trend for left to overlap right in lizards (scincids) but for right to overlap left in snakes. Snakes were more variable than lizards in terms of reversal of overlap pattern within a scale pair within an individual. Scale overlap pattern may be a useful systematic character.
3892699|I used radiotelemetry to observe free-roaming southern alligator lizards (Elgaria multicarinata) to assess the basis of the variable and reduced body temperatures observed for this species in the field. Despite a well developed thermoregulatory capacity demonstrated in the laboratory, this species is strongly eurythermic and previous researchers have questioned the extent to which it actively thermoregulates. Lizards monitored in this study did often thermoregulate and exhibited many of the thermoregulatory behaviors characteristic of stenothermic species. Nevertheless, individuals had highly variable field body temperatures (FBT's), averaging only 23.8 C, and ranging 9.4-33.8 C. The low mean and high variances in FBT's were attributed primarily to continued activity during periods that were thermally suboptimal. The low environmental temperatures during these periods were typically the result of overcast conditions, during which opportunities to achieve FBT's above about 22 C were uncommon. Reduced body temperatures thus reflects not a lack of thermoregulatory effort, but continued activity despite thermally suboptimal conditions. I suggest the phrase "facultative thermoregulator" to describe this and other species whose activity patterns are not curtailed by thermally suboptimal periods, but that exhibit effective thermoregulatory behavior when conditions permit.
3893474| Two new species of frogs of the Eleutherodactylus alfredi group are described from Subtropical and Montane Wet Forests of the Montaas del Mico and the Sierra de Caral of the Caribbean slopes of Guatemala. They differ from other Guatemalan species in the group by having the fifth toe pad wider than the second, few melanophores on the abdominal area of the venter, and dorsal and ventral ground coloration. The species from the Sierra de Caral is larger in overall size and has smaller dentigerous fascicules than the one from the Montaas del Mico. These two species also differ between themselves in dorsal and ventral ground coloration. /// Se describen dos nuevas especies de rana del gnero Eleutherodactylus pertenecientes al subgrupo spatulatus del grupo alfredi. Una de ellas, E. nefrens, es encontrada a elevaciones medias en el bosque lluvioso de la Sierra de Caral (Merendn), Guatemala. La otra especie, E. campbelli, es encontrada a elevaciones medias en el bosque lluvioso de las Montaas del Mico, Guatemala. Eleutherodactylus nefrens y E. campbelli difieren fcilmente de otras especies guatemaltecas en el subgrupo (E. xucanebi y E. stuarti) por poseer la almohadilla del quinto dedo del pie ms grande que la del segundo, tener el vientre con ninguno o pocos melanforos en la parte centro-posterior y por poseer coloracin ventral y dorsal distinta. Eleutherodactylus nefrens se diferencia de E. campbelli por poseer un mayor largo hocicocloaca y facculos dentgeros reducidos o ausentes (con 0 a 3 dientes vomerinos). Eleutherodactylus campbelli posee facculos dentgeros desarrollados (con 4 a 6 dientes vomerinos). Ambas especies difieren entre si en aspectos de coloracin. 
3893399|Breeding experiments involving a melanistic female (gravid when captured) and her striped, nonmelanistic offspring produced no melanistic young either in backcrosses to the mother (four broods, 68 young) or in crosses between sibling F
3891096|A considerable northward range extension for the genus Hypopachus in western Mexico is reported. Also included are field observations of habitat and chorus structure, a sonogram of the mating call, and color notes.
3893551| A new species of rattlesnake is described from the upper elevations of Cerro Tanctaro in Michoacn, in the western portion of the Transverse Volcanic Cordillera. This diminutive rattlesnake appears to be most closely related to several species also occurring at high elevations in Mexico and the southwestern United States including Crotalus intermedius, C. pricei, and C. transversus. The Tanctaro species is most similar to C. transversus, but differs in aspects of lepidosis and color pattern. /// Una nueva especie de serpiente de cascabel se describe de las altas elevaciones del Cerro Tanctaro en Michoacn, en la porcin Oeste de la Cordillera Volcnica Transversal. Esta cascabel diminuta aparenta estar cercanamente relacionada a varias especies que tambin ocurren a altas elevaciones en Mxico y en el Suroeste de los Estados Unidos, Crotalus intermedius, C. pricei y C. transversus. La especie de Tanctaro es mas similar a C. transversus, pero difiere en aspectos de lepidsis y patrn de color. 
3893549| We describe two new species of the leptodactylid frog genus Physalaemus from the lowlands of western Ecuador. Both species belong to the P. pustulosus species group. They differ from other group members, except P. coloradorum, in their smaller size. They can be distinguished from P. coloradorum by their less tuberculate dorsal skin and a more depressed loreal region. The new species differ from each other markedly in advertisement call. Although the ranges overlap, body size, flank gland length, and parotoid gland length (relative to snout-vent length) are also significantly different. Overall the new species are similar in color patterns and body shape; they are difficult to diagnose from each other with morphological characters. /// Describimos dos nuevas especies del gnero leptodactlido Physalaemus de las tierras bajas del occidente del Ecuador. Las nuevas especies pertenecen al grupo de especies P. pustulosus. Se diferencian de otras especies del grupo, excepto P. coloradorum, por su tamao ms pequeo. Se distinguen de P. coloradorum por tener una piel dorsal menos tuberculada y regin loreal ms aplanada. Las nuevas especies se diferencian entre s marcadamente en sus cantos de anuncio. Aunque los rangos se sobrelapan, el tamao de su cuerpo y el largo relativo de sus glndulas del flanco y parotoideas tambin es significativamente diferente. En general, las nuevas especies se parecen mucho entre s en patrones de coloracin y forma del cuerpo; su diagnstico es difcil en base a caracteres morfolgicos. 
3893444| According to the cold-climate model, viviparity in squamate reptiles evolves at high elevations and latitudes. The lizard genus Sceloporus has been used to support this model; viviparous species are found at higher elevations than oviparous species. For example, in the scalaris species group, a viviparous species replaces its oviparous sister species at elevations above 3000 m. We used recent literature to evaluate four aspects of the evolution of viviparity within the genus and concluded that (1) viviparity has evolved a minimum of four times within the genus. (2) Viviparity has not evolved at high latitudes, because the oviparous species found at high latitudes lack the morphological and physiological features that facilitate prolonged egg retention, the intermediate stage between oviparity and viviparity. (3) Viviparous species have not invaded high latitudes because viviparity in Sceloporus is associated with gestation during winter months. This is a viable reproductive mode at high elevations at tropical latitudes, because ambient temperatures during the winter are similar to those in the summer. At high latitudes, in contrast, winters may be too cold to support embryogenesis, or perhaps even survival of embryos. (4) Viviparity evolved from oviparity through three major transitions. The first was the evolution of viviparity from oviparity; this transition was associated with the invasion of high elevations. The second transition was a shift from summer to winter gestation such that birth was shifted from autumn to spring. With birth in the spring, neonates are able to mature by autumn, and consequently they can produce a litter within a year of their own birth. The third transition was a shift from asynchronous reproductive cycles of males and females (mating in spring and fertilization in autumn) to synchronous reproductive cycles (mating and fertilization in the autumn). /// De acuerdo con el modelo del clima fro, la viviparidad en reptiles escamosos ha evolucionado en elevaciones y latitudes altas. Las lagartijas del gnero Sceloporus han sido utilizadas para apoyar este modelo ya que las especies vivparas se encuentran en lugares ms elevados que las ovparas. Por ejemplo, en el grupo scalaris una especie ovpara es reemplazada por su especie hermana vivpara en elevaciones mayores de 3000 m. Utilizamos la literatura reciente para evaluar cuatro aspectos de la evolucin de la viviparidad dentro del gnero y concluimos que (1) La viviparidad ha evolucionado por lo menos cuatro veces. (2) La viviparidad no ha evolucionado en latitudes boreales por que las especies que las habitan carecen de las caracteristicas morfolgicas y fisiolgicas que facilitan la retencin prolongada del huevo, lo cual es el estadio intermedio entre la oviparidad y la viviparidad. (3) Las especies vivparas no han invadido las latitudes boreales por que la viviparidad en Sceloporus esta asociada con la gestacin durante el invierno. Este es un tipo de reproduccin viable en elevaciones altas a latitudes tropicales debido a que en estos sitios las temperaturas de invierno y verano son similares. En latitudes boreales los inviernos son demasiado frios para permitir la embriognesis e incluso quiz para la sobrevivencia de los embriones. (4) La viviparidad evolucion de la oviparidad a travs de tres grandes cambios. El primero fue la evolucin de la oviparidad a la viviparidad; este cambio estuvo asociado con la invasin a las elevaciones altas. El segundo fue el cambio de la gestacin del verano al invierno, de tal manera que el nacimiento pas del otoo a la primavera. Con el nacimiento en primavera, los neonatos pudieron madurar en el otoo y consecuentemente producir una camada dentro del primer ao de vida. El tercero fue el cambio de los ciclos reproductores asincrnicos de machos y hembras (apareamiento en la primavera y fertilizacin en el otoo) a los ciclos reproductores sincrnicos (apareamiento y fertilizacin en el otoo). 
3892191|Afrixalus brachycnemis has a complex call with two structurally distinct components. One part is a rapidly pulsed "zip" sound on a rising note, the other is a sustained trill. The two major functions of the call (mate attraction and male-male communication) are clearly partitioned between these components. Two-stimulus phonotaxis experiments showed that females are attracted only to the trill component. Acoustic playback experiments demonstrated that the zip component functions in male-male interactions. The relative proportion of the two call components changed with chorus size: the larger the chorus, the greater the proportion of zip components. In addition, the presence of a female within the chorus resulted in a higher proportion of trill components.
3890976|Laboratory and field observations on the courtship of Ambystoma texanum from southern Illinois show that (1) males are stimulated to court by the presence of gravid females, (2) stimulated males will court other males, (3) females may be simultaneously courted by several males, (4) several males deposit a large number of spermatophores in a small area (4 ft
3892923| A principal components analysis of variation in 30 scale characters for 1171 specimens of Lepidophyma identifies two primary morphological units that correspond to the currently recognized subgenera (Gaigeia and Lepidophyma). Discriminant analyses of the 11 populations assigned to the former indicate the existence of eight groups. Univariate comparisons among these groups diagnose three morphospecies. The northernmost species, L. gaigeae, occurs at eight localities in Queretaro and Hidalgo where it is largely restricted to limestone crevices. A second species, L. dontomasi, known only from Cerro Lachiguiri, Oaxaca, also appears to be specialized for rock crevices. The three existing specimens of L. radula are from two widely separated localities in Oaxaca. The karyotypes of L. gaigeae and L. dontomasi suggest that the subgenus Gaigeia may not be monophyletic, but may constitute another example of habitat-canalized convergent evolution in the Xantusiidae. /// El anlisis de componentes principales de la variacin de 30 carcteres de 1171 especimenes de Lepidophyma, identifica dos unidades morfolgicas primarias que corresponden a los actuales subgneros reconocidos (Gaigeia y Lepidophyma). El anlisis discriminante de las 11 poblacines asignadas al primero, indica la existencia de ocho grupos. Comparaciones univariadas entre estos grupos diagnostican tres morfospecies. La especie ms nortea, L. gaigeae, ocurre en ocho localidades en Quertaro e Hidalgo. La segunda especie, L. dontomasi, conocida slo de Cerro Lachiguiri, Oaxaca, tambin parece especializada a grietas de rocas. Los tres especimenes existentes de L. radula provienen de dos localidades ampliamente separadas, en Oaxaca. Los cariotipos de L. gaigeae y L. dontomasi sugieren que el subgnero Gaigeia no es monofiltico, si no que constituye otro ejemplo de evolucin convergente por hbitat en los Xantusiidae. 
3892921|The population systematics of the cobras of the genus Naja in the Indian subcontinent and in central Asia were investigated using multivariate analysis of morphometric characters recorded from preserved material. The cobras from this region, formerly thought to belong to a single species, comprise three well-differentiated species: N. naja occurs throughout India, as well as in Pakistan, Nepal, and Bangladesh; N. oxiana is found in Soviet central Asia, northeastern Iran, Afghanistan, northern Pakistan, and northwestern India; N. kaouthia is found from Delhi east to Assam, and south to Vietnam and northern Malaysia. The pattern of intraspecific geographic variation in N. naja is investigated and discussed with reference to previously described subspecies, which are not recognized.
40931035|We revise the taxonomie status of Desmognathus wrighti, which occurs in the southern Appalachians of western North Carolina, eastern Tennessee, and southwest Virginia, USA, based on a combination of genetic, ecological, and morphometric analyses. Previously, we reported fixed differences in allozymic loci and mitochondrial DNA sequences between lineages geographically divided by the French Broad River basin at the level of species divergence. Here, we show that these two lineages also differ in ventral pigmentation and several measures of body size, including snout-vent length, body condition, and head width. In addition, spatially explicit ecological-niche analyses of climate at more than 400 collection localities spanning the range of D. wrighti indicate that the lineages separated by the French Broad River are in unique environmental niche space. Ecological niche models resolved that population localities north of the river were generally colder and drier than localities to the south, which suggests that divergent selection pressures may exist, in addition to isolation by distance, to drive the diversification of these two lineages. The name Desmognathus wrighti (King, 1936), for which the type locality is Mt. LeConte within the Great Smoky Mountains, Tennessee, was retained for all populations south and west of the French Broad River, while the name D. organi, with type locality at Whitetop Mountain, Virginia, was given to those populations north and east of the river.
3893274|We describe a new species of Hyla that differs from the similar-looking species H. pentheter by reaching a larger size, having a smaller tympanum, more webbing on the feet, more extensive nuptial excrescences, and a different color pattern on the flanks. We tentatively place this new species in the phenetic assemblage commonly referred to as the H. bistincta group. We describe and illustrate the tadpole and discuss ontogenetic variation among tadpoles, with reference to existing information on tadpoles of other species from the H. bistincta group.
3891911| Various aspects of the ecology of the leopard lizard, Crotaphytus wislizeni, were studied through much of its geographic range, primarily from collection and preservation of specimens. A northern population in Utah was studied in more detail, using mark-release techniques. Leopard lizards exhibited a relatively low diversity of time of activity compared to sympatric lizard species. Cloacal temperatures of 183 active C. wislizeni in nature averaged 37.4 C and were significantly warmer than temperatures selected in a laboratory thermal gradient. Patterns of clutch size were irregular, but there was a trend toward larger clutches in the south. Clutch size was correlated with  snout-vent length, and averaged 5.3 (N = 94). Reproductive effort (wet weight of eggs/wet weight of gravid ) remained relatively constant with age, and was higher in the north. Expenditure per progeny (wet weight of one egg/wet weight of gravid ) decreased with snout-vent length and age and was higher in the north. Limited data suggest that reproductive effort, expenditure per progeny, and clutch size may decrease in the oldest  . Only one clutch is laid annually in northern populations; perhaps two or more are deposited in the south. Testicular regression begins earlier in the south than in the north, but breeding season length is similar in both areas. In Utah, both sexes reach sexual maturity at about 22 months. Minimum adult survivorship in Utah is approximately 50% per year, while minimal annual juvenile survivorship is about 5-6%. Southern adults are significantly larger than northern ones, and this appears to be related to food habits. Southern leopard lizards consume mostly other lizards, while those in the north eat primarily grasshoppers. Ecological characteristics of several species of lizards in the genus Crotaphytus are briefly summarized and discussed. 
3891323|Erratic behavior in several leptotyphlopid, colubrid, and elapid snakes is defensive. It startles certain predators, thwarts predatory attack, and prevents injury or death. This behavior, elicited by the appearance or actual attack of a predator, is complex and perhaps resistant to learning by predators. Basically, erratic behavior consists of vigorous writhing, body-snapping, or semirigid serpentine locomotion. Common adaptive or apparently adaptive elements are head-cocking, head-hiding, defecation, and cloacal sac discharge. Sham-aggression, tail-coiling, and head-tail self-mimicry are stereotyped displays that precede erratic behavior in some cloubrids and elapids. Death-feigning sometimes follows erratic behavior and may be released by it. Death-feigning is adaptively less significant than erratic or stereotyped behavior, because it is infrequent and usually requires an initial tactile (attack) stimulus. The sudden behavioral change from erratic activity to death-feigning apparently startles some predators and causes the release of captured snakes. The sudden onset and simplicity of death-feigning suggest an involuntary reflex; the relative complexity and apparent stress of erratic behavior suggest endocrine control.
3892030| Southwestern ringneck snakes include the large Diadophis punctatus regalis, the much smaller D. p. arnyi and D. p. stictogenys, and secondary intergrades between the two morphotypes. Large and small ringnecks of opposite sexes from allopatric populations, placed together with other snakes in species discrimination trials, always ate the nonringneck species and never exhibited cannibalism. Occasional copulation or attempted copulation was observed; and fertile eggs were laid by a  of D. p. regalis from Arizona, mated with an intergrade from Texas. Southwestern ringnecks differ from D. p. punctatus and D. p. edwardsi in apparent envenomation of their snake and lizard prey. Ancestral ringnecks were small, like D. p. arnyi and D. p. stictogenys, and associated with mesic, transcontinental, Arcto-Tertiary forests. Pliocene events disrupted the range, and D. p. regalis evolved large size in response to xeric Madro-Tertiary woodland evolution. Wisconsin-age environments allowed secondary intergradation in westcentral Texas, followed by introgression of D. p. regalis genes eastward and D. p. arnyi-stictogenys genes westward. Apparent reproductive isolation of regalis-like and arnyi-like populations in the Guadalupe Mountains, New Mexico-Texas, is evidence of a tertiary contact and different fitness of the regalis and arnyi gene pools. 
3891490| Food partitioning by Nerodia cyclopion, Nerodia erythrogaster, Nerodia fasciata, Nerodia rhombifera, and Regina grahamii was studied in a swamp-bayou system in southern Louisiana during an 18-month period. About 33% of the total snakes captured (N = 350) contained food. Gut contents were grouped into food classes for volumetric analysis and determination of diversity indices (H). Regina grahamii showed the highest specificity, feeding exclusively on crayfish. The four Nerodia species had several food types in common but some distinctions were apparent. Three species were mostly piscivorous but anurans accounted for >85% of the food volume found in N. erythrogaster. Differences in the utilization of individual prey species were also found. Observations of feeding were frequent at inlets between the swamp and bayou. All four Nerodia species exhibited similar feeding behaviors. 
24634286|The Lesser Antilles is a biodiversity hot spot but unfortunately human disturbance has taken its toll, causing dramatic population declines and even extinction of numerous endemic species. Nevertheless, today the rediscovery of previously thought extinct species is not uncommon. Often, old museum specimens and their original descriptions are the only information available for such species. The application of molecular phylogenetic relationships to extant species can help to elucidate pivotal information on their ecology and conservation. Erythrolamprus cursor is possibly an extinct colubrid racer from Martinique, currently classified as critically endangered on the International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List. Mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid sequences were obtained from four E. cursor specimens from the Musum national d'Histoire naturelle (Paris) collections. All sequences recovered the same haplotype and the level of divergence between E. cursor and E. juliae, from the nearby island of Dominica, was lower than between other intraspecific distances within other Erythrolamprus. Furthermore, phylogenetic analyses confirm that these two species are sister taxa and share most recent common ancestry. We discuss that published ecological data available for the sister species (E. juliae) may help to elucidate information on this species' natural history, ultimately having important implications for a future conservation management program if E. cursor is to be found. We emphasize the urgent need to conduct an exhaustive survey on the supposed last population of E. cursor at Diamond Rock to establish the survival of this species there, to understand how it may have adapted to such an ecosystem, especially in sympatry of several introduced rodent species.
3891851|Bufo stejnegeri Schmidt 1931 is redescribed on the basis of six additional specimens. Schmidt's diagnostic characters hold for all specimens and little variation is found. The Korean water toad, B. kangi, is relegated to the synonymy of B. stejnegeri. The species is most closely related to members of the bufo group but is considered to be a distinct group.
3892752| A herpetological survey of the Tlanaro region in southeast Madagascar yielded a new species of Phelsuma. This species is known from three littoral forest localities, all within the climatic transition zone between the humid Eastern Domain and the arid Western Domain. It may be endemic to the Tlanaro region, and its survival is in doubt, because the remaining littoral forests are rapidly disappearing. The position of the nostril, though variable, suggests that this species is more closely related to species of Phelsuma of the Mascarene Islands than to the Madagascan species. After examining the holotype of Phelsuma trilineata, and other specimens identified as this species, we conclude that P. trilineata is a junior synonym of P. cepediana. A new specimen of Phelsuma cepediana, collected in the northeast, confirms the presence of that species in Madagascar. Phelsuma cepediana may have been introduced to Madagascar from Runion or Mauritius. 
3891592|The responses of certain crotaline snakes (Agkistrodon contortrix laticinctus, A. piscivorus leucostoma, Sistrurus miliarius streckeri, Crotalus viridis nuntius) to the presence of kingsnakes (Lampropeltis getulus holbrooki, L. c. calligaster) are described as body bridging, inflation, negative behavior, body flips, and body jerks. Body bridging involves a laterally raised loop of the trunk region of the crotaline snake. In A. contortrix and A. piscivorus, the single body bridge may be low to high, with some jerking and alternating movements to left and right. Body bridging of S. miliarius varies from low lateral to high vertical body bridges which may jerk anterior or posterior, or may proceed wave-like from anterior to posterior, often producing two simultaneous body bridges. Crotalus viridis exhibits both single and double body bridges. The head and tail of all species are held low during body bridging, with the exception of the tail of S. miliarius where the short rattle may project vertically. Six species of colubrine snakes tested in the same manner to the presence of kingsnakes did not exhibit the body bridging response, suggesting a subfamily characteristic for the Crotalinae. This is the first report of body bridging responses for Agkistrodon and Sistrurus. The behavioral aspects of body bridging are discussed.
3892004|Development of the skull in Hyla regilla is similar to the process previously described for several species of Rana. Thirteen of the 18 adult head bones begin to ossify prior to metamorphosis. Cranial ossification begins with the appearance of the parasphenoid during larval stage 31. The last bone to develop is the sphenethmoid which grows slowly over a long period of time. Skull development of H. regilla differs from that reported in the casque-headed hylids, Hyla septentrionalis, and Triprion petasatus chiefly in the time of bone appearance and in the extent of bone enlargement.
3892599|Chelodina longicollis occupies a wide range of ephemeral and permanent waters in the Jervis Bay Territory of coastal New South Wales. As ephemeral waters dry up during periods of low rainfall, which may span several years, the turtles retreat to the refuge of two permanent dune lakes. High population densities in these lakes coupled with low productivity lead to a sharp decline in growth, and reproduction ceases almost entirely. Differences between the lakes in the growth rates and body conditions of turtles coincide with differences in food availability. When rainfall increases, the turtles disperse once more to the ephemeral swamps where they grow faster and are in better condition; and reproductive output is considerably greater than in the permanent water. The propensity of the species for overland migration following rain is explained by the advantages of colonizing highly productive ephemeral waters, reinforced by the severe disadvantages of remaining in the permanent water of overcrowded drought refuges.
3891861| Analysis of geographic variation in Anolis barahonae from the Sierra de Baoruco and Pennsula de Barahona in the Repblica Dominicana indicates the presence of two undescribed subspecies: one occurs along the eastern margin of the peninsula, and the other occurs at slightly higher elevations along the Dominico-Haitian border in the Dominican portion of the Massif de la Selle. 
3892571|The diet of the red-eared turtle, Pseudemys scripta, in a southern Louisiana population shifted gradually from insect to plant material with increasing plastron length. This dietary shift paralleled a habitat shift from feeding sites in shallow to deep water. Juvenile-adult and male-female differences were explained entirely by the plastron length relationships of plant consumption and habitat choice. Basking perches used by small turtles were narrower, more steeply sloped, and located in shallower water than those used by large turtles.
3891088|Abdominal plaques in the Phyllodactylus gerrhopygus group are triangular-shaped structures located in the posterior abdominal region. Histologically, the abdominal plaque is composed of tall, columnar germinal epithelia overlain with thickened, keratinized beta layers. Stratified and cornified epithelial layers are penetrated by two distinct groups of free-nerve endings, which are probably heat sensing in function. The kinesiology of the abdominal plaque mechanism is discussed, and terminology pertaining to the abdominal plaque is reviewed and standardized.
3891909| The production of egg clutches by  green frogs (Rana clamitans) was monitored for two summers in an experimental pond. In both years, all   which laid an egg clutch before 21 July produced a second clutch later in the same summer. This is the first record of multiple egg clutches in a temperate zone ranid frog. 
3891591|Characteristics of scutellation suggest that the distinctively pale sand dune lizards of the genus Sceloporus in southeastern New Mexico and western Texas are disjunct populations of S. graciosus. Since earlier studies indicated that the karyotype of S. graciosus is distinctive within the genus, the chromosomes of the sand dune lizard were examined to test its specific assignment. The karyotype of S. g. arenicolous (2n = 30, with 12 macrochromosomes and 18 smaller chromosomes) is indistinguishable from that of individuals of S. graciosus obtained elsewhere in its geographic range. Furthermore, the karyotype is distinctly different from that of the similar species, Sceloporus undulatus, with which S. g. arenicolous is reported to be sympatric for the first time. Observations on a juvenile S. g. arenicolous hatched from an egg incubated in the laboratory indicate that its distinctive pale coloration is determined genetically, rather than being a physiological response.
3892365|Sceloporus aeneus is a high elevation lizard exhibiting reproductive bimodality: western populations are characterized by oviparity and eastern ones by viviparity. The forms differing in reproduction mode also differ in reproductive strategy, oviducal and ovarian morphology, and oviducal vascularity. The viviparous females have simple but well-developed chorioallantoic and choriovitelline placentae. An hypothesis is presented that a chorioallantoic placenta evolved in response to the gas exchange requirements of the embryo during egg retention and intrauterine development, and that placentation arose concurrently with viviparity.
3890958|Hyla luteocellata was described by Roux on the basis of two males. I collected 139 specimens and observed that the species shows distinct sexual dimorphism. The female of Hyla luteocellata is dorsolaterally striped. The male has lateral markings that blend with the female's markings when the pair is in amplexus. When so embraced, the two animals appear to fuse and offer the appearance of a larger size. The pattern of the two sexes may be of protective value to the amplexing pair, or possibly it is a mechanism for reproductive isolation, as only one of the two closely related sympatric species (H. parviceps and H. bokermanni) shows a dimorphic pattern. Hyla luteocellata is sympatric with H. minuta and H. microcephala, but only H. microcephala seems to occur east of the Unare Depression in N. Venezuela. All three species breed in the same pools but, apparently, their breeding seasons do not overlap completely. The voice of the three species is distinct.
23255784|Recent studies have found that Gopher Tortoise, Gopherus polyphemus, populations in southern Mississippi exhibit low recruitment, due in part to very low hatching success of their eggs. We sought to determine if the cause(s) of this low hatching success was related to egg quality (intrinsic factors), unsuitability of the nest environment (extrinsic factors), or a combination of the two. In 2003, hatching success was monitored simultaneously for eggs from the same clutches that were incubated in the laboratory and left to incubate in nests. A subset of randomly chosen eggs from each clutch was incubated in the laboratory under physical conditions that were known to be conducive to successful hatching to estimate the proportion of eggs that were capable of hatching in a controlled setting. Hatching success in the laboratory was compared with that of eggs incubated in natural nests to estimate the proportion of eggs that failed to hatch presumably from extrinsic factors. Laboratory hatching success was 58.8%, suggesting that roughly 40% of the eggs were intrinsically incapable of hatching even when incubated under controlled conditions. Hatching success in natural nests, 16.7%, was significantly lower than hatching success in the laboratory, suggesting that approximately 42.1% of eggs were capable of hatching but failed to hatch due to some extrinsic aspect(s) of the nest environment. Thus, the low hatching success of Gopher Tortoise eggs in southern Mississippi appears to be attributable to a combination of intrinsic (egg quality) and extrinsic (nest environment) factors.
3891687|Geochelone wilsoni is reported from Dry Cave, New Mexico, and the Lubbock Lake and Buckner Ranch sites, Texas. Paleoecological data from the six fossil localities containing G. wilsoni suggest an environment more mesic than today, with mild winters and cool summers, for the southern High Plains in Texas, New Mexico, and Oklahoma. The extinctions of G. wilsoni, Terrapene carolina putnami, and Bufo woodhousei bexarensis in the southern High Plains and the extirpation of Gopherus agassizi from the northern Chihuahuan Desert are discussed in terms of changing climates and vegetations, and predation by Paleoindians.
3891845|The three known species in the frog family Sooglossidae are characterized by inguinal amplexus which is the presumed ancestral mode. This discovery along with other considerations indicates that sooglossids can no longer be classified as ranoids. Instead it appears that sooglossids should be included in the Pelobatoidea along with the myobatrachids, pelobatids, and pelodytids.
3892019|Push-up displays differ between Sceloporus undulatus elongatus and sympatric Sceloporus graciosus graciosus in the Colorado River basin. Displays of Sceloporus undulatus erythrocheilus, which are allopatric from S. graciosus on the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains, resemble those of S. graciosus lizards more than do those of S. undulatus elongatus. The data provide one of the few demonstrations of character displacement of visual pair forming signals.
3891337| Analysis of some 275 individuals of what is currently known as Sceloporus serrifer prezygus Smith reveals that variations in diverse populations from Chiapas, Mexico and western Guatemala follow no definite pattern and are entirely random. Review of Mexican populations of Sceloporus serrifer, other than those from Chiapas, leads to the conclusion that only three terminal populations from Tamaulipas, outer Yucatn, and the Ro Negro valley of Guatemala can be defined. All other serrifer populations appear to be intergrades between either two or three of the terminal populations. The subspecific name prezygus must be applied to the Ro Negro population and serrifer to the Yucatn individuals. It is suggested that cariniceps Martin be retained for the Tamaulipan population. In selecting cariniceps over plioporus Smith, which was based on an intergrade population from southern Veracruz, the latter would have to be relegated to the synonymy of serrifer. 
3893310|Three surveys in the Basin of Geneva (Switzerland and adjacent France) reveal a decline of crested newts, from 22 known populations in 1975, to 11 in 1987, and to seven in 1997. Using morphological and genetic markers, 16 out of 18 populations are identified as (allochthonous) T. carnifex or mixed populations of T. carnifex-T. cristatus. Syntopic populations are characterized by the incomplete mixing of genotypes. The presence of the genes of T. cristatus in T. carnifex demonstrates past hybridization events. Two populations are identified as (autochthonous) T. cristatus; its presence is now restricted to the northeastern fringe of the Basin. Identification of preserved material indicates that the introduction of T. carnifex took place early this century. The data imply that over 30-40 generations, T. carnifex has established itself in the Basin of Geneva at the expense of T. cristatus. No significant change in the relative distribution of the two species was observed from 1987-1997, and we conclude that the recent spread of T. carnifex has been nonexistent or slow.
3892835|In Costa Rica, Bothrops asper is widely distributed in rainforests below 1500 m and exhibits different reproductive cycles according to location. On the Pacific versant, mating took place between September and November, and the females gave birth between April and June. The mean number of neonates was 18.6 (5-40) in this population. Neonates ranged in total length from 28.0-34.6 cm and in mass from 6.7-13.1 g. In the population of the Atlantic versant, mating was observed in March, and births occurred between September and November. The mean number of offspring was 41.1 (14-86) whereas the total length of neonates ranged from 27.0-36.5 cm, and mass from 6.1-20.2 g. In both populations, gestation time ranged from 6-8 mo, and the size of a litter correlated significantly with the size of the female. In newborn specimens, females were longer than males, especially in the Atlantic population, and females attained a larger adult length. Sexual dichromatism was evidenced by the presence of a yellow color in the tail of male neonates. Females reached sexual maturity when they had total body lengths of 110-120 cm, and males of 99.5 cm.
3893148| Otophryne is the most distinctive of the New World microhylid genera. The unusual features of this genus are such that it has been placed in a monotypic subfamily Otophryninae. These features include a large eye, a large tympanum, a diurnal activity pattern, and a fossorial tadpole unlike any of the other four generally recognized anuran larval types. Until recently, Otophryne was known from only about a dozen individuals from widely scattered localities. These specimens were placed previously in a single species, O. robusta, including two specimens from Chimant-tepui, southern Venezuela, which were described as a separate subspecies, O. robusta steyermarki. Both taxa are from upland areas (tepuis) associated with the Guianan Shield. Examination of the types of these two taxa in addition to recently collected material reveals O. steyermarki to be a distinct species, and the existence of a third, more widespread species with a lowland distribution. We provide diagnoses for the three species and a description of the new species from the tropical forests of central cis-Andean South America. The new lowland species previously was reported in the literature as O. robusta, from which it differs in a number of characteristics. Features distinguishing the three species of Otophryne include color pattern of the dorsum, thigh, and groin; presence or absence of pale glandular ridges on the limbs; and extent and development of lateral fringes and webbing on the toes as well as the morphology of the pharyngeal folds. A summary of the biology of Otophryne, based primarily on published accounts, including habits and habitats, eggs and tadpoles, cytogenetics and distribution, is provided. /// Entre los microhlidos del Nuevo Mundo, el gnero Otophryne sobresale como el ms distintivo miembro de la familia. Entre algunas de las caractersticas inusuales de este gnero estn su patrn de actividad diurno, ojos y tmpanos largos, y el poseer un renacuajo fosorial que no puede ser ubicado entre ninguna de las cuatro categorias en las que generalmente se reconocen las larvas de anfibios. Hasta hace poco tiempo, el gnero estaba representado en colecciones de museos por un reducido nmero de especmenes: tan slo una docena de individuos provenientes de localidades ampliamente diseminadas estaba disponible. Dos taxa han sido descritos previamente, (O. robusta Boulenger, 1900, y O. steyermarki Rivero, 1968b), ambos de zonas altas (tepuis) asociadas con el escudo guayan. Una re-examinacin de los especmenes tipos de estos dos taxa, revela que son distintas entidades y que ambas a su vez difieren de una tercera especie, distribuida ms ampliamente en las tierras bajas. Se presenta el diagnstico para las especies de Otophryne y se describe la nueva especie de Otophryne de los bosques tropicales de Sudamrica Central Andina. Esta nueva especie previamente ha sido reportada en la literatura bajo el nombre de O. robusta, pero ambas especies difieren en varios caracteres. Entre las caractersticas que distinguen las especies de Otophryne se cuentan: patrn de coloracin del dorso, ingle y muslo, presencia o ausencia de crestas glandulares en las extremidades, grado de desarrollo de los bordes laterales y membranas en los dedos, y morfologa del pliegue farngeo. Se presenta un resumen de la biologa de Otophryne, basado en reportes publicados y que incluye: hbitos, hbitat, huevos y larvas, citogentica de las especies y su distribucin. 
3892421| Ten species of centrolenid frogs of the genus Centrolenella are recorded from Per and Bolivia. Two species are named as new-C. pluvialis and C. phenax, both from cloud forests on the Amazonian slopes of the Andes in central and southern Per. Limited material indicates the presence of five undescribed species in Per. A key to the identification of named species is provided. 
3890740|Samples of Rana pipiens (N = 6 to 23) were acclimated to various conditions designed to test the effect on the critical thermal maximum (CTM) of cycled versus constant environmental temperature, starvation, body size, and experimental procedure. The CTM of frogs acclimated to a cycled temperature regime of 10-30 C was the same as that for frogs acclimated to constant 30 C. Two-week unfed frogs had a lower thermal tolerance than frogs that had been fed daily. Larger individuals had a higher CTM. With a heating rate of 1 C/min, there was no difference in CTM of samples tested immediately after removal from acclimation temperatures compared to samples thermoequilibrated to 25 C for 1 hour after removal from acclimation.
41406823|In this study, we describe a new taxon for the genus Phymaturus from the Sierra Laguna Blanca, Catamarca Province, Argentina. This area is known to be an isolated part of the Puna region where other endemic species of vertebrates occur. This new species of lizard belongs to the palluma group because it exhibits juxtaposed superciliary scales, rugose caudal scales, and typically a fragmented subocular scale. Also, this new Phymaturus is assignable, within the palluma group, to the northern or Puna clade because it presents the typical "spray" pattern and brown tails in males, which are distinct from the dorsal-reticulated pattern and yellow tails in species of the southern palluma group. It differs from its relatives in the Puna clade by having the following combination of characters: scapular spot present (more conspicuous in juveniles and females), yellow color in flank of females, males without enlarged scales on ventral surface of the base of tail, males with dark brown throat, enlarged scales on borders of posterior gular fold inconspicuous, ringed tails in both sexes, incomplete pigmentation over dorsum of neck, diffuse white transverse stripes over dorsum of body in females, absence of vertebral stripe, and in some specimens a divided rostral scale. Finally, we present new characters to be considered in future studies of Phymaturus systematics.
3891099|Compared with individuals from sea level, Sceloporus occidentalis from an altitude of 2750-3200 m had hematocrits and erythrocyte counts which averaged 27% and 16% higher respectively. Hemoglobin concentration was not increased in the altitude population but mean corpuscular hemoglobin was significantly reduced. Both populations showed no difference with respect to preferred body temperature or per cent total body water content. The available evidence suggests that altitude may stimulate erythropoiesis in this species.
3893543| We describe two new species of lizards of the genus Liolaemus from western Argentina. Both species belong to the petrophilus group and are easily distinguished from other members by a combination of chromatic and squamation characters. We used sequences of the mitochondrial cyt-b, 12S, and ND4 and the nuclear C-mos genes to infer the phylogeny of described species of the group. We found evidence for a monophyletic petrophilus group within the L. elongatus-kriegi complex. The petrophilus group includes Liolaemus petrophilus and two strongly supported clades, one containing the species distributed in the north, which includes one of the new species, L. talampaya; the second clade includes the species distributed in the south, including the new species, L. gununakuna. /// Describimos dos nuevas especies de lagartijas del gnero Liolaemus del oeste de Argentina. Ambas especies pertenecen al grupo petrophilus y son fcilmente distinguibles de otros miembros por una combinacin de caracteres de coloracin y escamacin. Utilizamos secuencias de genes mitocondriales cyt-b, 12S, ND4 y del nuclear C-mos para inferir la filogenia de las especies incluidas en el grupo. Encontramos evidencia para un grupo petrophilus monofiletico y basal dentro del complejo L. elongatus-kriegi. El grupo petrophilus incluye Liolaemus petrophilus y dos clados fuertemente soportados, uno contiene las especies distribuidas en el norte, incluyendo una de las especies nuevas, L. talampaya; el segundo clado incluye las especies distribuidas en el sur, incluyendo la nueva especie, L. gununakuna. 
3893529|Optimal escape theory predicts that prey permit closer approach by predators when fleeing is more costly, but does not predict other aspects of escape such as distance fled or the likelihood of returning to the initial site in the presence or absence of a resource such as food. Because a lizard preparing to feed may lose the feeding opportunity, optimal escape theory predicts that the lizard should allow a predator to approach closer before fleeing when a stationary food source is present than in its absence. In addition, we predicted that when a predator was nearby, lizards would flee a shorter distance and return more often when food was present than absent. We presented adult males of the omnivorous Balearic lizard, Podarcis lilfordi, with a tethered piece of pear or a pebble of similar size and shape. One of us approached a lizard in a standardized manner, stopping and remaining still when the lizard fled. The other investigator recorded escape and return behaviors. Lizards in the presence of food permitted closer approach before fleeing, fled a substantially shorter distance, and were far more likely to return to the site of stimulus presentation than when a pebble was presented. These findings suggest that prey may alter several aspects of escape behavior to reduce costs due to lost opportunities, and present a likelihood that interspecific variation exists in the combination of aspects of antipredatory behavior that are modified.
3893588| There has been little recent work on the sub-Saharan species of the African and Eurasian genus Chalcides, possibly because the morphology of the genus seems to be highly conserved and specimens are generally rare. As a result, there is a lack of consensus concerning the taxonomic status and distributions of these species in the literature. Herein, we expand upon the brief original descriptions of C. bottegi and C. ragazzii, which we consider to be valid and allopatrically distributed species (separated by the Ethiopian highlands). Examination of populations previously assigned to C. ragazzii in the south-central Saharan highlands and the West African Niger River floodplain indicates that these populations are most similar to populations of C. ocellatus, and we assign them to this widespread, variable species. A disjunct population of C. ocellatus in Somalia is separated from its nearest conspecifics by the Ethiopian highlands and the Indian Ocean; however, we did not find morphological evidence to recognize it as a distinct species. All three species of Chalcides are readily distinguishable from the West African endemics C. armitagei, C. pulchellus, and C. thierryi, which are the only other sub-Saharan representatives for the genus. An identification key is provided for all six sub-Saharan Chalcides species. /// Peu de travaille rcent a t effectu sur des taxa subsahariens du genre Chalcides, possiblement  cause de la morphologie trs conserve du genre et la raret generale des specimens de plusieurs des rgions. En ffet, avis divers de la position taxonomique et de la distribution des taxa sont prsent  la littrature scientifique. Nous largons les descriptions originaux brves de C. bottegi et C. ragazzii; nous les considrons comme speces valides et distribues allopatriques (elles sont separes par les rgions montagneuses d'Ethiopie). Aprs nos examens des populations des rgions montagneuses de Sahara sudcentral et du lit majeur du Niger en Afrique d'ouest attribu auparavant de C. ragazzii, nous les avons transfres  C. ocellatus, une spece rpandue et variable. Une population disjointe de C. ocellatus en Somalie est separe des populations de la mme spece voisines par des rgions montagneuses d'Ethiopie et l'ocean Indien, mais nous n'avons pas trouv d'evidence morphologique pour la reconnatre comme spece spare. Ces trois speces Chalcides se distinguent facilement des speces endmique d'Afrique d'ouest: C. armitagei, C. pulchellus, et C. thierryi, qui sont les seules autres reprsentants subsahariens. Un table d'identification est fourni de tous les six speces de Chalcides subsahariennes. 
3893129|I describe a new species of scolecomorphid caecilian based on three specimens from the forested slopes of Mount Tchabal Mbabo, Cameroon, Africa. This new species differs from its congeners by lacking transverse grooves on the collars, possessing a serrate lateral color pattern, and by characteristics of size and body proportions. It is the third member of the genus Crotaphatrema and is distinctly allopatric from its congeners. I discuss the distribution of C. bornmuelleri and restrict the genus to the highlands of Cameroon.
3892582|The genetic relationships among bisexual and parthenogenetic populations of the tropical gecko Nactus pelagicus were examined by chromosome analysis, allozyme electrophoresis, and restriction fragment analysis of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). The chromosome analysis revealed that the 2N = 28 race is broadly distributed from northern Vanuatu through island Melanesia to the north coast of New Guinea and that the parthenogenetic form occurs on Guadalcanal (Solomon Islands), well to the north of its previously documented distribution. The allozyme comparisons revealed four genetically distinct groups (I-IV) among the bisexual populations. Two of the groups overlap in their distributions at Madang where, in addition, a single F
3892478| Unfed neonates of Uromacer frenatus dorsalis, an arboreal, lizard-eating colubrid from Ile de la Gonve, Haiti, were presented with extracts of three prey species and a distilled water control. Significant differences in the number of tongue flicks elicited were observed between the water control and each of two species of lizards (Anolis and Cnemidophorus), but not between water and a hylid frog (Osteopilus). No prolonged, rigid tongue flicks were used and no extract elicited an attack. This probably was due to the lack of a proper visual search image for these highly visual predators. 
3892288|Juvenile pipids from the lowlands of eastern Panama were assigned to Pipa parva by Heatwole (1963). Examination of adult specimens from this area reveals that the Panamanian specimens represent a new species of Pipa that is distinguished from P. parva by the tripartite digital tips of the former species. Larvae of the new species are described, as well as the osteology of adults and a juvenile specimen.
3892383|Size-limited insect predators can act as agents of selection for tadpole growth rate and body size. We designed an experiment to test for size-limited predation on larval Rana areolata by adults of two species of notonectid insects. An individual insect, either Notonecta indica or N. undulata, was exposed to 21 tadpoles from one of four tadpole size classes. Predation rate of N. undulata decreased continuously with increasing tadpole size. By contrast, Notonecta indica did not attack newly hatched tadpoles but consumed considerable numbers of tadpoles in the second size class. The subsequent rate of N. indica predation was a decreasing function of increasing tadpole size. These daily rates of predation were comparable to those displayed by other insect predators of tadpoles, although the size range of tadpoles attacked is narrower for notonectids than for other insect predators.
3892675|Effects of incubation temperature on embryo survival, incubation duration, hatchling size, post-hatching growth, and sprint speed were studied in the lizard Podarcis muralis. Embryos incubated at 32 C and 35 C hatched about 10 days before those of 28 C and over 5 wk before those of 24 C. Hatching success was high at 24 C and 28 C but much lower at higher temperatures (32 C and 35 C). Neonates incubated at low temperatures had larger snout-vent lengths and body masses (effects of egg mass removed), grew faster, and had higher sprint speeds (size effects removed) than hatchlings incubated at higher temperatures. Hence, incubation temperatures that accelerate embryo development (32-35 C) did not maximize embryo survival and hatchling characteristics. In this study, an incubation temperature of 28 C provided the best balance between developmental rate, hatching success, and posthatch performances.
40931019|Escape theory is a well-known conceptual framework proposed to predict adaptive behavior patterns of free-ranging prey animals with respect to predator avoidance. Escape-theory models are based on the premise that prey should adopt behavior that balances prdation risk incurred by remaining in a chosen location against the cumulative fitness costs resulting from fleeing such locations. Ectotherms are expected to be more vulnerable when their locomotory abilities are diminished at lower ambient temperatures, and risk to prey is expected to increase with the intensity of threat posed by potential predators. We conducted field experiments involving approach by a simulated predator (a human observer) to test both the influence of substrate temperature and the intensity of threat on escape behavior in free-ranging juvenile collared lizards, Crotaphytus collaris. As predicted by theory, flight initiation distance was negatively correlated with substrate temperature. Our results also supported the prediction that the intensity of juvenile responses should increase with perceived threat intensity. Juveniles fled or hid in more trials when they were approached directly; direct approach resulted in subjects responding when the predator stimulus was farther away, and for trials in which hatchlings fled, they moved farther when approached directly. Taken together, our results indicate that juvenile collared lizards alter their behavior with respect to increased risk in a manner that is consistent with the predictions of contemporary escape theory.
3891908|Records for the United States and British Virgin Islands from 1968 to 1975 are listed for six species of amphibians, one turtle, nine lizards, and two snakes. Anolis stratulus is reported from Anegada.
3892437| Nesting activity of the painted turtle (Chrysemys picta marginata) was studied for 3 yr, from 1983 through 1985, in southwestern Quebec. X-ray photography was used to determine clutch size, and radio telemetry was used to determine when and where turtles nested. The nesting seasons varied from year to year: 1983, 16 June-5 July; 1984, 9 June-28 June; 1985, 2 June-5 July. The beginning of the nesting seasons consistently correlated with the mean temperature of the previous year rather than to the mean April temperature of that same year. Distances of nests from the pond ranged from 1.1-620.5 m (x = 90.4 m). The number of females exhibiting nest site fidelity increased between 1983 and 1985. Although the majority of nests were in clay, soil type seemed not to be selected. With one exception, nesting occurred in the late afternoon and early evening. When temperatures were warmer, turtles nested later in the evening. Some females did exploratory travelling before nesting, and a few remained out of the pond overnight. The duration of nesting ranged from 0.5-4.5 h. Late completion of nests was correlated with a rapid drop in temperature after the female had started nesting. Of 185 eggs known to be deposited in 1983, 45 (24%) hatchlings emerged. Predation, mostly by raccoons (Procyon lotor), accounted for 43.8% of the nest mortality in 1983; 85.7% occurred the night the eggs were deposited. An additional 25% of the nests failed due to flooding and failure of the hatchlings to emerge after hatching. Sixty percent of the intact nests had a 100% hatch. All hatchlings emerged in April and May of the following year. 
3892440|Temperature and photoperiod were manipulated at various times of year (for differing lengths of time) to determine the effects of these exogenous cues on the ovarian cycle of the musk turtle, Sternotherus odoratus. Generally, prolonged exposure to high temperature (28 C) inhibited follicular growth whereas a lower temperature (18 C) promoted it. Photoperiod had no apparent effect in any season. High temperature (28 C) was initially stimulatory in the fall when follicles were partially enlarged: ovarian mass increased due to an increase in number of preovulatory follicles. However, after 10 wk of 28 C, follicles, instead of ovulating, became atretic. In the spring, high temperature was not as stimulatory as low temperature (18 C) and prolonged exposure to 28 C was again inhibitory. If females were continuously exposed to high temperature for 7 mo, they exhibited an increase in ovarian mass, but this gain was due to a higher number of smaller follicles rather than preovulatory ones, indicating abnormal growth. The response of female S. odoratus to elevated temperature may explain latitudinal differences in duration of quiescence.
3891207|The autumnal food habits of Sceloporus occidentalis biseriatus in west-central Nevada were studied by the analysis of stomach contents. Insects made up 97% of the food taken and adult insects of the orders Orthoptera, Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, and Hemiptera composed 90% of the total food items by dry weight. Fifty percent contained sand, 17% contained unidentifiable plant fragments, and 22% contained Boraginaceae seeds, all of which are supposed to be ingested accidentally. Nematode parasites were found in 28% of the stomachs.
3892098|We investigated the vocal behavior of Hyla phlebodes in central Panama by recording natural interactions between males and conducting playback experiments using conspecific and heterospecific calls. The vocal repertoire of H. phlebodes is very similar to that of H. ebraccata and H. microcephala, two sympatric species abundant at our study site. Males employ both advertisement and aggressive calls which consist of a buzz-like introductory note often followed by secondary click notes. The introductory notes of advertisement calls are relatively stereotyped, showing little variation in temporal characteristics, but those of aggressive calls are quite variable. Males synchronized and often added click notes to advertisement calls in response to conspecific and heterospecific calls. Call playbacks also elicited an increase in calling rate in some cases. Males often added many secondary notes to calls that were interrupted by calls of other males. Because of the temporal structure of multi-note calls and the timing of male responses, there was little interference between notes in long overlapping calls of two individuals. H. phlebodes only rarely gave aggressive calls during playback tests using conspecific or heterospecific calls. However, when males did respond, they gave aggressive calls with longer introductory notes to stimuli presented at high intensities than to those presented at lower intensity. The number of secondary notes in aggressive calls was negatively correlated with introductory note duration.
3892364| The steroid hormones estradiol-17, progesterone, and testosterone induce hypertrophy of the oviducts (uterus) of lizards. Once ovulation occurs, eggs remain within the oviducts for a period of time characteristic of each species, after which oviposition of shelled eggs (in oviparous lizards) or young (in viviparous species) occurs. Oviposition or parturition is accomplished by rhythmic contractions of the oviducts. The neurohypophysial hormone arginine vasotocin (AVT) causes premature oviposition or parturition when injected into gravid or pregnant lizards in several species. Furthermore, oviducts of several species contract in response to AVT in vitro. Natural regression of corpora lutea, as well as surgical deluteinization, is correlated with premature oviposition in oviparous species, suggesting that luteal steroid hormones may inhibit AVT secretion. In Anolis carolinensis, unilateral inhibition of oviducal contraction is accomplished by nonsystematic delivery of a substance from the corpus luteum to the ipsilateral oviduct, possibly via small utero-ovarian blood vessels. The role of corpora lutea in timing parturition in viviparous lizards is less clear, possibly because there are species differences in the time of luteal regression during pregnancy. There is limited evidence that the adenohypophysis plays a role in corpus luteum function and, therefore, in the timing of oviposition or parturition. Recent evidence suggests that the sympathetic nervous system, through activation of beta-adrenergic receptors in oviducal smooth muscle, can delay oviposition or parturition. Thus, the sympathetic nervous system may mediate environmental influences on the occurrence of oviducal contraction. Behaviors associated with oviposition or parturition include lateral compression and flexure of the trunk, lowering of the rostral portion of the body, leg-stretching, tail-raising, rapid and deep breathing, and reflexive contraction of the abdomen. In addition, several lizard species exhibit maternal behaviors associated with oviposition or parturition, and the motivation for these behaviors could be under hormonal control. 
3892707|Territorial residents are predicted to respond to the presence of scent marks from conspecifics by vigorously re-marking the area that contains the intruder's scent mark or by performing agonistic displays. This study examined the response of resident, male red-backed salamanders (Plethodon cinereus) to swabs marked with chemical stimuli from conspecific males. Residents exhibited significantly greater exploratory behavior to conspecific-marked swabs than to control swabs and exhibited significantly more nose-tapping behavior (i.e., chemosensory sampling) in the control condition. The presence of pheromones from conspecifics did not affect marking behavior by residents. Residents did not exhibit consistent changes in agonistic behavior in response to pheromones from conspecifics. Instead, agonistic behavior was significantly associated with the body size of the resident, with larger individuals tending to become more aggressive and smaller individuals tending to become more submissive. Our study is the first to document an apparent effect of absolute body size (i.e., as opposed to relative body size) on agonistic behavior of salamanders.
3891874| Simultaneous electrocardiograms and impedance pneumograph tracings were recorded from seven species of unrestrained terrestrial snakes (families Colubridae and Viperidae) at 24  1 C. Heart rates recorded during ventilatory periods were significantly higher than heart rates during apneas. Electrocardiographic changes between apneic and ventilatory periods consisted primarily of an increase in length of the diastolic period with little or no change in atrioventricular conduction time or duration of ventricular depolarization. Ventilatory tachycardia began at the start of a ventilatory period and terminated within 2-4 heart beats. Artificial lung inflation produced a ventilatory tachycardia essentially identical to that observed during normal breathing. The heart rate-ventilatory response appears to be a basic reptilian feature which functions to allow rapid equilibration of gas tensions between blood and tissue during the brief ventilatory periods characteristic of terrestrial reptiles. 
40602625|Habitat availability for larval development is one of the main factors affecting the distribution of anuran species. However, little is known about the spatial distribution of these habitats, and estimates of the number of available ponds for a given reserve size are not available in Amazonia. Temporary water bodies were surveyed in a 30-m strip around a 144-km system of trails in a terra firme tropical forest, and tadpoles were collected to evaluate differences in species composition between isolated and streamside ponds. More than 90% of the ponds were < 150 m from a stream, and the tadpole species composition differed between isolated and streamside ponds. Isolated ponds were less common, but were, on average, more stable in time than streamside ponds. Despite the limited distribution of isolated forest ponds, species of frogs dependent on them were found throughout the reserve. The presence of both types of ponds is important for the maintenance of the local pond-breeding anuran community. This study shows that isolated and streamside forest ponds maintain a distinct assemblage of frogs, and isolated ponds are much less common, but are, on average, more predictable in time than streamside ponds.
3891807|The ability of Ambystoma opacum to repel a mammalian predator was reduced after repeated attacks. Salamanders that had been attacked repeatedly had less secretion remaining in the granular glands of the tail than animals that had not been attacked. It therefore appears that survival of predatory attacks is at least partially related to the amount of secretion present in the granular glands. Shrews (Blarina brevicauda) did not appear to habituate or to acquire an avoidance response to the secretions of A. opacum.
3891961| In predation experiments, domestic chickens found the red salamander (Pseudotriton ruber) and the mud salamander (Pseudotriton montanus diastictus) to be intermediate in palatability between the completely palatable mountain dusky salamander (Desmognathus ochrophaeus) and highly unpalatable red eft (Notophthalmus viridescens) as measured by times to attack, durations of attack, results of attack, and learned hesitation or avoidance. Skin secretions of Pseudotriton exuded during defensive behavior have a distinct taste to human beings. Defensive postures and behaviors do not resemble those of red efts so much as they do those of other hemidactyliine plethodontid relatives. Posturing seemed to increase the transfer of learned hesitation or avoidance from Pseudotriton ruber to red efts. Rather than being palatable (Batesian) mimics of red efts in coloration and defensive posture, species of Pseudotriton seem to have reduced palatability of their own that is reinforced by their skin color and defensive posture. These 3 species (and perhaps also the spring salamander Gyrinophilus porphyriticus) appear to form a Mllerian complex with a spectrum of unpalatability. 
3892387|Hypersaline thermal effluents raise the temperature and salinity of the cooling canal system at the Turkey Point power plant in southern Florida. Field and laboratory studies were conducted to assess the responses of hatchling Crocodylus acutus to elevated temperatures and salinities. Laboratory experiments predicted that hatchling crocodiles should occur in the cooler, less saline portion of the cooling system, which field observations confirmed. Temperatures recorded at capture sites were similar to those at which crocodiles gained mass in laboratory studies. Salinities recorded at capture sites were greater than those at which hatchlings could maintain mass in laboratory experiments. Hatchling crocodiles also grew faster in the cooling canal system than in cooler, less saline canals adjacent to the cooling system. Apparently hatchling C. acutus have all of the requirements for survival in the human-altered habitat.
3893322|Although viviparity is widely considered to evolve irreversibly from oviparity, an analysis of squamates by de Fraipont, Clobert, and Barbault in 1996 presented evidence to the contrary; it also argued that oviparous egg-guarding evolves from viviparity. The response by Shine and Lee in 1999 offers significant criticisms of this analysis and challenges its conclusions. My paper shows that the analysis by de Fraipont et al. exhibits several methodological shortcomings: use of outdated taxonomy and non-monophyletic groups, questionable codification of character states, focus on a very limited data base, analysis of taxonomic categories that are unnecessarily inclusive, and reliance on an invalid correlation between reproductive mode and body size. In comparison to the present analysis (in which 102-115 potential origins of viviparity are defined), de Fraipont et al. have focused on a small number of evolutionary transitions and have generated multiple, conflicting hypotheses about each; the result is highly inflated estimates of heterodox transformations that mainly reflect discrepant phylogenetic interpretations. I therefore support and expand upon Shine and Lee's conclusions. A reversion from viviparity to oviparity cannot be ruled out on theoretical grounds, but evidence for its occurrence among squamates thus far remains exceedingly weak.
3892780|Male Lake Eyre dragons (Ctenophorus maculosus) have evolved behaviors to overcome female resistance to copulation. Males press rejecting females to the ground before they try to intromit; males that press females longer to the ground also copulate longer. Unreceptive females have a repertoire of three rejection behaviors that they use singly or in combination to expel males. Large females threaten with a lateral posture, small females predominantly flee, and all females eventually flip over onto their backs when resisting copulations. The size ratio of the sexes has a significant effect on the extent to which flip-over behavior is used by females. The female rejection of males incurs high costs to the females, such as open wounds and perhaps increased predation. The benefits of female mate rejection are not clear, but one hypothesis is that females may benefit from avoiding copulations with non-preferred males.
3893051| We studied the dynamic interactions within and between different hatching cohorts of tadpoles of Chirixalus eiffingeri reared in pools in bamboo stumps at the Experimental Forest of the National Taiwan University at Chitou, Taiwan, during 1997 and 1998. In a 2  3 factorial experiment (Experiment I), we assessed the effects of older tadpoles (none, 10 medium, or 10 large tadpoles) on the growth, survivorship, and metamorphosis of younger, small tadpoles in two densities (10 or 20 tadpoles). In most cases, tadpoles of both older size classes significantly affected the growth, survivorship, survival to metamorphosis, the length of larval period, and mass at metamorphosis of younger tadpoles. The effects of medium and large tadpoles on small tadpoles were similar. An increase in the clutch size of younger tadpoles prolonged the length of larval period but did not affect the mass at metamorphosis or survival to metamorphosis. In Experiment II, we studied the effects of the number of older tadpoles on the growth, survivorship, and metamorphosis of younger tadpoles. There were four treatments: 20 younger tadpoles (20S), 30 younger tadpoles (30S), 10 younger and 10 older tadpoles (10S 10L), and 10 younger and 20 older tadpoles (10S 20L). Older tadpoles decreased the growth and survival of younger tadpoles. An increase of the abundance of older tadpoles, from 20 to 30, affected the survival to metamorphosis of younger tadpoles. All younger tadpoles in the 10S 20L treatment died. Experiments I and II demonstrated that the number, but not the developmental stage, of older tadpoles had detrimental effects on the growth and development of the younger tadpoles, which has important implications for the reproductive strategies of female frogs. The maternal provisioning of eggs for nutrition of C. eiffingeri is energetically expensive; thus, the time when the second clutch of eggs is laid is critical to the overall reproductive success of female frogs. Female frogs should lay a second clutch of eggs only after the older tadpoles are low in number, which may reduce intraspecific competition between the two cohorts of tadpoles. 
3892803|We examined predation by two species of large salamanders (Desmognathus quadramaculatus and Gyrinophilus porphyriticus) on a size structured series of a smaller species (D. ochrophaeus) to determine the potential effects of within species size structure on interactions in a salamander community. Predation pressure from both species of predatory salamander was size-mediated. Small individuals of D. ochrophaeus were vulnerable to predation and large individuals were invulnerable. The species of predator did not differ in the number of D. ochrophaeus attacked or consumed but did differ in the number injured. The data infer that G. porphyriticus, which caused fewer injuries, is a more efficient predator of small salamanders than is D. quadramaculatus. We suggest that size-mediated predation from large species of salamanders may result in smaller salamanders avoiding microhabitats containing predators and large salamanders coexisting with large predators.
3891883|Free-living Phrynosoma platyrhinos and Phrynosoma coronatum in California use diverse and unusual displays and social behaviors during intra- and interspecific interactions. However, these species differ from other iguanids in several respects. The belly-to-belly mating posture of P. coronatum occurs in no other species of lizard. Phrynosoma platyrhinos has an unusual defensive display, and males of this species place their snout at the female's vent after mating. In both species, olfactory cues apparently are important in courtship, intra- and interspecific interactions, and the marking of sites.
3892038| Analysis of stomach contents of 63 adult Atelopus oxyrhynchus showed that in both sexes Coleoptera accounted for approximately 40% of the food biomass, while Hymenoptera (mostly ants), larval Lepidoptera, larval Diptera and Acarina constituted most of the remaining bulk. All other groups accounted for < 15% of total weight of stomach contents. Stomachs of   usually contained almost twice as much food material as did those of the smaller  . Frogs taken in amplexus tended to have less material in their stomachs than did unpaired animals. Of eight amplectant  , six contained no identifiable food items and one contained a single beetle; average weight of stomach contents of these seven   was about 25% of the average for unpaired  . Apparently  , which form amplexus several months in advance of spawning, feed only infrequently if at all during this period. 
3892945| Tapinurus helenae sp. nov. is described from northeastern Brazil. The species is characterized by a dorsoventrally depressed body three bluish-white longitudinal stripes, the middorsal one interrupted at the scapular area, and an ochre colored dorsum that is lacking in larger males. Tapinurus helenae is easily distinguished from the other two known species, T. semitaeniatus and T. pinima, by its interrupted middorsal stripe. The new species inhabits calcareous massifs and sandstones in forested caatinga at the Toca de Cima dos Pilo, So Raimundo Nonato, Piaui, northeastern Brazil. 
40602633|We describe a new species of anole (genus Anolis) from Honduras formerly referred to as Anolis (or Norops) sericeus. The new species differs from A. sericeus by having a small unilobate hemipenis (large and bilobate in A. sericeus) and by having large male and no female dewlaps (small dewlaps present in both sexes in A. sericeus). Furthermore, we resurrect Anolis wellbomae for the populations of anoles on the Pacific versant of Nuclear Central America formerly referred to as Anolis (or Norops) serceus. Anolis wellbomae differs from A. sericeus in the mean values of several scalation and morphometric characters and by having large male and no female dewlaps (small dewlaps present in both sexes in A. sericeus). Anolis wellbomae differs from the new species described here by having a large bilobate hemipenis (small and unilobate in the new species). We provide an identification key and standardized descriptions of A. sericeus, A. wellbomae, and the new species described here. Se describe una nueva especie de anolis (gnero Anolis) de Honduras anteriormente referida como Anolis (o Norops) serceus. La nueva especie difiere de A. sericeus en tener un hemipene pequeo y unilobulado (grande y bilobulado en A. sericeus) y por tener una papera guiar grande en machos adultos y ninguna papera guiar en hembras (ambos sexos de A. sericeus tienen una papera guiar pequea).Adicionalmente se revalida Anolis wellbomae para las poblaciones de anolis de la vertiente del Pacfico de Centroamrica Nuclear anteriormente referidas como Anolis (o Norops) sericeus. Anolis wellbomae difiere de A. sericeus en los valores medios de ciertas caractersticas de escamacin y morfometra, adems de por tener una papera gular grande en machos adultos y ninguna papera guiar en hembras (ambos sexos de A. sericeus tienen una papera guiar pequea). Anolis wellbomae difiere de la nueva especie aqu descrita en tener un hemipene grande y bilobulado (pequeo y unilobulado en la nueva especie). Se proporciona una clave dicotomica de identificacin y descripciones estndar de A. sericeus, A. wellbomae, y de la nueva especie aqu descrita.
3893485|We investigated the reproductive ecology of the western slimy salamander (Plethodon albagula) in an abandoned mine shaft in the Ouachita National Forest of south-central Arkansas. The mine habitat provided an opportunity to observe nesting behavior, quantify reproductive output, and evaluate the influence of precipitation on fecundity for a population of P. albagula that utilize this particular mine shaft to brood and defend egg clutches. We collected reproductive data on 372 clutches between 1982 and 2004. There was no relationship between the number of eggs per egg clutch versus egg size; snout-vent length, body mass, and tail length were not correlated with clutch size. Thirteen females were found to exhibit nest site fidelity, and 10 females exhibited nest securing. Neither nest site fidelity nor nest securing was found to influence reproductive output by females. The amount of precipitation one year prior to oviposition was correlated with the average number of eggs per clutch. It appears, therefore, that precipitation influences fecundity in this population.
3893481|In this paper we support the division of the previously monotypic genus Ascaphus into two species based on an analysis of 23 allozyme loci from 34 populations. We use maximum likelihood to estimate the Ascaphus phylogeny from the allozyme data and find strongly supported monophyletic Rocky Mountain and Pacific clades. In a nonhierarchal, model-based cluster analysis of the data, each of the 1085 individual genotypes is correctly assigned to either Ascaphus montanus or A. truei with a high probability. We also find a virtually fixed difference between the species at the Pgm-2 locus. Within A. truei, we find a lack of significant pairwise F
3893442| We describe a new species of Tupinambis from central Brazil. Tupinambis cerradensis is apparently endemic to the Cerrado biome and associated with gallery forests. Tupinambis cerradensis is sympatric with T. merianae, and probably with T. rufescens, throughout its range. A discriminant analysis of eight size-independent morphometric variables and body size indicated that relative limb size is the most striking difference among the species of Tupinambis, and that the discriminatory power of morphometric characters is low. A discriminant analysis of 10 meristic characters indicated that the number of femoral pores, dorsals, and scales around midbody are the best discriminators among the species of Tupinambis, and that the discriminatory power of meristic characters is high. Allelic frequencies from six variable presumed electrophoretic loci produced greater genetic distances between T. cerradensis and T. merianae than between T. cerradensis and T. teguixin. Tupinambis cerradensis feeds mostly on arthropods and molluscs, ingesting much less plant material and vertebrates than the larger species of the genus. /// Ns descrevemos uma nova espcie de Tupinambis do Brasil central. Tupinambis cerradensis  aparentemente endmica do bioma do Cerrado e associada a matas de galeria. Tupinambis cerradensis  simptrica com T. merianae e, provavelmente, com T. rufescens em sua rea de ocorrncia. Uma anlise discriminante de oito variveis morfomtricas (independentes do tamanho) e do tamanho corporal indicou que o tamanho relativo dos membros  a diferena mais marcante entre as espcies de Tupinambis e que o poder discriminatrio das variveis morfomtricas  baixo. Uma anlise discriminante de dez caracteres mersticos indicou que o nmero de poros femorais, dorsais e escamas ao redor do meio do corpo so os melhores discriminadores entre as espcies de Tupinambis e que o poder discriminatrio de caracteres mersticos  alto. Frequncias allicas de seis locos eletroforticos variveis produziram maiores distncias genticas entre T. cerradensis e T. merianae, do que entre T. cerradensis e T. teguixin. Tupinambis cerradensis se alimenta principalmente de artrpodos e moluscos, ingerindo muito menos material vegetal e vertebrados que as espcies maiores do gnero. 
41406817|The Brazilian Ministry of the Environment (Ministrio Do Meio Ambiente, MMA) proposed defining priority areas for Brazilian biodiversity conservation in 2007, but to date, no definitions of priority areas for amphibian conservation have been developed for the Caatinga biome or the semiarid region of Brazil. In this study, we searched for "hot spots" of amphibians in these two regions and assessed whether the priority areas established by the MMA coincided with those suitable for amphibian conservation. We determined amphibian hot spots by means of three estimates: areas of endemism, areas of high species richness, and areas with species that are threatened, rare, or have very limited distributions. We then assessed the degree of coincidence between amphibian hot spots and the priority areas of the MMA based on the current conservation units. We analyzed areas of endemism with the use of a parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE) on quadrats. The Caatinga biome and semiarid region showed four and six areas of endemism, respectively, mainly associated with mountainous areas that are covered by isolated forests and positively correlated with species richness. All areas of endemism coincided with one or more priority areas defined by the MMA. We identify 15 priority areas for amphibian conservation in the Caatinga biome and semiarid region, including the creation of new full-protection conservation units. A definio de reas prioritrias para a conservao da biodiversidade brasileira foi proposta pelo Ministrio do Meio Ambiente (MMA) em 2007, mas at o presente momento no h estudo metdico que defina reas prioritrias para a conservao de anfbios no bioma Caatinga ou no Semirido brasileiro. Neste estudo, buscamos por "hot spots" de anfbios nestes dois polgonos e verificamos se as reas prioritrias do MMA coincidem com reas adequadas para a conservao dos anfbios. Determinamos os hot spots de anfbios por meio de trs estimadores: reas de endemismo, reas de alta riqueza de espcies e reas com espcies ameaadas, raras e/ou com padres de distribuio restrita. Em seguida, acessamos grau de coincidncia entre hot spots de anfbios e reas prioritrias do MMA, igualmente considerando as unidades de conservao correntemente instaladas. A deteco de reas de endemismo foi realizada pela Anlise de Parcimnia de Endemicidade (PAE), usando quadrados. O bioma Caatinga e o Semirido apresentaram, respectivamente, quatro e seis reas de endemismo, principalmente associadas a reas montanhosas cobertas por florestas isoladas, e estiveram positivamente correlacionadas  riqueza de espcies. Todas as reas de endemismo coincidiram com urna ou mais reas prioritrias definidas pelo MMA. Ns identificamos 15 reas prioritrias para conservao de anfbios no bioma Caatinga e Semirido, alm da criao de novas unidades de conservao de proteo integral no Brasil.
3892158|When attacked by garter snakes, Desmognathus seem to use three different antipredator behaviors in series: (1) attempt to flip free followed by (2) biting and finally, if the first two are unsuccessful, (3) tail autotomy. Desmognathus is the only genus of salamanders demonstrated to be able to defend itself from an attacking predator by biting.
3892663|A new species of Eleutherodactylus is described from the Cuchillas de Moa in eastern Cuba. It is a member of the subgenus Euhyas and is most similar to E. intermedius of southern montane areas in eastern Cuba. The species differs from E. intermedius in being smaller (11.6-12.3 mm SVL, males; 13.0-14.0 mm, females) and having shorter digits, distinctive pattern features, and a different call.
23352103|The Rainbow Frog Scaphiophryne gottlebei lives within the humid canyons that cross the Isalo Massif, central-southern Madagascar. Knowing that a single haplotype dominates the largest part of its distribution range raised questions about the dispersal ability of the species. We affixed external radio transmitters to 36 individuals of S. gottlebei to understand whether the adults of this species actively displaced from the canyon they inhabit. We studied 13 males and 7 females in 2009 and 7 males and 9 females in 2011 over two periods (NovemberDecember 2009 and JanuaryFebruary 2011). Study sessions were chosen due to the different meteorological conditions: the first is the beginning of the rainy season, which corresponds to the start of reproduction; and the second being the end of the rainy season, which corresponds to a wetter period during which individuals are more likely to be feeding in order to increase body weight. Our results revealed that there is no significant difference in the activity patterns between sexes and that rain and temperature stimulate the dispersal rate. The distance covered by the individuals did not differ between males and females; the range varied from a few centimeters to approximately 50 m, although two individuals displaced more than 100 m in a single day. These data suggest that individuals of this species are quite phylopatric to the canyons they inhabit. The generalized haplotype sharing observed might then be explained by passive dispersal of larvae and metamorphosed individuals during the intense cyclonic floods.
3892830| Two new Centrolenella are described, C. azulae from the Cordillera Azul of Per, and C. puyoensis from the amazonian slopes of the Ecuadorian Andes. Centrolenella azulae is distinguished by its moderately large size, the presence of vomerine teeth, a snout truncate in dorsal view and slightly protruding in profile, a color pattern in preservative of very diffuse lavender with small colorless spots, basal webbing on the outer fingers, and a low ulnar fold. Centrolenella puyoensis is distinguished by its moderately large size, a snout truncate in dorsal view and rounded in profile, a color pattern in preservative of purplish-gray with large cream spots, a tympanum that is three-fourths exposed, and intricate anal ornamentation. Both new species are closely related to the Peruvian C. mariae, and together the three species form the C. mariae group, definable on a number of shared, derived characters. A hypothesis of relationships within the mariae group is presented, postulating puyoensis as the most primitive and azulae as the most derived of the trio. 
3893423|There is substantial variation in crests among and within the families of iguanian lizards, and yet very little is known about the selective processes that maintain, or have lead to the evolutionary origins of, lizard crests. I examined the behavior of the South American iguanian lizard Microlophus occipitalis to understand the social functions of the male dorsal crest. The crest was more developed in males than in females. Body depth over the pectoral girdle (a measure of crest height) increased more rapidly with snout-vent length (SVL) in males than females and was positively allometric with SVL in both sexes. Males elevated the crest during intrasexual agonistic encounters as part of an escalating sequence of displays. Males never elevated the crest during male-female encounters. Although the precise communicative function remains unidentified, I present data suggesting that the crest plays a role in the transfer of information about body size or motivational state during aggressive interactions between males.
3892446|The chromosomes of 39 specimens of the lizard Pristidactylus achalensis were analyzed, and a karyotype of 12 biarmed macrochromosomes and 24 microchromosomes was determined. With regard to the microchromosomes, the animals grouped in three types: (a) with two microchromosomes evidently larger than the rest, (b) with one evidently larger microchromosome, and (c) with no evidently larger microchromosomes. Males of the three types showed six macro- and 12 microassociations in meiocytes. The existence of a dimorphic microchromosome due to the addition (or deletion) of heterochromatic material is compatible with these results. In testicular preparations, 21.9% of the mitotic figures and 5.9% of cells in diakinesis-metaphase I were apparently polyploid. The origin of these cells is discussed. Four of the animals presented only one secondary constriction and only one positive region in Ag-stained preparations, suggesting a deletion of the nucleolar organizer region.
3893518| We describe a new species, Telmatobius chusmisensis, from Chusmisa, Iquique Province, northern Chile. The new taxon is diagnosed by characteristics of the adult morphology, osteology, larval external morphology, and chromosomes. The new species is compared with its Chilean congeners and differs from them in presenting all the carpal elements cartilaginous. The tadpole of T. chusmisensis lack intramarginal mental papillae sharing this character with other Chilean species of the genus. /// Describimos una nueva especie, Telmatobius chusmisensis de la localidad de Chusmisa, 3650 m de altura, 92 km al NE del poblado de Huara, Provincia de Iquique, norte de Chile. El nuevo taxn se caracteriza por poseer manchas irregulares de color anaranjado, tanto en el dorso como la superficie ventral de los muslos, y todos los elementos carpales y tarsales cartilaginosos. La nueva especie es comparada con otros taxa chilenos congenricos. 
3892774|Geographic variation in growth rates of the eastern fence lizard, Sceloporus undulatus, is extensive and has been interpreted in various ways. For example, slow growth rates of lizards in eastern woodland populations might reflect phenotypic plasticity induced by low food availability, unfavorable thermal environments, or a combination of both. By supplementally feeding free-ranging lizards from the New Jersey Pine Barrens, I tested the hypothesis that food directly limits growth rate. I also reared juveniles from New Jersey and from the Savannah River Site in South Carolina in a laboratory "common garden" to test whether higher growth rates could be induced by ad libitum food, water, and unconstrained access to thermoregulatory sites, and whether there were population specific differences in responses to the common laboratory environment. Supplemental feeding had no significant effect on growth rates of free-ranging lizards relative to unsupplemented control lizards, and laboratory growth rates did not significantly exceed field growth rates for lizards in New Jersey or South Carolina. The absence of an increase in growth rates of supplementally fed, free-ranging or laboratory-reared lizards relative to control animals and population-specific allometry between snout-vent length and mass in a common laboratory environment is consistent with adaptive hypotheses that assume differences between populations in growth rate and other life history traits are the result of genetic differences. Implications for interpreting geographic variation in S. undulatus are discussed.
23352106|Demographic models identify whether animals are vulnerable to local extirpation, but including all ecological parameters across life history stages may be impeded by practical difficulties. When processes acting on certain life stages cannot be measured, extrapolations are often made. A previous study documented that the range of the turtle Myuchelys georgesi is restricted to the Bellinger River, New South Wales, Australia, and its population is stable. We assessed whether M. georgesi selects certain habitats by comparing their distribution among different water holes. We assessed the threat of catfish predation by examining the stomach contents of catfish specimens. We then evaluated whether threats to M. georgesi were likely to have been underestimated by extending our previous demographic model. We did this by revising the previous estimates of adult, juvenile, and hatchling survivorship under hypothetical variations in water hole use and in the presence or absence of catfish predators. We found that M. georgesi preferentially uses moderate to deep water holes. We also found that although catfish 250400 mm consume hatchling or juvenile turtles, those > 400 mm do to a greater extent. By making observations of catfish in the Bellinger River and incorporating their presence into our model, we found catfish presence to influence juvenile, but not adult, water hole use. Our reassessment of  suggests that it may have been previously underestimated and that the threat to M. georgesi may be greater than we thought as the population is sensitive to variations in water hole depth and exposure of juveniles to predators. Events that alter key habitats and expose turtles to fish predators across the river should, accordingly, be evaluated further so they can be accounted for when managing the river.
25621918|I describe two distinctive new species of elapid snakes of the genus Toxicocalamus from the southeastern end of Papua New Guinea. The first species, T. mintoni sp. nov., is unique within the genus in having the frontal fused with the supraoculars. It is a fairly gracile species of uniformly light-brown coloration and is known from only a single specimen from central Sudest Island. The second species, T. pachysomus sp. nov., is unique in its combination of having a distinct preocular unfused with the prefrontal, the internasal in contact with the preocular, the second supralabial in contact with the nasal, and paired subcaudals. Its stout habitus is unique within the genus, and its small eye is also distinctive. This species too is known from only a single specimen from the Cloudy Mountains, the southeasternmost portion of the island of New Guinea. Milne Bay Province, which is comprised of the southeastern extremity of New Guinea and its adjacent offshore islands, is a center of diversity for the genus Toxicocalamus, with five of 11 species in that genus endemic to that province.
3891197|Female Australian loggerhead turtles (Caretta caretta) feed on fish, crustaceans and molluscs while in the vicinity of a nesting area during the interval between successive intraseason nestings. While the nesting turtles show a small cumulative weight loss throughout the nesting season, the weight of eggs produced is much greater than the body weight loss in the same period. At the completion of the nesting season, the loggerhead turtles disperse. Some of these return to the same nesting beach to renest in later seasons after an absence of one or more years. The shortness of the interseason return period could be because of loggerhead feeding while nesting and the type of food eaten. The presence of an abundant food supply nearby is suggested as a factor governing the establishment of a loggerhead turtle rookery.
3891581| The osteology of 11 species of North American Bufo of the americanus, cognatus, boreas and valliceps species groups was examined. The americanus, cognatus and boreas groups display narrow frontoparietal bones, elevated neurocrania, and a frontoparietal-protic suture. The former groups possess cranial crests; the latter does not. B. valliceps, by contrast, displays broad frontoparietals, a depressed neurocranium and frontoparietal-protic fusion. Considerable intraspecific variation in dermal cranial elements suggests that dermal bone reduction, a major trend in the evolution of anurans, may be continuing in Bufo. Striking morphological divergence, even within the genetically-cohesive americanus group, indicates considerable osteological plasticity. These factors suggest caution in the use of morphology as an unaided systematic tool in this genus. 
41238978|Difference in growth pattern is one of the proximate causes of geographic variation in body size. Such a difference in growth pattern could be explained by two extremes such as genetically determined outcome and phenotypic plasticity or by a combination of these. The Japanese four-lined snake (Elaphe quadnvirgata) on Yakushima Island, Japan, has small body size compared with snakes on the main islands. To examine whether the dwarfism of Yakushima snakes is a consequence of genetic modification or a direct phenotypic response to immediate environmental conditions, E. quadnvirgata from Yakushima and a main island (Shiga Prefecture in Honshu Island), were reared from hatching in a laboratory environment. Data of field surveys were used to examine feeding habits and growth in the wild. Free-ranging snakes on Yakushima had significantly smaller body size and lower growth rate than those in Shiga. Yakushima snakes consumed almost exclusively lizards, whereas frogs were the main prey for Shiga snakes. The proportion of snakes that contained food in their stomach was lower in Yakushima than in Shiga. Available information suggests that the dwarfism of Yakushima snakes cannot be explained by lower survivorship. At hatching, Yakushima snakes of both sexes were larger than Shiga snakes. However, Yakushima and Shiga snakes reached similar body size after approximately 1 year. Captive-reared snakes from the insular dwarf population can reach comparable size to those from the main island, indicating that the growth rate, and hence body size, of E. quadrivirgata is obviously highly plastic. Based on these results, I consider that the dwarfism of Yakushima snakes is attributable to a direct phenotypic response, presumably to food limitation, rather than to microevolutionary changes.
3891278|Chrysemys picta were examined from 42 localities in Pennsylvania. A zone of intergradation between C. p. picta and C. p. marginata was established on the basis of several characters: the degree of disalignment of the carapacial seams, the presence of a dark plastral mark, and the width of the light borders of the carapacial seams. The zone of intergradation occurs east of the Allegheny Front in the Susquehanna, Potomac, and Delaware drainages. The Lake Erie and Ohio River drainages west of the Allegheny Front contain populations of Chrysemys p. marginata. The patterns of postglacial invasion of Pennsylvania by the painted turtle are discussed.
3892391|Biochemical and morphological differentiation identified between Spanish and Moroccan Chalcides chalcides is considered to represent species-level differentiation. Moroccan populations are referred to Chalcides mertensi Klausewitz 1954, new combination. I discuss the possibility that C. chalcides and C. mertensi evolved from a common ancestor as a consequence of the formation of the Strait of Gibraltar.
3893392|Wood frog (Rana sylvatica) tadpoles are microphagous filter-feeders that function as primary consumers in vernal pond communities. Nonetheless, field observations suggest that tadpoles may shift temporarily to higher trophic levels and prey upon the eggs of an upper-level predator, the spotted salamander (Ambystoma maculatum). We conducted experiments in both artificial mesocosms and in natural ponds to determine factors that influence tadpole predation rates on white and clear egg masses of A. maculatum. In an artificial pool experiment, tadpoles significantly reduced embryonic survival of A. maculatum. When supplemental food level was low, rates of egg predation were relatively high and clear egg masses suffered greater mortality than white egg masses. In a field experiment, we used cages to protect egg masses from predators in ponds with and without tadpoles of R. sylvatica. Survival of embryonic A. maculatum was lower for uncaged egg masses in both sets of ponds, but extremely low for egg masses in ponds with tadpoles of R. sylvatica. As in the artificial pool experiment, white egg masses were less vulnerable to tadpole predation than clear egg masses. Results from a correlation analysis of data collected from 84 breeding sites at a bog complex in western North Carolina indicate that the percentage of white egg masses increases with the density of egg masses of R. sylvatica from local breeding sites. Collectively, our data suggest that opportunistic predation by a primary consumer can result in high premetamorphic mortality of an upper-level predator. We hypothesize that tadpole predation is one of several selection pressures maintaining egg color polymorphism in A. maculatum.
3891488| Reported are over 40 F
3892456|Molecular evidence comprising microcomplement fixation comparisons of albumins is used to analyze the phylogenetic relationships of genera within a large group of Central American xenodontines. This group was previously shown to be monophyletic relative to other taxa of xenodontines and is one of two major lineages within the radiation. Based on reciprocal immunological comparisons among the albumins of Coniophanes, Geophis, Sibon, Ninia, Leptodeira and Eridiphas, the following clades are recognized: (1) Leptodeira-Eridiphas and (2) Geophis-Ninia-dipsadines. Coniophanes shares a common lineage with the latter. Hypsiglena and Leptodeira latifasciata share a lineage with Eridiphas. Cryophis belongs to the Leptodeira-Eridiphas clade but is close to none of the species for which antisera are available. Atractus, Amastridium, Chersodromus and Adelphicos are members of the Central American xenodontine clade, but they do not appear to be closely related to reference species within it for which antisera were available. Four genera of dipsadines are all close to Sibon. The genus Rhadinaea is shown to be polyphyletic. Two members of the R. brevirostris group examined belong to the South American xenodontine radiation, and their average immunological distance from Central American xenodontines is greater than 70. The other species of Rhadinaea examined, as well as Pliocercus, are close to Coniophanes. The molecular data suggest, however, that Central American Rhadinaea may be paraphyletic relative to other genera in that lineage.
3892548|Gastrotheca aureomaculata occupies a restricted area on the eastern slopes of the Cordillera Central in Colombia. The dorsum is dark green to brown with many pale spots or uniform green; both patterns and intermediates have been found at the same site. Individuals that were uniformly green formed the basis of the type series of G. mertensi, a name herein placed in the synonymy of G. aureomaculata. The spotted pattern on a dark ground color presumably develops ontogenetically.
3891691| Eleutherodactylus actites sp. nov. is a large species of the essentially lowland fitzingeri group found in the vicinity of Pilal, Provincia Cotopaxi, Ecuador, at 2486 m. Eleutherodactylus actites is most similar to and closely related to the allopatric E. w-nigrum distributed through the Andes of Colombia and Ecuador. Unlike E. w-nigrum, E. actites is most common in nonforested microhabitats. 
3891283|Present distribution and population size estimates are given for Ameiva polops, considered an endangered species of lizard in the Virgin Islands. A rationale is given for assuming its prior distribution to include Buck Island (near St. Croix), with subsequent extinction caused by the introduced Indian mongoose. As a conservation effort, 16 Ameiva were released on Buck Island in June 1968. The introduction was deemed successful when a survey of the population in September 1970 found at least 24 Ameiva. Recommendations are made to assess mongoose and Ameiva populations periodically and to continue mongoose extermination programs.
25209112|Interspecific competition between closely-related and ecologically similar species may limit geographic ranges and fine-scale sympatry, especially when one species is aggressive toward another species. Throughout Ohio, two closely-related salamander species, Plethodon cinereus and P. electromorphus, can be found in similar habitats. While the distributions of the two species generally overlap through much of this region, a finer-scale examination of their distributions indicates that many areas within the zone of sympatry contain only one or the other species. This geographic pattern suggests that the two species are interacting. In this study, we examined the behavioral responses of individuals from allopatric populations of both species to provide an initial understanding of their interactions. This study represents interactions between 'novel' biotic stimuli, as individuals from allopatry have not previously encountered members of the congeneric species. We found that allopatric populations of P. electromorphus exhibited all typical behaviors recorded in other Plethodon species and that both species from Ohio exhibited aggressive behavior. We found that when animals were tested in intraspecific trails, P. cinereus was more aggressive than P. electromorphus and that P. electromorphus was more submissive than P. cinereus. However, these two species did not differ in behavior during interspecific trials, except that P. electromorphus spent more time in escape behavior (EDGE). Therefore, we conclude that P. electromorphus likely would act submissively if encountering P. cinereus for the first time in the field. These results imply that P. electromorphus may not be able to expand its range into areas occupied by P. cinereus, and, in turn, P. cinereus may be able to successfully expand its range into areas presently occupied by P. electromorphus.
3892005| Four new species of hylid frogs are named from Ecuador and Colombia. Hyla gryllata is a member of the Hyla microcephala group, and Hyla sugillata belongs to the Hyla rostrata group; both species are named from Provincia Los Ros on the Pacific lowlands of Ecuador, and the latter occurs northward into Choc, Colombia. Hyla larinopygion from the Andes of Departamento Cauca, Colombia, is of unknown affinites. Phyllomedusa perinesos is described from the Amazonian slopes of the Andes in Ecuador. 
3893459| We describe a new species of Cochranella from the Montaas de Mache in the Choc Ecoregion of the lowlands of northwestern Ecuador. The new species is placed in the Cochranella granulosa group and can be distinguished from all other species of Cochranella by having: (1) white parietal and visceral peritonea; (2) a snout that is gradually inclined in lateral aspect; (3) conspicuous dermal folds, and large, white tubercles on ventrolateral edges of Finger IV, forearms, elbows, tarsi, Toe V, and heels; (4) fleshy, tuberculate,
3891626|An 8-year mark-release-recapture study was conducted on the cooter, Chrysemys floridana. Field work centered around a terrestrial drift fence and pitfall trap system encircling a Carolina bay habitat near Aiken, South Carolina. Terrestrial movement patterns of nonhatchling C. floridana were similar to that for other species. Immigration to the aquatic habitat is locationally random but emigration appears directional and confined to a particular sector of the periphery. Uncertainty exists as to whether the observed emigration represents actual movement of individuals toward a nearby aquatic habitat or whether the effect is a consequence of localized high adult density and shoreline basking. Hatchlings overwinter on land, entering the water in March or April up to 9 or 10 months after egg laying. No correlations were observed between terrestrial activity and daily weather conditions. Immature C. floridana increase 2-4 cm in plastron length each year with the expected abrupt decline in growth at the onset of maturity. Males mature at plastron lengths of 10-12 cm and an age of about 3 years in South Carolina. Females mature at 20-24 cm and ages of 6 or 7 years.
3892377|Relative clutch mass (RCM) is identified as an important life-history characteristic in lizards. Differential survivorship of females carrying clutches of eggs should partially determine RCM, and foraging mode and predator escape tactics play important roles in selection for a given RCM. RCM may vary within a population due to variation in resource availability or among populations of a species due to resource availability or geographic variation in escape tactics. Within species that forage widely, RCM is relatively low. RCM tends to be relatively high in species using the sit-and-wait foraging tactic. RCM variation in the latter group correlates with the manner in which crypsis is manifested. Where a streamlined morphology is advantageous (thin branch mimics or fossorial species), RCM may be low. Where crypsis does not involve a streamlined morphology, RCM tends to be high. Energetic costs associated with changes in RCM and variation in predation rates were estimated with a model of the daily net energy-intake of a lizard. Increasing RCM and/or predation intensity on gravid females reduces daily net energy-intake of wide foragers, but has little effect on species which are sit-and-wait foragers.
3893143|The optimal emergence time for temperate hibernating male lizards may represent a balance between the costs and benefits of emerging at a particular time. Emerging earliest could have a great impact on mating success, but only males with good body condition may cope with the costs of early emergence. Thus, it should be expected that emergence date is highly subjected to environmental variation, so that it may be presumed that this trait will show low between-years consistency. We examined the relationships between emergence date, body condition, and pairing success in free-ranging male lizards, Psammodromus algirus. Emergence date and body condition were negatively correlated. However, a multiple regression analysis showed that the number of females associated with a male was explained by effects of emergence date and snout-vent length but not by body condition. Contrary to expected, emergence date of males breeding over two consecutive seasons were correlated, even when the confounding effects of body size and condition were controlled.
3893453|The use of relocations, repatriations, and translocations as amphibian and reptile conservation strategies has received much debate. In the case of endangered species, their use may outweigh the potential negative consequences. We performed an experimental repatriation of the eastern massasauga (Sistrurus catenatus catenatus), which has experienced range-wide population declines and extirpations. The experiment included measures to minimize negative conspecific effects to the donor populations as well as inter-species effects on the release and donor sites. Snakes released during late July had lower mortality rates, larger home ranges, and gained more mass than snakes released in early September. The July release cohort also successfully reproduced, while no breeding activity was observed with September release snakes. Results of this study suggest that repatriation may be a viable method of restoring eastern massasauga populations. We hope the methods and conservation measures used in this experiment will serve as a template for future repatriations.
3892257|Locomotor performances during 65 consecutive jumps are reported for 10 species of eastern North American frogs. Three species of toads (Bufo americanus, B. fowleri, B. terrestris) did not fatigue, but maintained equivalent performances from beginning to end of the experimental sequences. In contrast, hylids (Acris crepitans, Hyla cinerea, H. crucifer, H. versicolor) and ranids (Rana catesbeiana, R. clamitans, R. virgatipes) showed a progressive decline in performance. The onset of fatigue was not directly associated with jumping ability, because some long jumping species showed less fatigue during the experiments than short jumping ones. Captivity has little effect on jumping performance measured at one, five, 10 and 15 days following capture. Most species showed significant differences in jumping performance through time; however, only B. americanus had a striking decline in performance.
3893023|Allozyme data reveal a high degree of genetic differentiation among the populations of Chiropterotriton examined, suggesting long periods of separation. Two species groupings are defined. The Northern Assemblage contains at least seven species. The Southern Group is a clade composed of at least 13 species. If C. mosaueri and C. chondrostega chondrostega (both unstudied) are recognized as species, the probable number of species in the genus is increased from nine to 22. The existence of these two groupings correlates well with physiographic and floristic provinces in Mexico and with previous biochemical analyses of interspecific relationship. Discordance between rates of morphological and genetic evolution is reflected in the differing levels of morphological variation in the two groupings. The Northern Assemblage contains a wide range of forms resulting from high levels of morphological change, while the Southern Group is characterized by morphological stasis and cryptic species.
3892034|Nine island populations of chuckwalla lizards (Sauromalus) representing four species (S. ater, hispidus, obesus, and varius) were examined to determine the karyotypic variability present. All of the populations sampled have a diploid number of 36 chromosomes, consisting of 12 macrochromosomes and 24 microchromosomes. No pericentric inversional differences were noted between these morphologically distinct species. Apparently, the insular radiation and evolution of this genus, and at least one other iguanid genus (Uta) in the Gulf of California, has occurred without any detectable chromosomal rearrangements.
3892731|Physalaemus rupestris is described from the Parque Estadual do Ibitipoca, in the Lima Duarte Municipality, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The new species inhabits temporary ponds in open areas of high elevations of the Mantiqueira Mountain Range and is characterized by a small size, an indistinct tympanum, the absence of maxillary and vomerine teeth, and distinctive coloration.
3893059| We describe a new species of toad of the Bufo margaritifer complex from the state of Falcn, Venezuela. This new species differs from the other members of the complex by the following combination of characters: medium-size (snout-vent length mean in 11 males 61.2 mm, in two females 72.9 mm), presence of a bony knob at the angle of the mouth, heel reaching the posterior margin of the tympanum when hindlimbs are adpressed forward, tibia length/snout-vent length ratio ranging from 0.40-0.45, toes almost fully webbed, tarsal fold absent, cephalic crests protuberant and thick, supratympanic crest visible and projecting slightly obliquely from body (slightly more pronounced in females), and neural spines generally distinct (except in some males). /// Se describe una nueva especie de sapo del gnero Bufo, del complejo de especies de B. margaritifer, proveniente del Estado Falcn, Venezuela. Esta nueva especie se distingue de los otros miembros del complejo por la siguiente combinacin de caractersticas: tamao mediano (longitud rostro-cloacal promedio en once machos 61.2 mm, en dos hembras 72.9 mm), una protuberancia dura en la comisura de los labios, talones llegan hasta el borde posterior del tmpano (a veces hasta el borde posterior del ojo) cuando las patas traseras son estiradas hacia adelante, dedos pedales completamente palmeados (excepto entre los dedos III-IV y IV-V donde la frmula de la palmeadura es III3.0-IV2.0 y IV2.0-3.0V, respectivamente), pliegue tarsal ausente, crestas ceflicas gruesas y protuberantes, cresta supratimpnica se proyecta ligeramente en direccin oblcua del cuerpo (ms pronunciado en las hembras, pero no hipertrofiadas), espinas vertebrales visibles excepto en algunos machos donde son indistintas. 
3892221|Body size of adult garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis) and adult water snakes (Nerodia sipedon) varied significantly among eight island and three mainland sites in the Lake Erie area. Among the six sites at which both species were sampled, mean adult snout-vent length of garter snakes was positively correlated with that of water snakes for females but not for males. Explanations for geographic variation in body size and for parallel variation in body size between species include differences in individual growth rate and differences in population age-structure among sites.
3891655|Limited fossil evidence shows that a turtle of the genus Graptemys lived in peninsular Florida in the Santa Fe River during the Pleistocene. Available material, including elements of both Rancholabrean and Blancan periods, indicates this turtle occupied the river throughout most of the Pleistocene before becoming extinct in that drainage. Apparent affinities of this turtle with Recent G. barbouri of the Apalachicola River system bring up several geologic and zoogeographic considerations.
23255788|A new species of miniaturized froglet (genus Brachycephalus) is described from Morro Prumirim in the municipality of Ubatuba, So Paulo, southeastern Brazil. Specimens were collected from the leaf litter at approximately 800 m above sea level. The new species is distinguished from all its congeners by the combination of the following characters: snoutvent length 8.713.4 mm; skin on head and dorsum with dermal ossification; general color orange, with a narrow brownish vertebral stripe and belly without spots; and skull, spinal processes of sacral and pre-sacral vertebrae, and process of the fourth vertebra hyperossified. Canonical variates analysis of linear body measurement demonstrates that the new species is easily discriminated from other Brachycephalus species with which it shares an intermediate condition of hyperossification.
3893164|I describe structures around the corner of the mouth of some snakes. Anilius has a large serous superior rictal gland lateral to the quadrato-maxillary ligament and a large serous inferior rictal gland. Other rictal structures of henophidian grade snakes are mesial to the ligament. Cylindrophis has a medium superior rictal gland and a large inferior gland. Two uropeltines have a large superior rictal gland opening into a rictal bulb with thick folded walls. Xenopeltis has a large superior rictal gland opening by three ducts into a thick walled rictal pocket. Aspidites, Calabaria, Exiliboa, Loxocemus, Tropidophis, and Ungaliophis have a rictal pocket into which open glands that may be mucous or serous. Candoia has glands opening around, but not into, a rictal pocket. Bolyerines show no evidence of differentiated rictal structures. Pareas has a superior rictal gland with serous tubules leading to mucous tubules; supralabial gland lobules also have serous leading to mucous tubules and, from about midway forwards, these lobules form a double row; there is no evidence of a dental gland. Two xenodermatines have supralabial serous tubules leading to mucous tubules, but no evidence of alternating mucous and serous cords. I discuss some alternative evolutionary interpretations.
3891654|Late Pleistocene vegetational and faunal histories of the western Missouri Ozarks are currently being studied in an interdisciplinary project by the Illinois State Museum, the University of Arizona, Southern Methodist University, and the University of Missouri. This project has focused on biotic remains from spring deposits of late Pleistocene age located in an abandoned meander of the Pomme de Terre River near Avery, Hickory County, Missouri. In the summers of 1971 and 1973, plant macrofossils, faunal remains, and fossil pollen profiles were recovered in a stratigraphically controlled excavation of Jones Spring (NE 1/4 of NE 1/4, Sect. 9, T.38N, R.22W, Fristoe Mo. 1945, 15 minute quadrangle). The vertebrate fauna in the deposit was dominated by mastodon (Mammut americanum) and mammoth (Mammuthus sp.) in association with bison (Bison), horse (Equus), and muskox (Symbos). Several fragmentary turtle shells were found in association with these late Pleistocene faunal and floral assemblages.
3893530|We measured temperature variation in a free-ranging ectotherm by attaching microdataloggers to the carapaces of 34 painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) in a farm pond located in Davidson, NC. Water and mud temperatures
3892222|Ultra-sound scanning was used to identify, count, and measure ovarian follicles, preovulatory follicles, ova at the beginning of the oviductal period, and oviductal eggs at different stages of shell deposition in live turtles, Chelodina oblonga. An accuracy of >92% was found when counts of the largest size class of follicles and, after ovulation, subsequent counts of oviductal eggs were compared with the number of eggs actually laid by individual animals. The technique permits measurement of the diameter of all size classes of follicles which enlarge in groups as well as the length and width of eggs in the oviducts. This simple, nondestructive method to assess reproductive state is equally applicable to other species of turtles and should greatly enhance knowledge of reproductive patterns.
3891701|A specimen of the fossil anguid lizard Helodermoides tuberculatus is represented by a nearly complete skeleton with a pathologic ossification of regenerated tail osteoderms that forms a solid structure enclosing the regenerated tail region. This extensive ossification is interpreted to have occurred as a result of accelerated co-ossification of the regenerated tail osteoderms and does not represent normal tail morphology.
25621899|Herpetologists are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of hematological parameters for evaluating the welfare of their study animals. In particular, differential counts of white blood cells (from blood smears) are now commonly performed on amphibians, although interpretation of such counts relies on some knowledge of the normal range for the species in question, and for many species this range is not known. In this study we examined blood smears from 79 cricket frogs (Acris c. crepitans) from two ponds in northeastern Georgia to establish reference ranges of white blood cell differentials for this species and to explore possible differences in relative white blood cell numbers between sexes, ponds, and body sizes. For comparison, we also compiled values of many other amphibians from published and unpublished records. We found that lymphocytes made up the majority (68.3%) of white blood cells in cricket frogs, followed by neutrophils (22.4%). There was no difference in relative cell numbers of any type between sexes, nor was there an association with body size. Relative numbers of certain cell types (lymphocytes and neutrophils) varied between ponds. In general the values for cricket frogs resembled those of other amphibians, with high numbers of lymphocytes and neutrophils and low numbers of eosinophils, basophils and monocytes. However, in assembling the records for other species we discovered that all Ambystomatid salamanders examined thus far have markedly elevated values of eosinophils compared to other amphibian species. Moreover, their eosinophil counts may be the highest of all vertebrates, and clearly warrant further study to determine their significance.
3893296| We examined the reproductive frequency in wild-caught and captive females of Tiliqua nigrolutea over five consecutive reproductive seasons. Reproductive frequency (0.38  SE 0.035) was clearly different from an annual pattern (1.0) in which all females reproduce every year. Individual females did not reproduce every year, but "skipped" seasons were staggered such that a proportion of the population produced a clutch each season. We attribute skipped reproductive opportunities to a combination of a long gestation, high relative clutch mass (0.43  SE 0.034), parturition late in the active season, a cessation of feeding in the latter stages of gestation, and low autumn temperatures that limited post-partum feeding opportunities. 
3891699|A new species of the colubrid snake genus Tantilla is described from Ecuador. It appears to have no close relatives within the genus.
3893417|Lizards are not widely regarded as able to alter their foraging mode substantially in relation to the specific food source utilized. Rather, their foraging mode determines the food type that they utilize. We studied Platysaurus broadleyi, a lizard that utilizes food resources differing in several fundamental characteristics. We found that they maintain this broad feeding niche by altering their foraging behavior. Adult lizards ambushed mobile insects but searched actively when feeding on stationary figs beneath trees. This flexibility in foraging behavior allowed P. broadleyi to utilize figs, a high energy but ephemeral resource. Lizards did not vary their foraging mode in response to insect-prey density, but attack distances were further at the site with lower insect density, as predicted by optimal foraging theory. Juveniles adopted an intermediate foraging mode irrespective of the resource utilized.
4497939|A new species of bent-toed gecko, Cyrtopodion brachykolon is described from a series of specimens collected in 1991 from Manshera and lower Swat districts, Northwest Frontier Province, Pakistan. Specimens were examined for 45 morphological characters and measurements. Cyrtopodion brachykolon is distinguished from the morphologically similar species, Cyrtopodion walli (Ingoldby 1922), by the former's relatively shorter limbs, smaller dorsal tubercles relative to the surrounding granular scales, indistinct longitudinal rows of enlarged dorsal tubercles, and fewer number of transverse color bands. Another morphologically similar species, Alsophylax (Altiphylax) tokobajvi Eremschenko and Szczerbak 1984, can be separated from this new species by its larger supranasal scales and less angularly bent or straight digits. We also provide a brief review of the taxonomic history of the bent-toed geckos of Pakistan, herein assigned to Cyrtopodion (s. l.).
3892686|Spermatozoal ultrastructure endorses other evidence that Ascaphus is the sister-group of all other anurans. Primitive (plesiomorphic) features of the sperm of Ascaphus, shared with those of urodeles and basal amniotes and apparently basic to tetrapods, include the elongate conical acrosome, a subacrosomal cone (periperforatorial material), a slender rodlike perforatorium which continues posteriorly in an endonuclear canal, and elongation of the nucleus which tapers within the acrosome. Probable lissamphibian autapomorphies (distinctive advanced characters) which must, therefore, be considered plesiomorphic for Ascaphus are location of the mitochondria unilaterally relative to the flagellum and their association with the paraxonemal rod. This rod is equivalent to the major and minor fibers in the sperm tail of other anurans, and these structures appear to be jointly homologous with a coarse fiber of the amniote axoneme. In Ascaphus, the undulating membrane, which connects the major fiber to the axoneme as an autapomorphy of caecilians, urodeles, and many frogs, is reduced to a short, broad bridge between the inner and outer regions of the paraxonemal rod. The rod carries a longitudinal groove, along this bridge, which houses the mitochondria. Reduction of the undulating membrane is the major advanced feature (apomorphy) of the spermatozoon of Ascaphus. This reduction cannot be ascribed simply to occurrence of internal fertilization in Ascaphus and is tentatively interpreted as spermatozoal paedomorphism, as the undulating membrane persists in internally fertilizing urodeles and in caecilians. It is argued that internal fertilization is basic (plesiomorphic) in the Lissamphibia and that external fertilization has been secondarily acquired in the ancestry of those urodeles and anurans that exhibit it.
25621891|Gopher tortoises spend most of their time in burrows from which they emerge to forage and perform behaviors such as courtship and mating. Previous literature is divided regarding the mating system of this species; some assert that gopher tortoises conform to female defense polygyny, and others assert that scramble competition polygyny is more likely. Here, telemetry data were used to record the frequency with which pairs of tortoises shared burrows and the frequency with which they apparently chased each other from burrows. Additionally, telemetry locations were used to estimate patterns of dispersion of individuals. If gopher tortoises conformed to female defense polygyny, then males should have: (1) moved frequently to share burrows with females, (2) rarely shared burrows with males, (3) infrequently displaced females from burrows, and (4) frequently displaced males from burrows. Similarly, females should have: (1) infrequently moved to share burrows with either sex, and (2) infrequently chased either sex. Also, females should have shown an aggregated dispersion relative to other females. On the contrary, we found that males moved equally frequently to share burrows with adults of both sexes and chased females from burrows more frequently than they chased other males. Females moved more frequently to share burrows with males than with females and chased males more often than they chased other females. Females did not have an aggregated pattern of dispersion relative to other females. These data were most consistent with scramble competition polygyny.
41238982|We describe a distinctively patterned new species of cascade stream frog from the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Aurora provinces, Luzon Island. The new species belongs to the genus Sanguirana, the definition of which we expand to include all Philippine species previously referred to the Rana (Hylarana) everetti complex. The new species is distinguished from other members of the genus by its possession of a bright yellow-green dorsum with conspicuous orange flower-shaped spots in females, bright white, postaxial dermal flanges on the limbs, green-to-purple flank transition, and a highly tuberculate, white venter, in addition to die absence of a dark canthal stripe. The new species is known only from high-gradient, cascading mountain streams between elevations of 750 and 1450 m in mature secondary forest and minimally disturbed primary forests. The discovery of such a distinctive new species emphasizes the relatively high degree to which endemic anuran diversity in the Philippines is still underestimated and underappreciated.
3892066|Seven chickens induced autotomy of 84.2% of Desmognathus ochrophaeus tails in the first 20 tests of each bird. The frequency of salamander tail autotomy induced by the chickens significantly decreased over trials. Six of the chickens attacked the autotomized tail before attacking the body, as well as ate the autotomized tail exclusively or before eating the body. These latter two results indicate autotomized salamander tails redirect predator's attention away from the salamander's body. Frequency of both attacking and consuming autotomized tails exclusively or before the body decreased over trials. Attack durations of the chickens were significantly longer in trials in which the salamander's tail was autotomized compared to trials in which the tail was not autotomized, indicating tail autotomy increased the time available for the salamander to escape.
4497943|We evaluated morphometric variation and reproductive effort in Trachemys callirostris callirostris females from nine populations in the Mompos Depression of northern Colombia. Two hypotheses were evaluated: (1) phenotypes of nesting females co-vary according to geographic distances among sites and/ or specific environmental conditions at each site, and (2) female body size influences their reproductive potential and offspring characteristics. Populations were shown to differ in both mean female body size and body shape, with differences more related to local habitat characteristics than to geographic distances among sites. Larger females occurred in sites with higher annual precipitation and lower hunting pressure. Female size was highly correlated with clutch size and mass. Although habitat characteristics affected female size, habitat alone was not a predictor of reproductive potential. Specific habitat conditions and hunting both influence female phenotypes in this region and thereby also influence key demographic parameters, which have clear conservation implications for this highly exploited species.
3892993|The parthenogenetic teiid lizard, Cnemidophorus tesselatus D(2N), is known only from the vicinities of Conchas Lake, San Miguel County, New Mexico and the historic townsite of Higbee. Otero County, Colorado. The two geographic groups are completely distinguishable by color pattern and show univariate differences in seven meristic characters and one character ratio. A discriminant analysis of meristic characters assigned individuals to their respective populations with a success of 97.3%. In addition, each group of C. tesselatus D(2N) is meristically more similar to C. tesselatus C(2N) than it is to the other group of C. tesselatus D(2N). Based on this fact, in conjuction with biochemical evidence, we hypothesize that C. tesselatus D(2N) was secondarily derived by mutation from C. tesselatus C(2N). The original description of C. tesselatus (Say, 1823) was based on a representative of Pattern Class D from Pueblo, Pueblo County, Colorado. However, the closest extant population of this form is presently 110 km east of Pueblo, and the only color pattern class presently in the vicinity of the type locality is C. tesselatus A(3N). We report a voucher specimen of C. tesselatus D(2N) collected in Pueblo in 1962. This adds weight to the argument that Pattern Class D was in the Pueblo area at the time of Say's visit and that a neotype of C. tesselatus should be chosen from the Colorado population of C. tesselatus D(2N).
3893560|We examined allozymic variation in Hynobius boulengeri, H. stejnegeri, and an unidentified salamander from Amakusa Island, to elucidate the evolution of these salamanders within Kyushu, southern Japan. We found three genetic groups in Kyushu: (1) H. boulengeri from the Sobo-Katamuki Mountains, (2) H. stejnegeri from the Kyushu Central Mountains, and (3) H. boulengeri from the Osumi Peninsula and the salamander from Amakusa Island. Collectively, these three groups formed a clade that was genetically very remote from H. boulengeri from Shikoku and Honshu. The salamander from Amakusa Island was genetically very close to the southernmost populations of H. boulengeri from the Osumi Peninsula and was judged to be a population of the Kyushu group of H. boulengeri. Hynobius stejnegeri also proved to be genetically very close to the Kyushu populations of H. boulengeri, and was assumed to represent one lineage, which attained its unique amber body color in the course of differentiation from the ancestral Kyushu stock of H. boulengeri. The three genetic groups are surmised to have been isolated to their present ranges as a result of geohistoric events within Kyushu Island.
3892057| Examination of 687 specimens of three species of Uromacer yielded 214 prey items. The slender-bodied, long-snouted species (U. frenatus and U. oxyrhynchus) are sit-and-wait foragers and exclusively saurophagous; U. frenatus is a lizard generalist, and U. oxyrhynchus is an Anolis specialist. Uromacer catesbyi has a heavier body and blunter snout and exhibits sit-and-wait and active foraging modes which are reflected in its diet (diurnally active lizards and quiescent tree frogs). Uromacer frenatus exhibits geographic variation in diet, with Ameiva chrysolaema being exploited more frequently on Ile de la Gonve, Haiti, than elsewhere in its range. Similarly, only U. catesbyi from Ile--Vache, Haiti, preyed on Leiocephalus. Although U. frenatus makes an ontogenetic shift from anoles to more robust terrestrial lizards (Ameiva), the prey mass/snake mass ratio remains unchanged. All three species of Uromacer, regardless of morphological specialization, eat those vertebrate prey items that are the most geographically and ecologically widespread and are, relatively, the most abundant. 
3892971|More than 1000 specimens representing 13 species of Australasian pythons were dissected to provide an overview of the natural history of this group. Although the species examined span a wide range of adult body sizes, morphologies, and habitats, several consistent ecological features were evident. Females generally exceed males in average adult body size and mature at a higher proportion of mean adult snout-vent length (SVL). Males outnumber females in museum collections. Cloacal spurs tend to be larger in males than in conspecific females and to be larger (relative to body size) in larger species. Reproductive biology is conservative, with all taxa apparently oviparous and with maternal attendance at the nest. Female reproductive cycles are strongly seasonal but differ among species and areas. The high proportion of non-reproductive adult-size females suggests a generally low reproductive frequency. Mean clutch sizes of 5-16 eggs were recorded, with hatchling size highly correlated with mean adult SVL interspecifically and with incubation period (based upon data from reproduction in captivity) dependent upon hatchling size. Australasian pythons consume a wide range of vertebrates, with a shift from reptiles to mammals in larger species and in larger individuals within a species. Overall, the adaptive radiation of pythons in Australia has involved retention of many primitive features, but the invasion of an arid continent has favored greater utilization of reptilian prey and (consequently?) the evolution of smaller body size.
3892442|A new species of Amolops is described from Yunnan Province, China. Its long, projecting snout, large size (both sexes 75 mm), and gular pouches in males distinguish it from all other mainland species of the genus.
3891625| A decade, 1964-1973, of investigation of sea turtle nesting in Everglades National Park is reviewed. Virtually all nesting was by loggerhead turtles, Caretta caretta. Nesting activity increased from  455 nests to 915 nests per nesting season from 1964-65 to 1972-73. There was roughly 2 as much nesting activity in even numbered years as in the following odd numbered years. Individual turtles seemed to nest on a 2-yr cycle, with four or more nests per year. Nesting interval within a season, May through August, was  12 days. Mean clutch size was 100 eggs/nest; this declined steadily through the season from 110 to 79 eggs. Annual predation by raccoons, Procyon lotor marinus, on Caretta eggs ranged from 49 to 87%. 
3893093| We describe a new species of anole of the genus Norops from near Quebrada Grande, Departamento de Copn, in western Honduras. It is distinguished from all other Mexican and Central American species of the genus by having an ocellated shoulder spot. A suite of other characters is also provided that will distinguish the new species from all other species of Norops of northern Central America. /// Una nueva especie de lagartija del gnero Norops de la cercanas de Quebrada Grande, Departamento de Copn, en Honduras occidental es descrita. Se distingue de todas las otras especies de mexicanas y centroamericanas del gnero por tener una mancha ojosa en el hombro. Un grupo de otras caractersticas tambin proveido, puede distinguir la especie nueva de todas las otras especies de Norops de la parte nortea de Amrica Central. 
3893495|Studies of lizard foraging modes and their correlates have led to major advances in our understanding of the evolution of lizard taxonomic, morphological, physiological, ecological and behavioral diversity. Although two basic foraging modes, ambush and active foraging, have been recognized, variability in foraging movements among species has led to controversies about their existence and the complexity and continuity of foraging behaviors. The variables central to the controversies are number of movements per minute and percent time moving. A third variable, the average duration per bout of movement, has been neglected. For 80 species I show that average duration, like the other variables, is continuous, unimodal, and lognormally distributed. Average duration is highly correlated with percent time moving, but only weakly with number of movements per minute. In discriminant function analysis and cluster analyses, average duration performed slightly worse at separating species by mode than percent time moving as a single variable and in combination with movements per minute. Because it is so highly correlated with percent time moving, average duration cannot be used as a third axis of a multivariable foraging space, but a variable indicating the variability of movement duration might provide new insights. Species for which modes were misclassified had percent time moving close to 10%. Average duration data support earlier reports that some gekkonids have unusually long-lasting movements for ambush foragers, yet remain immobile for long intervals between movements.
3891267| A sample of 69 specimens of Cnemidophorus lineatissimus Cope from Acalpican, north of the mouth of the Ro Balsas, Michoacn, Mxico, was studied. Adult females (N = 14) varied from 75-90 mm in snout-vent length; clutch size varied from 3-6 (x = 4.78) eggs. The Acalpican population is situated between the inland subspecies C. lineatissimus exoristus Duellman and Wellman and the coastal subspecies C. lineatissimus lividus Duellman and Wellman and is morphologically intermediate between the two in color pattern and scutellation. Morphological data indicate that C. l. exoristus and C. l. lividus are intergrading subspecies. 
3893165|We reevaluated geographic variation and taxonomy in the colubrid genus Chilomeniscus. We used color pattern, head scale morphology, and scale and band counts in an attempt to differentiate the four currently recognized species: the unbanded C. stramineus, banded C. cinctus, and the banded insular forms C. punctatissimus and C. savagei. Because only head scale morphology could be used to discretely diagnose (i.e., no character state overlap) two of the four species, we propose that the current evidence supports the recognition of C. savagei from Isla Cerralvo and two disjunct populations of C. stramineus, one ranging throughout the Baja California peninsula and the other occurring in Arizona, U.S.A., and Sonora and Sinaloa, Mexico. We consider C. cinctus and C. punctatissimus to be junior synonyms of C. stramineus.
3891633|Variation in larvae of the Rana tarahumarae group of frogs in western Mexico is based on examination of > 260 larvae from 15 localities extending from Santa Cruz County, Arizona, south to the state of Oaxaca, Mexico. The variable characters include number of upper labial tooth rows, A-2 gap ratio, tail pigmentation, and size-stage of development relationships. There are only two distinct kinds of larvae which metamorphose into either R. tarahumarae or Rana sinaloae; larvae from all localities are not assigned to known taxa owing to the uncertain taxonomic status of metamorphosed frogs. Tadpoles of the R. tarahumarae group are compared with larvae of species of other ranid groups of frogs.
3893608|We investigated movement and burrow use patterns from May 1997 through May 1998 in a gopher tortoise population (n = 123) within a 100-ha study site of high quality (old trees, ground cover intact, growing-season fire regime) longleaf pine-wiregrass habitat located in Baker County, Georgia, USA. Telemetered females moved more frequently in summer months (June-October) but traveled longer distances in September than during other months of the 1997 active season. Males exhibited a peak in movement during August and September 1997 that corresponded with mating activity. The longest distance moved between tracking locations did not differ between males and females, but mean distance per move, number of burrows used, and annual home range size were greater in males than in females. The maximum distance moved by an individual during an active season was negatively correlated with female body size but not male body size. No such relationship was found between body size and number of burrows used by either females or males. Similarly, no relationship was found between body size and annual home range area of adult females and males. Our study provides the most complete estimate of annual home range size of gopher tortoises. Because these data describe movements in an area that retains features of the ancestral habitat, these estimates are the best available for designing reserve areas for this threatened species.
40931016|I used skeletochronological data to evaluate the contributions of propagule size, larval/juvenile growth, and age at first reproduction to differences in adult body size in two species of plethodontid salamanders of the genus Desmognathus. The traits in question were evaluated in populations of the larger D. quadramaculatus and smaller D. monticola in the southern Blue Ridge Mountains of North Carolina, USA. Gompertz and von Bertalanffy functions were fitted to the plots of standard length on skeletochronological age of each complete sample (larvae and/or juveniles, and adults) of earlie data sets; linear functions were fitted to data of immatures (larvae and/or juveniles). In order to examine the relationship of body mass and age, I conducted regressions of body mass on standard length in later samples of both species, calculated estimated body masses of the salamanders in the skeletochronological data sets, and then fitted a modified Gompertz function to each plot of body mass on age. The results showed that age at first reproduction is the principal factor contributing to differences between the species in size at first reproduction and adult size. Larger propagule sizes (i.e., hatching sizes) in D. quadramaculatus versus D. montcola may also be a factor; however, there is no evidence that a difference in larval/juvenile growth rate contributes to the adult size differential. Comparison of two populations of D. montcola suggested that small differences in adult body size result mainly from slight differences in age at first reproduction. Tradeoffs among propagule size, clutch size, growth, and age and size at first reproduction are discussed in the context of selective pressures that may have generated diversification in body size and life history in the genus.
3892164|The 'honeycomb-like' faveolar parenchyma of the teju lung displays two sets of smooth muscle. The trabecular smooth muscle, located in the free edges of the faveolar units, increases the parenchymal depth upon contraction while the musculature of the faveolar walls causes pleating of the walls on contraction, thereby reducing their height. The contraction of the faveolar wall muscle may be mediated by sympathetic ganglia located in the interfaveolar wall connective tissue. Fluorescence characteristics of the ganglion cells indicate the presence of catecholamine, and electron microscopic observation demonstrates local release of the contents of dense core granules. The implications of short-term structural adjustments of lizard lungs for survival are discussed.
24634278|In amphibians, as in other vertebrates, exposure to stressors triggers an increase in plasma glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoids are believed to mediate behavioral transitions critical to coping with stressors. A common amphibian behavioral response to a variety of different stressors is inactivity. With a series of experiments, we tested the hypothesis that stress-induced decreases in locomotory activity are mediated by the glucocorticoid hormone, corticosterone (CORT). With the use of a plethodontid salamander (Red-legged Salamander, Plethodon shermani), we demonstrated that handling, a stressor, resulted in decreased locomotory activity. Next, subjects were treated with a dermal patch containing either oil vehicle or CORT. The amount of CORT used was chosen to elevate plasma CORT acutely to physiologically relevant levels relative to treatment with oil patches. Activity was measured in response to different amounts of CORT, at different times after CORT exposure, and in the presence of different chemosensory cues. One experiment also included treatment with the glucocorticoid receptor blocker, mifepristone. Although handling resulted in reduced activity, we could discern no effect of acute elevations of CORT on activity. These results suggest that acute stress-induced changes in locomotory activity are not mediated by CORT in Red-legged Salamanders.
3892588|Using the family of poison-dart frogs (Dendrobatidae), this study investigates the hypothesis that a trait should evolve to become more specialized: i.e., that diets should evolve to become narrower. I propose and then test a specific hypothesis that specialist diets evolved from generalist diets in the Dendrobatidae, by explicitly defining "specialist" in the context of the foraging ecology of these frogs and by following guidelines for the comparative method proposed by Harvey and Pagel. Overall, the genera judged to be more basal in the phylogeny (Colostethus, Epipedobates, Phyllobates) had wider and more generalist diets, in contrast to taxa higher in the clade (Dendrobates, Minyobates) which had narrower and more specialist diets. However, some genera (Phyllobates, Minyobates) did not fit neatly into this sequence, exhibiting wider and narrower diets, respectively, than expected based on other traits. I tentatively conclude that a narrow diet specializing on ants and mites is a derived trait and that a generalist or opportunistic diet is an ancestral trait in the Dendrobatidae. Moreover, suites of traits related to diet and foraging suggest that foraging ecology may have been a significant force driving radiation of the family at the generic level.
3893408| We review several populations of Atelopus from high altitudes of Ecuador formerly allocated to Atelopus ignescens. For A. ignescens, we designate a neotype and provide data on variation and distribution. Atelopus ignescens is a species restricted to the northern Andes, and it is characterized by the unique presence of a patch of brown spiculae and coni on the gular and pectoral regions of females. We also recognize A. exiguus as a valid species from the Andean highlands of southern Ecuador and describe the lectotype, call, and tadpole. Atelopus exiguus is diagnosed by characters of external morphology and coloration in life. Some specimens of A. exiguus lack Toe I, an unusual feature that deserves further research. /// Se revisa la taxonoma de algunas poblaciones de Atelopus de zonas altas de Ecuador, las cuales previamente fueron incluidas en Atelopus ignescens. Se designa un neotipo para Atelopus ignescens y se presenta datos de variacin y distribucin. Atelopus ignescens es una especie restringida a los Andes del norte de Ecuador, y se caracteriza por la presencia nica de una zona de espculas y conos en las regiones gular y pectoral de las hembras. Se reconoce a Atelopus exiguus de los altos Andes del sur de Ecuador como una especie vlida; adems se describe su lectotipo, canto y renacuajo. Se la diagnostica por caracteres de morfologa externa y coloracin en vivo. Algunos especmenes de Atelopus exiguus carecen del Dedo I del pie; esta caracterstica es inusual y requiere ser ms investigada. 
3891281|In southeast Queensland the nesting of Chelonia depressa is confined to the summer months, October to January. Mating occurs at the beginning of the season. Up to 4 clutches of about 50 large eggs are laid at about 15 day intervals per season. Incubation period averages 53 days with 80% to 90% success. Foxes, dingos and monitor lizards are significant terrestrial predators. A summary of the scalation of the southeast Queensland population is given.
3892963|The courtship vocalizations of three species of Puerto Rican frogs (Eleutherodactylus antillensis, E. cochranae, and E. coqui) are reported. These courtship calls are clearly distinct from the advertisement calls of each species, but they are very similar to one another. This similarity suggests that these calls may represent relatively unchanged, ancestral vocalizations.
3893439| We describe a new species of Nototriton from cloud forest in Parque Nacional Santa Brbara in western Honduras. The new species is apparently most closely related to the allopatric N. barbouri of northwestern and north-central Honduras and N. lignicola of north-central Honduras. The new species can be distinguished from these two species by the combination of having tiny nostrils, a cream-colored or silver lateral stripe, a narrow head, a relatively long snout-vent length, and a long tail. The new species also differs from these two species in several osteological features. 
3892994| We analyze the systematics of pitviper populations normally assigned to the species Bothrops atrox, B. moojeni, and B. marajoensis using multivariate analysis of morphological characters. Most populations of B. moojeni are clearly distinct from B. atrox, but there are phenotypically intermediate populations where the ranges of the two forms meet, suggesting the existence of a hybrid zone. The status of the populations currently assigned to B. marajoensis remains uncertain, as the populations assigned to this species are heterogeneous and poorly differentiated from B. atrox. This study confirms the results of previous workers, who found low levels of divergence within the B. atrox species complex. /// Analisamos a sistemtica das populaes de crotalneos normalmente classificadas como Bothrops atrox, B. moojeni e B. marajoensis, utilizando mtodos de anlise de multivarincia de caratersticas morfolgicas. A maioria das populaes de B. moojeni so claramente distintas de B. atrox, mas existem populaes com fentipo intermedirio na zona de contacto entre as duas formas, o que sugere a existncia de uma zona de hibridizao. O status das populaes atualmente classificadas como B. marajoensis permanece incerto, pois estas populaes so heterogneas e pouco distintas de B. atrox. Estes resultados confirmam os resultados de outros autores, que encontraram baixos nveis de divergncia dentro do complexo B. atrox. 
3892128|Among the several reproductive patterns previously known for viviparous tropical lizards, populations of Barisia monticola from the Cordillera de Talamanca in Costa Rica demonstrate a unique variation. The males are continuously spermatogenic without any seasonal changes in size or activity of the testes and seminiferous tubules, and gonadal size is correlated with body size. Our evidence indicates that the ovarian cycle is probably biennial, in contrast to any other known viviparous lizard. Further, the gestation period is also greatly prolonged. While females demonstrate some degree of seasonal synchrony in parturition, the birth period may extend over an interval of at least 5 mo. We suggest that the climatic factors characterizing this montane tropical region can be exploited only by reptiles having extended egg retention and probably represents a thermal environment that favors the evolution of viviparity.
3893414| The reproductive biology of Eleutherodactylus cooki was studied in a cave system in San Lorenzo, Puerto Rico. I investigated frequency of multiple clutches in nests, clutch size, nest site locations, reproductive timing, embryonic development, and hatching success for 16 months from September 1995 to December 1996. Males guarded multiple clutches of eggs from up to four different females at a time. The mean clutch size was 17.35 eggs per clutch, and the difference in developmental timing among multiple clutches was between 4-14 days. Triple and quadruple clutches were less frequent than single and double clutches, and were associated with nest location. I examined experimentally the fitness benefit of parental care in the field. Compared to control clutches (males not removed), experimental clutches had significantly lower hatching success. Paternal care offers a significant fitness value through increased hatching success at virtually no cost to males in terms of energy expenditure or missed opportunities to mate. An evaluation of the differential reproductive effort, parental investment, and potential reproductive rate between sexes, considering the operational sex ratio, suggests that sexual selection acts on males in this species. I suggest that the mechanisms of sexual selection are female choice and intrasexual exploitative competition. Males with the greatest reproductive success had more yellow coloration than average in the ventral region and guarded at least one clutch of eggs in recessed surfaces of rock, thereby suggesting that visual cues are important in mate choice. Females were scarce and had higher parental investment, and a lower potential reproductive rate than males. Hence, they represent a resource for which males compete. /// Se estudi la biologa reproductiva de Eleutherodactylus cooki en un sistema de cuevas en San Lorenzo, Puerto Rico. Se investig la frecuencia de camadas mltiples en los nidos, tamao de las camadas, rea de anidaje, perodo reproductivo, desarrollo embrionario, y xito de eclosin, durante 16 meses desde septiembre de 1995, hasta diciembre de 1996. Los machos cuidan al mismo tiempo camadas mltiples hasta de 4 hembras diferentes. El tamao promedio de las camadas es de 17.35 huevos por camada, y la diferencia en tiempo de desarrollo embrionario entre camadas mltiples es de 4-7 das. Las camadas triples y cudruples son menos frecuentes que las sencillas o dobles, y estn asociadas al lugar de anidaje. Los beneficios de aptitud como consecuencia del cuido parental se evaluaron de forma experimental en el campo. En comparacin con las camadas control (machos no removidos), las camadas experimentales tuvieron un xito de eclosin significativamente menor. El cuido parental ofrece un valor de aptitud significativo a los machos ya que aumenta el xito de eclosin de sus camadas a un costo energtico mnimo, sin disminuir sus oportunidades de reproducirse otra vez. La evaluacin de diferencias en esfuerzo reproductivo, inversin parental y tasa reproductiva potential entre sexos, indica que seleccin sexual influye sobre los machos de esta especie. Los mecanismos de seleccin sexual que se sugieren son seleccin por las hembras, y competencia explotativa intrasexual en los machos. Los machos con mayor xito reproductivo tienen ms coloracin amarilla en el vientre y estn cuidando por lo menos una camada de huevos en reas cncavas de roca. Esto indica que las claves visuales son importantes en la comunicacin sexual de esta especie. Las hembras son menos abundantes, tienen una inversin parental mayor y una tasa reproductiva potencial mayor que los machos. A consecuencia, representan un recurso por el cul los machos compiten. 
23352175|Supernumerary or B chromosomes are one of the main causes for numerical chromosomal variation in higher eukaryotes. These extragenetic elements have been studied for more than a century, with the goal of trying to understand their origin, and how they survive as a polymorphism in natural populations. Hypsiboas albopunctatus is a nocturnal hylid frog distributed in the centraleastern part of South America. Previously, variation in chromosome numbers was described for a population from Rio Claro, So Paulo, Brazil, in which a single small-sized, metacentric B chromosome was present in ca. 40% of the analyzed individuals (n = 17). We herein describe the presence of B chromosomes in populations of H. albopunctatus from northeastern Argentina (Corrientes and Misiones provinces), with unusual morphological and structural characteristics. The frequency of B chromosomes varied significantly among analyzed populations. We found four diploid numbers (2N = 22, 22 + 1B, 22 + 2B, and 22 + 3B), and in a few individuals mitotic instability occurred. C banding revealed variations in the heterochromatin (DAPI+) pattern between Bs with similar morphology, indicating the existence of two new structural variants of these supernumerary elements in H. albopunctatus (B1 and B2). Nucleolar organizer regions marked positively on the eighth pair, coincident with the location of ribosomal DNA as demonstrated with fluorescent in situ hybridization, but Bs did not mark positive with these two techniques. Also, fluorescent in situ hybridization with telomeric probes showed no differences in location and intensity between Bs and autosomal chromosomes. The present communication is the first case of B chromosome polymorphisms in hylid frogs and the sixth reported in Anura.
3892566|Albumins of 48 Rana lessonae from the Po Valley of Italy and of 81 non-hybrid frogs of a related taxon from peninsular Italy, Sicily and Corsica were examined in microcomplement fixation experiments using antisera to the albumin of Rana lessonae (from the Po drainage of Switzerland) and antisera to the albumin of non-hybrid frogs (from Ortucchio in the mountains east of Rome). The Po Valley sample averaged one immunological distance unit from the albumin of R. lessonae, whereas the sample from the peninsula, Sicily and Corsica averaged 12 units; the transition between these two types is abrupt. These two groups were scarcely distinguished by the peninsular Italian non-hybrid antiserum; the mean immunological distance of albumins of the peninsular, Sicilian and Corsican frogs from the Ortucchio albumin was 1.3, but albumins of the Po Valley sample of R. lessonae had a mean distance of only 2.9. Examination of albumin of eight individuals from peninsular Italy, earlier believed to have the rapidly-migrating albumin of Rana ridibunda, with antiserum to the slowly-migrating albumin revealed that in six of them, the albumin that migrates like the rapidly-migrating R. ridibunda albumin represents a distinct allele in the non-hybrid taxon. The heterogeneous immunological responses of peninsular albumins to the antiserum to Ortucchio albumin are consistent with there being several albumin alleles in peninsular Italy, each relatively distinct from the R. lessonae albumin. Allelic heterogeneity in the Po Valley is also consistent with the data. The failure of the Italian non-hybrid antiserum to distinguish between peninsular and Po Valley albumins is unexplained.
3892563| Plethodon kentucki Mittleman (1951) is a valid species as determined by an electrophoretic analysis of 22 presumptive genetic loci. There is a substantial amount of genetic differentiation between P. kentucki and the other species of large Appalachian Plethodon of the P. glutinosus group (P. yonahlossee, D = 0.46; P. jordani, D = 0.37, and sympatric P. glutinosus, D = 0.45). There is a great deal of geographic genetic variation among populations of P. kentucki. It ranges from the New River in West Virginia west to southwestern Virginia and eastern Kentucky in the Cumberland Plateau section of the Appalachian Plateau Physiographic Province. At 14 of the 15 known localities, it is sympatric with P. glutinosus. No single key morphological characteristic may be used to distinguish all salamanders of the two species, but many individuals differ in chin color (lighter in P. kentucki), size of dorsal spots (smaller in P. kentucki), number of dorsal spots (fewer in P. kentucki) and in the shape of the male mental gland (larger in P. kentucki). P. kentucki is a smaller species than P. glutinosus. 
3893500|The annual growth line hypothesis predicts that a single, countable growth line is deposited annually in turtles. Support for this hypothesis is implied whenever growth line counts are used to estimate age in turtles. However, the hypothesis has not been thoroughly tested. We tested the annual growth line hypothesis by calibrating growth line counts against elapsed time in a population of red-eared sliders, Trachemys scripta elegans, in central Oklahoma. Thirty-one percent of all individuals (349/1129) had countable growth lines. The maximum number of growth lines that could be reliably counted was four. In each year of the study, the first turtles were captured early in March, yet the first new growth lines were not documented until late April. We recorded 1569 captures of 106 turtles that were captured in consecutive years and had countable growth lines throughout the study. Within these turtles, the annual growth line hypothesis was supported. Growth line counts agreed with elapsed time for 100 (94%) turtles. Three turtles appeared to add two growth lines in one year, and three turtles did not add a growth line in one year. We conclude that growth line counts can be used to age turtles in this population up to age four. However, we recognize several sources of error in growth line counts, and encourage researchers to conduct intensive sampling with repeated growth line counts from individuals.
3891870|A field study of the Japanese grass lizard Takydromus tachydromoides was carried out at Mito in central Japan. The mean growth rate of yearling females was highest during late spring. They grew little during the reproductive season (mid-summer), but resumed growth somewhat in late summer. Most energy is apparently directed to body growth in yearling females before the first reproduction. Thereafter most energy is allocated to reproduction.
3891593| The biology of the Zebra-tailed lizard, Callisaurus draconoides was studied at the Nevada Test Site, Mercury, Nevada. Individuals were marked from June 1965 through September 1971. Reproductive cycles were examined by autopsy and field observation. All individuals are sexually mature after the second hibernation. Growth is rapid during the hatchling and juvenile age groups, but slows after they are 2 years old. Territories are moderately large and are maintained by juveniles and adults. Food consists of arthropods. One clutch of three to six eggs is laid usually in June or early July. The reproductive cycles are renewed in August or September with   preceding   by a few weeks. Density may vary from year to year with a range 12-15 individuals/hectare at the Frenchman Flat study plot. 
3892461|Antipredator adaptations previously undescribed in this family are described for Tylototriton, Echinotriton, Mertensiella and Paramesotriton. Tylototriton verrucosus has concentrations of enlarged granular glands located in many regions (corresponding closely to the distribution of orange pigmentation on the dorsal surface). It has defensive postures to display each of these glandular regions to predators and elongated blunt ribs that are used to elevate the lateral warts. Echinotriton andersoni has a similar distribution of enlarged granular glands, but it exhibits a stereotyped rigid antipredator posture. It also has elongated, sharp ribs with sharp epipleural processes. These pierce through the lateral warts which are concentrations of enlarged granular glands. Echinotriton also has a sharp, forward-facing hook on each quadrate bone near the surface of skin bearing enlarged granular glands. Paramesotriton chinensis is unique among all salamanders in that it flips onto its back when bitten by shrews. This behavior displays the brightly patterned ventral surface. Paramesotriton caudopunctatus lacks the bright venter and does not flip onto its back when attacked. Pachytriton brevipes, an aquatic salamandrid, does not display any antipredator behavior other than escape, although it is distasteful to shrews. Mertensiella caucasica displays an active posture in which the body is coiled and the tail is elevated over the head and undulated or lashed toward a touch. This display is similar to those of many plethodontids and ambystomatids but is not found in any other salamandrid.
3891809|A scale character, analogous to the postanal scales of male iguanid lizards, allows an investigator to determine externally the sex of adult and juvenile Cnemidophorus lizards. Specimens of Cnemidophorus tigris from several geographic areas and of four other bisexual species were examined for the trait. Of the 489 specimens examined, the sex of only one lizard could not be determined accurately on the basis of postanal scutellation alone. A series of independent tests using unbiased observers indicates that the trait is sufficiently distinct in C. tigris to be used as a field character.
3892739|Female tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) nest on Stephens Island, New Zealand, in spring (October-December). Previous radiographic surveys in September-October have suggested that only about one-fourth or less of mature-sized females nest each year, but these studies have assumed that ovulation in all females nesting that year has occurred by September-October and that no females X-rayed in September-October carry unshelled, radio-transparent eggs. We used a combination of radiography and laparoscopy to test these inferences in September-October 1987. We X-rayed 173 tuatara that we assumed to be female and performed laparoscopies on 29 of the tuatara identified by X-raying as non-gravid (i.e., not carrying oviducal eggs). The results indicate that about 5.3% of radiographed tuatara were small males misidentified as females. Of the females, about 22.2% were in early vitellogenesis, 22.2% were in mid-vitellogenesis, 25.0% were in late vitellogenesis, 25.0% were gravid, and 5.6% were non-gravid females with atretic but no vitellogenic follicles. No females examined in September-October were in pre-ovulatory condition and none contained unshelled, radio-transparent eggs. Subsequent laparoscopic observations at other times revealed that females in pre-ovulatory condition are present in February-March, that ovulation occurs between March and April, and that shells are radio-opaque by July. We conclude that radiographic surveys of female tuatara in September-October reasonably estimate the proportion of females ovulating and nesting each year. Furthermore, we suggest that the reproductive cycle of female tuatara has an average length of about 4 yr, with vitellogenesis being spread over the first 3 yr and ovulation occurring in the fourth. Plasma concentrations of estradiol, progesterone, testosterone, calcium, and total protein, and the presence/absence of plasma vitellogenin were not useful indicators for distinguishing between gravid and non-gravid females in September-October.
4497949|Animal life history strategies evolve in response to a range of selective pressures, and often are tightly linked to sensory cues. Squamate reptiles possess well-developed chemosensory systems, which evolved early in their history and remain highly conserved. However, chemosensory abilities are secondarily reduced in primarily visual agamid and chameleonid lizards, which casts doubt on the ubiquity of reliance on chemosensory cues among squamates. Diurnal geckos from New Zealand avoid predators using visual crypsis and are primarily ambush foragers; reliance on visual cues may be a product of strong avian predation pressure and minimal influence from mammals and snakes for the past 80 my. We used New Zealand's diurnal geckos to test the role of local adaptation versus evolutionary conservatism in defining chemosensory systems. Specifically, we tested whether Marlborough green geckos, Naultinus manukanus, use chemoreception to detect and behaviorally respond to (1) food, (2) opposite-sex conspecifics, and (3) native reptilian predators (tuatara, Sphenodon punctatus). Chemosensory cues mediated gecko interactions with all three stimuli tested: (1) the scent of fruit induced greater exploratory behavior, (2) male geckos responded to scent of female conspecifics by increasing lingual sampling and activity, and (3) tuatara fecal cues (but not skin secretions) elicited characteristic antipredator freeze behavior in geckos. Neither the primarily visual life history strategies nor the reduced range of predators of New Zealand's diurnal geckos appears to have reduced their chemosensory abilities relative to other noniguanid squamate reptiles. Instead, our findings support the notion that chemosensory traits remain highly conserved.
41238980|We investigated the spatial ecology of the eastern massasauga (Sistrurus c. catenatus) at a study site unique in that it was near the northern extent of the species' geographic range and had a sandy substrate and extensive mixed coniferous forest. Forty-six individuals were radiotracked for at least one complete season between 2002 and 2004 or 2006 and 2007. Males had larger home ranges and core areas, range lengths, and movement rates than nongravid females, which in turn had larger movement parameters than those of gravid females. Movement rates and distances were not constant throughout the activity season, with males making greater movements as the activity season progressed and gravid females making the longest movements immediately following parturition. Total area used during the activity season was intermediate relative to that used by massasaugas at other sites, with minimum convex polygons around outermost observations during the active season averaging 16.7 ha. Movement indices at our site were much larger than reported indices from study sites in the central or southern portions of the massasauga's geographic range and more similar to those from Ontario and New York. The trend for increased movements at northern latitudes may have implications for managers attempting to provide sufficient habitat for viable populations and minimize interactions between snakes and roads or other anthropogenic disturbances.
3892332|A reexamination of the scleral ossicles of sceloporine iguanids was undertaken after conflicting data sets were discovered in the literature. The scleral ossicles of certain other iguanids were also studied for comparative purposes. Sceloporines exhibit much greater variation in ossicle configuration than has previously been reported. This variation is often too great within genera and species to provide useful characters for inferring intergeneric relationships, although a few derived characters do suggest monophyletic groupings of genera. A large number of iguanids exhibit an ossicle arrangement in which there are 14 ossicles of approximately equal size in each eye; three positive and three negative ossicles occupy the same positions in the scleral rings of all these iguanids. This condition is thought to be either the direct or indirect precursor to all patterns of ossicle configuration seen in sceloporines. These patterns seem to have been derived from their presumed precursor by both reductions and losses of ossicles in the dorsal portion of the ring.
3893287|Publication is essential to science. Scientists have an obligation to publish their results-to commit them to public scrutiny by distributing them widely in a permanent medium. In this article, we emphasize that scientific writing does not have to be bad writing. It does not even have to be dull, stodgy, and obtuse. Science is exciting; that is why we do it. Your scientific papers should convey that excitement, communicating your findings so that any trained scientist can understand them and, just as importantly, remember them. However, scientific style is not easy to master, because it is rigidly constrained and highly disciplined, for good reason. Scientific style must be concise, absolutely accurate, and unambiguous. Yet, few graduate students are given formal instruction in scientific writing. Somehow they are supposed to hack out their first manuscripts on their own, learning only as their drafts are returned covered with red ink. In this article, we present graduate students with a guide to getting through the publication process, from crafting their first manuscripts, to mastering scientific style, to enduring the review process, and finally to joining the ranks of their published colleagues.
3891429| Reproduction and larval development of Eurycea longicauda melanopleura is described and compared to the other subspecies of E. longicauda. Testicular enlargement begins in November and lasts through February. Oviposition occurs from December to March. E. l. melanopleura has a longer reproductive season and produces slightly smaller eggs than other forms of E. longicauda. Larvae hatch at 10 mm snout-vent length (SVL) from January to March and transform 7 months later at over 20 mm SVL. E. l. melanopleura has a longer larval period than the other subspecies. Sexual maturity of   is attained between 31 and 43 mm SVL while   reach sexual maturity between 33 and 43 mm SVL. 
3893004|We examined the effects of prey availability on search behavior of two species of Chinese salamanders. Search activity of both species was dependent on prey availability. At low prey availability, salamanders searched actively and at high prey availability, they exhibited decreased activity with increasing length of time exposed to prey. Changes in search activity could not be explained by differences in number of prey captured between prey densities. Search activity was bimodally distributed for Cynops orientalis but not for C. cyanurus. The results suggest that these salamanders switch search behavior from ambush to active search in response to prey availability. There were also differences between the two species and the sexes within species in this response.
3892388|Based on the analysis of derived character-states from osteology, myology, larvae and life history, a new genus is proposed for Atelopus pernambucensis Bokermann. Comparisons with all genera of bufonids are presented. Analysis of cladistic relationships among the South American "atelopodid" genera indicates that the new genus is the sister-group of Atelopus or Atelopus + Osornophryne.
3892342|The scale surfaces of four additional species of the genus Lepidophyma were examined by scanning electron microscopy, thus making information on scale microstructure available for all members of the family Xantusiidae. These four species resemble the other members of the genus in having Oberhautchen cells with a central projection. All three projection morphotypes (micro-dome, micro-ridge, and micro-tubercle), and the intermediate morphologies which link them into a morphotypic series, are present in three of the four species. The microstructure of the fourth species, L. radula, is similar to that of L. dontomasi in that micro-tubercles are absent and the scale surface is largely covered by micro-ridges. A correlation between microstructure and gross morphology of scales appears to hold for all species in the Xantusiidae with the possible exception of L. radula. Variation found within L. micropholis is consistent with the hypothesis that the morphotypic series in microstructure represents an evolutionary series. A phylogeny based exclusively on microstructure supports the monophyly of both the genus and subgenus Lepidophyma, but indicates that the subgenus Gaigeia is paraphyletic. Comparisons with allozyme and chromosome phylogenies suggest the possibility that the absence of derived microstructure in some xantusiids may be the result of paedomorphosis.
3893240| I review the status of populations of toads of the genus Bufo from the Pacific Highlands of Guatemala and southern Mexico. A new species is described that occurs at high elevations in the Chimalapas and the Sierra Madre de Chiapas, Mexico, and the Montaas de Cuilco, Guatemala. This species is similar to the widespread, predominantly lowland species Bufo valliceps, but it differs by having a smaller tympanum and a poorly developed vocal sac, among other features. The name Bufo macrocristatus Firschein and Smith is available for the montane forest toad with long limbs and moderately hypertrophied cranial crests that occurs in wet forests along the Atlantic versants of the Chimalapas and Chiapan Highlands of Mexico and the Caribbean slope of the Sierra de los Cuchumatanes of Guatemala. Both of these species have been often confused with Bufo cavifrons in the literature; B. cavifrons does not occur east of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. Bufo campbelli is reported for the first time from the countries of Mexico and Honduras. /// Se revisa el estado taxonmico del algunos sapos del genero Bufo de las tierras altas del pacfico de Guatemala y del sur de Mxico. Se describe una nueva especie que habita en elevaciones altas en las Chimalapas y en la Sierra Madre de Chiapas, Mxico, y los Montaas de Cuilco, Guatemala. Esta especie es similar a la especie de distribucin amplia principalmente de tierras bajas, Bufo valliceps, pero diferente a esta por tener tmpanos ms pequeos y un saco vocal poco desarollado, entre otras caractersticas. Bufo macrocristatus Firschein y Smith es el nombre disponible para el sapo de bosque montaoso de patas largas y crestas craniales moderadamente desarolladas que habita los bosques hmidos a lo largo de las vertientes atlnticas de las Chimalapas y las tierras altas chiapanecas de Mxico y la vertiente atlntica del Sierra de los Cuchumatanes de Guatemala. Estas dos especies han sido confudidas a menudo con Bufo cavifrons. Bufo cavifrons no habita al este del Istmo de Tehuantepec. Se reporta por primera vez la presencia de Bufo campbelli para Honduras y Mxico. 
3892915|The nesting behavior of the loggerhead (Caretta caretta) was studied on a barrier beach island in Florida during June and July of several years. Ten phases of nesting involve about 50 distinct action patterns, not counting variants and similar patterns occurring in different phases. Some phases, such as digging of the egg chamber, involve highly stereotyped action patterns that occur in a rigidly fixed sequence of complex and intricate behavior. The switch from one phase to the next appears to be controlled by external stimuli except for the termination of egg laying, which sometimes involves depletion of the egg stores. Comparisons are made with earlier reports on the loggerhead and with the other species of sea turtles. We present evidence for a hypothesis that most of the action patterns of nesting are highly modified locomotor patterns that retain the basic coordination pattern of quadrupedal-gait walking (footfall pattern: left hind, left fore, right hind, right fore).
3891855|The vascular system associated with the integument of the Australian lizard Tiliqua scincoides can be considered as consisting of subcutaneous and cutaneous components. The subcutaneous component has essentially two networks, one arterial and one venous. The cutaneous component consists of an elaborate network of anastomosing vessels in the loose connective tissue of the superficial dermis. The anastomoses do not have muscular walls. The system is interpreted as primarily an adaptation for heat exchange. Blood flow through the cutaneous vascular system increased during heating and decreased during cooling, but no cutaneous vasodilation or vasoconstriction was found.
41406809|We describe a new species of lizard in the genus Gekko from Sibuyan Island in the Romblon Island group of the central Philippines. Although the new species is diagnosed from other Philippine Gekko by body size and shape, coloration, and multiple characteristics of external morphology, additional support for the recognition of the Sibuyan Gekko population as a distinct evolutionary lineage is garnered from DNA sequence data and biogeographical inference. The new species has been collected on trunks of trees or on granitic rocks along rivers in mature, lowland forest, and on vegetation at forest edges bordering agricultural areas. It is known only from Sibuyan Island and is undoubtedly endemic to this single small, isolated landmass. Although the larger, topographically complex islands of the Philippines have been the targets of numerous recent efforts to estimate vertebrate species diversity, smaller islands of the archipelago have received comparatively less attention and may support significant levels of underappreciated vertebrate diversity.
3892720| A new species of collared lizard, Crotaphytus grismeri, is described from the isolated Sierra de Los Cucaps and contiguous Sierra El Mayor, Baja California, Mxico. This species is distinguished from all other Crotaphytus by its small adult size, green pigmentation within the pale bar separating the anterior and posterior collars, a dull orange colored tail and hind limbs in subadult females, a unique hind limb color pattern, and a well demarcated, pale tan dorsal caudal stripe in juveniles of both sexes. /// Se describe una nueva especie de lagartija de collar, Crotaphytus grismeri, cuya distribucin est restringida a las Sierras de Los Cucaps y El Mayor, Baja California, Mxico. Esta especie se diferencia de otras especies de Crotaphytus por su menor tamao; pigmentacin verdosa sobre un fondo blanco en la banda que separa los collares anterior y posterior; coloracin naranja opaco sobre las extremidades posteriores y cola en hembras subadultas; y una lnea dorsal bien marcada de color gris claro en jvenes de ambos sexos. 
3891747|Study of the Cretaceous salamander Prodesmodon and of the presumed lizard Cuttysarkus necessitates a reconsideration of their relationships. Jaw material originally referred to Prodesmodon copei is prosirenid, near Albanerpeton, and dentaries of Cuttysarkus mcnallyi are referred to P. copei, with Cuttysarkus becoming a junior synonym of Prodesmodon. Atlantes originally referred to P. copei are correctly associated, and a newly discovered vomer of this species is described. Prodesmodon, previously referred to the Prosirenidae, is best classified in the Batrachosauroididae.
3891916|Thirteen gray and eight black rat snakes were individually introduced into a room in which the only shelters were three wooden boxes: floor level, atop a 1-m log, and atop a 2-m log. Both races showed a statistically significant preference for the boxes atop the logs. Black rat snakes were found more frequently at floor level than were gray rat snakes, and gray rat snakes were found more frequently atop the 2-m log than were black rat snakes. The greater arboreality of gray rat snakes is interpreted in terms of the relative lack of caves and rock formations as hiding places in the Gulf states and the potential danger of fire in southern pine forests.
3892521|Food habits, consumption rates, and predation rates of western rattlesnakes (Crotalus viridis) and gopher snakes (Pituophis melanoleucus) were determined during a 5-yr study in southwestern Idaho. Juvenile ground squirrels comprised 81% of the ingested biomass of rattlesnakes. Juvenile ground squirrels and cottontail rabbits comprised 60% of the diet of gopher snakes. Consumption rates (expressed as percent of body mass) of first-year snakes exceeded that of older age classes in both species. Production efficiencies (proportion of prey mass consumed used for growth) of rattlesnakes (0.28) exceeded gopher snakes (0.21). Density, as determined by drift fence captures in nine habitats, ranged from 0-2.5/ha for rattlesnakes and from 0.1-1.9/ha for gopher snakes. Annual predation rates by rattlesnakes were estimated to be 14% and 5-11% of the populations of juvenile ground squirrels and cottontail rabbits, respectively. We estimated that gopher snakes took 4% of the juvenile ground squirrels and 22-43% of the juvenile cottontail rabbits.
3891831|The lizard Ameiva eutropia (= A. festiva) Cope is redescribed on the basis of the only remaining intact syntype and the syntype is designated lectotype. The holotype of A. leptophrys Cope, previously reported as lost, is redescribed. Both descriptions are more complete than were the original descriptions and both types are illustrated for the first time.
3891853|A tumor from a captured adult specimen of the eastern newt, Notophthalmus viridescens, is described. The tumor was diagnosed as a neuroblastoma and was believed to be benign.
3890818|The iguanid lizard Phrynosoma m'calli exhibits many traits similar to those found in the agamid lizard Moloch horridus. Experiments were conducted to determine whether P. m'calli is capable of using its skin to collect water from the environment in the manner demonstrated by M. horridus. All available evidence indicated that P. m'calli does not possess the ability to utilize its skin for water acquisition.
3891090|Six species and subspecies of Ambystoma were tested for embryonic temperature tolerance and rate of development. The eggs of these salamanders are less tolerant of high temperatures than those of most anurans and have narrower limits of tolerance. The tolerance limits and rates of development do not correlate with a single factor as they do in Rana. Some northern Ambystoma have slower rates of development than some southern forms. Intraspecific variation in tolerance and rate of development was observed. Each species or subspecies has tolerance limits and rate of development adaptive to its unique life history pattern and adjusted to the prevailing climatic regime in its range.
3891970|A fairly complete trionychid skull from the Koobi Fora Formation of northwestern Kenya is described. It is close to if not identical with the extant species Trionyx triunguis, a modern component of the nearby Lake Turkana fauna. The sediments from which the fossil was recovered (ranging in age from 2.5-1.0 million years B.P.) border the eastern shore of this lake. A review of the fossil trionychids in Africa reveals that the skull, despite its lack of any great antiquity, is the earliest well-substantiated occurrence of Trionyx in Africa. A trionychid fragment from Egypt, possibly of Eocene age, may represent the oldest record of the family Trionychidae in Africa. Of the two endemic African trionychid genera, Cyclanorbis is unknown as a fossil and Cycloderma first appears in the Miocene of western Kenya. Cycloderma and Trionyx may once have been sympatric in the Lake Turkana basin although only Trionyx has survived there.
40931033|In many species of amphibians that display territoriality, it is unclear at what life stage and to what extent dispersal occurs. We examined whether differences existed between life stages in dispersal and homing in red-backed salamanders (Plethodon cinereus) in continuous habitat. In a mark-recapture study, we found that juvenile and adult movements between years were not significantly different. The median distances moved by both adults (0.85-0.88 m) and juveniles (1.14-1.22 m) of P. cinereus between years were similar to the diameter of adult home ranges in this area (1.15 m). In a homing experiment, we found that, although the probability of recapture of translocated individuals under their original cover object increased with body size, both adults and juveniles successfully orientated toward their original cover objects when displaced over short distances (1.5 m and 6.25 m), but their orientation was random when displaced long distances (12.5 m and 25 m). Despite the current assumption that juveniles of P. cinereus lack territorial behaviors, our results suggest that regardless of life stage, site tenacity accounts for lack of movements.
3890634|Mink frogs in the vicinity of Lake Itasca, Clearwater County, Minnesota, escaped into submerged vegetation or bottom mud 86.5% of the times confronted. Associated ranids escaped into water less frequently. Both vertebrates and invertebrates preyed on Rana septentrionalis. Death also appeared to be caused by red leg.
3892657|For some anurans, the benefit of laying eggs in relatively predator-free, temporary ponds must be weighed not only against the likelihood that the pond is temporally stable enough for metamorphosis to occur but can nutritionally support tadpoles as well. In Tennessee, the breeding season of the upland chorus frog (Pseudacris triseriata feriarum) coincides with the pollination of shortleaf pine and southern red oak, both of which produce relatively nutritious pollen. To determine whether pollen might serve as a food source for tadpoles, pine and oak pollen, algae, and a control (a 3:1 mixture of ground rabbit chow pellets and flaked fish food) were fed ad libitum to tadpoles to determine the effects of a single food type and sequential presentation of different foods on growth and development. Using a repeated measures design, tadpole body length, mass, and developmental stage were measured at the start of the experiment and every nine days thereafter. The experimental results showed that tadpoles fed pine pollen at any point in the experiment were significantly smaller than tadpoles receiving other foods. Additionally, more tadpoles that were fed pine or oak pollen at any time period failed to initiate metamorphosis compared to tadpoles from other treatments. Thus, while pollens may be ingested as part of the diet of suspension-feeding tadpoles, exclusive feeding, either purposely or accidentally, on these foods is detrimental to normal development.
3892936| Females from many iguanid lizard species assume orange or red coloration on their bodies about the time of ovulation and into their gravid period. We investigated whether the orange color sometimes seen on throats of female tree lizards, Urosaurus ornatus, was correlated with reproductive condition. We examined females collected bi-weekly from two populations. All females from the Doa Ana Mountains had orange throats which exhibited an insignificant tendency toward deeper orange in gravid and near gravid females. Females from Aguirre Spring, however, were polymorphic (yellow, gold, or pale orange) with respect to throat coloration early in the activity season. Later on, females carrying enlarged follicles exhibited a deep orange throat coloration, similar to females at Doa Ana. This color change was especially significant during the first of two annual clutches. We also observed that for the Aguirre Spring population both body size and throat color were good predictors of clutch size. 
3891291|Observations on the courtship of Ambystoma texanum are reported for the first time. The courtship behavior of A. texanum represents an intermediate stage between the two basic types of Ambystoma courtships, one of which involves amplexus and the other without amplexus. Male A. texanum combine rubbing and amplexus to stimulate the female. Male A. texanum have longer tails than females. The adaptive significance of this sexual dimorphism may be related to the extensive use of the tail by the male during courtship.
3891812|Body temperatures
3893103|Although chemosensory recognition of predators by larval amphibians is well known, the extent to which experience plays a role in the development of this anti-predator behavior is unclear. We addressed this issue by exposing laboratory-reared (naive) and wild-caught (experienced) tadpoles of the American toad, Bufo americanus, to water-borne chemical cues of three different potential predators (bluegill sunfish, Lepomis macrochirus, larvae of the odonate Anax junius, and adults of the red-spotted newt, Notophthalmus viridescens). Compared to control tadpoles exposed to dechlorinated water, tadpoles exposex to chemical cues of Lepomis and Anax significantly decreased activity and significantly increased aggregation. However, the behavior of tadpoles exposed to chemical cues of Notophthalmus was identical to that of control tadpoles. Most importantly, we found no difference in anti-predator behavior between laboratory-reared and wild-caught tadpoles. We conclude that larval experience with predators is unnecessary for the development of chemosensory predator recognition and that anti-predator behavior in this species is largely innate.
3892855| Results of this study show strong evidence for segregation of calling sites by two species of gray treefrogs in sympatric choruses. A greater proportion (61.3%) of males of H. chrysoscelis called from sites that were 50 cm above the ground, whereas 68.7% of the males of H. versicolor occupied calling sites at elevations >50 cm. There was a weaker trend for males of H. chrysoscelis to call from sites closer to the edge of the pond than males of H. versicolor. In ponds in allopatry, males of both species frequently called from sites that were avoided in sympatry. That is, males of H. chrysoscelis more often called from elevated sites (73.7%) and males of H. versicolor called from the ground or from sites 50 cm (59.6%). These within-species differences between allopatry and sympatry could not be explained by differences in distribution of vegetation between the two pond types. Thus, the presence or absence of heterospecifics influences calling sites used by male gray treefrogs of both species. These observations may provide evidence for character displacement in calling site preference in sympatry and character release in allopatric choruses. 
3890950|The embryonic development of Ascaphus truei was studied through hatching and compared with that of other anurans. Gravid females were injected with adult Rana pipiens pituitaries. Eggs were incubated at 12 C and the development varied appreciably from a generalized anuran development. Five stages were eliminated (Fertilization, Gray Crescent, Neural Plate, Gill Circulation, and Cornea Transparent) from the generalized table and five new ones created (Deposition, Neural Groove, Eye Pigmentation, Body Pigmentation, and Hatching) making a total of 21 stages through hatching. Special note was made of the lack of pigment in the egg and the time of pigment formation, a translucent spot in gastrulation, position of oral sucker and mouth development, and development of a tissue "plateau" on the anterior portion of the yolk sac ventral to the mouth.
3893297| Sceloporus bicanthalis is a viviparous lizard that inhabits high altitude temperate zone habitats in Mxico. Our histological observations indicate that adult males exhibit spermatogenesis and spermiogenesis throughout the year; no seasonal differences were found in testes mass, height of epididymal epithelial cells, and number of layers of spermatogonia, primary and secondary spermatocytes, and spermatids. Seminiferous tubules exhibited slight, but statistically significant, seasonal variation in diameter. Continuous spermatogenesis and spermiogenesis of S. bicanthalis differ from the cyclical pattern exhibited by most species of lizards and from lizard species sympatric with S. bicanthalis. Continuous reproductive activity of males of S. bicanthalis, and maturation at a relatively small size, is associated with a female reproductive activity in which vitellogenic or pregnant females are present in the population during all months of the year. As a consequence, males can encounter potential mates as soon as they mature. /// Sceloporus bicanthalis es una lagartija vivpara que habita en elevaciones altas de ambientes templados en Mxico. De acuerdo al anlisis histolgico, los machos adultos presentan espermatognesis y espermiognesis continuas; no se encontraron diferencias estacionales en el peso testicular, altura del epitelio de los conductos del epiddimo, nmero de capas de espermatogonias, espermatocitos primarios y secundarios y espermtidas. En contraste, se encontr variacin estacional en el dimetro de los tbulos seminferos. El patrn reproductor continuo de S. bicanthalis es atpico cuando se compara con los ciclos reproductores de otras lagartijas, incluyendo especies simptricas. Aparentemente, la actividad reproductora continua de los machos de S. bicanthalis y su madurez sexual temprana, estn asociadas con la actividad reproductora de las hembras, en el cual la vitelognesis o preez se presentan durante todo el ao. En consecuencia, los machos pueden aparearse una vez que alcanzan la madurez sexual. 
3891069|As Aneides ferreus develops it changes color patterns. Ontogenetic changes in dorsal and ventral color patterns were described in detail. Individuals were categorized into color classes (young, subadult and adult) based on the quantified descriptions of 255 animals. The young were copper or gold with blue leucophores on the dorsum, and the venter was dark due to a continuous network of melanophores. Subadult animals displayed mostly gold or copper iridophores on the dorsum and a broken melanophore pattern on the venter. Adults were generally dark with flecks of gold on the dorsum, while their venters were light colored with few leucophores.
3892318|Studies of amphibian energetics often rely on one of three exercise regimes to estimate maximum rates of oxygen consumption: (1) maintenance of continuous locomotor activity by placing the animal in a motorized chamber that is rotated at a varying rate, (2) maintenance of locomotor activity by placing the animal in a motorized, steadily rotating metabolic chamber, or (3) placing the animal in a metabolic chamber that is manually rotated to flip repeatedly the animal onto its dorsum and thus maintain it in continuous righting activity. This latter exercise regime differs substantially from the motorized technique, because the motion of the chamber is irregular, incorporating reversals of direction, erratic variations in velocity of chamber movement, and vertical motions. I compared the ability of the latter two exercise regimes to elicit maximum aerobic capacity in three amphibian species: Rana pipiens, Rana catesbeiana and Bufo woodhousei. In each case, use of the steadily rotating chamber substantially (9-30%) underestimated maximum aerobic capacity as compared to manually maintaining the animal in continuous righting activity.
3892107|A population of smooth newts (Triturus vulgaris) was studied throughout one breeding season at a pond in southern England, using capture-recapture methods, by means of both a drift fence surrounding the pond and netting and trapping in the water. The principal aims of the study were to establish the duration of the breeding season and to assess changes in the operational sex ratio over the course of the breeding season. Females outnumbered males in the breeding population, though this effect became less marked as the season progressed. Both immigration and emigration continued for several months so that only for about 1 wk was the whole breeding population present in the pond at the same time. There was no difference between the sexes in the timing of arrival at or departure from the pond. Migratory movements into the pond were correlated with temperature but not with rainfall. Time spent in the water showed considerable variance among individuals of both sexes, but there was no significant difference in the mean value for males and females. Major variations in the operational sex ratio during the breeding season probably resulted from a marked tendency of females to ovulate synchronously, independently of how long they had been in the water. Animals of both sexes that stayed a long time in the water had gained mass when they left, those that stayed a short time lost mass.
3892348|The capacity of female mountain dusky salamanders (Desmognathus ochrophaeus) to engage in multiple matings was investigated over a small part of the total courtship season. Females were paired with different males nightly until each had been inseminated on two different nights. Females required up to four nights of apparent recovery between successive courtship encounters if the latter were to result in successful insemination. The implications of allowing time for the recovery of sexual responsiveness in empirical studies of sexual behavior are stressed.
24634284|The Nactus pelagicus complex consists of a unisexual lineage, N. pelagicus, as well as several genetically distinct bisexual lineages. The unisexual and bisexual lineages are rarely sympatric but do co-occur on two islands in southern Vanuatu. Nactus pelagicus and the bisexual N. multicarinatus co-occur on Aneityum and Tanna Islands, although the distribution of N. multicarinatus may be limited on Aneityum and may be limited to a single locality (Port Resolution) on the eastern coast of Tanna. Previous analyses suggested that these species have different chin scalation patterns. However, species identifications were assigned solely on presence or absence of males from localities. Moreover, because these species occupy different regions, morphological analyses can be confounded by interisland variation. To evaluate whether chin scalation patterns differ consistently between N. pelagicus and N. multicarinatus as previously suggested, we used molecular sequence data to delimit species from nine populations on a single island in Vanuatu. All N. multicarinatus examined had a single chin scalation pattern whereas variation in this trait was observed in N. pelagicus; there was no overlap in this trait between the species. We hypothesize that the variation in this trait in the unisexual species N. pelagicus could result from developmental instability as a result of perturbations during development caused by incompatibility between the two parental genomes that contributed to the formation of this unisexual lineage.
3892050|A new species of the Anadia bitaeniata group is described, the first of its genus known to lack prefrontal scales. It is a montane (subparamo) counterpart of the lower montane A. pulchella, both of the Santa Marta Mountains in northern Colombia, in a situation parallel to A. brevifrontalis (montane) and A. bitaeniata (lower montane) of the Andes of western Venezuela. Based on the position of the femoral pore row and hemipenial structure, Anadia pamplonensis is again recognized as a distinct species.
41406802|Prey may use a variety of strategies to avoid predators, including behavioral modification and inducible defenses. For an inducible defense to evolve, one necessary component is that the defense must be costly; if it is not, then the defense should evolve into one that is always expressed (i.e., a constitutive defense). However, costs of inducible defenses have not been well-documented. Using predator exposure experiments in aquatic mesocosms, we demonstrate that dark tail coloration (or lack thereof) in Blanchard's Cricket Frog (Acris blanchardi) tadpoles is an inducible defense. Specifically, Acris tadpole tail spots in treatments with dragonfly predators (Anax sp.) were significantly larger when compared to treatments with fish predators (Lepomis macrochirus). However, tadpoles in control tanks (with no predators) had tail spots that were not significantly different in area from the Anax treatment. Therefore, this defense is unique among those known because the presence of fish induces the loss (not the appearance) of this morphology. Because Acris tadpoles express the tail spot in the absence of prdation risk, this phenotype also does not appear to have any substantial allocation cost. We also document prdation of Acrs tadpoles by a fish predator and demonstrate reduction in movement and differential habitat use in the presence of fish predator cues. Under predation risk, tadpoles became less active and occupied the shallowest regions of their habitats. This combination of plastic morphological and behavioral defenses likely allows these frogs to successfully breed in a broad range of aquatic habitats with different assemblages of predators. While likely effective in reducing vulnerability to Anax attacks, the tail spot may increase vulnerability to fish. Our results suggest that the antagonistic effects of predator-specific inducible defenses may represent another type of cost relevant to the conditions under which inducible defenses are expected to evolve.
3890831|Genetic compatibility of several species combinations of South American anurans has been tested. There is a considerable amount of incompatibility. In some instances, chromosomal differences may account for some of the observed incompatibility, but other deleterious factors are discussed. Compatibility experiments and chromosomal analysis should prove useful when used with other criteria to help delineate the evolution of some South American frog species.
23352110|The Black Caiman (Melanosuchus niger) experienced a dramatic population decline in the mid-20th century, becoming extinct or locally rare over most of its range due to habitat destruction and the commercial value of its hide. As the success and re-establishment of the species is now dependent on conservation efforts throughout the Amazon basin, Black Caimans require continuous monitoring despite extensive current legal protection. Although such efforts have mitigated the threat of human harvesting, a key issue facing the species today is ecological competition from sympatric Spectacled Caimans (Caiman crocodilus). In this study, we investigated this inferred competition by detailing the dietary overlap between Black Caimans and Spectacled Caimans in the Pacaya Samiria National Reserve in 2009. Using an adaptation of the hose-Heimlich technique, we collected and then compared the stomach contents of several individuals of each species. We found that although the proportions of prey items in their stomach contents varied seasonally, the dietary overlap between the two species remained high, suggesting intense competition for food resources. In addition to seasonal changes, the diet composition of Black Caimans also shifted ontogenetically. Young Black Caimans primarily ate insects and crustaceans, whereas larger individuals mostly preyed on fish, reducing intraspecific competition between crocodilian adults and young. Our findings suggest that Spectacled Caimans will continue to hinder the recovery of the Black Caiman population.
3890819|Analyses of characteristics of color and scutellation indicate that six species of the taeniata group of Tantilla can be recognized: T. flavilineata, T. jani, T. oaxacae, n. sp., T. reticulata, T. striata, and T. taeniata. Tantilla triseriata and T. tritaeniata are synonymized with T. taeniata, and T. virgata is synonymized with T. reticulata. Relationships are discussed, and a possible evolutionary history of the group is presented.
3893075|The first remains of a Tertiary squamate reptile recovered from Jamaica consist of four fragments of a lizard dentary. It is the oldest squamate yet known from the West Indies. Although too incomplete to diagnose, the jaw fragments appear to be those of an iguanian, and possibly referable to an anoloid (Polychrotidae). This lizard is the first evidence of Jamaica's preinundation herpetofauna.
3891767| The immunological technique of quantitative micro-complement fixation was used to study albumin evolution in the plethodontid salamander genera Pseudoeurycea and Chiropterotriton from Mexico and Central America. Antisera were prepared for representatives of the five species-groups of Pseudoeurycea and for the  and  groups of Chiropterotriton. A matrix of reciprocal tests was used to construct a dendrogram illustrating probable relationships. The  and  groups of Chiropterotriton are as distant from each other as they are from Pseudoeurycea. The rex and gadovii groups of Pseudoeurycea are not well differentiated, and unidirectional tests to 13 additional species of Pseudoeurycea indicate that many species have been incorrectly assigned to groups. Pseudoeurycea cephalica is especially remote from all other species of Pseudoeurycea tested; it is even more remote from the species of Chiropterotriton tested. The cephalica, leprosa, and bellii groups are all well distinguished from each other and from the gadovii (including rex) group. Within Chiropterotriton  the bromeliacia and picadoi groups are sharply distinguished from each other. The great range of immunological distance measured in this study (from 0 to over 100) indicates that both of these genera are as differentiated genetically as is the North American genus Plethodon, and that the evolutionary history of each of these genera encompasses most of Cenozoic time. 
3893276|We describe a new species of spitting cobra of the genus Naja from central Myanmar. Multivariate analyses of morphological characters and analyses of mtDNA sequences confirm the distinctiveness of the new species. Phylogenetic analysis of the mtDNA data indicate that, among the cobra species of the southeast Asian mainland, the new species is most closely related to the Thai spitting cobra, Naja siamensis. The new species is apparently endemic to an arid region in central Myanmar.
3893600| Cnemidophorus longicauda is a poorly-studied species of whiptail lizard distributed in the Monte Desert region of Argentina. Some variation in dorsal color pattern has been observed between northern and southern populations along the latitudinal range of the species. Recently, a new species of Cnemidophorus (C. tergolaevigatus) previously considered as C. longicauda has been described, although no comparative morphological study has been conducted. In this study we use the mitochondrial ND4 gene region to examine the phylogeography and genetic structure of this species complex. Phylogenetic reconstruction, Nested Clade Phylogeographic Analysis, and AMOVA reveal deep genetic divergence between northern and southern populations that are geographically separated by the Famatina-Saogasta Mountains. Because most of the localities of C. tergolaevigatus are from the general region of the "northern group" recovered in this study, there is general concordance between geographic patterns of mtDNA and morphological (color pattern) variation, and thus support for the recognition of this species. We discuss this genetic break and the phylogenetic/phylogeographic history of the Cnemidophorus in the context of other lizard species with similar distributions, and the implications for understanding the evolutionary history of the temperate South American biota. 
3890767|Experimental crosses between Rana pretiosa and Rana cascadae produced viable hybrids. High production of hybrids was obtained if Rana cascadae was the female, whereas the reciprocal cross gave low production. The hybrid was quantitatively intermediate to the parents in the characteristics of larval body width/tail depth ratio, developmental time, and mouthparts. Larval body width/tail depth ratios can be used to determine the amount and direction of natural hybridization between the species.
3891533|A spontaneous neoplastic growth was removed from a captured specimen of the marbled salamander, Ambystoma opacum and examined histologically. The tumor was classed as basal cell in origin and demonstrated more benign than malignant features.
4497936| Ctenophorus is the largest genus of Australian agamid lizards, with an extensive radiation in the arid zone. Here we describe a distinctive new dragon species-Ctenophorus nguyarna-from the isolated Lake Disappointment in Western Australia. The new species is characterised by heterogeneous dorsal scales tending to form vertical rows on the flanks, a reticulated orange and black background color, and black bars on the dorsum and black vertical bars on the tail. To provide a molecular context as to the distinctiveness and placement of the new species we analysed five sequences of Ctenophorus sp. nov., two new sequences of C. salinarum and 11 previously published sequences of Ctenophorus species, representing 1573 bases of the mitochondrial genome. Our phylogeny strongly supports at least two independent origins of salt lake specialization in both the western and eastern arid zone. Based on molecular data the sister taxon is C. salinarum, which is also associated with salt lakes in Western Australia. The other specialist is the Lake Eyre Dragon (C. maculosus) from South Australia that lives on and under the salt crust itself, and has a number of unique derived characters for Ctenophorus. There are likely to be other new species of agamid lizards in Australia's vast and little-explored arid zone. 
41238981|A new species of Scinax is described from open formations of the coastal plains (Restingas) within the Tropical Atlantic Domain in northeastern Brazil. The new species most resembles S. auratus (Wied-Neuwied) and S. juncae Nunes and Pombal, and is diagnosed by the dorsal pattern of dorsolateral white stripes in dark-brown background, interocular white transversal stripe, and small scattered white blotches; snout rounded in dorsal view and profile; dorsal skin smooth; vocal sac smooth; presence of a few tubercles in a longitudinal way from the internal metatarsal tubercle to the heel; advertisement call with 7-8 notes; call dominant frequency 1.38 kHz. This new species can be easily distinguished from S. auratus and S. juncae by the different dorsal pattern, morphological traits, and advertisement call.
3892389|Genic variation was studied in 103 individuals collected from 11 populations of the Italian newt, Triturus italicus, from peninsular Italy. Starch-gel and cellogel electrophoresis were used to study variation at 23 electromorphic loci, 14 of which were polymorphic. Geographically significant variation occurs at seven of the 14 loci, and the populations can be divided roughly into northern and southern units. Intermediate populations show increased heterozygosity and greater variability relative to more northern and more southern populations. The rather high value of F
3891457|Short term movements and habitat utilization of the colubrid snakes Chironius carinatus and Helicops angulatus and the viperid Bothrops atrox were studied using radiotelemetric methods in Amazonian Peru. The snakes were monitored for periods ranging from 50-111.5 h and the areas utilized by the snakes were
3892039|Multiple testes in urodeles consist of a series of enlargements which when fully developed are morphologically and functionally similar to each other or to a simple testis. Such testes are known within the tribe Hemidactyliini for only Eurycea lucifuga, E. nana, and E. neotenes. Studies on the morphogenesis of multiple testes are needed to settle conflicting reports concerning their formation and to ascertain definitely the time interval between formation and regression of successive testicular lobes.
3893515|The mode and effectiveness of signals greatly depends on habitat characteristics and the activity patterns of a species. Visual cues frequently are involved in social interactions, although their effectiveness can be reduced with nocturnal species or in habitats with limited visibility. The combination of multiple signals, such as chemical and visual cues, can increase the accuracy and efficacy of communication in these systems. Association preferences of male and female Eurycea nana were examined by allowing individuals to choose between members of both sexes based on (1) chemical signals, (2) visual signals, and (3) chemical and visual signals. Both sexes showed stronger associations with the chemical signals and combined chemical and visual signals of the opposite sex than with visual cues alone. The simultaneous inclusion of both chemical and visual signals did not increase male or female responses suggesting that chemosensory communication is sufficient for individuals of this aquatic species to distinguish between the sexes at close range. Additionally, the finding that females as well as males exhibit sexual discrimination suggests that both sexes seek out potential mates, a phenomenon rarely seen in salamanders.
3893153|Although the morphology of frogs in the archaeobatrachian genus Bombina has been the subject of several studies, the results of these are difficult to compare. Therefore, the skeletal developmental and adult osteology of these frogs remain poorly understood. We describe the skeletogenesis, chondrocranial development, and the adult skeleton of Bombina orientalis on the basis of cleared-and-stained and dry skeletal specimens. In B. orientalis, the first elements to ossify are the long bones of the hind limb (Stage 36). This is followed by the ossification of the frontoparietals, exoccipitals, parasphenoid, neural arches, ilium, dermal elements of the pectoral girdle, and long bones of the forearm (Stage 37). Metamorphic climax begins at about Stage 41 with major modifications of the chondrocranium. By Stage 46, most of the cranial and postcranial elements are ossified, with the exception of the carpals. Comparisons of the timing of initiation of skeletal ossification among several taxa suggest that this species exhibits variation in ossification sequence that may relate to precocious development of the hind limb or early onset of cranial and axial ossification.
3892823| Eggs of painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) were incubated in the laboratory on wet (water potential = -150 kPa), intermediate (-825 kPa), and dry substrates (-1500 kPa) at temperatures following a diel cycle between extremes of 20.0 C and 30.5 C. Eggs on wet substrates were in positive water balance for most of incubation and had high hatching success, whereas eggs on drier substrates lost varying amounts of water over the course of development and sustained higher mortality. Eggs on wet substrates incubated longer than eggs on intermediate substrates, and eggs on intermediate substrates incubated longer, in turn, than those on the driest media. The largest hatchlings came from eggs on wet substrates, whereas the smallest animals hatched from eggs on dry media. However, hatchlings in all of the treatments were diagnosed as being males, so sexual differentiation by embryos seemingly was unaffected by substrate moisture. Our results agree with earlier findings that soil moisture affects patterns of water exchange by incubating eggs, duration of incubation by embryos, and size of hatchlings, but do not confirm reports that sexual differentiation by painted turtles also is influenced by available moisture. 
3892584|We compared the ability of four length-frequency analysis programs to generate accurate von Bertalanffy growth parameters for a population of green turtles (Chelonia mydas) of known growth rates. The four programs were ELEFAN I, Shepherd's length composition analysis (SLCA), projection matrix method, and MULTIFAN. ELEFAN failed to identify a set of parameters that qualified as a best fit. The parameter estimates generated by SLCA successfully described six of the 10 length distributions from the population of green turtles. The parameter estimates produced by the projection matrix method failed to describe adequately any of the 10 length distributions. MULTIFAN generated a set of growth parameter estimates that successfully described all of the 10 length distributions. Although MULTIFAN had the best performance, it requires substantially more initial information and estimates than do the other programs. The best approach-particularly with a poorly studied population-may be to conduct initial analyses with SLCA, followed by analyses with MULTIFAN. Length-frequency analysis is a useful method for the study of growth in populations of immature sea turtles. Further study is required to determine whether these methods are appropriate for populations of sea turtles that include mature individuals.
3891817|The temporal pattern of the assertion display of the lizard Iguana iguana suggests that the time of execution of the behavior is influenced by both external and internal events (i.e., a physiological pacemaker).
3891549|Four associated snake vertebrae were found in a coprolite from the Oligocene of South Dakota. A new henophidian genus and species is described from specimens characterized by small tubercular neural spines on the posterior portion of the neural arch. The Scolecophidia, Henophidia, and Caenophidia may be distinguished on the basis of vertebral characters.
3891702|The gekkonid genus Luperosaurus is poorly known and its relationships are not well understood. Here a new species of Luperosaurus is described and the close similarity of this genus with some members of the genus Gekko is indicated. One species of the genus Gekko is transferred to Luperosaurus so that overlapping generic definitions are avoided. A synopsis of Luperosaurus is also presented.
3890743|The color pattern of hatchling green turtles is an example of countershading. However, the black dorsal coloration has the disadvantage of making the hatchlings conspicuous to predators when crossing pale-colored sand to the sea. Furthermore, those hatchlings which emerge during the day rapidly reach lethal body temperatures through radiation effects (potentiated by the black carapace). It is suggested that the black carapace plays an important role in elevating the hatchling turtles' body temperatures when they are floating at the surface of the sea. Experimental data are given to demonstrate this effect. Increased body temperature will result in faster growth due to the stimulatory effect on metabolism. A more rapid growth rate during an extremely vulnerable stage of the life history will have survival value. Presumably the black dorsal coloration is retained because this increased survival more than offsets the loss from terrestrial disadvantages.
3892920|Restriction site mapping analysis of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) was used to determine relationships among several species of water snakes, genus Nerodia. The mtDNAs of these animals are large (22->26 kilobase pairs), and the size variants mapped to several regions. Comparisons of the restriction maps allowed phylogeny reconstruction for N. erythrogaster, N. fasciata confluens, N. harteri harteri, N. harteri paucimaculata, N. rhombifera, and N. taxispilota. Relationships among currently named species examined are concordant with the interpretations of Lawson. The mtDNAs of the two populations of N. harteri differed from one another by some 2.5% and were distinguished by two unambiguous apomorphic characters and by three homoplasic apomorphic characters. Based on these differences, meristic character separation documented by Rose and Selcer, and the allopatry of the populations, we support the contention that N. harteri paucimaculata be elevated to species status with the name Nerodia paucimaculata.
3893329| We studied sexual dimorphism in two species of lizard, Xenosaurus grandis and X. newmanorum from Mxico. In X. grandis, males and females did not differ significantly in body size, but males had proportionately larger heads (both length and width) than females. Males and females of X. grandis did not differ in femur length and head shape (head width/head length). In X. newmanorum, females were larger than males, and males had proportionately larger heads (both length and width) and legs (femur length) than females. Males and females of X. newmanorum did not differ in head shape. Observations suggest the sexual dimorphism in head size may be the result of intrasexual selection due to aggressive interactions. /// Estudiamos el dimorfismo sexual en dos especies de lagartijas, Xenosaurus grandis y X. newmanorum de Mxico. En X. grandis machos y hembras no difirieron significativamente en el tamao corporal, pero los machos tuvieron proporcionalmente cabezas ms grandes (en ancho y largo) que las hembras. Machos y hembras X. grandis no difirieron en la longitud del fmur y forma de la cabeza (ancho de la cabeza/largo de la cabeza). En X. newmanorum, las hembras fueron ms grandes que los machos, y los machos tuvieron proporcionalmente cabezas ms grandes (en ancho y largo), y piernas ms largas (longitud del fmur) que las hembras. Observaciones sugieren que el dimorfismo sexual en el tamao de la cabeza puede ser el resultado de seleccin intrasexual debido a interacciones agresivas. 
25621882|The sixth edition of the Scientific and Standard English Names of Amphibians and Reptiles of North America (Crother, 2008, SSAR Herpetological Circular 37:1-84) is the "Official Names List" for the three major North American herpetological societies. Although this publication is intended to aid users of scientific and common names, we argue that current practices for authoring, reviewing, and using this list, in some cases, generate taxonomic chaos. By this we mean that users are uncertain of which name to use and/or the rationale for using a particular name, and efficient communication is hindered by this confusion. Most importantly, through inadequate and inconsistent review of this list, the societies have endorsed unnecessary and arbitrary name changes and are uncritically promoting individual taxonomic viewpoints when a clear choice on the most appropriate name has not been reached by the community. This problem is exemplified by North American anurans for which 57 of the 100 species have scientific names (i.e., genus-species combinations) different from the previous version of the list. Forty-eight of these new combinations result from changes to the genus name, and there is controversy over the proposed genus names for at least 43 of these. Despite this controversy and that a stated goal of the list is to report on such controversies, the alternative names are not discussed. As a result, for these taxa, the list fails to provide adequate information for users to make informed decisions on name usage. Here, we examine the role of such lists in taxonomy. Although we specifically focus on the arbitrary changes to the names of North American Bufo and Rana, the continuation of current practices for generating the list will promote instability and taxonomic confusion on a broader scale. We conclude with recommendations for improving the utility of such lists and for avoiding unnecessary taxonomic chaos.
41406803|This study investigates the mechanical implications of shell shape differences between males and females of two North American turtle species: Chrysemys picta and Glyptemys insculpta. These species show patterns of sexual dimorphism that are common to many species of turtle. Females have wider and more highly domed shells, whereas males tend to have flatter, more streamlined shells. In addition, the males of many terrestrial species have concave piastra, most likely to accommodate the domed shells of the females while mating. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the known morphological differences in male and female turtle shells are also associated with differences in shell strength. Landmark coordinate data were collected from the shells of males and females of both species. These data were used to create digital models of each shell for finite-element (FE) analysis. FE models were generated by transforming a single base model of a turtle shell to match the shapes of each specimen examined in this study. All models were assigned the same material properties and restraints. Twelve load cases, each representing a predator's bite at a different location on the carapace, were applied separately to the models. Subsequently, Von Mises stresses were extracted for each element of each model. Overall, the shells of females of both species exhibited significantly lower maximum and average stresses for a given load than those of their male counterparts. Male G. insculpta exhibited significant increases in stresses because of the concave shape of their piastra. We suggest that the mechanical implications of shell shape differences between males and females may have a large impact on many aspects of the biology of these turtle species.
40931038|A new species of squeaker frog (genus Arthroleptis) is described from Pico Basile on Bioko Island (Equatorial Guinea), which lies just off the coast of Cameroon in the Gulf of Guinea. A previous molecular phylogenetic study indicates that this new species is nested within a species complexArthroleptis poecilonotusthat comprises morphologically indistinguishable populations that represent several cryptic species. The new species from Bioko is, however, easily distinguishable from both closely related and geographically proximate Arthroleptis by a combination of its moderately large body size (approximately 25% larger than frogs in the remaining poecilonotus species complex) and unique ventral color pattern. It is further distinguished from all other Arthroleptis by the presence of spines on the crus in large males and from other populations in the poecilonotus species complex by the occasional presence of a supernumerary tubercle at the base of pedal digit II. Statistical analyses of measurement data, including a principal components analysis, demonstrate that the new species from Bioko is both larger and has relatively longer hindlimbs and toes than other populations of the poecilonotus species complex. These analyses also suggest that the poorly known A. brevipes is morphologically diagnosable, but the status of other taxa such as A. bivittatus and A. zimmeri remains unclear. This new Arthroleptis is the only frog that is unequivocally endemic to Bioko Island.
3892073|A 172 kg Dermochelys coriacea was captured and fitted with a radio location transmitter and a multichannel temperature sensing sonic transmitter. While in air, turtle temperatures in the pectoral region were as much as 4.8 C warmer than the carapace surface and 8.3 C above air temperature (21.8 C). Anterior deep body temperatures were higher than those from medial or posterior locations. While this leatherback was freely swimming, mean time it spent at or near the surface was correlated with time of day and peaked between 0900 h and 1200 h EDT. During the day, time spent at the surface was similar to duration of submergence. At night, submergence times were twice as long as surface times. Maximum swimming speed was
3892782|We examined the phenomenon of feces confinement in western banded geckos (Coleonyx variegatus). Discrete "defecatoria" (preferred defecation sites) were observed for both males and females housed individually. Lizards tended to establish defecatoria away from their own diurnal resting sites as well as areas marked by conspecifics. Geckos formed more compact defecatoria when introduced into an arena marked by a member of the opposite (versus the same) sex, suggesting the presence of sex-specific fecal cues. Responses to extracts of feces suggest that chemical cues are important in mediating defecation patterns and that geckos are able to recognize the scent of their own feces. Defecatoria may serve to reduce predation pressure or as social "signposts" where geckos obtain information concerning conspecifics.
3891841|Rhinophrynus dorsalis is characterized by a number of unique features of the submandibular musculature, mandible and hyoid anatomy. These features are described and figured here. The vocal sacs are discrete bilobular, submandibular structures. Each of the features reported is considered to represent a derived character state.
3892177|Age-specific aestival and annual movements of transformed tailed frogs (Ascaphus truei) were investigated. Vagility decreased with age and reproductively mature animals exhibited extreme philopatry. Limited movement is probably selectively advantageous in securing food, mate and shelter. The level of philopatry in Ascaphus is greater than that demonstrated for other amphibian species, functions to reduce gene flow, and supports a model of a highly fragmented population structure for the species.
3892386|Female Sceloporus undulatus producing two clutches of eggs under controlled laboratory conditions increased egg and hatchling size but decreased the number of eggs in the second clutch. The females did not increase in length but did increase in mass between the two oviposition periods. Egg and clutch size were inversely related with an r
3891427|Juvenile (less than 3 years old) common iguanas (Iguana iguana) were studied for 10.5 months in Belize City, Belize. The study area was located at mangrove edge and lizards were found chiefly in open, sunny situations on low vegetation (primarily Citharexylem and Mimosa). There was a positive correlation between snout-vent length and perch height and it is suggested that this is a function of food preferences of different age groups and thermoregulation. Young and adult iguanas were segregated ecologically in the Belize area. Mean activity range (by the convex polygon method) was 3.24 ares. Activity ranges appear to be restricted and are probably influenced by the distribution of trees and bushes. Population density was estimated to be 0.25-0.41 individuals/are. Mean daily growth rate was 0.22 mm and Iguana probably becomes sexually mature during its 3rd year. The diurnal Iguana may retire to its sleeping perch after dark. The clumped distribution of young iguanas may be due to sociability and/or availability of food. The tail was used for defense by 4- to 5-month-old individuals.
3891320| Temperature relationships of Sceloporus jarrovi were studied in the Pinaleo Mountains of southeastern Arizona. Lizards inhabited elevations from 6,000 to 10,713 feet. Body temperatures of active lizards averaged 31.4 C (19-37 C). Over this temperature range 73.1% (N = 247) were active with temperatures between 30 and 37 C. No significant difference was present when active body temperatures of lizards from 6,000 and 10,713 feet were compared. A seasonal lowering of mean body temperatures occurred between summer and autumn. In response to higher air and substrate temperatures lizards became arboreal during the hotter portions of the day. During the autumn aggregations of 15 to 30 lizards were found. 
3891480| A study of movements of female snapping turtles in Algonquin Park, Ontario, Canada using radio-telemetry and mark-recapture techniques indicated the occurrence of an annual migration to nesting sites. Most females moved downstream to a nesting site but a few moved upstream. Some females travelled more than 0.5 km overland from one body of water to another. Maximum round trip distance traveled between home range and nesting site was 16.0 km (x = 10.6 km). 
3893516|The evolution of the morphological traits underlying locomotor performance is often addressed at the level of species comparisons; however, examining variation in traits within a species and the underlying selective pressures that presumably mold those traits can offer great insight into the effects of natural selection, as well as the selective forces responsible for phenotypic changes. We studied limb morphology and escape behavior of three Oklahoma populations of collared lizards: Glass Mountains (GM), Sooner Lake (SL), and Wichita Mountains (WM). Predation differs among populations, with WM > SL >> GM. Habitat openness also varies, with SL > GM > WM. Our analysis of limb morphometrics revealed that WM had the longest hindlimb elements, GM lizards had the shortest, and SL lizards were intermediate. These differences are consistent with the hypothesis that predation pressure rather than habitat structure is most important in determining hindlimb morphology. WM lizards were found to have the longest approach distance among populations, but GM lizards ran the longest distances from predators. These differences in escape behavior support the hypothesis that predation pressure is important in determining population differences in behavior.
3892344|Allozyme variability was assessed within and among nine samples of the Sceloporus grammicus complex from central Mexico. The populations studied include five samples recognized as S. grammicus microlepidotus and four from two recently described species: S. anahuacus (represented by three samples from most of its known range) and S. palaciosi (one sample). Estimates of genetic distance averaged across 38 loci indicate that S. palaciosi differs substantially from all other populations and probably deserves species status. The three populations of S. anahuacus are shown to be generally more similar to each other than to any of the other samples, but they have not diverged from S. g. microlepidotus to the same degree as S. palaciosi. We choose not to recognize S. anahuacus as a valid species at this time.
4497969|I describe a new species of treefrog of the genus Litoria from Sudest Island, in the Louisiade Islands, off the southeastern tip of New Guinea. The new species is readily distinguishable from all other Papuan species of the genus except L. prora and L. humboldtorum in its possession of fully webbed hands and a fleshy rostral spike. It is distinguished from these species by its larger size, reduced crenelated fringes on arms and legs, absence of heel lappets, reduced papillae on the mandibular margin, and details of color pattern. I describe the tadpole for the new species and show that it differs from that of L. humboldtorum in morphology and color pattern. All three species form cohesive, distinct clusters in multivariate morphometric space. Morphologically, the new species most closely resembles L. humboldtorum, known from Yapen Island and the nearby New Guinea mainland 2000 km to the northwest. The new species was not found in recent surveys of nearby Rossel and Misima islands, the other large islands of the Louisiade group, and it may be restricted to Sudest Island.
3892044|A peripheral population of spotted salamanders, Ambystoma maculatum, breeding in a shallow exposed pond near Hattiesburg, Mississippi, contains a high incidence of developmental anomalies. Abnormalities of coloration, deviant trunk vertebral counts (35% have counts other than 14), and limb anomalies (88% have externally visible defects on one or more feet) occur in the population. It is suggested that effects of temperature on development may be responsible for the anomalies.
3892126|Sixty-one adult, 20 subadult and 19 newborn female lined snakes (Tropidoclonion lineatum) were collected in St. Louis, Missouri during the active seasons of 1978-1980. Coelomic fat bodies showed a significant reduction (P < 0.025) in mass prior to ovulation corresponding inversely to vitellogenesis. Coelomic fat mass increased rapidly following parturition and reached a maximum by mid-September. After parturition, follicular growth in adults occurred slowly (approximately 0.025 mm/day) and attained a maximum follicular length of 5.0 mm before hibernation. Vitellogenesis began in the spring and the rate of follicular growth increased 10 fold (approximately 0.25 mm/day). Follicles were ovulated in June at a mean length of 14.1 mm. Parturition occurred in mid-August. The number of embryos per clutch was significantly correlated to snout-vent length (SVL) (r = 0.64; P < 0.01). Mean wet embryo mass increased during gestation; however, mean dry embryo mass showed no increase in mass compared to ovulated eggs. Female lined snakes doubled in SVL in the first year after birth. The minimum size at which females initiated vitellogenesis was 214 mm SVL. This size was attained by July of the first year indicating that female lined snakes could produce a clutch in their second active season (20 mo of age). Mating occurred in late summer (i.e., fall breeding) immediately following parturition. At this time, sperm was abundant in the lower one-third of the oviduct.
3893200| We describe a new species, genus Hyla, from the oak forests of the Mixteca Alta of northwest Oaxaca. We tentatively place this species in the phenetic Hyla bistincta group. The new species is similar in coloration to species of the Hyla eximia group, but differs from them by lacking a quadratojugal. /// Una nueva especie del gnero Hyla es descrita para los bosques de encino de la Mixteca Alta al noroeste de Oaxaca, esta es ubicada tentativamente dentro del grupo fentico Hyla bistincta. La nueva especie es similar en el patrn de coloracin a aquellas del grupo Hyla eximia, pero se pueden distinguir en que Hyla ameibothalame carece de cuadratoyugal. 
3891451|The mud turtles Kinosternon acutum, Kinosternon leucostomum, and Kinosternon scorpioides are the only members of the genus occurring in Belize. The absence of characters to distinguish Kinosternon mopanum Neill necessarily places the name in synonymy with K. leucostomum. Characters which distinguish the three valid species in Belize are presented, as is a key.
3890775|Specimens of Diadophis punctatus arnyi were fed various food items and kept at temperatures between 3 and 36 C. Chemical cues appeared to be the greatest aid in locating prey. Snakes consumed up to 45% of their weight at a single feeding. The average ratios of weight gained to weight of food consumed was 1:3.9 for young snakes and 1:3.1 for adults. Age, amount of food consumed, and temperature affected digestion. Water requirements of D. p. arnyi increase with the temperature, and Diadophis is susceptible to dehydration. The weights of nonfeeding snakes did not usually fluctuate more than 0.5 g a week and no snake lost more than 50% of its original weight at death. High and low temperatures affected normal behavior. Ptyalism, biting and chewing, and tail coiling were observed.
3892403|A behavioral assay was developed to measure the acid sensitivity of two species of post-metamorphic desmognathine salamanders, Desmognathus quadramaculatus and D. monticola. The technique involved examining mortality and feeding responses of both species. All individuals of both species survived a 3-wk exposure to pH 3.5-7.2, but when exposed to pH 5, 4, and 3.5, both species showed a significant inhibition of feeding when compared to pH 7.2. These results indicate that the feeding behavior of post-metamorphic desmognathine salamanders is acid sensitive. Post-metamorphic desmognathine salamanders were acid insensitive in terms of short-term survival, but acid exposure induced subtle behavioral changes.
3890968|Larvae and juveniles of Ambystoma opacum, A. maculatum, and A. talpoideum use the sun as a cue for Y-axis orientation. Larvae and juveniles trained to a specific shoreline in tanks and released in a circular arena moved toward deep water on the Y-axis up to the beginning of gill reabsorption. During gill reabsorption a bidirectional response occurs. Before emergence onto the shore larvae orient toward land. Juveniles orient inland on the Y-axis. The observed orientational responses are consistent with ecological requirements at different life history stages.
3892808| A new species of poison-dart frog, Dendrobates sirensis, is described from the Serrana de Sira, an isolated mountain range in east-central Peru, Departamento Hunuco, at an elevation from 750-1560 m. Adult specimens have a snout-vent length of 15-17 mm. The species is easily diagnosed from all dendrobatids by the uniform red coloration of the dorsum and the turquoise-green limbs. /// Se describe Dendrobates sirensis, una nueva especie de batracio venenoso de la Serrana de Sira, Departamento Hunuco, Per, a una elevacin de 750 a 1560 m. Es una rana diminuta (15-17 mm) que se puede facil distinguir de otros dendrobtidos por su coloracin. La coloracin dorsal del cuerpo es roja y la de las extremidades, verde turqu. 
3893330|The plethodontid salamander Eurycea guttolineata has been considered to be conspecific with E. longicauda. However, specimens from the putative zone of intergradation could be unequivocally identified as one taxon or the other by the presence of five fixed allozyme differences (out of 21 loci examined). A sixth fixed difference exists between the southernmost locality of E. l. longicauda and the northernmost locality of E. guttolineata. No introgression was observed at any of these six loci. Morphometric variation in preserved specimens (n = 530) of these taxa was slight and not readily attributable to any geographic or genetic pattern. Allozyme genotype was most concordant with the length of the longest mid-dorsal stripe. Other color pattern characters previously used to identify supposedly intergrade populations were found to be uninformative about genotype. Twelve specimens previously reported as intergrades fell within the range of phenotypic variation of allozymically identified E. l. longicauda. Therefore, the status of these individuals as hybrids is considered doubtful. The distribution of specimens classified by relative mid-dorsal stripe length within the supposed zone of intergradation indicates parapatry rather than a broad zone of sympatry or intergradation. Without support for intergrade specimens or a zone of intermediacy, and with the presence of six fixed differences between the closest localities of alternate species, E. guttolineata is considered to be a distinct species.
3891516| Eight American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) ranging from 37 to 96 g were heated and cooled in water (15-35-15C). Mean ( 1 SE) thermal time constants for warming and cooling were 2.26 ( 0.80) and 2.35 ( 0.83) minutes, respectively, indicating that small alligators heat and cool at the same rate. Combining these data with previously published data provided thermal time constants for 20 alligators ranging from 37 g to 7.46 kg. Regression formulas relating warming and cooling time constants ( in min) to body mass (M in kg) are 
3892121|Individuals of the terrestrial frog Eleutherodactylus coqui were followed throughout the night to determine patterns of movement and male calling activity. Individual male frogs were checked nightly for long-term calling patterns. Studies were performed in both January (dry season) and July (wet season). Total nightly movements averaged 3.0-4.5 m. Movement was most frequent shortly after dusk and shortly before dawn. Frogs were more likely to move when foliage was wet. Males and females did not differ in amount of movement, but calling males differed from non-calling animals in the timing of their movements. Males were unlikely to move or forage while calling. Males spent more time calling in the wet season than in the dry season. Movement patterns were only slightly seasonal. Timing of male calling activity agreed qualitatively but not quantitatively with predictions of female availability.
3893640| The genus Adenomera has been a difficult group for systematic studies because the species are similar and geographically variable. Two species have been reported from the Peruvian Amazon Basin: Adenomera andreae and Adenomera hylaedactyla. However, acoustic recordings from the Tambopata National Reserve in southeastern Peru reveal four sympatric advertisement call types that are distinctive in acoustic parameters and to the human ear. Some subtle morphological differences are also present. We conclude that there are at least four sympatric species at Tambopata and that Adenomera has a greater species diversity than currently acknowledged. /// El gnero Adenomera se ha caracterizado por ser un difcil grupo para estudios de sistemtica dada la semejanza general y la variacin poblacional entre las especies miembros del gnero. Fueron reportadas dos especies para la regin Amaznica Peruana: Adenomera andreae y Adenomera hylaedactyla. Sin embargo, grabaciones acsticas provenientes de la Reserva Nacional de Tambopata, en el sureste Peruano, revelaron que existen cuatro diferentes tipos de cantos en simpatra y que son muy distintivos en trminos de sus parmetros acsticos y al odo humano. Tambin parecen haber ciertas diferencias morfolgicas sutles, aunque estas son, en lneas generales, especies crpticas. Concluimos que existen por lo menos cuatro especies simptricas en Tambopata y que Adenomera tiene una mayor diversidad especfica de lo que actualmente se le reconoce. 
3890981|The courtship display of the red-eared turtle, Chrysemys scripta elegans (Wied), was analyzed by high-speed videotape and photographic procedures. An ethogram of courtship behavior was constructed. Fixed action patterns involving the forelimbs and foreclaws of the male were identified and quantified. Three major components of the display are recognized: signaling posture, bout, and titillation sequence. The signaling posture may or may not precede a bout of display and is variable in duration. The bout consists of a complex, stereotyped series of movements in which the male's forelimbs are brought parallel to the female's head and the claws of the forepaws are drummed and vibrated against the eyes and interocular region of the female. These movements were resolved into seven motor patterns which were defined, quantified, and organized into temporal sequences. The titillation sequence is composed of a variable number of bouts and may or may not be preceded by the signaling posture. The number of bouts in titillation sequences followed by attempted mounting varies greatly.
25209113|We quantified within-population variation in the seasonal abundance of free-living adult trombiculid mites and infestation of collared lizards by parasitic mite larvae at the Arcadia Lake Dam in Edmond, OK, U.S.A. Lizards on one of two habitat patches (front) harbored many more larval mites, and were more rapidly re-infested after mites were removed experimentally. Although female and male lizards and males displaying alternative social tactics had different activity rates, they harbored similar numbers of parasites, which is inconsistent with the hypothesis that the degree of ectoparasitism is positively related to host activity. Heavy mite infestation of front patch lizards was related to greater exposure to vegetation/soil surrounding this habitat patch, and perhaps more favorable physical conditions there for mite reproduction and development. The abundance of free-living adult mites on the rock substrata occupied by collared lizards was temporally dissociated from infestation of lizards by mite larvae. Free-living adult mites were abundant in May, but declined precipitously in June shortly after larvae began to appear on lizards. Larval parasites remained until lizards entered hibernacula in late summer. There was no effect of marked differences in larval mite load on any of the behavioral, and most of the life-historical variables that we measured. The exception was growth rate. First-year males grow faster than any of the other social classes in this population, and their rates were reduced on the front habitat patch suggesting a growth cost of heavy parasitism at a time when lizards exhibit maximal growth.
3893425|We used restriction assays of mitochondrial (mt) DNA to estimate phylogeographic variation in two sister taxa of mud turtles in the southeastern United States. Extensive mtDNA variation characterized Kinosternon subrubrum and, to a lesser degree, K. baurii. Each of 26 mtDNA haplotypes from the 83 assayed specimens was localized spatially. Collectively, these mtDNA haplotypes demarcated four major matrilineal assemblages, each with a well defined regional distribution: a western group (A) in Missouri and Louisiana, a central group (B) throughout the Gulf coastal states, an eastern group (C) along the Atlantic coastal states north of Florida, and a southern group (D) in peninsular Florida. All assayed samples of K. baurii belonged to the mtDNA C assemblage. The two species in Florida are thus highly distinct in mtDNA genotype, but they exhibit minimal mtDNA divergence along the Atlantic coastal states. These findings raise questions concerning the evolutionary history and taxonomy of these two recognized species. MtDNA phylogeographic patterns in the baurii/subrubrum complex are remarkably similar to those reported previously for two other southeastern kinosternids, Sternotherus minor and S. odoratus.
40602601|Horned lizards are difficult to detect because of their cryptic coloration and behavior, but often flee from approaching predators and use specialized behavioral, morphological, and physiological defenses at close quarters. Escape theory predicts that flight initiation distance (predator-prey distance when escape begins) increases as prdation risk increases. We predicted that, despite relying on crypsis, Texas horned lizards (Phrynosoma cornutum) would have greater flight initiation distances when approached rapidly than slowly and when approached directly than indirectly. Flight initiation distance was greater for rapid than slow and direct than indirect approach, verifying the predictions for prey that do not rely exclusively on crypsis, forgoing escape. Effect size was larger for approach speed than for directness of approach, in part because the difference between minimum bypass distances was small (0.0 m for direct and 0.6 m for indirect approaches). We also investigated responses to a shadow passing over a lizard, which might be a cue to imminent risk. When a model accipiter passed overhead, lizards were much more likely to move and jump if and when the model cast a shadow directly on them than if the shadow passed nearby without falling on them. Some lizards fled when the shadow fell on them. We interpret these novel findings as indicating that P. cornutum assess themselves as being in immediate peril when suddenly covered by a shadow. They reacted primarily by immediate flight or jumping, possibly reflecting preparation to use alternative defensive strategies at close quarters or to delay escape while further assessing risk. Thus, although Texas horned lizards rely strongly on crypsis, they make escape decisions based on degree of prdation risk.
23352108|The ecology of the genus Thamnodynastes has received little study, and problems with its taxonomy have generated imprecise and incorrect data. We analyzed the reproductive biology, sexual dimorphism, feeding ecology, habitat use, and seasonal activity of Thamnodynastes hypoconia in its subtropicaltemperate area of distribution. We discuss its main ecological traits in light of the competition and predation, and the deep-history hypotheses. Males and females attained sexual maturity at different body sizes, with females achieving the largest sizes. In this species, the males and females had no difference in the body size, and males had more ventral scales than did the females. The females' reproductive cycle was seasonal and not annual, with parturition occurring in summer, whereas the cycle of the males was continuous. Thamnodynastes hypoconia feeds mainly on amphibians (97%) and occasionally on lizards (3%). As in other Thamnodynastes snakes, hylid frogs were the most common type of prey consumed (34%). Thamnodynastes hypoconia is primarily a twilightnocturnal species that inhabits wetlands (large rivers and their floodplains), where its prey is abundant. Its activity is seasonal, with a high number of individuals encountered during the warm months. The similarity between the natural history traits of T. hypoconia (anurophagy, seasonal reproductive cycle, aquatic and nocturnal habits) and other species of the genus suggests there is phylogenetic conservatism, mainly of its ecomorphological traits, which is a pattern commonly reported for Dipsadidae snakes.
3892195|The study of bone rings in the phalanges and femurs of tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) from Stephens and Lady Alice islands suggests that the rings form annually. This being so, tuatara reach sexual maturity at between nine and 13 yr of age, depending upon individuals and populations. Growth rate appears to increase with temperature. The growth of phalanges apparently ceases at 15-20 yr in females and at 20-25 yr in males. Rings in femurs are much clearer than those in phalanges and remain discernible up to 35 yr. It is known that tuatara can live 30 yr or more without showing appreciable growth, so their potential longevity exceeds 60 yr. The consequences of these data on knowledge of the structure of tuatara populations are discussed.
3890636|A Gerrhonotus multicarinatus webbi population was studied in the Puente Hills, north of Whittier, Los Angeles Co., California. Histological examinations revealed that testes contained sperm from late February through late May. Spermiogenesis ceases by early June at which time the germinal epithelium consists of spermatogonia and Sertoli cells. A spermatogonial proliferation initiates the new testicular cycle in August. Recrudescence takes place during late September-October when testicular sizes increase and primary spermatocytes become abundant. Yolk deposition commences in late March and may be completed by mid-May. The egg-laying period encompasses June and the first half of July.
25209083|Most studies of amphibian communities are restricted to aquatic environments, which precludes sound descriptions of changes in composition throughout entire habitats. Moreover, few works focus on the environmental processes that shape the composition of these communities, particularly in tropical ecosystems. In this study, we investigated which environmental variables were able to predict the main changes in anuran community composition in a shrub-to-forest Restinga on the northeastern coastline of Bahia State, Brazil. In 30 plots (60  25 m) along a continuous Restinga area, we determined, over two consecutive rainy seasons, the abundances of anuran species and 20 primary environmental variables. We represented the main environmental gradients of the Restinga using the first axes derived from a principal component analysis (PCA) of the matrix of environmental variables. We represented the main changes in community composition using a synthetic axis built by applying the nonmetric multidimensional scaling technique (NMS) on the matrix of species abundances. We then evaluated, using a multiple linear regression test, which environmental gradients, if any, were able to explain changes in community composition. We recorded 737 anurans, belonging to 8 families, 17 genera, and 30 species. Five orthogonal environmental gradients were extracted, representing ca. 80% of the variance of the matrix of environmental variables; the first PC represented the covariation among the amount of leaves in the stratum from 6 to 10 m high, percentage of leaf litter, percentage of terrestrial bromeliads with direct sunlight, number of terrestrial bromeliads, and soil moisture. The NMS axis explained 50% of the variance of the abundance matrix and ordered the plots through the sequence (1) beach zone, (2) arboreal vegetation with temporary ponds and/or permanent lakes, (3) arboreal vegetation with rivers or streams, and (4) arboreal vegetation without bodies of water. Only PC1, which represented a shrub-to-forest gradient, was significantly related to the NMS axis. The change on plant communities, allied to soil moisture and type of water body, was the most important environmental factor acting on the structure of the anuran community herein studied. /// A maioria dos estudos que versam sobre comunidades de anfbios  restrita a ambientes aquticos, tais como poas e riachos, o que leva  no descrio das mudanas na composio das comunidades ao longo dos gradientes ambientais do habitat como um todo. Estudos que enfoquem os processos ambientais responsveis pela estruturao das comunidades so particularmente raros para ecossistemas tropicais. Alm disso, algumas comunidades de habitats especficos, como as de Restinga, so pouco estudadas. No presente estudo, investigamos quais variveis ambientais, caso existam, so capazes de prever as mudanas na composio de uma comunidade de anuros de Restinga do litoral norte do estado da Bahia, Brasil, considerando-se gradientes ambientais encontrados desde a zona de moitas at as zonas florestadas. Trinta unidades amostrais (60  25 m) foram amostradas em uma rea contgua de Restinga, ao longo de duas estaes chuvosas consecutivas. Foram aferidas as abundncias das espcies de anuros (usando mtodos passivo e ativo de coleta) e 20 variveis ambientais primrias. Representamos os principais gradientes ambientais da Restinga por meio dos primeiros eixos derivados da anlise dos componentes principais (PCA), a partir da matriz de variveis ambientais. Representamos as principais mudanas na composio da comunidade de anuros atravs de um nico eixo sinttico produzido pelo mtodo de escalonamento no mtrico (NMS) sobre a matriz de abundncia das espcies. Em seguida, utilizando uma anlise de regresso mltipla, avaliamos quais variveis ambientais, caso existissem, eram capazes de explicar mudanas na composio das espcies. Encontramos 737 espcimes, pertencentes a 8 famlias, 17 gneros e 30 espcies. Cinco gradientes ambientais ortogonais foram extrados, representando cerca de 80% da variao original presente na matriz das variveis ambientais; o primeiro PC representou a covarincia entre a porcentagem de folhas no estrato vegetal de 6 a 10 m de altura, a porcentagem de serapilheira, a porcentagem De bromlias terrestres com incidncia de luz direta, o nmero de bromlias terrestres e a umidade do solo. O eixo NMS explicou 50% da varincia originalmente presente na matriz de abundncias e ordenou as rplicas ao longo da seqncia (1) zona de praia, (2) vegetao arbrea com poas temporrias e/ou lagoas permanentes, (3) vegetao arbrea com rios ou crregos e (4) vegetao arbrea sem corpos d'gua. Somente o PC1, que representou o gradiente zona de moitas-zona florestada, esteve relacionado significativamente ao eixo NMS. A mudana nas comunidades de plantas, aliada  umidade do solo e ao tipo de corpo dgua, foi o fator ambiental mais importante na estruturao da comunidade de anuros aqui estudada.
3893511|Males of several species of lizards have been found to discriminate against familiar females by exhibiting a preference to court and mate with unfamiliar females. Here, I tested the hypothesis that prior physical contact with familiar females is necessary for males to court unfamiliar females more intensely than familiar females and to mate preferentially with unfamiliar females in the brown anole, A. sagrei. Recently captured male and female lizards were randomly paired and assigned to either an experimental group or a control group. Males in the experimental group could see their female cage mates but were prevented from having physical contact with them by housing the female in a small glass cage located within the male's cage. Males in the control group could see their female cage mates and were not prevented from having physical contact with them. Paired males and females were housed together for 14 days. Beginning on day 15, males in the two treatment groups were exposed to either their female cage mates or to previously unseen unfamiliar females and their courtship behavior recorded. Several days after the courtship tests the mating preferences of males were examined by exposing each male to its female cage mate and an unfamiliar female. Males in the experimental group did not court unfamiliar females significantly differently than female cage mates in the courtship tests or mate preferentially with unfamiliar females in the mating tests. Males in the control group, on the other hand, courted unfamiliar females significantly more intensely than female cage mates in the courtship tests and mated preferentially with unfamiliar females in the mating tests. These findings support the hypothesis that in A. sagrei prior physical contact with familiar females is necessary for males to court unfamiliar females more intensely than familiar females and to mate preferentially with unfamiliar females.
41406816|Salinization of aquatic habitats is an emerging environmental concern, especially in colder climates where salt is used to prevent road icing during winter months. Salt applied to roads is carried into aquatic environments in storm-water runoff, where fluctuating water levels can result in salt stratification and spatially complex exposure scenarios for embryonic and larval pond-breeding amphibians. We conducted an experiment to investigate the potential interaction between oviposition site selection and toxicity of road salt to embryonic Cope's Gray Treefrogs (Hyla chrysoscelis).We simulated road-salt stratification in 7-L microcosms containing sediment from a salt-contaminated pond and placed developing eggs at three water depths and directly on the sediment of the microcosms. At the beginning of the experiment, conductivity at the bottom of the microcosms was four to seven (from ~ 4.0 to 6.5 mS cm ) times higher than at the top or middle of the water column (~ 1.0 mS cm- ).Subsequently, survival of eggs placed near the bottom and on the bottom of buckets containing salt-contaminated sediment was near 0%, while survival of eggs at the top and middle depths of the contaminated microcosms, and at all depths in control microcosms, was >60%. After hatching, embryos avoided the bottom of contaminated buckets even though much of the vertical salt gradient had dissipated. In contrast, embryos in control buckets clustered at the bottom. Our results suggest that pond-breeding amphibians that place their eggs away from the bottom may avoid some of the toxic effects of salt contamination, and those that place eggs on the bottom may be at particularly high risk.
3891904|An analysis of the herpetofauna contained in material from the Borchers locality (early Pleistocene, Meade County, Kansas, USA) yielded the following faunal additions: Ambystoma tigrinum, Cnemidophorus cf. C. sexlineatus, and a new horned lizard (Phrynosoma adinognathus). The new species is similar to P. douglassi in many respects, but is larger and much more robust structurally.
3892211| Two new species in the Hyla parviceps group are described from the Amazonian rainforest at Cuzco Amaznico, Peru. Hyla allenorum is distinguished by the posterior part of the belly and the ventral surfaces of the limbs being black with blue flecks; H. koechlini is distinctive in having black flanks and thighs. 
3891811|Allozyme variation among six taxa of batagurine turtles, genus Rhinoclemmys, was assessed by horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis. Relationships were assessed both phenetically and cladistically, and the results were generally concordant. Rhinoclemmys funerea, R. areolata, and R. punctularia appear to form a closely related assemblage and are best considered as an unresolved trichotomy. Rhinoclemmys rubida forms a distinct subcluster to the funerea-areolata-punctularia group and is distinguished by a number of autapomorphic alleles. Two subspecies of R. pulcherrima, R. p. manni and R. p. incisa, form a separate cluster from the other species and are cladistically united by four synapomorphies. The accumulation of several autapomorphies in R. p. incisa and the concomitant high level of genetic variability forms a major discontinuity with the geographically adjacent R. p. manni, suggesting little or no effective gene flow between these taxa.
3893420|We studied the vocal behaviors of two distinct morphs of the Old World treefrog Polypedates leucomystax (Rhacophoridae) in Peninsula Malaysia in the animals' natural habitat. Morph A is the larger of the two forms, exhibits a series of dorsal stripes, produces three separate call types, and illustrates complex changes in its rate of individual call type production in response to acoustic playback of its calls at increasingly higher broadcast levels. Morph B is the smaller of the two forms, has a plain or mottled coloration, also produces three call types although quite distinct from those of morph A, and exhibits a generalized reduction in production of all three call types in response to playback of its calls at increasing broadcast levels. In addition, gel electrophoresis was used to compare the gene products of 14 enzyme loci from six striped (morph A) individuals and four non-striped (morph B) individuals of the Polypedates species complex. The gene products of nine enzyme systems encoded by 14 presumptive loci were examined for allozyme variation. A contingency Chi-square analysis of the polymorphic loci of the 10 specimens examined yielded
3891499|Caecilian sound production is reported, presumably for the first time. Soft yelps or squeaks, almost inaudible smacking sounds, and clicks were heard repeatedly; and audiospectrograms were made of the clicks, which appear to have orienting value.
3892131|Three paedomorphic species of hemidactyliine salamanders were examined for presence of sexually dimorphic glands in the lower jaw, tail base and cloaca. Mental hedonic glands occur in male E. nana and E. neotenes, the first time such glands have been reported from paedomorphic plethodontids. The mental hedonic glands were not organized into a cluster as in metamorphosed plethodontids. Caudal hedonic glands deep to the skin of the lateral and middorsal tail base occur in male E. nana and E. neotenes. Both mental and caudal hedonic glands were found deep to the dermis, which differs from their interdermal location in metamorphosing plethodontids. Male Typhlomolge rathbuni lacked mental and caudal hedonic glands. Cloacal anatomy of male and female E. nana and E. neotenes is similar to metamorphosed Eurycea. However, a definite vent gland was not found in males although a possible homologue is present. Male T. rathbuni lack dorsolateral pelvic glands and posterior ventral gland groups. Absence of these two gland clusters has not been reported previously among plethodontids. Female T. rathbuni have a simple cloacal anatomy that shows no affinities to any other plethodontid. These results confirm the close relationship of E. nana and E. neotenes to other Eurycea and support generic separation of Eurycea and Typhlomolge.
3891816| The Brahminy blind snake, Ramphotyphlops braminus, is reported from the central granitic islands of Mah, Praslin, La Digue, and Frgate of the Seychelles Archipelago. The configuration of head scales, number of longitudinal and transverse scale rows, number of vertebrae, and color did not vary significantly among the four island populations. Ramphotyphlops braminus of the Seychelles are virtually identical to R. braminus from other parts of the broad species range. The 32 Seychellean specimens are all females. This observation supports an earlier suggestion that R. braminus is an all-female species which reproduces parthenogenetically. However, reports of males, in addition to taxonomic and distributional considerations, suggest that R. braminus may be a complex of unisexual and bisexual species. 
3891748|The Jamaican lizard Anolis opalinus has 7 static modifiers (optional body postures) and 6 dynamic modifiers (optional display movements) that can appear with the head-bobbing display. The modifiers probably have a much more important communicative function in A. opalinus than in most anoles, because A. opalinus demonstrates little predictability in its head-bob display per se. Static modifiers alter the appearance of the displayer. They are added to the head-bob displays during agonistic interactions. These modifiers are combined progressively and seem to indicate the relative arousal of the displayer. Dynamic modifiers alter the appearance of the display. Their contribution to the message content of the display may be broader than that of static modifiers because they are used in more contexts. Some dynamic modifiers are restricted to male-male contexts, whereas others appear in several contexts. These movements can also be performed independently of the head-bob display.
3892115|A new Eleutherodactylus, E. kirklandi, is described from Cuyuja, Napo Province, on the Amazonian slopes of the Ecuadorian Andes. This species is characterized by the combination of a unique color pattern with numerous distinctive dark markings, a vaulted canthal region, and large digital discs. It is a member of the unistrigatus species group of Lynch, but it does not readily fit into any of the existing intragroup assemblies.
3892941|Using starch gel electrophoresis, allozyme variation was studied in 332 individuals collected from 19 populations of the Japanese newt, Cynops pyrrhogaster, from eastern Japan. The populations were roughly divided into northern and southern units, which corresponded to previously named local races, the Tohoku and Kanto races. Abrupt shifts in electromorph frequencies were observed at a locus in the boundaries of these two races. Substantial differentiation also occurred within each local race, and the genetic variability was greater in the Kanto race than in the Tohoku race.
3891946| A series of 19 Eumeces fasciatus and 6 Scincella laterale were equipped with radioactive tags and their movements monitored for periods up to 5 months. Average daily shift was 5.1 m for E. fasciatus and 11.6 m for S. laterale. During the early May breeding season, adult E. fasciatus   made average daily shifts of 17.7 m, but from late August until hibernation their movement was reduced almost to zero;   made minimal movements in June when they were usually in nest burrows guarding their eggs. In Eumeces, young-of-the-year continued their activity in early autumn several weeks after adults and 2nd year young had retreated to shelters in preparation for dormancy. Both species of skinks tend to utilize familiar areas, but with frequent shifts, either gradual or abrupt, to new areas. Activity varied much less with age, sex and season in S. laterale, compared with E. fasciatus. In both, and especially E. fasciatus, activity was concentrated near shelter. Because of this, home ranges plotted as convex polygons from outlying records seemed unrealistically large, especially when the customary correction factors were applied. In E. fasciatus, seasonal changes in amount of food taken followed the general trend of changing activity, except that adult   took relatively little food in the breeding season. 
3893571|We completed a 3-yr demographic study of the rare Florida scrub lizard, Sceloporus woodi Stejneger, in a small habitat fragment. Censuses were conducted at 2-7 d intervals, with all hatchlings marked and monitored for survival. Field and laboratory observations were used to estimate fecundity. Survival and fecundity data were combined to estimate population growth rate. Sensitivity of the population growth rate to changes in survival and fecundity was examined by both retrospective and prospective analyses. Survival rates of cohorts declined throughout the study. The decline in survival rates resulted principally from the low survival rates of reproductive females and resulted, in turn, in a negative population growth rate. Subsequent visits to the study site indicated that the population did not decline to extinction, but the factors that affected survival rates are not known. We present some evidence for the potential importance of predation by snakes.
3893157|This study assesses the potential for female mate choice and sperm competition in the highly territorial and polygynous brown anole, Anolis sagrei. I observed free-ranging, marked lizards for a total of 91.2 h at a site in Coral Gables, Florida over a period of 35 days in June and July 1996. I recorded a total of 37 copulations involving five males and nine females. Most females (75%) had more than one mating partner, and this was due almost entirely to females mating with new males that successfully supplanted previous males from their territories. In only one copulation (2.7%) did a female mate with a male that briefly intruded from an adjoining territory. Moreover, no female moved from one male's territory to another male's territory to mate. These findings support the idea that male-male competition for territories is more important than female mate choice based on male phenotypic traits in determining female mating partners; they also suggest that there is a potential for sperm competition in these lizards.
3891325|Taiwan poisonous snakes feed throughout the year with the possible exception of the coldest months. Food intake seems to be greatest in summer and fall. The krait preys on fish and snakes; the cobra on snakes, birds and rodents; the habu on rodents and shrews, and the bamboo snake on frogs.
3891991|The karyotype of the lizard, Hoplodactylus pacificus (Gray) (Reptilia:Gekkonidae) is presented for the first time. Mitotic metaphase cells from embryonic tissue gave the diploid number, 2n = 38. No sex chromosomes were observed. A regular gradation in chromosome size precludes a sharp distinction between macro- and microchromosomes. On the basis of available knowledge, it is suggested that Diplodactylus tessellatus (2n = 28) exhibits a karyotype of considerable divergence from a basic gekkonid diploid number.
3891442| The karyotypes of six species of snakes belonging to the families, Colubridae, Elapidae, Viperidae and Hydrophiidae are described. In Chrysopelea ornata (Colubridae) the sex chromosomes are morphologically indistinguishable, whereas, in Bungarus fasciatus (Elapidae) and Vipera r. russelli (Viperidae) they are distinct because of the minute size of the W chromosome. In Dryophis nasutus (Colubridae) and Hydrophis o. ornatus (Hydrophiidae) also, the sex chromosomes are morphologically distinguishable because of the heteromorphism of the Z and W chromosomes, but the W chromosome in the former is larger than the Z and in the latter similar in size but different in morphology. There is no similarity in the known karyotypes of the families Elapidae and Hydrophiidae. It apparently justifies the separation of the two families. Detailed autoradiographic study using
3892892|A single locality within the Late Miocene (8-13 MYBP) Dove Spring Formation of the northwestern Mojave Desert yielded a large sample of isolated vertebrae and a single maxilla of a small, rear-fanged snake. Based on extensive comparisons of vertebrae and maxillae, this new snake is not referable to any known fossil or extant genus and is described as Proptychophis achoris. It is the first pre-Pleistocene record of an unquestionable rear-fanged colubrid. The precaudal vertebrae are relatively long with well-developed thin neural spines and thin, high neural keels. These features easily distinguish the new species from all taxa in both infraorders Scolecophidia and Henophidia. The vertebrae lack both the hypapophyses found in elapids, viperids, and natricine colubrids and the broad flattened haemal keels typical of North American "xenodontines". The vertebrae of P. achoris are easily distinguished from all remaining colubrid genera by absence of projected prezygapophysial accessory processes which are usually well developed in colubrids. Although the vertebrae are distinct and diagnostic, they most closely resemble those of "Central American xenodontines" (Cadle, 1987) among extant colubrids. The maxilla is distinctive in having two enlarged posterior fang fossae. The anterior fang is missing, but the posterior one has an anteriorly directed in-folding of enamel (= groove). There is no diastema between the anterior fang fossa and the more anterior teeth. The fang-bearing portion of the maxilla is not offset labially and ventrally from the plane of the pre-fang (anterior) portion of the maxilla. The maxilla differs from extant rear-fanged colubrids by the unique combination of the lack of a diastema in the tooth row associated with anterior-grooved, offset fangs. The latter fang condition is otherwise associated with a diastema, and the lack of a diastema with laterally-grooved fangs. Attempts to assess the possible relationships of P. achoris reaffirm the lack of a classification (phylogenetic or otherwise) for modern and fossil colubrids. The subfamilial and tribal relationships of P. achoris cannot be ascertained until the status of the largest "group" of colubrids in North America (the North and Central American "xenodontines") is clarified. The somewhat elongate vertebrae of P. achoris suggest that this small snake may have been arboreal and perhaps similar in habitus to Imantodes spp. The fossils were found in sediments that indicate that P. achoris occupied a riparian or pond-bank habitat. Also, they were found in association with fossils of other animals (salamanders, alligator lizards, moles, and shrews) which likely preferred moist habitats.
3891840|Courtship and mating behavior of the western fox snake, Elaphe v. vulpina, from central Wisconsin in both natural habitat and in captivity were studied. Field and laboratory observations were conducted during a 3-year period, and a different group was observed each spring. Snakes were caught in early May in Columbia, Marquette, Waupaca, and Waushara counties, Wisconsin. Courtship and mating behavior is divisible into three phases: chasing, tactile and mounting, and biting and intromission. These phases closely parallel those reported for other colubrids closely related morphologically to the western fox snake.
3892909|Two experiments were performed on eggs of the green iguana (Iguana iguana) in order both (1) to elucidate responses of developing embryos to temperature and available moisture, and (2) to establish a standardized protocol that can be used by conservationists to produce large numbers of healthy offspring for release into the wild. Eggs in the first experiment were incubated on wet vermiculite (water potential = -150 kPa) at 29 C and 31 C to assess effects of temperature on developing embryos, whereas eggs in the second experiment were incubated on wet, moist, and dry vermiculite (-150, -550, and -850 kPa, respectively) at 31 C to assess the influence of available moisture on embryogenesis. Hatching success was high in both experiments, indicating that the selected conditions for incubation fell well within the ranges of tolerance for this species. Net absorption of water by viable eggs, duration of incubation, and size of hatchlings (snout-vent length) were higher in wet environments than in dry ones. High ambient temperature accelerated development to hatching, but also led to emergence of smaller hatchlings. Thus, large hatchlings can be produced by incubating eggs at relatively lower temperatures and high water potentials within the respective ranges of tolerance.
40602604|The Amolops montcola group contains approximately 12 morphologically similar species distributed across much of mainland Southeast Asia. Approximately half of the species in the group were described only during the past 6 yr, and several have been erroneously placed in the genus Odorrana. A molecular phylogenetic analysis is performed using three mitochondrial and two nuclear genes sequenced from eight of the 12 putative members of the group. The group is shown to be monophyletic within the genus Amolops. The Indochinese species A. daorum is removed from the synonymy of A. mengyangensis , is shown to be a member of the genus Amolops and not Odorrana, and is found to be paraphyletic with respect to A. iriodes. A newly discovered population in northwestern Laos is described as a new species on the basis of its morphological and molecular distinctiveness.
3892109|In Bufo woodhousei, females prefer as mates males with high call rates. We determined call rate and maximum aerobic capactiy (
40931023|One critical life-history trait for organisms is how energy is allocated among the individual offspring they produce. One way of examining the expected trade-off between number of offspring and offspring size is by examining how females respond to different amounts of resources. It has been predicted that females with increased energy uptake should allocate these resources to extra eggs if this does not decrease the size of the other offspring from an optimal value. However, the trade-off of egg size and number is more problematic when considering species that have small clutches (and very large eggs), because changing clutch size requires a large investment per additional egg (the fractional egg size hypothesis). Thus, species with large eggs and small clutches may be more likely to apportion additional energy into increasing offspring size than to increasing clutch size. This prediction has been tested rarely in reptiles. In this study, we placed females of the diadem snake, Spalerosophis diadema (a species that produces very large eggs in small numbers), on either high-or low-energy diets and then recorded reproductive traits after oviposition. As predicted, there was a negative correlation between clutch size and mean egg mass. Females on highenergy diets did not modify clutch size but produced larger eggs relative to those on low-energy diets. However, there was no difference in variance in egg size between diets. Our data therefore support one of the predictions from the fractional egg size hypothesis (larger eggs rather than larger clutch sizes) but not the second prediction that egg size should be more variable in smaller clutches.
3891327|Habitat preferences were determined quantitatively for two sympatric species of lizards in northern California. Sceloporus g. graciosus, the northern sagebrush lizard, was found to be completely terrestrial and to prefer shrubby and open areas. Sceloporus o. occidentalis, the northwestern fence lizard, was found to be partially arboreal and to have a more varied habitat preference.
3891903|From May 1973 through February 1974, microhabitat selections of spotted turtles, Clemmys guttata (Schneider), in Maryland were determined intermittently by detecting radiotantalum
3893123|Salamandra salamandra is a highly polytypic species characterized in the Iberian Peninsula by major differences in reproductive strategies, coloration patterns and morphological features. The aim of this paper is to focus on some aspects of this large phenotypic variability, especially the origin of differences in body size observed among populations. Skeletochronological methods were used to assess age and rates of bone growth in individuals from 14 populations throughout the Iberian Peninsula. Significant variation in the growth curves as well as in the relative growth rates were found among the populations sampled. Two bone growth patterns are recognizable. The population from Ronda (southern Spain) exhibits a basically linear growth rate through the first eight or more years of life instead of just four years as in the other populations. Such a linear growth rate means that for a given age (older than four years) the individual body size of salamanders from Ronda is higher than in other populations. All of the other populations show nonlinear growth curves. Bone growth rate is influenced by different factors (internal versus external) depending on the populations. The phenotypic variability encountered among the populations of salamanders from the Iberian Peninsula is, at least in part, caused by environmental conditions that influence the duration of the activity period of the salamanders and consequently the annual increase of growth. Nevertheless, the populations from northern Spain, characterized by some degree of viviparity (Lindus) or predominantly viviparous (Oviedo), show a significantly lower bone growth rate per month (mBGR) than the other populations. This lower mBGR, in addition to environmental factors, is responsible for the small body size observed in these populations.
3892460|The ability of male plains garter snakes to discriminate sex pheromone trails was tested using a Y-maze. Thamnophis radix radix from Illinois and T. radix haydeni from Colorado both preferred their own females' trails or trails of the closely related, primarily allopatric T. marcianus over a blank arm. Yet both subspecies preferred their own females' trails over T. marcianus trails. Neither subspecies significantly trailed the more distantly related, sympatric T. sirtalis. The species specificity of these trails may be involved in the reproductive isolation of the sympatric T. sirtalis and T. radix. Thamnophis radix and T. marcianus are more closely related and they apparently have similar but still distinguishable pheromone trails. One explanation for the occurrence of pheromone specificity in these two allopatric Thamnophis would be that in the recent past T. radix and T. marcianus were sympatric. This hypothesis is consistent with current knowledge concerning the evolution of these species.
41239001|We describe the external morphology of the tadpole of the frog Physalaemus moreirae. We also provide a review of internal oral features, chondrocrania, and a characterization of the genus based on larval traits. The internal oral features and the external morphology of P. moreirae are most similar to P. jordanensis, a species allocated to the P. gracilis group. None of the larval traits supports the current intrageneric arrangement of species, because several features are shared by species belonging to different species groups. We argue for the inclusion of larval traits in future phylogenetic studies in order to understand the evolution of larval characters.
3892765|Effects of an individual's genotype on its fitness may vary with environmental conditions or across time. Green treefrogs, Hyla cinerea, were collected from a single pond for three consecutive summers (1989-1991) and identified as belonging to one of four groups: calling males, mated males, mated females, and juvenile metamorphs. We used eight polymorphic loci to examine differences among groups and across years. Heterozygosity at the isocitrate dehydrogenase-2 (IDH-2) locus was associated with enhanced overwinter survival of juveniles and male mating success; however, the relationship was not consistent across time. The association at the IDH-2 locus may be weak or the result of an interaction and, therefore, seen only under certain conditions. A shift in allelic and genotypic frequencies corresponded to changes in heterozygosity. Although the exact cause of the association is not known, this study illustrates the temporally dynamic nature of the genetics of natural populations. Multilocus heterozygosity did not appear to be a good indicator of survival or mating success in H. cinerea.
3891752| A capture-recapture technique was used to determine growth rates of American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) in Louisiana. A strong relationship was found between total length and both snout-vent length and weight. Comparisons between small alligators showed that growth rates of males and females are not different until animals attain a total length of 1.0 m, after which growth of females declines sharply. Growth rates during different periods of the year are greatest during mid-summer and less during the spring and fall; no growth occurs during winter (Oct-Mar). A mathematical model indicates that males grow fairly rapidly for 20 years (until they are 3.50 m long) and that they reach a projected total length of 4.20 m at age 80. Growth of females declines considerably after age 10, and individuals are only about 2.55 m long at age 20. The maximum projected length of females is 2.73 m at age 45. 
3891627|The generic distinctiveness of each of the geographically isolated species clusters currently placed in the genus Natrix is demonstrated by investigations of blood proteins, chromosomes, scutellation, cranial osteology, and hemipenes. The European species retain the name Natrix. Nerodia is revived for the North American species, and the names Sinonatrix and Afronatrix are proposed for the Asian and African genera, respectively. Nerodia and the eight other New World natricine genera are placed in a new trible, the Thamnophiini, to emphasize the closeness of their relationship. Possible evolutionary trends are discussed for all characters except blood proteins.
3891815|We compared modes of reproduction in the lizard genus Sceloporus with elevation, latitude, environmental moisture, habits, and body size. Viviparous species of Sceloporus more commonly are found at high elevation than at low elevation, and tend to exhibit arboreal or saxicolous habits. Our findings suggest the following hypothesis: Within oviparous species of Sceloporus, animals exhibiting egg retention have a selective advantage over conspecifics in the cold environments of high elevation or latitude. Egg retention leads to ovoviviparity in which eggs hatch in utero. Once ovoviviparity has evolved, the placenta evolves primarily as an adaptation to supply oxygen to the developing embryo. Viviparous forms then can assume an arboreal or saxicolous habit as an anti-predatory and/or thermoregulatory adaptation. Finally, viviparity evolves as an irreversible trait. Subsequent radiation of the viviparous forms produces species that can live in environments not originally a factor in the evolution of the viviparous mode of reproduction.
3892070|Alopoglossus lehmanni sp. nov. is the second species of its genus known from the Pacific lowlands of northwestern South America. Broad, hexagonal dorsal body scales distinguish it from all other Alopoglossus, and from Leposoma in the same region. Like Ptychoglossus plicatus (Taylor), a Central American microteiid originally described in the genus Alopoglossus, it shares many characteristics with lizards of the genus Ptychoglossus.
3891967|The literature on shovelsnouted snakes of the genus Prosymna suggests that they feed on insects, worms, and small lizards, with one record of a small bird's egg and another of collapsed reptile eggs. During a revision of the genus, examination of stomach contents indicated that these snakes may feed almost entirely on reptile eggs. The eggs are usually soft-shelled, but at least two species of Prosymna also take gecko eggs. No evidence of any other form of prey was found in Prosymna stomachs, but there is one report of hatchling geckos being taken. Literature records indicate that snakes of the genera Oligodon, Cemophora, Salvadora, and Phyllorhynchus also eat reptile eggs.
3893377|The majority of studies of amphibian sociobiology focuses on breeding individuals. However, adults certainly interact when not breeding and may do so subtly and in natural habitats that are inaccessible to direct observation. We conducted three laboratory experiments to explore social interactions among non-breeding, adult long-toed salamanders (Ambystoma macrodactylum columbianum), which reside in terrestrial burrows in nature. In substrate discrimination tests, salamanders preferred areas that bore chemical cues indicative of occupancy by a conspecific relative to clean areas (Experiment 1). However, only females discriminated occupant sex, preferring to associate with chemical cues derived from males (Experiment 2). When provided with a partner, salamanders spent more time in cohabitation in an artificial burrow than residing alone (Experiment 3). Our data suggest that, in nature, non-breeding adults may be social rather than territorial; conspecifics may aggregate rather than exclude one another. However, males and females may experience different kinds of benefits and costs to sociality outside of the breeding season, perhaps as a function of sex differences in energetic requirements for future reproduction.
24634327|The New World direct-developing frogs (Terrarana) comprise more than 970 species distributed from the southern United States to northern Argentina. Although the composition of this clade has been remarkably stable for many decades, evidence for its monophyly is derived mostly from DNA sequences with putative phenotypic synapomorphies limited to the occurrence of direct development, an embryonic egg tooth (known in few species), and T-shaped terminal phalanges. Based on a survey of the urogenital and vascular systems and the submandibular musculature of hyloid frogs, we report 16 characters that provide putative synapomorphies at a variety of hierarchic levels. Most significantly, they include seven putative synapomorphies for Terrarana that can be observed through simple dissections, including (1) fusion of the Wolffian ducts, resulting in a single, common cloacal opening; (2) Wolffian duct fusion located anteriorly with a single, common duct along the posterior, > 1/3 of the distance between caudal edge of kidneys and cloacal wall; (3) presence of the posterior dorsolumbar vein; (4) absence of the medial dorsolumbar vein; (5) origin of the posterior caval vein in the anterior 1/3 of the kidneys; (6) posterior origin of dorsolumbar arteries; and (7) presence of the pelvic lymphatic septum.
27669745|Despite the high species richness of the family Chelidae (side-necked turtles) in South America, few demographic studies are available for a neotropical chelid turtle. Here we report data from a long-term (19932006) study of Hydromedusa maximiliani. Population size was estimated for two periods (19931994 and 20032006) by the Jolly-Seber capture-mark-recapture method and the demographic parameters were estimated by Cormack-Jolly-Seber model. The population size estimates showed values that increased over the study period (from 235 to 318 individuals in a 250 ha area), although this result must be viewed with caution despite the large confidence intervals of the estimates. Significantly fewer individuals of intermediate body sizes (80100 mm plastron length) were present in the 19931994 period compared to the 20032006 period. The population was female biased with male:female ratio of 1:2. Survival rate () was considerably higher for adult females than for males. The estimated annual population growth rate () was 1.012, and the estimated temporal process variance, the variation in the population growth rate, was practically null. These demographic parameters indicate a healthy population, probably reflecting the protected status of the study area.
3891972| A study of gametogenesis in Cyclorana platycephalus indicated that in   (1) only large individuals (over 50 mm in length) are mature, (2) not all eggs are released in one spawning, (3) eggs may be stored over winter, and (4) ovary regression is not determined by energetic status. In   (1) most individuals (regardless of size) have mature sperm in their testes throughout the year, (2) production of sperm is continuous but slower in winter, (3) the incidence of regressed gonads is lower than in females (36% and 81% respectively), (4) the frequency of regressed gonads is unaffected by season or energetic status of the frog, and (5) a greater proportion of individuals have mature gametes (88%) than among females (8%). Factors other than unreadiness of gonads prevent winter breeding. 
3892864|The tadpoles of Hyla fasciata and H. allenorum are described. No features were found to distinguish between the tadpoles of H. fasciata and H. calcarata, but the former is easily diagnosed from other members of the H. geographica group for which the tadpoles are known. The tadpole of H. allenorum is typical of tadpoles in the H. parviceps group in having a bluntly ovoid body with a broadly curved snout, anteroventral oral disc lacking labial teeth, moderately robust serrate jaw sheaths, lateral eyes, sinistral spiricle, dextral vent, and a tail with a flagellum. It differs in lacking papillae on a reduced oral disc and in having two dorsolateral, longitudinal cream-gold stripes. An illustrated key to the known tadpoles of the H. parviceps group is provided.
3891718|Lepidopterous larvae were the most important food by volume of Scaphiopus hammondi and Scaphiopus holbrookii and were second to adult Lepidoptera for Scaphiopus bombifrons. Other important foods were adult Carabidae for S. bombifrons, adult Coccinellidae and ants for S. hammondi, and adult Scarabaeidae and Carabidae for S. holbrookii. For Scaphiopus couchii, the most important items were termites, Lygaeidae, Carabidae, grasshoppers, crickets and Scarabaeidae. Much of the bulk of the food of Scaphiopus was of large items, but numerous ants and termites and a few other small forms were also eaten. It appears that Scaphiopus feeds primarily at the surface rather than underground.
3892859|Numbers of gopher tortoises are declining throughout the southeastern United States, largely because of loss of habitat. Widespread monitoring of population sizes for gopher tortoises usually is done indirectly, by examining the burrows that tortoises construct. Indirect monitoring requires use of a correction factor, to relate numbers of burrows to numbers of tortoises. We demonstrate that the standard correction factor overestimates the number of tortoises in 22 of the 26 cases in our sample and that the relationship between numbers of burrows and numbers of tortoises differs among types of habitats. Using both published data and data from our own studies, we suggest that an accurate assessment of active burrows is a reliable way to relate numbers of burrows to numbers of tortoises.
3891810|A behavioral repertory was established for captive Gonatodes vittatus, and ranking and frequency of behavioral acts were analyzed with regard to inter- and intra-sexual and dominance/subordinance interactions. Of 14 behavioral acts described only one was performed exclusively by males; females performed certain behaviors only when paired with other females. Subordinant animals performed fewer acts than dominant animals. Statistical analysis demonstrated correlation between the ranking and frequencies of the behavioral acts of dominants, males, and females. Behavioral acts of G. vittatus are similar to those described for other diurnal geckos.
3892219|Snout-urostyle length of female Eleutherodactylus coqui (Anura: Leptodactylidae) averages 29% longer than that of males. Field data do not support the hypothesis that this size dimorphism is explained by sexual differences in the relationship between body size and reproductive success. Although larger females lay more eggs than do smaller females, larger males also obtain more clutches than do smaller males. The reproductive advantage of large size appears greater to males than to females. Data on growth do not support the hypothesis that size dimorphism is maintained by predation on large males. Regardless of predation, males appear to stop growing shortly after reaching reproductive maturity. However, when males are kept in the laboratory under conditions not conducive to reproductive behavior, growth continues at rates similar to those of females in the field. I suggest that size dimorphism in this species is maintained by energetic constraints, resulting from male reproductive behavior, that reduce growth.
3893366|We determined the overall karyotypic structure, positions of NORs, as well as the distribution of constitutive heterochromatin for Epipedobates flavopictus, E. trivittatus, E. femoralis, and E. hahneli. Despite a conserved chromosome number (2N = 24), morphological differences were seen in the group of small chromosomes. Epipedobates femoralis presented a distinctive karyotype compared to the other species analyzed. All species examined had NORs on different chromosomes. The C-banding pattern showed a considerable variation among the species. Epipedobates flavopictus is remarkably different from the others in possessing only centromeric C-bands. The distribution of heterochromatin varied among species and seems to evolve as a species-specific trait. We suggest that NOR location variability indicates that some rearrangement mechanisms have taken place during the evolutionary history of this group, because Dendrobatidae is considered a monophyletic taxon. We do not discard that some general pattern in either C-band or NOR location, or both, may emerge when more species of this genus are analyzed.
25209119|A distinctive new species of rattlesnake is described from the western versant of the Sierra Madre del Sur of Guerrero, Mexico. This long-tailed rattlesnake cannot be confused with any other species of rattlesnake and is most similar to Crotalus stejnegeri and C. lannomi. The Guerrero species possesses a strikingly distinct color pattern and differs from all other rattlesnakes in aspects of lepidosis. Mexico continues to be the origin of newly discovered species that provide important insights into the evolution or ecology of particular groups. A few examples from recent decades include Exiliboa placata, a monotypic, relictual dwarf boa (Bogert, 1968), Rhadinophanes monticola, a monotypic, highland colubrid (Myers and Campbell, 1981), and Pseudoeurycea aquatica, the only aquatic bolitoglossine salamander (Wake and Campbell, 2001). /// Se describe una especie nueva de serpiente de cascabel de la vertiente oeste de la Sierra Madre del Sur de Guerrero, Mxico. Esta cascabel de cola larga, se distingue fcilmente de otras especies de cascabel y es muy similar a Crotalus stejnegeri y C. lannomi. Esta nueva especie del estado de Guerrero posee un patrn de coloracin caracterstico y una lepidosis ceflica que la distingue de otras especies de cascabel conocidas.
3891902| Loosely coiled chromosomes with expanded lateral extensions were found in the nuclei of Bidder's organ oocytes in   of three species of toads (genus Bufo). This is the first report of female-type lampbrush chromosomes in genetic   of any vertebrate species. 
41406819|The recently erected chameleon genus Kinyongia currently includes 17 species, with the majority of this diversity occurring in montane regions of East Africa. Kinyongia adolfifriderici is one of only three species in the genus to occur in Central Africa, with numerous populations occurring from low-to highelevation forests of the Alberline Rift. Recent fieldwork in the Lendu Plateau in northeastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) led to the discovery of a population of chameleons that is significantly larger than and morphologically distinct from the closely related species adolfifriderici, which was described from the lowland Ituri forest, DRC. Analyses of mitochondrial (16S and ND2) and nuclear (RAG1) DNA sequence data revealed that adolfifriderici is a complex of cryptic species. Herein, we describe the Lendu population as a new species, underscoring the endemism and conservation importance of this poorly known, unprotected montane region.
3892710|Rattlesnakes produce sounds by shaking a unique appendage at the tip of their tail called a rattle. The rattle is generally assumed to function as a warning to enemies about the rattlesnake's venomousness. Nevertheless, rattle size varies among species, perhaps as a result of genetic drift, natural selection, or allometry. Quantitative analyses of rattling, appropriately scaled to species' differences in body size, were used to examine interspecific differences in rattle structure and function. We recorded, digitized, and analyzed rattling sounds of 194 individuals of 21 different species. Although ANOVA results indicated that rattling sounds differ significantly across species, removal of interspecific differences in SVL through ANCOVA resulted in rattling sounds that were statistically indistinguishable among all species except the pigmy rattlesnake, Sistrurus miliarius. Even when adjusted for its small body size, the pigmy rattlesnake has a significantly quieter and higher pitched rattle than most other species tested. The atypical rattling of S. miliarius is related to the disproportionately small rattle of this species. Regression analyses indicated that rattle size is the best predictor of all acoustic descriptors of the rattling sound. When the influences of interspecific differences in rattle size were removed via ANCOVA, rattling sounds were statistically similar among all species of rattlesnakes, including S. miliarius.
3892771|Deirochelys reticularia possesses a reproductive strategy unique among North American turtles by exhibiting a bimodal autumn and spring nesting pattern in the northern part of its range. Between 1976-1994, 153 X-radiographs were taken of 50 females of Deirochelys reticularia to detect the presence of calcified eggs. Thirteen gravid females were X-radiographed in both autumn and the following spring. Of these, eight retained the same set of calcified eggs and five contained a different clutch. We did not observe spring to autumn retention of eggs. Analysis of X-radiographs from Kinosternon subrubrum and Trachemys scripta indicated much shorter retention times that spanned a few weeks at most within a summer nesting season. Egg retention may represent an adaptation specific to Deirochelys that enables postponement of nesting if conditions are unsuitable.
3892726|We describe highly mobile, inexpensive home-built data recording systems for use in temperature telemetry. Each system, composed of a receiver, a tape recorder, a battery pack, and a timer, records signals from a single individual. The timer simultaneously activates the recorder and receiver for an adjustable recording period at time intervals which may be varied from 28 s to 64 h. The described systems require both calibration for the effects of tape recorder speed and manual transcription of data, but they are cost-effective when tracking highly dispersed individuals. With modification of peripheral devices, these systems may be adapted for a variety of remote data collection needs.
3891475|Home range size and spatial distributions were determined for sympatric populations of the prairie lizard (Sceloporus undulatus) and the lesser earless lizard (Holbrookia maculata) in the Sand Hills of Nebraska. Mean home ranges of
3891331|Sceloporus graciosus from altitudes of 7500 and 5200-5400 feet did not exhibit acclimation when preferred temperature was tested in a thermal gradient after 2 weeks at 15, 25, and 35 C respectively. Although no acclimation occurred, lizards from the higher altitude chose mean preferred temperatures about 3 C lower than did lizards from the lower altitude.
3893498| We report on likely mixed paternity in a natural population of snow skinks (Niveoscincus mirolepidotus) from alpine Tasmania, Australia. This species is nonterritorial and males guard females after copulation, suggesting that guarding behavior has evolved to prevent rival mating of still-receptive females. To what degree does this mate-guarding prevent rival copulations? We sampled gravid females at random in the wild and looked for within-clutch mixed paternity among their offspring using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP). Incorporating all visualized fragments, offspring band-sharing based on maternal bands was 0.94 (0.05, SD), whereas for paternal fragments it was 0.54 (0.46, SD). We then tested paternal band-sharing scores for all young of pairs against the mean score of the maternally inherited fragments to assess whether paternal genetic variation was larger than for a known single parent, hence, suggesting multiple sires. To reduce the risk of unequal sampling of polymorphic maternal and paternal fragments, we based our statistical tests on heterozygous bands only. Offspring band sharing based on maternal heterozygous fragments was on average 0.68 (0.22, SD), versus 0.35 (0.33, SD) based on paternally inherited fragments. In six of eight clutches (75%), at least one pair of young in a clutch had paternal scores outside of the confidence interval for a single parent (i.e., the mother). Thus, mixed paternity seems to be widespread in this population, despite prolonged postcopulatory mate-guarding by males. 
3891215|Leopard lizards exist in Rock Valley, Nevada, at low densities (1-2/acre) sustained by good adult survival (roughly 50% per annum) and maximal life-spans of at least 7-8 years. Among individuals more than 8 months of age, male survivorship appears to be superior to that of females. Thus, although the sex ratio among hatchlings is about even, there appear to be more adult males than females in our areas. Biomass estimates over a period of 5 years in three 20-acre areas ranged from 17.6 g/acre to 47.8 g/acre. Females do not ordinarily reproduce until 21-23 months of age, but in 1966 a few females reproduced when 9-11 months old. One clutch of eggs per year is typical, but occasionally two clutches may be laid (1965), and in 1964 there was no reproduction.
3893122|My research examined variation in hatchling size over three years (1995-1997) in the red-eared slider turtle (Trachemys scripta elegans) at a nesting site in Jersey County, Illinois. The number and sizes of natural hatchlings varied among years. Hatchlings collected in 1996 from eggs laid in 1995 were larger in both mass and carapace length than those collected in 1995 or 1997 from eggs laid in 1994 and 1996, respectively. I suggest that increased rainfall of nearly three-times normal during May 1995 was one possible cause for the larger size of hatchlings collected in 1996. Variation in resource availability may also have contributed to the variation in hatchling size. Egg size adjusted for maternal body size was largest in 1995, and these eggs produced the largest hatchlings. Only experimental or long-term studies can elucidate the sources and biological significance of variation in hatchling size. Factors such as climatic changes that affect moisture levels during incubation could have biologically relevant effects on hatchling size among species of turtles that lay flexible-shelled eggs.
3893473| A new species of Bufo is described from cloud forests of the Cordillera de Apolobamba, La Paz, Bolivia. The new species has large glands on dorsal surfaces of shanks and forearms and is tentatively included in the B. spinulosus group. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Bufo de la Cordillera de Apolobamba, en el Departamento de La Paz, Bolivia. La nueva especie, tentativamente incluida en el grupo de B. spinulosus, habita en bosques de niebla y se caracteriza por tener grandes glndulas cubriendo los antebrazos y la porcin tibial de las patas traseras. No se conocen los machos ni las larvas. 
4497931|We examined whether the presence and developmental stage of conspecific egg masses affected the choice of oviposition site by the Japanese brown frog, Rana japonica. A paired choice experiment was conducted in nine field enclosures, each containing one empty artificial pool and one containing conspecific egg masses at different developmental stages. Adult R. japonica almost always selected the tub with the resident egg mass for their oviposition site if the resident egg mass was younger than Gosner's stage 16, but avoided tubs that contained older egg masses. We hypothesized that the potential of cannibalism from conspecific residents increases as the resident eggs develop, which affects the choice of oviposition site by adult R. japonica.
3892557|Over 100 courtship encounters involving 32 Blanding's turtles, Emydoidea blandingi, were observed under seminatural conditions and the data were analyzed by cinematographic techniques. Eight mutually exclusive motor patterns are described for males. A definite sequence is necessary in order for mating to occur. Following initial chasing and mounting, the male exhibits a series of tactile, visual and (possibly) olfactory displays that lead either to termination of the sequence by the female or to copulation. Five copulations were observed, in each case only after tail extension by the female. The behavior of E. blandingi is compared with that of other emydine turtles.
3893126|Pattern class C of parthenogenetic Cnemidophorus tesselatus reaches its southern range limit at Sumner Lake State Park, De Baca County, New Mexico, where it is syntopic at several sites with a northern population of pattern class E of the same species. Samples collected at Sumner Lake in 1997 confirmed significant differences between the two pattern classes in body length and clutch size initially observed in samples collected in 1995 and 1996. In contrast, these characteristics were non-significantly different in pattern classes C and Colorado D, sympatric (and marginally syntopic) at sites near the historic town-site of Higbee, Otero County, Colorado. The difference between each pair of sympatric pattern classes is based on different mean body sizes and a positive relationship between clutch size and body size in C. tesselatus. A comparison of 10 samples of three color pattern classes of C. tesselatus, spanning approximately 1100 km of latitudinal range, revealed that the small clutch size characterizing pattern class E at Sumner Lake was found in other populations of pattern class E and in one population of pattern class C as well. Similarly, the larger clutch size of pattern class C at Sumner Lake was found in the Higbee population of pattern class C and in some populations of pattern class E. Therefore, despite constraints on variability predicted from a parthenogenetic reproductive mode, reproductive characteristics are remarkably variable both within and between pattern classes. In the absence of conclusive evidence of more than one hybridization event in the origin of C. tesselatus and the geographic proximity of only pattern class E to the progenitor species, we hypothesize, from color pattern and meristic evidence, that pattern class C was most likely derived from one or more E-like individuals, and that pattern classes New Mexico D and Colorado D were derived from individuals of pattern class C. Mutations could also have modified reproductive characteristics permitting C. tesselatus to expand its distribution beyond that available to a general-purpose genotype derived from the progenitor species C. tigris marmoratus and C. gularis septemvittatus and expressed in pattern class E. In addition to its extensive geographic range, the ecological success of C. tesselatus can be gauged by the fact that nine of our 10 samples of C. tesselatus were from populations sympatric with 1-3 sexual species and 1-2 parthenogenetic species of Cnemidophorus.
27669729|Breeding success of frogs depends, among other factors, on male and female habitat choices, which may be based in part on environmental features that aid offspring survivorship and development. Frogs can respond to habitat features in varied scales, including types of bodies of water and microhabitats within them, and the correspondence between male and female choices may contribute to a successful reproduction. We compared habitat and microhabitat choices by males and females of a Scinax species from the catharinae clade, focusing on microhabitat selection by both sexes, including variation between dry and wet seasons. We also compared the distribution of males and females across a stream size gradient and related their abundance with numbers of tadpoles in each stream to assess successful breeding. We found males and females to be similar in microhabitat preferences, but their abundances did not correlate across streams. Male abundance, however, correlated with number of tadpoles, indicating that number of females may have been underestimated due to their shorter permanence at breeding sites or lower detection probability. Competition and predation did not seem to influence distribution of Scinax gr. catharinae among streams. Male and female Scinax gr. catharinae seem to show highly coordinated responses when selecting breeding habitats and microhabitats, apparently resulting in high breeding success at the study site.
3892959|A new grass lizard, Takydromus toyamai, is described from the Miyako Island Group, Ryukyu Archipelago. The Miyako population has been considered to be conspecific with T. smaragdinus from the Okinawa, Amami, and Tokara Groups of the archipelago, but it is differentiated from populations of these three island groups by having a greater number of ventral rows (eight) and distinctly keeled temporal scales, and in lacking a white ventrolateral line on head and body. The definition of T. smaragdinus is revised accordingly and a lectotype is designated. A dichotomous key is provided for the Japanese and Taiwanese species of the genus Takydromus.
3892157| Males of Ambystoma laterale from Pelee Island, Ontario, Canada, engage in courtship activity but do not produce spermatophores due to reduction of pelvic glands, Kingsbury's glands, and anterior ventral glands in the cloaca. Males of A. texanum from the same population possess hypertrophied cloacal glands while those of hybrid A. laterale  texanum are partially depleted, but this may be due to previous breeding activity. The absence of spermatophore production by males of A. laterale, if generally true for the population, may help account for poor mating success evidenced by low fertilization rates of eggs. 
3892351| Five male and four female Egyptian tortoises (Testudo kleinmanni) were monitored with radio transmitters for 4-18 mo. Individuals had well-defined home ranges. Male and female home ranges were (x  1 SD) 34.9 ha  24.6 and 15.7 ha  8.6, respectively, and they did not differ significantly from each other. Considerable overlapping was found between the home ranges of different males and between those of males and females. Even though large parts of the home range were visited during the period of observations, a much smaller area was visited more frequently. Home range use varied significantly between seasons. The greatest areas were used during winter and spring, the time of main activity, while only small areas were used during summer. A similar pattern was observed in distances covered daily during each season. 
25209080|We quantified frog phenology and microhabitat use of the native California red-legged frog (Rana draytonii) and introduced bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) in an 11-ha seasonal marsh, Sonoma County, California. Logistic regression showed that both species selected habitats nonrandomly from among the available habitats in the marsh. As adults, the two species overlapped in their habitat use, selecting dead spikerush in winter and spring, and aquatic buttercup in summer. Although the model emphasized overlap in frog habitats, there was more separation in habitat use between species during winter than other seasons when few bullfrogs were active (i.e., most bullfrogs hibernating). The egg-laying habitats and seasons differed dramatically between the two species. Red-legged frogs bred in winter almost exclusively in shallow dead spikerush and bullfrogs in spring and summer in deeper areas with dense cover, predominantly smartweed. Breeding periods of red-legged frogs and bullfrogs were separated by 10 wk, which coincided with peak adult abundances. We suggest that the separate reproductive seasons may reduce competition and predation by bullfrogs on red-legged frogs, allowing for coexistence. Furthermore, the marsh's late-season drying limits metamorphosis of bullfrog tadpoles, which usually require permanent water. The marsh's seasonal hydrologic pattern offers a model for habitat in which the native red-legged frog may persist despite negative interactions with the introduced bullfrog.
3891999|The peculiar habit of motionless tongue extension in vine snakes of the genus Oxybelis has been explained as a behavioral trait with a function of either prey fascination or lingual-lure deception. Alternative theories involving disruptive crypticity and period of extension time necessary for accumulation of threshold levels of scent particles are proposed. These theories are more consistent with observed prey and predator behavior and features of the snakes' external morphology.
3893638|We documented both the diet and dietary preference of free-ranging juvenile gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) by direct observation. All observations were conducted on a 1-ha plot of sandhill habitat that has been maintained on a 1-yr fire periodicity by controlled burning for more than 25 yr. Seventeen foraging observations of juvenile gopher tortoises were included in our analyses. Juvenile gopher tortoises ate 26 plant genera. To determine if juvenile gopher tortoises were selecting particular genera, either positively or negatively, we used Resampling Stats. Plants of 16 genera were selected positively by at least one juvenile gopher tortoise. The most abundant plant genus along the foraging paths, Aristida, was selected negatively. Other grasses (Poaceae) were consumed mostly during the cool months when forbs, several of which were selected positively, were in decline. Grasses mostly were eaten in proportion to their availability. Juvenile gopher tortoises foraged only for brief time periods and traveled short distances during a foraging bout. Individuals may satiate quickly and/or may be predisposed to remain near their burrow because they are vulnerable to thermal stress and/or predation. Turtles residing in habitats with high quality and abundant forage grow rapidly to sexual maturity, which, in turn, can increase population growth rate. Understanding the biology of the juvenile gopher tortoise can help shape management practices that prevent declines of gopher tortoise populations.
3891678| Sanzinia madagascariensis (Madagascan boa)   engage in combat bouts by entwining their tails and posterior trunk regions, with their anterior regions usually remaining widely separated and their heads often being out-of-sight of one another. The entwined regions may tighten vigorously, loosen, and shift position by sliding along the opponent. They often tug and pull against each other with the purchases of the anterior region. The pelvic spurs are active during a bout, erecting perpendicular to the body wall and flexing vigorously against the scales of the opponent. These combat actions appear to be adapted to the arboreal existence of this species and demonstrate a behavioral function for the vestigial spurs which are proportionately larger in  . 
3891221| Three names, representing two taxa in the snake genus Oligodon, have long been confused in herpetological literature. Simotes quadrilineatus Jan, 1865, is placed in the synonymy of Oligodon taeniatus (Gnther, 1861), and Simotes taeniatus mouhoti Boulenger, 1914, is removed from the synonymy of Oligodon taeniatus (Gnther, 1861). A key and complete synonymies are given. 
3891489|Components of the feeding behavioral repertoire of captive African clawed frogs were determined and described. Sequential transitional analyses showed that transition frequencies were not random, but order was implicated. As an indication of sequence complexity, relative frequencies of mean number of component responses per session were determined. Feeding sequences contained as few as 1 component to as many as 94, with the highest relative frequencies of 17.6% of the sequences consisting of 6-10 components before the operational definition of an exit occurred. When comparing sequence complexity prior to and including engulfing of food, it was determined that there was an immediate increase in the general feeding behavioral components, especially sweeping. Results are discussed from an ethological standpoint comparing terrestrial glossal anurans with the aglossal aquatic Xenopus and other Pipidae. Aquatic feeding behavior is hypothesized to be a highly specialized mechanism for use in the aquatic environment. The increased occurrence of postconsummatory activities is hypothesized to serve not only for prey location, but also to serve a social facilitation or communicative function for other frogs in the same population.
3890754|Boreal toads (Bufo boreas boreas) moved 900 m from their summer habitat at 3,070 m to their hibernacula at 2,975 m. The 5 hibernacula examined were chambers in rocky till and together contained more than 30 toads. Slowly flowing groundwater directly beneath the hibernating toads kept the air temperature within the chambers at slightly above 0.0 C. The hibernacula were insulated by a heavy snow cover. Toads entered the hibernacula in late September and emerged in early May. One toad lost 18.4% of its body weight during hibernation. There was apparently no mortality among the toads at these sites.
3892242|Existing data on social behavior of the desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) suggest that wild populations have dominance hierarchies, possibly related to defense of such resources as burrows, mates, and nests. Tortoises know locations of burrows, mates, water catchments, and mineral licks within their home ranges (1-268 ha). They may take excursions outside customary activity areas and make long-distance movements of 1.4-7.3 km of 16 days to 5 yr duration. Relocated tortoises may settle at release sites, travel in straight lines (Type II navigation), and disperse distances of 6.6 km or more. Thus, areas to be restocked should be at least 14 km in diameter to permit dispersal of relocatees. Relocated tortoises may disrupt the social structure of resident populations by displacing residents, or they may be driven away by residents.
3891253|A study of a semi-isolated population of Rana cascadae was made in 1966 and 1967. Growth and population data were collected from recapture of marked individuals. Schnabel estimates show 1781 males and 722 females in 1966; of these 761 males and 331 females died between 1966 and 1967. This is 42.6% mortality for males and 49.4% for females. In 1967, 1065 young from 1966 were present, indicating replacement of those lost. Sources of mortality and parasitism are discussed. An asymptotic growth model is used to estimate mean seasonal and yearly growth. Males grow more slowly than females and reach a shorter maximum length. Age at sexual maturity is 3+ years. The sex ratio is 1:1 for the first year after transformation but becomes heavily skewed toward males in older frogs. Survivorship tables are constructed. The males have a linear survivorship curve while females have a logarithmic curve. The males have a mean age of 1.66 years and a yearly mortality rate of .41. The females have a mean age of 1.20 years with a yearly mortality rate of .54. Both mortality estimates are in close agreement with those obtained by the Schnabel tables.
3891263| Females of the colubrid snake Pseudoficimia frontalis (Cope) have well-developed hemipenes. This is the first example of a snake in which the adult females universally possess primary sex characteristics of males and are, in this sense, intersexual. Young females contain epophorons and ductus deferens, and young males contain oviducts. Sexual dimorphism in several parts of the reproductive system is demonstrated. The name Pseudoficimia pulcherrima is placed in the synonymy of P. frontalis. 
3892641| Following release of an envenomated mouse, a rattlesnake begins a post-strike trailing behavior that allows it to track chemically and to recover the dispatched prey. The rattlesnake can discriminate the trail of the mouse that it struck from trails of other unstruck mice, suggesting that the struck mouse produces a chemically unique odor trail. The purpose of this study was to determine generally what those chemical cues might be and what emphasis the rattlesnake might give to each during post-strike trailing. Taking advantage of venomoid (venomless) rattlesnakes, four experiments were performed in which we examined the ability of rattlesnakes to discriminate trails of mice receiving fang punctures (but no venom), mice artificially struck by hand (no venom), different individual mouse scents, and the effects of venom on post-strike trailing ability. We found that fang puncture alone was sufficient to produce a distinctive odor trail, but that this was subordinate to the distinctiveness of individual mice odors; envenomated mice produced the most distinctive trail. Our results indicate that alone the mechanical effects of fang penetration of the integument produce a chemical uniqueness in the mouse, but that can be overridden by mouse odor and venom effects. Thus, rattlesnakes biting mice have available ranked odors unique to the struck mouse: venom > mouse odor > fang puncture. /// Las serpientes de cascabel (gnero Crotalus) poseen la habilidad para discriminar entre la huella odorfica dejada por un ratn mordido por ellas, y uno que no lo ha sido. Lo anterior sugiere, que el ratn posiblemente genere un olor distintivo despus de ser mordido y recibir la inyeccin del veneno crotlico. Asi, el propsito de ste estudio fu determinar las probables "pistas" qumicas utilizadas por las mencionadas serpientes, para la localizacin y reconocimiento de la presas, por ellas envenenadas. Utilizando 15 serpientes de cascabel (Crotalus viridis oreganus), 5 de ellas con el conducto del veneno quirrgicamente ligado, se realizaron cuatro experimentos en los cuales se examin tal habilidad discriminatoria. En todos ellos 2 opciones por tratamiento fueron presentadas a las serpientes: en el primer experimento un mismo ratn fue utilizado para dejar ambas huellas (anterior y posterior a la mordida) y presentadas a las serpientes tratadas; en el segundo, con similar protocolo, el ratn fue "pinchado" a mano con un aditamento diseado para tal fin; en el tercero se utilizaron dos ratones por tratamiento (diferencia individual), y finalmente en el cuarto, los ratones fueron mordidos por serpientes no tratadas (efecto del veneno). Los resultados indican que el efecto mecnico de la penetracin de los colmillos en la presa, por s solo, produce una pista odorfica distintiva, pero que sta es afectada significativamente por el olor individual del ratn y todava ms por los efectos colaterales de la inyeccin del veneno. 
3891276|The Florida snapping turtle, Chelydra serpentina osceola, is shown to intergrade with the common snapping turtle, Chelydra s. serpentina, in the Okefenokee Swamp in southern Georgia and northeastern Florida. Historical zoogeography of Chelydra serpentina osceola is discussed.
3891895|Juvenile Scaphiopus hammondi, Bufo debilis and Bufo cognatus (1-6 weeks post-metamorphosis) were allowed to burrow in soil containers in an environment chamber adjusted to simulate soil temperature conditions in the field. Approximately 50% of the S. hammondi survived 6 months during which time body H
3891556| For a normal reproductive cycle to occur, female Lacerta sicula must be exposed to a relatively low temperature during the autumn season. When animals captured between September and January are held at a constant temperature of 30C, the refractory period (which usually disappears in late autumn) persists. In addition, it appears that photoperiod is a factor of secondary importance in determining the disappearance of refractoriness. 
3892833|Snake scales are porous to allow lipids, formed during the keratinization of epidermal cells, access to the surface. The scales of Agkistrodon (sensu lato) examined in this study also have raised ridges between the pores that form a reticulate pattern as in A. halys. In other taxa, the reticulate surface may be formed into a verrucate pattern (Deinagkistrodon) with "wart-like" elevations or into a canaliculate pattern with longitudinal ridges by variations in the thickness of the underlying layers of the epidermis. The diversity of scale patterns in Agkistrodon include (1) reticular, (2) verrucate, (3) low canaliculate, (4) high canaliculate, and (5) short, irregular canaliculate (= cristate). The distribution of these scale patterns suggest that A. i. intermedius is closer to A. halys and A. monticola than to other members of its own species. Furthermore, A. halys, A. monticola, A. intermedius, A. strauchi, and Calloselasma rhodostoma are distinct from A. blomhoffii, A. himalayanus, A. caliginosus, A. bilineatus, A. contortrix, A. piscivorus, and Hypnale, on the basis of canaliculate ridge height.
3892778|Females of Plethodon cinereus lay a clutch of 3-14 large eggs in late spring and then attend them until they hatch 6-9 wk later. During this biennial brooding period females are not believed to leave their clutches to forage. The benefits of brooding to eggs have been studied, but little is known about the costs of brooding to females. We collected 64 gravid females of Plethodon cinereus from a natural population and introduced them to enclosures constructed in a forest near the site of collection. We randomly assigned the four combinations of high or low food supplements and the presence or absence of a non-gravid, conspecific, female intruder to four compartments holding a gravid female in each of 16 boxes. About half of the gravid females laid eggs. Females that did not brood grew as much as the intruders, while all females that brooded grew significantly less than the intruders. The food supplements had a greater effect on growth of nonbrooding females than on growth of brooding females. Food supplements, moreover, had stronger effects on growth of both types of females in the presence of an intruder. These results suggest that there is an energetic cost to brooding and that growth is limited by food availability under natural conditions. These data also provide strong evidence that brooding females do not actively forage but will eat opportunistically.
24634287|A herpetofaunal inventory and distribution study was conducted at the Inhotim Institute in Brumadinho Municipality (State of Minas Gerais, Southeastern Brazil). The Inhotim Institute is located in a transition area between the Atlantic Forest and Cerrado biomes, and the study site encompasses natural forest fragments (secondary forest) and landscaped areas with buildings and gardens representing human occupancy. Comparison between these habitats provides a test as to whether human habitats designed to be interwoven with small tracts of wild habitat are sufficient to maintain a broad array of native species, as proposed in the concept known as "reconciliation ecology." We conducted field work during 7 d per month from January 2008 to January 2009, except for December 2008. We used pitfall traps with drift fences, visual and auditory surveys, and random records and capture by persons not directly involved in the study in both forest and anthropogenic habitats. We recorded 65 species which included 32 amphibians and 33 reptiles. Three anurans and one lizard were introduced species (probably from the transport of plants from other states for landscaping) and were excluded from our analyses. Most species recorded have a wide geographic distribution and generalist habits. Herpetofaunal species richness was greater in anthropogenic areas, possibly due to the generalist habits of most species and because such areas have a greater availability of suitable breeding habitats for amphibians. The sampling methods used proved to be complementary, with no single method capturing all species. The number of species recorded was high compared to other Brazilian sites, suggesting that the reconciliation ecology approach might be an effective conservation strategy for herpetofauna at the Inhotim Institute.
3891338|Reproductive data on Agama stellio picea Parker was studied from November 1968 to June 1969. Females 90 mm S-V length or greater and males 100 mm S-V length or greater were considered as adult. Volume of adult testes decreased from November to May. The percentage of adult males with motile sperm at the terminal end of the vas deferens was highest in March, April, and May, indicating the height of the breeding season. An average clutch of 10 eggs was determined from examinations of oviducal contents. Oviposition probably begins in early summer. During May, small colorless ovarian follicles, larger yolk-laden ovarian follicles and oviducal eggs were found together, indicating two clutches may be laid per year. The year-round activity may account for the extended sexual activity.
3892223|We studied nesting activity and anaerobic metabolism of painted turtles in the vicinity of East Marsh on the University of Michigan's E. S. George Reserve in southeastern Michigan. Nesting activity began in mid-to-late May and continued through early July. Nesting migrations were initiated during all hours between 0700 and 1900 h with 24% starting before noon and 76% after noon. Peak initiation of nesting migrations occurred between 1600 and 1800 h. Almost all nesting migrations were initiated during daylight hours and the majority (75%) were completed before dark on the same day. Gravid females took approximately twice as long to move to a nest site as they did to return to the marsh after nesting. Most nests were completed between 1500 and 2200 h; the remainder were completed between 0900 and 1200 h (8%) or, if there was rain, between 1200 and 1500 h (19%). The time from beginning to end of nest construction averaged 1.5 h, and body temperatures of females at nest completion averaged 29.9 C. Nests averaged 60 m from the edge of East Marsh. Whole body lactate of females that had just completed nesting averaged
3893503|The reproductive biology of the parthenogenetic lizard Aspidoscelis cozumela was studied from November 1994 to October 1995 on Cozumel Island, Quintana Roo, Mexico. Females exhibit a seasonal pattern with maximum reproductive activity during spring and summer (March to August) associated with day length. Clutch size averaged 1.8 (range 1-4) and was positively correlated with female body size. Females produced at least two clutches within the reproductive season.
4497934| Transformation of habitats for agriculture is one of the main causes of reduction in diversity worldwide. We observed reproductively-active female turtles of Trachemys dorbignyi and their nests from 1995 to 2001 in an intensively farmed area in southern Brazil. The area was selected because of the existence of a previous study done 20 yr earlier in the same locality, which allowed us to evaluate the possible effects of human activities on the reproductive ecology of T. dorbignyi. Nesting occurred between October and January, with most activity in November and December (the warmest months). An average of 31% of the females nested in each year, laying up to three clutches at intervals of about 15 days. The females usually constructed nests between 0,700 and 1100 h and deposited 6 to 19 eggs (mean = 12.1) per nest. Clutch size was strongly correlated with carapace length. The eggs were, on average, 39.3  1.73 mm long and 25.8  0.91 mm wide, with a mean mass of 14.9  1.29 g. Multivariate Analysis of Variance showed that egg size differed from year to year. In spite of the intense human activity, the parameters analyzed were nearly unchanged after two decades. However, aspects such as reproductive success, reduction of nesting sites, and the effects of agrotoxins, which could affect the long-term conservation of the species, were not assessed. 
3893245|Many natural history characteristics of agamid and iguanian lizards suggest that these closely related groups occupy similar kinds of niches in the Old and New World, respectively. Do these similarities also include physiological properties? We measured field metabolic rates and water flux rates, with doubly labeled water, in Bibron's agama (Agama impalearis) during the breeding season in the field in Morocco, and compared these with values expected from regressions for an iguanian lizard having a similar autecology. Water influx and field metabolic rates of Bibron's agamas during our study were much higher than in iguanian lizards and tended to be higher than in other agamids as well. The unusual occurrence of rain showers during our measurements triggered much above-ground activity of termites, and this may have stimulated agamas to feed voraciously. Diet analyses revealed that termites were the major food consumed and that termites had unusually high water contents (80% water) for insects, providing abundant water to the agamas. The lizards apparently did not drink rain water. Rates of water influx (ml/day) in Bibron's agama and in four other desert-dwelling agamid lizards scaled with body mass (in grams) according to the relation
3891398|Infiltration of sand into the space left by exhalation is a major problem for sand-swimming reptiles. Comparison of the respiratory movements of burrowing and non-burrowing snakes and lizards indicates that some form of shielding of breathing movements has evolved in sand swimmers. This shielding involves morphological and behavioral features and varies from species to species. It also reflects the nature of the soil in which the species lives. Breathing by vertical movements of the venter is common in sand swimmers and is observed also in rock-dwelling forms. A pack of moist sand may form over the nostrils of buried reptiles preventing inhalation of single grains and probably reducing respiratory water loss.
3892987|We compared embryonic development, hatchling sizes, and larval growth of the myobatrachine frog Geocrinia victoriana from southwestern Victoria and from different altitudes (180-1300 m) in central Victoria under constant laboratory conditions. Larvae from montane populations were bigger at hatching and had higher growth rates than those originating from lowland sites. Life history traits of G. victoriana from the southwest were similar to those of central Victorian conspecifics living at higher altitudes. Variation in growth rate was greater across the altitudinal gradient in G. victoriana than across a hybrid zone between G. victoriana and G. laevis.
3892939|Siren lacertina and Pseudobranchus striatus are aquatic salamanders that inhabit drought-prone waters in the southeastern United States. When drought occurs, sirenids burrow into the substratum and remain inactive until the habitat is reflooded. The energetics of estivating sirenids were studied by inducing animals to estivate in the laboratory and measuring rates of oxygen consumption and blood lactate levels. Lipid stores were measured to determine energy reserves of fresh-caught animals. In both species, resting metabolic rates are 60-70% lower in estivators than in aquatic animals. At these low metabolic rates, adult S. lacertina (>500 g body mass) could survive 2-3 yr on stored energy. Smaller S. lacertina and P. striatus have higher mass-specific metabolic rates during estivation, but even a 1 g sirenid could survive for several months without food. Ventilation rates decrease during estivation, but low blood lactate levels indicate that respiration is aerobic.
3892665|The species diversity and phylogenetic relationships of West Indian vertebrates are incompletely known, but several lines of evidence support a dispersal origin for most of the fauna. Crother and Guyer have contested much of that evidence, claiming a far greater role for vicariance. However, it is shown here that none of their criticisms can be substantiated and their paper is dominated by inconsistencies. They have used the irrelevant evidence from intra-Caribbean vicariance events to address the origin of the fauna, failed to discriminate between old and new geologic syntheses by the same authors, chosen molecular estimates of divergence time randomly rather than with respect to phylogeny, attempted to diminish the consequences of a catastrophic event in Earth history (the K-T bolide impact), and have claimed to have discovered a congruent pattern of area relationships when in fact their proposed phylogenetic pattern is present in only a single, unpublished study.
3893099| I describe the skeletal development of the leptodactyline frog Leptodactylus chaquensis based on a series of 42 cleared and double-stained tadpoles, juveniles, and adults. Postcranial ossification starts premetamorphically, along with the exoccipitals, parasphenoid, and frontoparietals (stages 33, 34, 36, respectively). The chondrocranium undergoes major modifications during the latter portion of metamorphosis (stages 40-41), when the septomaxillae, premaxillae, maxillae, nasals, squamosals, angulosplenials, dentaries, and vomers appear. At metamorphic climax, the pterygoids, quadratojugals, and the plectral apparatus ossify and the sphenethmoid ossifies postmetamorphically. The sequence of cranial and postcranial ossification exhibited by this species follows the general developmental pattern previously reported for anurans. /// Se describe el desarrollo osteolgico de Leptodactylus chaquensis basado en una serie de 42 especmenes de renacuajos, juveniles y adultos previamente tratados con tcnicas de tincin diferencial para cartlago y hueso. La mayora de los elementos del postcrneo comienzan su osificacin premetamrficamente, junto con los exoccipitales, paraesfenoides y frontoparietales (Estadios 33, 34, 36 respectivamente). El condrocrneo presenta las mayores modificaciones durante el final de la metamorfosis (Estadios 40-41), momento en el que tambin aparecen septomaxilas, premaxilas, maxilas, nasales, escamosales, anguloespleniales, dentarios y vmeres. Durante el climax metamrfico ocurre la osificacin de pterigoides, cuadradoyugal y comienza a osificar el aparato plectral; el esfenoetmoides osifica postmetamrficamente. La secuencia de osificacin craneal y postcraneal observada en esta especie sigue el patrn general similar de desarrollo para los anuros. 
3893501|The salamander Salamandra luschani is characterized by a tubercle, well documented in males, projecting from the dorsal surface of the tail base. To determine whether females have a tubercle containing modified secretory glands, we surveyed museum specimens and conducted a histological investigation of the dorsal tail base region. Our results show that most mature females do have a tubercle in the dorsal tail base region and even nontubercle females have hypertrophied glands in this area. Both granular and mucous glands within the tubercle are hypertrophied. The tubercle is smaller in females than in males. Underlying the hypertrophied granular glands in the tubercle region of some females are very large, previously undocumented, exocrine glands.
3891512| Results of an 8-yr study of activity and thermoregulation in a southern Florida population of Gopherus polyphemus are reported. Some activity occurs in every month of the year, with a peak in May-August, but activity outside of burrows occurs only on warmer days during winter. The diel activity cycle is unimodal throughout the year, with peaks occurring during the hottest parts of the day (1300-1600 h). Males are captured more frequently than females during most of the year, and are active both earlier and later in the day. Air temperatures recorded inside burrows during summer were 25.8-27.2C, and body temperatures of active animals averaged 34.7C. Shade-seeking, frothing at the mouth, and rapid breathing are associated with high temperature stress. Basking occurs commonly in nature. The availability of abundant shade and water and the use of deep burrows permit G. polyphemus at this locality to be active during times of maximum temperature and minimum relative humidity. In its thermoregulatory mechanisms, G. polyphemus is generally similar to other members of the genus studied thus far, suggesting that differences in activity patterns and burrow use, rather than distinctive physiological adaptations, are the principal mechanisms allowing effective thermoregulation in the diverse environments inhabited by these animals. 
3891646| Activity patterns and thermal relationships of the keeled earless lizard, H. propinqua were studied on South Padre Island, Cameron County, Texas, and the adjacent Texas mainland. Some activity occurred throughout the year but abundance was low in winter and activity was apparently limited to days when sand temperatures exceeded 28 C. During clear late spring, summer and early fall days lizards exhibited a bimodal pattern of daily activity with some activity occurring at all hours of the day between 0700 and 1900 h. At other times activity was unimodla. Emergence and retreat were apparently largely temperature dependent and occurred when sand temperatures approximated 29 C. The juvenile diel activity period was about 2 hours shorter than that of adults due to the presence of a midday suppression of activity and to an earlier retreat. Males moved significantly further per move than  . Body temperatures of active lizards ranged from 28.5 to 40.9 C. Body temperatures of inactive (buried) lizards were within 2 C of the sand throughout the night. Between 0900 and 1700 h on sunny summer days mean body temperature (MBT) of adults was maintained near 38 C. Color changes, posture, orientation and shuttling movements between shade and sun were apparently important in maintaining MBT. MBT varied geographically and MBT of juveniles was significantly lower than that of adults from the same population. There was no evidence of seasonal acclimation. Both adults and juveniles showed more variation in body temperatures of individuals from day to day than existed between different individuals. Adults had significantly higher thermal tolerances (critical thermal maxima, mean temperatures at onset of panting and mean lethal temperature) than juveniles. Comparison of salient features of the thermal ecology of H. propinqua with phylogenetically distant but ecologically similar species suggested that similarity of thermal characteristics reflects similar environments rather than phylogenetic closeness. 
3891918| A new burrowing frog, Synapturanus rabus, is described from the province of Vaups, Colombia. It is unique in the genus in color, pattern and relative eye size. 
24634291|Understanding why turtles select specific localities to nest over others is important for management and conservation. For some species of freshwater turtle, the same localities are selected year upon year, but it is uncertain whether these localities are selected due to favored environmental conditions, or natal-site homing. The Mary River Turtle (Elusor macrurus) is an endangered freshwater species from Australia, and nesting data gathered between 2004 and 2011 demonstrated that female E. macrurus select to nest in specific localities along the Mary River. Here, we used time-lapse infrared photography and image-identification analysis to assess whether the same individuals returned to the same nesting banks over three consecutive years (nest-site fidelity), and we compared the physical and soil characteristics of nesting areas against other localities along the river where the turtles were not recorded to nest. The photography study illustrated that some females returned to nest at the same locality over consecutive years, whereas others did not; therefore, it is still inconclusive whether E. macrurus exhibits true nest-site fidelity. Preferred nesting areas were all northerly facing and thus exposed to higher levels of solar radiation than nonpreferred areas with similar soil and physical characteristics. Consequently, the preferred nesting areas exhibited significantly greater mean and daily fluctuations in the nest temperature compared with other areas with dummy nests. We suggest that the warmer nest temperature would speed up embryo development; therefore, female E. macrurus select to nest on northerly facing banks in an attempt to reduce the embryo incubation period. A possible reason for this behavior may be to reduce their exposure to nest-raiding predators. The study highlights importance of key nesting areas along the Mary River for the conservation of E. macrurus.
3892719|Studies of the relationships among Holarctic hylid frogs encompass a wide range of data sets, and different authors have used different methods of analysis in deriving relationships. It is thus unclear whether differences among hypotheses of relationships proposed in the literature reflect conflicts among different sources of data, different methods, or both. In this study, I provide a summary of available data for one group within Holarctic hylids, the genus Pseudacris, combining published morphological, biochemical, and behavioral data sets into a single analysis. Results of this analysis place Limnaoedus ocularis between the Pseudacris nigrita and P. ornata species groups and suggest that Hyla crucifer is the sister species to this clade. The Hyla regilla-H. cadaverina clade does not arise within Pseudacris, but whether it arises basally to the clade comprising Pseudacris, H. crucifer, and L. ocularis is not resolved.
3890760|Desmognathus monticola is reported from Escambia County, Florida. Sex and reproductive condition is discussed for 78 dissected specimens. There is a loss of prevomerine teeth in males correlated with increasing testicular lobe number. The dorsal color pattern of the Florida specimens is uniformly light brown with scattered black spots; larvae and juveniles usually have 10 - 12 pairs of light brown spots set off by black melanophores. The venter is white in larvae and young juveniles and mottled in older juveniles and adults. Laterally, most specimens are bicolored. A distinct row of ventrolateral white spots persists through all age classes.
3891390|A sample of 32 Haideotriton wallacei from a cave in Jackson County, Florida contained 91 food items, primarily small troglobitic crustaceans. Small salamanders and those from drying pools contained more food items than did larger salamanders or those from deeper bodies of water.
3893427| We describe a new genus of colubrid snake, Chapinophis, from high elevations in cloud forest of the Sierra de las Minas in east-central Guatemala. The characteristics of C. xanthocheilus, new species, include a mottled linear pattern on the body and a series of distinctive yellow markings on the lips, an anterior reduction of longitudinal dorsal scale rows, giving a formula of 15-17-17 smooth dorsal scales, a high number of ventrals (178-196), a prefrontal scale that contacts the orbit, a divided anal scute, a round pupil, a maxilla with 12-13 teeth and no diastema or enlarged rear teeth, and a bilobed, bicapitate hemipenis with a centripetal sulcus spermaticus and calyces the distal part of the organ. On one hand, the new taxon shares certain features, especially of the maxilla, with Adelphicos, Geophis, and Atractus and may be in the clade containing these snakes, Ninia, and Chersodromus. Alternatively, the hemipenial morphology of Chapinophis appears to be similar to that of several genera of snakes (Rhadinophanes and Tantalophis) known from isolated regions on the Mexican highlands west of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, and its affinities may lie with these snakes. /// Un nuevo gnero de serpiente colbrida, Chapinophis, se describe. Esta proviene de bosques nubosos altos de la Sierra de las Minas, Guatemala. Las caractersticas de C. xanthocheilus, nueva especie, incluyen un patrn corporal distintivo de lneas formadas por motas, manchas amarillas en los labios, nmero de hileras de escamas dorsales longitudinales reducido anteriormente, dando la formula 15-17-17, escamas lisas, alto nmero de escamas ventrales (178-196), escama anal dividida, pupila redonda, maxila con 12-13 dientes, sin diastema y sin dientes posteriores agrandados, hemipenes bilobados y con lbulos capitados y caliculados en la parte distal. El nuevo taxn comparte algunas caractersticas con Adelphicos, Geophis y Atractus, y puede estar en el mismo grupo filogentico con Ninia y Chersodromus. Tambin podra estar relacionado con los gneros Rhadinophanes, Tantalophis, o Crisantophis con quienes comparte morfologa similar de las hemipenes. 
3892385|We examined the relationship between relative clutch mass (RCM) and female body size (SVL) both within and among different species of snakes. In 10 of 12 within-species comparisons, RCM varied independently of SVL; only viviparous elapids showed a significant regression between these two variables. We suggest that the independence of body size and RCM is explainable on ecological grounds alone. RCM decreased with increasing body size in both viviparous colubrids (n = 16 species) and viviparous viperids (n = 7 species), but only the colubrid sample was statistically significant. In 20 egg-laying colubrids, RCM increased slightly (but not significantly) with increasing female SVL. We suggest that the differences in the SVL/RCM relationship between reproductive modes is related to the increased costs of viviparity resulting from long gestation times. In addition, small viviparous species may be able to bear a greater RCM because of differences in either longevity or habitat utilization.
24634282|Here we describe a new species of the Ischnocnema parva species series from the Parque Estadual do Desengano, in the northern part of the State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. We use morphology and mtDNA sequences to allocate the new species into the I. parva species series. The new species is closely related to I. parva genetically and morphologically, from which it is diagnosable by (1) the presence of a well-developed calcar tubercle, (2) a reduced Toe I, (3) a deep V-shaped median slit on the dorsal surface of toe discs, and (4) externally indistinct tympanum and tympanic annulus.
3892972|I conducted a comparative study of variation in larval growth rates and the timing of metamorphosis in four populations of Desmognathus fuscus along a 140 km north-south transect. The purpose was to identify the general pattern of larval growth and metamorphosis and characterize any intra- and inter-population variation. Hypotheses of a latitudinal cline of increasing body size at, and decreasing time to, metamorphosis were supported for these populations. Generally, the amount of inter-population variation was greater than the amount of intra-population variation for both of these characteristics. The pattern of inter-population variation in metamorphic body size was not the same as patterns of body size apparent at or soon after hatching. Early hatching in a population was not related to metamorphosis either at large body size or at an earlier time. Metamorphs were larger than unmetamorphosed individuals, and there was no seasonal variation in body size of metamorphs. During larval growth, body size increases approximately 50% over hatching size; this is less than that known for most plethodontid salamanders. Within some sites, there was significant microgeographic variation in body size but not length of larval period. There was also microgeographic variation in injury frequencies and resource indices. Temperature, probably interacting with the specific timing of resource availability, seems the most likely explanation for both inter- and intra-population patterns. Current growth models do not predict increased larval growth in warmer environments. A new paradigm is probably necessary to explain these life history traits among stream-dwelling plethodontids.
3893128| We describe a new species of Gallotia from Tenerife (Canary Islands). This lizard is intermediate in size between the two smaller (G. atlantica and G. galloti) and the two larger (G. simonyi and G. stehlini) species. Furthermore, it differs from the two similar larger Gallotia in the number of supratemporal scales (mode 4 instead of mode 2), usually 16 longitudinal ventral scale rows, and having distinctive dorsal yellow spots, and small lateral yellow or blue spots. Individuals from a small population located in La Hbiga show a pale gray reticulation on dorsum and absence of ocelli in the lateral region. Univariate and multivariate analyses of nine meristic variables of each extant species within the genus Gallotia revealed significant variation. Principal component analyses support the existence of three main morphological clusters within the genus, the new lizard being nearest to G. simonyi and G. stehlini. Molecular data from mtDNA sequences (cytochrome b and 12S ribosomal RNA) indicate that G. intermedia is closely related to G. simonyi. /// Se describe una nueva especie de lagarto de la isla de Tenerife (Archipilago Canario). Difiere de las otras especies de Gallotia por presentar una talla intermedia entre las dos menores (G. atlantica and G. galloti) y las dos mayores (G. simonyi and G. stehlini), adems del nmero de escamas supratemporales (generalmente 3-4) y una marcada tendencia a presentar 16 escamas ventrales longitudinales. El patrn de coloracin es muy diferente, caracterizndose por presentar manchas amarillentas en el dorso, as como una reduccin en la talla de los ocelos amarillos laterales caractersticos de G. simonyi. Los individuos de la poblacin de La Hbiga poseen, en la regin dorsolateral, manchas irregulares de color gris y carecen de ocelos. El anlisis univariante y multivariante de nueve variables mersticas de cada especie del gnero Gallotia y el nuevo lagarto revela una significativa variacin entre los taxones. El anlisis de componentes principales apoya la existencia de tres grupos morfolgicos dentro de este gnero, siendo G. simonyi y G. stehlini los taxones ms prximos al nuevo lagarto. Los caracteres mersticos considerados en este trabajo constituyen una herramienta importante en la identificacin de las especies de Gallotia. La nueva especie presenta una estrecha relacin filogentica con G. simonyi, segn evidencian los anlisis moleculares. 
3891257|Three species of boid snakes, Charina bottae, Lichanura roseofusca, and Epicrates striatus, all have very similar karyotypes of 8 metacentric and 8 acrocentric macrochromosomes and 20 microchromosomes (2n = 36). Another boid, Corallus enhydris cookii, differs slightly with 4 metacentric and 16 acrocentric macrochromosomes and 20 microchromosomes (2n = 40). The boids are compared with the lizard Varanus rudicollis (2n = 44). It is concluded that Varanus has a modification of the typical saurian karyotype and that chromosomes do not imply a special affinity between the platynotan lizards and the snakes.
3893142| We studied the thermal sensitivity of sprint speed in the captive population of the endangered lizard Gallotia simonyi (Lacertidae) on El Hierro island and in G. stehlini, an abundant, large-sized lizard from the nearby island of Gran Canaria (Canary Islands, Spain). Among adults, lizards of both species were faster than adults of other lacertids. The sprint performance curves for both species had a flat upper plateau, and the obtained values for performance breadth were high, indicating that species attained near maximum sprint speeds over a wide range of body temperatures. Gallotia stehlini was significantly faster than G. simonyi both in absolute (cm/s) and relative speed (SVL/s). Juveniles of G. simonyi were significantly slower than juveniles of G. stehlini only in absolute speed. The lower sprint speed of G. simonyi is consistent with the hypothesis that higher vulnerability of this species to introduced predators may have played a role in its near extinction. Juveniles rather than adults from the captive population of G. simonyi should be used for reintroduction to establish wild populations, because the sprint performance of adults may have been compromised by prolonged captivity. /// Estudiamos la sensibilidad trmica de la velocidad de carrera en la poblacin en cautividad del amenazado lagarto gigante de El Hierro Gallotia simonyi (Lacertidae) y en Gallotia stehlini, un lagarto de gran tamao muy abundante en la isla de Gran Canaria (Islas Canarias, Espaa). Los lagartos adultos de ambas especies resultaron ser ms veloces en carrera que otros lacrtidos. Las curvas de rendimiento de carrera a distintas temperaturas presentan en ambas especies una parte superior plana y por consiguiente unos valores altos de amplitud de rendimiento. Ello significa que pueden alcanzar velocidades cercanas al mximo en un amplio rango de temperaturas. Los adultos de Gallotia stehlini fueron significativamente ms rpidos que los de G. simonyi tanto en velocidad absoluta (cm/s) como en velocidad relativa (SVL/s). Los juveniles de G. simonyi fueron ms lentos que los de G. stehlini pero las diferencias solo fueron significativas en trminos absolutos pero no relativos. La baja velocidad de carrera de G. simonyi es consistente con la hiptesis de que su mayor vulnerabilidad a los predadores introducidos en la isla puede haber sido determinante en llevarlo casi hasta la extincin. En base a la capacidad de carrera es preferible utilizar juveniles para el programa de reintroduccin, pues la velocidad de carrera de los adultos puede haber sido afectada por su prolongado cautiverio. 
25621897|Hatchling orientation has been widely studied among marine turtle species, but much less so in nonmarine turtles. Yellow mud turtles (Kinosternon flavescens) exhibit an unusual semiaquatic life history with terrestrial estivation or hibernation in summer through winter and aquatic mating and feeding in spring and early summer. Hence, these turtles migrate between wetlands and uplands at least twice each year along the same migration path. To understand the orientation methods used by juvenile turtles, hatchling and second-year mud turtles emerging from hibernation were captured before reaching the water and released in one of two circular arenas placed out of sight of and on the opposite side of the wetland. Recapture locations of these turtles along the perimeter of the arenas suggested that hatchlings probably used visual (e.g., polarized light) or perhaps olfactory cues to orient toward water. However, second-year turtles maintained the same compass bearing used prior to initial capture, suggesting that they employed an internal compass mechanism that was not overridden by proximate cues from the wetland. The probable mechanism for setting that course was likely a sun and/or a magnetic compass.
3891184|Rana sylvatica in eastern Tennessee breeds at temperatures similar to those reported for this species in other parts of North America. Development of eggs and tadpoles in Tennessee occurred at lower temperatures than reported in more northerly studies. Adult size and egg diameter are greater than reported for northern wood frogs. Number of eggs per egg mass is considerably lower than reported for northern forms.
41238974|A wide variety of agricultural chemicals with potential to affect amphibian health are released into the environment daily. Most of these chemicals are xenobiotic compounds that are highly toxic to embryos, tadpoles, and terrestrial stages. Other substances that occur in pristine environments at harmless concentrations, such as inorganic nitrogenous compounds, may reach potentially toxic levels as a consequence of certain human activities, including the application of fertilizers. Most of the studies that analyze the effects of inorganic nitrogen on amphibian embryos are conducted with anurans, whereas little information exists regarding urodeles. Embryos of newts and salamanders usually exhibit longer times to hatch than frogs and toads. A longer hatching time results in a longer exposure of embryos to diffuse environmental pollution and therefore a higher risk of suffering toxic effects during the embryonic stage. We demonstrate that ammonium nitrate, a widely used nitrogenous fertilizer, at concentrations used in areas of high agricultural intensity, affects embryonic development of the Iberian newt (Lissotnton boscai). Although ammonium nitrate did not have significant lethal effects, it reduced the growth rate of exposed embryos, which were 9.6% smaller than controls. Hatching synchrony remained similar across treatments, and hatching date was not affected by ammonium nitrate, indicating that the effect on growth was not timedependent. Researchers have demonstrated fitness costs in smaller than average tadpoles, suggesting that ammonium nitrate exposure could have long-term negative consequences for the Iberian newt.
3890825|The retinas of representative reptilian and amphibian species were examined by a histofluorometric method for cells containing biogenic amines. Each species contained a small but definite number of catecholamine-containing amacrine cells. A still smaller number of fluorescent cells were present in the ganglion cell layer. In both instances it was possible to trace processes into the inner plexiform layer. Catecholamine-containing amacrine cells are probably present in the retinas of all vertebrates.
3892889|Anolis placidus is described from cloud forests in the Sierra de Neiba, Dominican Republic (North Island of Hispaniola). It is the seventh member of the twig ecomorph of West Indian Anolis. Morphological and electrophoretic data indicate that its closest relative is A. sheplani from the South Island of Hispaniola.
40602608|A new alligator lizard is described from the Chihuahuan Desert in southwestern Tamaulipas, Mexico. This lizard appears to be most closely related to the smooth-scaled, relatively small-bodied alligator lizards Gerrhonotus lugoi, from the Cuatro Cinegas Basin of central Coahuila, and G. parvus, from the central part of Nuevo Len, but differs from these species, especially G. parvus, in a number of morphological characters. We tentatively place our new species in the genus Gerrhonotus alongside G. lugoi and G. parvus, but concede that future research is needed to ascertain the phylogenetic placement of these smooth-scaled gerrhonotine lizards. Se describe una nueva y distintiva lagartija gerrhonotina del Desierto Chihuahuense en el suroeste de Tamaulipas. Esta lagartija est ms estrechamente emparentada con la lagartija de escamas lisas y cuerpo relativamente pequeo Gerrhonotus lugoi, de la Cuenca de Cuatro Cinegas en el centro de Coahuila, y con G. parvus, de la parte central de Nuevo Len, pero difiere de estas especies, especialmente de G. parvus, en un nmero de caracteres morfolgicos. Tentativamente, se ubica a la nueva especie en el gnero Gerrhonotus junto con G. lugoi y G parvus, aunque se admite la necesidad de investigacin futura para discernir la ubicacin filogentica de estas lagartijas gerrhonotinas de escamas lisas.
3892161|Three leatherback sea turtle (Dermochelys coriacea) nesting grounds on two islands in the northeastern Caribbean Sea were patrolled simultaneously (1984-1986). Two of 62 turtles (3.2%) strayed from the nesting beach of initial choice and deposited eggs at another nesting ground in 1984; four of 70 (5.7%) did so in 1985. No straying was observed in 1986. No turtle was recorded nesting in more than two of the three study areas. The proportion of strays per population ranged from 0-27.3% per annum. Turtles traveled between Manchenil Bay Beach and Sandy Point National Wildlife Refuge, St. Croix (approximately 30 km), between Sandy Point and Isla Culebra, Puerto Rico (approximately 90 km), and between Isla Culebra and Manchenil Bay (approximately 110 km). We evaluate the results in light of published records of straying by other species of sea turtle and conclude that there is insufficient evidence to suggest that leatherbacks show weaker reproductive philopatry than do other sea turtles.
3893024| A new species of Hyla is described from cloud forest of the Sierra de Jurez near Cerro Peln in northern Oaxaca, Mxico. It is most similar to H. chryses and H. charadricola in having thin skin and an ossified, nonprojecting prepollex; it differs in head shape and body proportions. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Hyla del bosque de neblina de la Sierra de Jurez cercano a Cerro Peln en el norte de Oaxaca, Mxico. Es ms similar a H. chryses e H. charadricola por poseer piel gruesa y un prepollex osificado, que no sobresale como una espina pero difiere en la forma de la cabeza y proportiones corporales. 
3892969|Mixophyes hihihorlo sp. nov. is described from Namosado at an elevation of 900 m in the Southern Highlands Province of Papua New Guinea. In comparison with congeners, it is a large species (males 69-75 mm SVL, females 85-90 mm SVL) with long legs and small eyes, extensive toe webbing, and a narrow midvertebral stripe. Additionally it is distinguished by details of its karyotype and osteology. Mixophyes has not been recorded previously in New Guinea.
3892673|We describe a protocol for measuring water potential in subterranean nests of reptiles by thermocouple psychrometry. This technique is the only one currently available for measuring water potential in situ in both wet and dry soils. Factory calibrations of psychrometers are unreliable, so probes must be calibrated individually before they are used in the field. Psychrometers should be installed in nests horizontally to minimize problems associated with temperature gradients in the soil, and measurements of water potential should be attempted only at times of day when thermal gradients are small. Moreover, zero offset should be read from each psychrometer immediately prior to measuring water potential to assure that the three thermocouple junctions in the probe are nearly isothermal. Accuracy can be enhanced, and confidence in the data can be increased, by averaging measurements from three psychrometers placed next to each other in each nest cavity.
3893512|Survivorship of hatchling chelonians is low in many instances, although few investigators have intensively studied the immature life stages. We used radio telemetry to assess hatchling gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) survivorship in central Florida (n = 20), and compare our results to previously published studies in north Florida and Mississippi. At our site tortoise predation was extremely high, and no hatchlings lived over 335 days. Average lifespan was consistent among clutches, and the highest mortality occurred within one month of hatching. Major predators included mammals and snakes. Our results are similar to published data from north Florida (n = 20) and Mississippi (n = 45), although hatchlings in north Florida survived the longest. However, all tortoises (n = 85) in each study died many years before reaching sexual maturity due to predation. Hatchling predators varied by site, but mammals were the major predator at all three sites. We discuss the population-level consequences of high mortality in the younger life stages and several hypotheses associated with population stability. Although hatchling mortality was extremely high, long-term data from our central Florida site show that immature animals are captured on a regular basis. The most likely explanation for this apparent contradiction is that true hatchling survival levels are above zero, but are too low to be accurately detected with the current sample sizes. Therefore, long-term mark-recapture studies focusing on hatchling and juvenile animals are necessary to determine whether recruitment is sufficient to maintain current population sizes, or if populations are declining slowly.
3891746| This study compares activity patterns of Australian elapids with those of North American and European snakes. Six species of elapids (Austrelaps superbus, Hemiaspis signata, Notechis scutatus, Pseudechis porphyriacus, Pseudonaja textilis, and Unechis gouldii) were studied in the eastern highlands of Australia. Major findings are: (1) elapids overwinter singly in shallow hibernacula, usually under logs or rocks; (2) reproduction profoundly affects activity patterns of female elapids, gravid snakes being sedentary, basking for long periods, reducing food intake, and (in P. porphyriacus) aggregating in small groups; (3) most elapids are diurnal (with some crepuscular activity) and have relatively high preferred body temperatures (30-35C); and (4) day-to-day movements are extensive, except in gravid females. 
3891984| Four displays, designated according to their apparent social function as assertion, challenge, courtship, and submission, in the behavioral repertoire of the green anole, Anolis carolinensis are described. Statistical analysis revealed that: (1) although each individual  had a distinct challenge display pattern which was performed consistently, individuals varied considerably in their challenge display, (2) as much variation existed within each individual's courtship display pattern as between individuals, and (3) the submission display differed from the assertion, challenge, and courtship displays in that the number of headnods were highly correlated with the duration of headnodding. 
3892992|We investigated variation in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in Xenopus laevis from 10 different areas in South Africa by restriction enzyme analysis. We used 14 restriction enzymes of which nine showed variable patterns, resulting in five mtDNA genotypes. Two were confined to the southwestern Cape Province, one to a pocket in the western Cape Province (Nieuwoudtville), one to northern areas of the country, and one to the far north. Sequence divergence values between the five types estimated from restriction site maps range from 0.1-4.5%. There is a major difference (3.4%) between the southwestern Cape genotypes and the northern types which may be associated with the wet and dry season inversion that separates the southern tip from the rest of the subcontinent. We conclude that there are three mitochondrial genotypes consisting of the Cape group (1 and 2), the Nieuwoudtville pocket, and the Northern group (1 and 2).
3891743|Mark-recapture studies on a population of Leptodactylus macrosternum during late wet season indicated that the average minimum home range of 10 individuals ranged from
41238976|Atrazine (2-chloro-4-ethythlamino-6-isopropylamine-1,3,5-tiazine) is a widely used preemergent herbicide for controlling broadleaf plants. Because atrazine (a known endocrine-disrupting chemical) is applied in the late spring and early summer, its incidental effects on species exposed to runoff from terrestrial sources in this time period are of special interest. To examine the possible secondary impact of atrazine, we obtained eggs from 10 nests of two map turtle species, Graptemys ouachitensis and G. pseudogeographica, that nest on riverine sandbars. We incubated two eggs from each nest in sand containing one of four initial concentrations of atrazine (control and 0.1,10, and 100g/L) based on levels measured in the river at the site where eggs were collected. We recorded hatching success, incubation time, external morphological abnormalities, gonadal sex, three measures of body size, righting time, and swimming time for all turtles. We reared a subset of the original neonates individually for 11 mo, during which time nest escape behavior, time to first foraging event, time to capture prey, growth, and survival were evaluated. None of the variables recorded at hatching was significantly affected by atrazine treatment, although abnormalities declined as atrazine levels increased. However, turtles deriving from the lowest atrazine-treated eggs had inhibited nest escape behavior and reduced posthatching survival. These findings reveal persistent fitness-reducing impacts on neonatal turtles resulting from atrazine exposure during embryonic development.
3892937|Two field studies were conducted to evaluate the extent and sex specificity of adult oophagy in two pond breeding amphibians. In the salamander Taricha torosa, 71 incidences of oophagy were observed in 8.9 h. Females accounted for 82% of these observations. In Bombina orientalis, only males were oophagic. Nine experiments with B. orientalis showed that adult males consumed 11.7 eggs/day (SD = 3.62). The jelly coat of T. torosa offered embryos protection several hours after oviposition while such was not the case in B. orientalis. The mode of reproduction as well as other related characteristics are convergent in these species. There is an extended breeding season, but with an explosive breeding type of mating behavior. Both species have a noxious dorsal skin secretion, a brightly colored ventral surface, an Unken reflex, and are active 24 h/day. While adult oophagy was common in both species, the sex-specificity was reversed.
3892622|Discrimination between alternate oviposition sites was examined in the Costa Rican treefrog Hyla pseudopuma. In this species, two major sources of mortality on the egg and tadpole stages are cannibalism by older, conspecific tadpoles and by desiccation when water at the oviposition site evaporates. To examine the effect of these sources of mortality on female choice of oviposition sites, I arranged plastic containers in pairs around a natural pond, giving females a choice between (1) deep water with or without tadpoles, (2) deep or shallow water, and (3) deep water with tadpoles or shallow water without tadpoles. Oviposition sites lacking conspecific tadpoles received significantly more eggs than did sites containing tadpoles, and sites containing deep water received significantly more eggs than sites with shallow water. However, when females were presented with the two poor habitats (deep water with tadpoles, shallow water without tadpoles), there was no significant difference in the distribution of eggs, and few of the sites were used for oviposition. Females appeared to assess the egg load of potential breeding sites. They oviposited preferentially in deep water early in the evening, but later as sites with deep water became crowded with eggs the frogs switched preference to shallow sites that contained fewer eggs. Calling males were more frequently associated with containers of deep water than those with shallow water.
3892253|Rana gracilipes Gressitt, 1938 is reassigned to the genus Microhyla and tentatively treated as a junior synonym of Microhyla inornata. The population of M. inornata from Taiwan requires further taxonomic investigation.
3893140|We made quantitative field observations of 16 species of American lizards to characterize foraging movements and modes. Consistent with previous qualitative assessments and published data for their families, five teiid and a scincid species were active foragers, whereas eight phrynosomatid, a crotaphytid, and a gekkonid species were ambush foragers. In addition to traditional measures of foraging mode [i.e., number of movements per minute (MPM) and proportion of time spent moving (PTM)], we calculated the proportion of attacks on prey discovered while moving (PAM) as an independent index of the relative importance of ambush and active foraging. Active foragers had significantly higher number of movements per minute (MPM), proportion of time spent moving (PTM), and proportion of attacks on prey discovered while moving (PAM) than did ambushers. For these species, foraging modes are dichotomous, with large gaps separating their PTM and PAM values. MPM values overlapped between modes. Although MPM is less useful than the PTM and PAM for assigning foraging modes, we advocate its continued use for two reasons. It is the best measure for studies of factors affecting foraging activity in ambushers because it measures frequency of movement, which, along with duration and speed, is one of three key ways in which animals vary foraging movements. Comparisons of our data with published figures for related taxa showed that PTM values agreed closely for ambush foragers and were in broad agreement for active foragers where direct comparisons could be made. Factors that may explain discrepancies are differences among species, sites (in food density and temperature), and observational protocols. With data points considered independent, PTM and PAM were almost perfectly correlated. The other pairs of variables were correlated, but less closely. No correlated evolution between variables was found using independent contrasts. PTM and PAM are the best single indicators of foraging mode.
3891783|Body-size and demographic features of two Piedmont populations of the salamander Desmognathus fuscus are compared. Age at sexual maturity appears to be the same in both populations, but body length and adult survivorship differ substantially. The disparity in body length apparently results from differences in growth rate and mortality. More rapid growth and higher mortality may be associated with lower population density. The two populations differ to the same extent as populations in different physiographic provinces. A fine scale of geography may be necessary in studies of demographic variation.
3892585|We investigated the foraging ecology of the diamondback terrapin (Malaclemys terrapin) in South Carolina by examining fecal samples for evidence of resource partitioning. From 76-79% of the dietary volume was the salt marsh periwinkle (Littorina irrorata); crabs (Uca pugnax, Sesarma reticulatum, and Callinectes sapidus), barnacles (Balanus), and clams (Polynesoda caroliniana) constituted the remainder. Dietary partitioning is related to the ontogenetic niche of terrapins. Sexual dimorphism occurs in terrapins with females having larger heads and bodies than males. Terrapins with large head widths ingest significantly larger periwinkles and a wider diversity of prey than terrapins with small head widths. Dietary overlap between males and females is greatest when females are small and decreases as females develop larger enlarged heads. Sexual dimorphism in terrapin trophic structures appears to be partially driven by ecological divergence through resource partitioning. High tides permit terrapins to forage aquatically in upper reaches of the salt marsh. Prey size and distribution are variable and changing tidal heights affect the spatiotemporal availability of prey to foraging terrapins. Divergent foraging strategies for terrapins of different head widths may result in habitat partitioning. Food accessibility rather than food abundance may be a limiting factor for terrapins in areas of high tidal variability. Terrapins are clearly prominent but unrecognized macroconsumers in salt marsh ecosystems.
3893087|We used nucleotide sequences from portions of the mitochondrial cytochrome b, cytochrome oxidase I and 16s rRNA gene regions to evaluate phylogenetic relationships within the genus Dendrobates, a group of neotropical poison frogs with complex parental behaviors. Mapping of parental care behaviors on the phylogenetic tree derived from the molecular analysis suggests that female-only care has evolved once within Dendrobates, after passing through a biparental stage involving male egg attendance and female tadpole transport and feeding. Phylogenetic analysis also suggests that female provisioning behaviors observed in some Amazonian species of poison frogs may have arisen independently from male care in this genus. Low levels of divergence between members of previously delimited groups within Dendrobates suggest that the members of these groups from Central and South America may have speciated relatively recently (after the formation of the current Panamanian land bridge in the Pliocene).
3892922|Twenty-five specimens of Hydrophis bituberculatus Peters, 1872, until now only known from the holotype, from Colombo, Sri Lanka, have been caught off Phuket Harbour, west coast of peninsular Thailand. The holotype is redescribed together with the specimens from Phuket and is compared with its congeners. Various aspects of the biology of H. bituberculatus are discussed.
3891181|Data from audiospectrographic analyses of mating calls are available for representatives of the New World microhyline genera Dermatonotus, Elachistocleis, Hypopachus, Gastrophryne, Glossostoma, Hamptophryne, Synapturanus, Arcovomer, Dasypops, Ctenophryne, Chiasmocleis, and Stereocyclops and the Asiatic microhyline genera Glyphoglossus, Kaloula, Ramanella, and Microhyla. Verbal descriptions are available for an additional American genus, Myersiella, and for the Asiatic genera Uperodon, Kalophrynus, Chaperina, and Metaphrynella. Carvalho's (1954) suggested affinities among New World genera are confirmed from comparisons of mating calls for several groups: Dermatonotus, Elachistocleis, Hypopachus, and Gastrophryne; Glossostoma and Dermatonotus; Synapturanus and Myersiella; and Stereocyclops, Ctenophryne, and Chiasmocleis. Such intergeneric similarities in call are unusual and may reflect either an extended range of applicability of call data or relatively fine intergeneric taxonomic distinctions. However, the calls of Hamptophryne, Arcovomer, and Dasypops do not match Carvalho's (1954) suggested affinities. Among forms with similar calls, those having a larger body size usually have lower dominant frequencies. Genera in which the males call from dispersed sites (terrestrial nests, land-crab burrows, or tree holes) have calls that are high-pitched short, relatively pure, single notes. They thus have the properties suggested by other authors (e.g., Marler, 1955) as minimizing locatability by predators.
3892258|Components of eggs and the relationships of reproductive variables to body wet mass and plastron lengths of females were studied in 12 species of turtles. Individual egg size and clutch mass increased with body size among species, but the ratio of clutch wet mass/body wet mass decreased with body size. Within some species, clutch size, clutch mass, and individual egg mass increased with body size of females. No direct evidence was found for the egg size to clutch size tradeoff predicted in optimal egg size theories. The shell comprised 40.8% of total dry mass of eggs with brittle shells compared to 19.3% for eggs with parchment shells. Lipids averaged 31.1% of the dry mass of eggs (with shells removed) in species with hatchlings that overwinter on land and 24.3% in species that are known to have hatchlings that do not overwinter on land. Lipids make up 33% of the dry mass of the contents of brittle-shelled eggs and 26% of the dry mass of parchment-shelled eggs. No other distinct groupings of turtle eggs, based on their lipid fractions, were found. Provisioning of young with varying amounts of reserve yolk to meet different post-hatching situations may explain some interspecific variation in lipid levels in turtle eggs.
3892314|A pheromone located in the urodaeal glands of estradiol-injected female broad-headed skinks (Eumeces laticeps) elicits elevated tongue-flicking rates by conspecific males and induces male courtship of postreproductive females when transferred to the skin surfaces of the latter. Preliminary attempts to chemically characterize the pheromone indicate that it is extractable from macerated urodaeal gland by a chloroform-methanol solution.
40602609|The genus Pseudoleptodeira is composed of two species (P. latifasciata and P. uribei) that inhabit tropical dry lowlands of western Mxico, and the genus has undergone poor taxonomic stability. It was described for the enigmatic P. latifasciata (formerly Hypsiglena), and much later a new form P. uribei was described from the town of Chamela in Jalisco, Mexico. At the time P. uribei was described, it was questioned whether it simply represented a color morph of P. latifasciata; very few additional specimens have since been reported. Considering results of both morphological and molecular analyses from newly presented material, we revise the taxonomic status of P. uribei. Several morphological characters of P. uribei, including grooved fangs, loreal scale wider than high, immaculate ventral scales, and sublateral scale row reduction are shared with the genus Leptodeira, but not with P. latifasciata. Molecular analyses of 1429 base-pairs (bp) of mitochondrial (cyt b, nad 4, and tRNAs His + Ser) and 4150 bp of nuclear (ZEB2, NTF3, FSHR, and DNAH3) sequence data independently confirm "P. uribei" as a member of the genus Leptodeira. The results of Bayesian and parsimony phylogenetic analyses place "P. uribei" sister to Leptodeira frenata. We propose the new combination Leptodeira uribei and restrict Peudoleptodeira to P. latifasciata. El gnero Pseudoleptodeira est compuesto por dos especies que habitan las planicies tropicales secas del occidente de Mxico. El gnero ha sufrido de poca estabilidad taxonmica por casi un siglo. Pseudoleptodeira uribei Ramrez-Bautista and Smith, fue descrita de Chamela, Jalisco, y hasta la fecha, muy pocos ejemplares han sido reportados. Considerando los resultados de anlisis moleculares y morfolgicos, revisamos el estatus taxonmico de P. uribei. Diversas caractersticas morfolgicas, como la presencia de colmillos con surcos, escama loreal ms larga que ancha, escamas ventrales inmaculadas y reduccin sublateral de escamas dorsales son compartidas con el gnero Leptodeira, pero no con el otro miembro del gnero Pseudoleptodeira, P. latifasciata. Anlisis moleculares de secuencias mitocondriales (cyt b, nad 4, tRNAs His + Ser) y nucleares (ZEB2, NTF3, FSHR, y DNAH3) confirman que P. uribei es miembro del genero Leptodeira, y el resultado de anlisis filogenticos (Bayesiano y de mxima parsimonia) encontraron que "P. uribei" est cercanamente relacionado con Leptodeira frenata. Proponemos una nueva combinacin, Leptodeira uribei (Ramrez-Bautista and Smith, 1992) y restringimos Pseudoleptodeira a P. latifasciata (Gnther, 1894).
3892064|Adult red-spotted newts (Notophthalmus viridescens) were tested for the ability to identify sex-specific water borne odors during the spring breeding season. All tests were done in a flow-through aquatic Y-maze. Male newts significantly preferred female odors over no odor or male odors, but were neither attracted nor repelled by male odors. Female newts showed no preference between male or female odors. Male newts probably use chemical cues to identify females in breeding ponds where sex ratios are skewed toward males.
3891819| Courtship and copulatory behavior is described for a pair of captive eyelash vipers (Bothrops schlegeli) from Honduras. A gestation period of 166 days resulted in 4 infertile egg masses and 20 live neonates. The phenotypic ratio (1:1) of the green and pink color phases among the neonates of this study suggests a homozygous recessive  heterozygous cross. 
3893527| For six breeding seasons (1997-2002), we conducted an intensive mark-recapture study on a breeding population of the spotted salamander, Ambystoma maculatum, near the southern edge of their range in east-central Alabama. A drift fence completely encircling an ephemeral pond was used to capture all adult salamanders migrating into or out of the pond, and passive integrated transponders were used to provide individual identification. The Jolly-Seber method of population estimation was used to estimate three population parameters (size, gains, and survivorship); population growth rate was also estimated. Gains varied annually, ranging from 24  16 to 101  24, and population growth rate was low (r = 0.18  0.188), suggesting inconsistent recruitment. Consistent with life history parameters of long-lived, late-maturing species, survivorship (range 0.629  0.064 to 0.699  0.08) and breeding population sizes (range 189  24 to 260  16) remained essentially constant. The demographics for A. maculatum provided by this study are useful for planning conservation initiatives. 
3892428|Epigean populations of the salamander Eurycea neotenes are restricted to the dissected southern margin of the Edwards Plateau of central Texas, with peripheral isolates on the western and northeastern limits of the Balcones Fault Zone. Populations are confined to thermally stable (18-21 C), temporally reliable spring habitats. Reliability is a function of ground-water recharge area and storage volume, and can be estimated by measuring local topographic relief. A survey of 140 springs shows that this measure is positively correlated (r = 0.93) with the proportion of springs inhabited by salamanders; thus, local relief data can be used to estimate the probability that salamanders occupy unsurveyed springs. Application of this index to all mapped springs in and adjacent to the known distribution of E. neotenes gives an estimate of 563 populations. Corrections for mapping bias place the probable number in the range 788-1543. The index and related geologic and hydrologic data also indicate that springs outside the known distribution are not suitable for habitation by E. neotenes. Troglobitic populations originate when springs fail, and they are most numerous on the eastern limb of the Plateau where temporally reliable springs are few.
3891558|Five sympatric species of water snakes were studied along the shorelines of two swamp waterways. All species were sighted most frequently in or over water, seldom on land. Snakes of all species were most frequently observed lying on emergent objects, swimming, or lying immobile in the water. Nerodia erythrogaster were seldom seen lying on branches or logs, whereas Regina grahamii were frequently seen doing so. Nerodia cyclopion, Nerodia fasciata, and Nerodia rhombifera exhibited similar behavior patterns, but N. cyclopion were observed basking more frequently than the other species during the day, and N. fasciata and N. rhombifera were more common on emergent objects at night. Microhabitat preferences of N. cyclopion, N. rhombifera, and N. erythrogaster were similar, these species being found most frequently along gently sloping shorelines essentially devoid of vegetation. Regina grahamii was most common in areas of intermediate vegetation density, and N. fasciata was common in all microhabitat types.
3891530|The holotype of the colubrid snake Helicops hagmanni Roux is redescribed and data are presented for three additional specimens. The species has an extremely low number of subcaudals, and its very long, nonrecurved teeth are unique in the genus.
3892175|A new species of treefrog, Hyla pantosticta, is named from the upper reaches of the cloud forest on the Amazonian slopes of the Andes along the Colombian-Ecuadorian border. The new species belongs to the Hyla larinopygion group confined to the northern Andes.
3891481|Immature wild green turtles with curved carapace lengths of 60-90 cm grow slowly, having a mean annual growth rate of 1.35 cm/yr. Projected ages of maturity are much greater than those derived from studies of captive-reared turtles.
3891957| Distribution of
3891202|Dermal application of anesthetics to caudate amphibians is described and it is suggested that the same technique may also be useful for rapid screening of the effect of other drugs. The use of a simple aerating chamber to speed up the recovery of anesthetized animals is also mentioned. Several common veterinary drugs were applied to the dorsal skin of rough-skinned newts (Taricha granulosa) and their effects noted. Sodium pentobarbital produced the most satisfactory results.
3893096|We surveyed geographic enzyme variation in Hynobius boulengeri by starch gel electrophoresis using a total of 181 salamanders belonging to 13 populations (10 populations of H. boulengeri and one population each of H. sp. from the Osumi Peninsula of Kyushu, H. naevius, and H. dunni for comparisons). Hynobius boulengeri exhibits substantial genetic differentiation, and can be divided into three groups (mainland Honshu, Shikoku, and Kyushu). Hynobius sp. from the Osumi Peninsula belongs to the Kyushu group of H. boulengeri. Genetic differentiation of the Honshu group and the other groups of H. boulengeri was great enough to separate them as distinct species. Closer relationships of the Shikoku and Kyushu groups conform to the patterns of differentiation and/or distribution recognized in other organisms occurring in these two regions. The pattern of geographic variation among populations of H. boulengeri seems to have been strongly affected by the geohistory of their distributional ranges.
3893496|The aim of this laboratory experiment was to examine courtship behavior and reproductive success under two different perceived male densities in the Alpine newt (Triturus alpestris). Male behavioral patterns were similar at unbiased and male-biased operational sex ratios (OSR). Although the exhibition of luring behaviors is risky in the presence of other males, no difference in the frequencies of displays was found at the two male densities. Similarly, the responsiveness of females towards males and the success rate of the encounters (i.e., spermatophore transfer) were not explained by the OSR. Our results show that courting Alpine newts do not change their courtship patterns when other males are present and do not interact directly. However they are not necessarily opposed to those of previous experiments showing sexual interference and female aversion in male-biased OSR with possibility of interactions. These observations suggest that the evolution of courtship behavior may not be driven by the risk of sexual interference with other males prior to potential physical contact and that the benefits of breeding regardless of OSR can overcome the risk of competition at male-biased OSR.
25621885|Physical aspects of anurans constrain sound production, and noisy habitats pose a challenge to signal recognition and detection. Habitat acoustics impose selection on anuran calls within the phylogenetic and morphological constraints of the vocal apparatus of senders and the auditory system of receivers. Visual displays and alerting calls can be used as alternative or additional signal strategies to overcome these problems. In this study, we investigated sound pressure levels and spectral features of calls of the ranid rock-skipper frog Staurois latopalmatus, exclusively found at waterfalls of Bornean streams. A total of 176 calls and waterfall recordings were analyzed to characterize acoustic signals and environmental noise. To obtain information on possible signal adaptations, dominant frequency and snoutvent length of 75 ranid species were collected from the literature and compared to our findings. Distributions along acoustically characterized rapids and waterfalls within a 1-km long river transect showed that S. latopalmatus exclusively occurs in noisy habitats. Two different call types could be distinguished in S. latopalmatus: a short, single-note call and a long, multi-note call. Both calls had a lower sound pressure than the noise produced by waterfalls. The dominant frequency analyses revealed that the signal-to-noise ratio can be maximized within high frequency bands around 5 kHz. Correlations of frequency versus body size in ranids indicated that S. latopalmatus has higher call frequencies than predicted by body size, suggesting acoustic adaption to environmental noise. We conclude that acoustic signal efficiency in environments with low-frequency dominated noise can only be attained through high frequency calls. The single-note call is interpreted as an alerting signal directing the receiver's attention to a subsequent visual signal. The multi-note call is interpreted as a graded aggressive call. We suggest that microhabitat characteristics represent strong selective pressures on the form of acoustic signals. Short calls with a narrow frequency band could reflect a trade-off among detectabilty, sound propagation and discrimination between individuals.
3891074| Rana septentrionalis in Hubbard and Clearwater counties, Minnesota, typically has a one-year larval period. Some individuals may spend an additional year in the tadpole stage. The tadpoles show a marked reduction in growth during the winter months. Metamorphosis occurs during July and August at body lengths ranging from 32.8-41.9 mm (x=37.2 mm). 
3892940|In terms of morphological similarity and genic divergence, the newly described Apalachicola dusky salamander of the East Gulf Coastal Plain, Desmognathus apalachicolae, more closely resembles certain populations of D. ochrophaeus from the southern Appalachians than it does D. fuscus. In this paper, I test for compatibility of sexual behavior in courtship trials staged among these three species. Intra- and interspecific courtship trials were staged among D. apalachicolae (from Florida), D. fuscus (from Tennessee) and three populations of D. ochrophaeus (one from Virginia, two from North Carolina). The lowest sexual compatibility was found between D. apalachicolae and D. fuscus and two populations of D. ochrophaeus. The sexual behavior of D. apalachicolae was most compatible with that of a population of D. ochrophaeus from the vicinity of Mount Mitchell, within the Blue Ridge Mountains. This finding is in agreement with the proposed origin of the Florida species from an ochrophaeus-like ancestor in this area. When considered in conjunction with information on morphology and genic divergence, data on compatibility of sexual behavior may be of use in reconstructing historical zoogeographic relationships among species.
3893050|Immediately after surfacing to breathe air, most tadpoles descend by turning sharply to their left or right side. We have used this behavior to explore the turning bias, or handedness, of tadpoles of Rana sylvatica. Tadpoles from three separate populations in Nova Scotia were tested, and they did not differ in their handedness. All showed a significant left-handed turning bias (59-81% left) from the earliest stages examined (Gosner stages 25-27) through stages 31-32. However, between stages 31-32 and 36 the bias declined to 50-52% left and was no longer statistically significant. The turning bias of these tadpoles is similar to that reported for Rana catesbeiana and Microhyla ornata. Taxonomic differences were noted, though, in the ontogeny of this lateralized behavior. Specifically, tadpoles of R. sylvatica develop their left-handed turning bias earlier than R. catesbeiana and the bias disappears sooner, well in advance of metamorphosis. Hypotheses about neurological and biomechanical factors that might influence behavioral laterality in tadpoles are reviewed, but at present remain untested.
41239005|We redescribe the rare elapomorphine snake Apostolepis longicaudata Gomes in Amaral on the basis of a detailed examination of the holotype and comparisons with new specimens from the Cerrado of Central Brazil. The new data include information on coloration in life, hemipenial morphology, and natural history. Two specimens identified as A. quinquelineata by previous authors are now attributed to A. nelsonjorgei, which seems to be the only species in the genus with subcaudal counts overlapping those of A. longicaudata. Apresentamos a redescrio da rara espcie de serpente Apostolepis longicaudata Gomes in Amarai com base no exame do holtipo e em comparaes com trs novos exemplares do Cerrado do Brasil Central. O trabalho inclui dados inditos sobre a colorao em vida, morfologia hemipeniana e histria natural. Dois espcimes lineados previamente identificados como A. quinquelineata por outros autores so redeterminados aqui como A. nelsonjorgei, que parece ser a nica espcie do gnero cujas contagens de subcaudais se sobrepem s de A. longicaudata.
3893070|We describe two new morphological features of bufonid frogs. All amphibians have been thought to store fat only in discrete fat bodies associated with the gonads or in the dermis; we describe a pair of additional fat bodies from the inguinal region of many species of bufonid frogs. Also, most anurans have the posterior portion of the sternum embedded in muscle attachments and overlying fascia (vagina recti). In many species of bufonids, however, the posterior sternal elements are free from all such attachments. We describe the morphology of these features and discuss their taxonomic distribution in a phylogenetic context. Based on a recently published tree representing the relationships among bufonids, the free sternal condition has evolved once in the ancestor of all bufonids and has been lost independently at least twice. Inguinal fat bodies support a large clade containing Bufo and several other genera (with several independent losses) and evolved independently in several genera outside this clade.
4497964|One of the basic tenets of ecological niche theory is that closely-related, ecologically similar species do not coexist. When such species co-occur over large portions of their geographic ranges, they often are segregated by habitat. The objective of this study was to evaluate experimentally the roles of abiotic habitat characteristics and competition in the habitat segregation of two sister taxa of Hylid treefrogs. These species co-occur throughout the southeastern United States, but Hyla cinerea typically breeds in permanent ponds, while H. gratiosa breeds in temporary ponds. I conducted a reciprocal transplant experiment using enclosures in natural ponds to compare survival, larval period, and size at metamorphosis for both species in temporary and permanent ponds. While the overall survival of H. cinerea was higher than H. gratiosa and survival varied among localities, there were no significant distinctions in survival between temporary and permanent ponds. Hyla cinerea tadpoles had longer larval period and larger size at metamorphosis in temporary ponds relative to permanent ponds. Hyla gratiosa tadpoles were significantly larger at metamorphosis in temporary ponds than permanent ponds, and had longer larval periods when encountering only conspecifics than when raised with H. cinerea. The results of these experiments, in conjunction with other work, suggest that a combination of factors is likely responsible for the habitat segregation between these two species.
3891639|The effects of thyroxine and adrenaline on the rates of glucose absorption from the small intestine of the lizard Uromastyx microlepis was studied. An in vivo method, involving the use of loops of small intestine of the anaesthetized lizard, was used. It was found that glucose absorption increased in the thyroxine-treated lizards and decreased in thiouracil-treated animals. Treatment of hypothyroid Uromastyx with thyroxine increased glucose absorption. The rate of glucose absorption increased with increasing the period of thyroxine administration. Conversely, adrenaline, when applied locally, caused a decrease in glucose absorption, the decrease being proportional to the amount of adrenaline administered.
3893409|We reanalyzed data from a recently published study of higher-level snake relationships based on four slowly-evolving protein loci. The original study used phenetic clustering of genetic similarities and presented a single, highly resolved tree. Our reanalyses of these data reveal that the single published phenogram is only one of at least 10,000 equivalent UPGMA phenograms, the consensus of which is largely unresolved. Additive distance analysis and character-based parsimony analysis of the data also yield little resolution, indicating that these data are highly ambiguous regarding higher-level snake phylogeny. The high degree of resolution in the published phenogram is an analytical artifact resulting from the failure to consider alternative trees implied by tied distance values, which are numerous in the distance matrix derived from this particular data set. Although the published phenogram exhibits general agreement with traditional hypotheses about snake relationships, the same appears to be true for the thousands of equivalent phenograms, discrepancies among which sum to a substantial loss of resolution. Although the four loci sampled are evolving slowly relative to other commonly surveyed protein loci, they are nevertheless evolving too rapidly to be informative about the higher level phylogeny of snakes.
3892010|The reproductive cycle of the common snapping turtle, Chelydra serpentina serpentina, was studied from April 1971 to January 1972. Twenty-eight males and 25 females from the Stones River, Rutherford County, Tennessee, were dissected. Both sexes become sexually mature at about 145 mm plastron length. The spermatogenic cycle is divided into a summer and fall active phase, and a winter and spring non-active phase. Testis weights are smallest in April and May, significantly larger from July to September, and decreased in October when spermatozoa pass to the epididymides. Testis weight is positively correlated with body weight. Females lay one clutch of eggs between mid-May and mid-June. Corpora lutea are detectable for about a month after ovulation. Ovarian follicles are small from mid-June until late July, but increase in size rapidly in August and September, reaching ovulatory size by late October. Number of eggs and follicles per clutch is positively correlated with plastron length. Sexual dimorphism was found for pre-cloacal length of tail. Values for males were significantly greater than those for females.
3892935|We studied four breeding aggregations of the Costa Rican treefrog, Hyla pseudopuma, an anuran that breeds explosively in ephemeral ponds following heavy rains. We tested the hypothesis of non-random mating with respect to body size by measuring snout-vent lengths of frogs in each aggregation, including unmated males and the males and females of amplectant pairs. We found no evidence of size-assortative mating among amplectant pairs or of size-dependent mating (specifically a large male mating advantage) in any breeding aggregation. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that mating is random with regard to body size in these populations.
3893589|A new species in the genus Vibrissaphora was found during a 2003 survey of the southern part of Yunnan Province, China. The new species appears intermediate between the genera Vibrissaphora and Leptobrachium. Unlike other species of Vibrissaphora, it has a small body size similar to L. chapaense, but has spines on each side of the upper lip characteristic of Vibrissaphora. The spines are much smaller and more numerous than are those of any species of Vibrissaphora, including the sympatric V. ailaonica.
3891333|The gross and microscopic morphology of caecilian bladders is described. Variation in bladder morphology, including sexual dimorphism, is discussed. Variation is largely correlated with functional advantage and has bearing on the evolutionary pattern of caecilians.
3892676|Tongue-flicking responses of adult male black-lined plated lizards, Gerrhosaurus nigrolineatus, were tested with cloacal chemical stimuli of male and female conspecifics and with distilled water, all presented on cotton-tipped applicators. Tongue-flicking rates by both sexes were significantly higher for cloacal chemical stimuli than for water, indicating that the lizards detected conspecific cloacal chemicals. Males emitted significantly more tongue-flicks in response to female than to male cloacal chemicals, which shows that males can chemically discriminate sex, suggesting the possible importance of pheromonal communication. Examination of the cloacae of both sexes revealed glandular structures similar to those found previously in a member of a closely related lacertilian family, Scincidae, in which pheromonal communication is highly developed. The urodaeal gland of female G. nigrolineatus is hypothesized to be a source of female sex pheromone; the dorsal and ventral glands may be the source of species-identification or male pheromones.
3892860|An electrophoretic survey of proteins from two species of small salamanders from Hokkaido, Salamandrella keyserlingii and Hynobius retardatus, and two species from Honshu, the lentic-breeding H. lichenatus and the lotic-breeding H. kimurae, was conducted to examine phylogenetic relationships among these four species. From the phenetic analyses of allozyme data, S. keyserlingii is inferred to be divergent from the three species of Hynobius. Although further analyses are necessary to clarify the phylogenetic relationships of three species of Hynobius, H. retardatus may not be an outgroup to the lotic-breeding H. kimurae and lentic-breeding H. lichenatus assemblage. Hence the use of the generic name, Satobius, recently proposed for H. retardatus, seems premature. The four hynobiid species treated here seem to be old, as evidenced by the great genetic differentiation among them, and all lineages may well predate the establishment of the Japanese islands.
25209102|We describe two new species of anoles (genus Anolis) from Panama formerly referred to as Anolis (or Norops) limifrons. Both new species differ from A. limifrons by having a large bilobed hemipenis (small and unilobed in A. limifrons). The new species differ from each other in male dewlap size and coloration. We provide an identification key and standardized descriptions of A. limifrons and the two new species described herein. /// Describimos dos especies nuevas de anoli (gnero Anolis) de Panam anteriormente referidas como Anolis (o Norops) limifrons. Ambas nuevas especies difieren de A. limifrons en tener un hemipene grande y bilobulado (pequeo y unilobulado en A. limifrons). Las dos especies nuevas difieren entre s en el tamao y coloracin de la papera gular de los machos adultos. Se proporciona una clave dicotmica de identificacin y descripciones estandar de A. limifrons y de las otras dos nuevas especies.
3891098|Captive desert tortoises, Gopherus agassizi, studied over 30 years showed a rapid initial growth period followed by a slow postjuvenile growth period. Their growth pattern appears similar to that observed in Gopherus polyphemus and Gopherus flavomarginatus.
3891986| Urosaurus graciosus was studied from March through November 1973 on the lower Colorado River, primarily Yuma and Mohave counties, Arizona. Limited reproductive information from the same population in 1974 was also evaluated. The species is strictly arboreal, inhabiting primarily mesquite, ironwood, and smoke trees. Foraging occurred in the outer canopy of trees and stomach contents showed a high incidence of arboreal insects. Seasonal shifts were apparent in the diet, probably reflecting seasonal differences in insect abundance. Reproductive season extended from May through August. Clutch size for 23   averaged 5.3 (range, 3-10) and there was the potential for two clutches per season. In  , spermiogenesis commenced in April and sperm were present in the testes and epididymis from April through July. Fat body cycle in   appeared to be a function of food supply. Fat body cycle in   was inversely related to reproductive cycle early in the season but did not show this trend later in the season. Tail break incidence was low as compared to other species and observations on foraging and climbing suggest that the tail serves a balance function, with autotomy for predator escape and intrasexual fighting secondary. Reproductive effort, defined as the ratio of total clutch calories of ash-free dry weight (AFDW): total body calories (AFDW), averaged 0.640 (range, 0.474-0.725). Mean caloric content per gram of egg (AFDW) was 6,612 compared to 5,492 calories per gram of body (AFDW). The wet ratio of clutch weight: body weight was 0.313 (range, 0.271-0.399) whereas the dry ratio was 0.531 (range, 0.403-0.604). In terms of reproductive and other attributes, U. graciosus fits the r strategy. 
3892766|We report morphometric data for 721 Anolis carolinensis from a pine-oak community near Aiken, South Carolina. We recorded an adult male: female ratio of 1.18:1. For our sample, a sexual dimorphism of larger males was reflected in snout-vent length (SVL) and body mass, with an average 10% bias for SVL and 30% for mass. Proportioned to respective SVL, tail length, head length, and head width tended to be larger in males. However, reduced major axis analyses indicated that these sex-biased dimorphisms were isometric, primarily reflecting the same male-larger scale relationship, and not disproportionate sexual dimorphic morphologies. The percent frequency of regenerated tails was unusually low (8%) and similar for both sexes. Coefficients of body condition indicated that lizards were heaviest during the post-breeding season (August-November) and lightest during the breeding season (April-July). Comparison of data from our population in South Carolina to those from other conspecific populations and anoline species suggests that (1) the intersexual difference in SVL increases with latitude, (2) the SVL/tail length ratio of A. carolinensis is intermediate between anoline "jumpers" and "runners", indicating a generalist at locomotion, and (3) at present, the sexual selection hypothesis, in contrast to the competition avoidance hypothesis or the female fecundity hypothesis, best explains the sexual size dimorphism observed in a northern latitude population of A. carolinensis.
3892486|Most crotalines possess a form of M. pterygoideus glandulae, a muscle passing between the head of the ectopterygoid and the venom gland. It is absent or weak in most Agkistrodon, either weak or well-developed in different species of Trimeresurus (the former condition in the majority), and well-developed in most Bothrops and Crotalus. It is absent from other vipers. It seems very likely that possession of a well-developed form of M. pt. glandulae is a derived state; this may have evolved in parallel in four lineages. One observation of systematic interest is that the three species of Hypnale and Calloselasma rhodostoma differ from their former congeners (Agkistrodon) in possessing a well-developed M. pt. glandulae with a unique fibrous attachment to the venom gland.
3891216|Nests and eggs of Dicamptodon ensatus are described, and previous literature is reviewed. Eggs were found in underground water-courses about 3 feet from the surface. Eggs have five mucoid membranes surrounding the capsular chamber as in other Ambystomatidae, although only two are visible with the unaided eye. Oviposition occurs in May in coastal regions and perhaps also in the fall in Idaho. The incubation period is about 275 days, the longest reported for salamanders. There is evidence for maternal care of developing embryos.
3893068|Allozyme data for 67 samples of Plethodon richmondi and P. electromorphus from the contact zone between the two species in northern Kentucky and surrounding areas indicate that nine populations show evidence of hybridization between the two species. Six of these populations are genetically more similar to P. electromorphus and three are more similar to P. richmondi. Two transects through the hybrid zone indicate that its width is narrow (<3.5 km and <19.3 km). At the Mannose 6-phosphate Isomerase locus, three additional alleles that may be hybrizymes occur in the hybrid populations. Two of these also occur in some populations of P. richmondi south of the hybrid zone, but none were found in populations of P. electromorphus north of the hybrid zone.
41238977|Insular lizards usually consume a large proportion of plant material compared to mainland ones, which is frequently attributed to a low prey availability on islands. In the present study, we analyze the diets of six populations (three insular and three continental) of the omnivorous lizard Tropidurus torquatus on the eastern Brazilian coast, to assess the extent which the insular and continental lizards differ in feeding habits, especially in the consumption of plant material. The degree of plant consumption varied greatly among areas, with the volumetric proportion of plant food in lizard diets ranging from 5% to 67%, but there was no tendency for insular lizards to consume more plant food than mainland ones. Moreover, insular lizards tended to eat more and larger prey items than those of the mainland, and estimated prey availability was not reduced on the islands compared to the mainland. The results of this study suggest that plant ingestion by T. torquatus is not related directly to insularity, but may be related to prey availability in the habitat. Therefore, the idea that populations of omnivorous lizards invariably tend to consume more plant food on islands than on the mainland must consider whether animal food is limited on a particular island.
3893484|The use of headstarting and related techniques as management tools for threatened and endangered species remains controversial, due in part to a lack of empirical data on their effectiveness. Here, we present data on pre-natal mortality, growth, and survival during headstarting as well as growth, survival, and reproduction following release for an unprotected population of plains gartersnakes. We combine these data with data on growth and survival of comparably sized wild-caught snakes to provide an overall evaluation of the potential effectiveness of headstarting. Depending on rearing conditions, proportions of live births varied from 0.79 ('worst-case') to 0.94 ('best-case'), survival during headstarting ranged from 0.74 ('worst-case') to 0.88 ('best-case'), and second-year survival following release ranged from 0.11 ('worst-case') to 0.40 ('best-case'). In comparison, survival of free-ranging snakes was 0.16 in their first year and 0.40 in their second year. Assuming the proportion of live births in nature is close to 1, expected survival to reproductive maturity among free-ranging snakes is 0.06, whereas that for headstarted snakes ranges from 0.07 ('worst-case') to 0.33 ('best-case'). The growth rate of headstarted snakes following release was similar to that of similar-sized free-ranging snakes, and headstarted snakes were successful at reproduction. Together, these results suggest that, if carefully implemented, headstarting may be an effective management tool for endangered plains gartersnake populations in Ohio and for other natricine snakes with similar demographic characteristics.
3892215|This paper describes a new species of salamander, Desmognathus apalachicolae (Plethodontidae), from the Coastal Plain Physiographic Province of the southeastern United States. Its populations are distributed among deep, moist ravines south of the Fall Line in the Ochlockonee, Apalachicola-Flint-Chattahoochee, and upper Choctawhatchee river systems in Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. Desmognathus apalachicolae is allopatric with all other Desmognathus except in the southern half of its range where it is parapatric with D. auriculatus. Morphologically and electrophoretically D. apalachicolae is most like southern Appalachian populations of D. ochrophaeus upstream in the headwaters of the Chattahoochee River along the Blue Ridge. The high percentage of disjunct Appalachian plants occurring in the ravines along the Coastal Plain reaches of the Chattahoochee and Apalachicola rivers suggests that D. apalachicolae may have evolved from a D. ochrophaeus-like ancestor isolated in these ravines after a southward migration during the Pleistocene.
3892888|Male Eurycea bislineata, E. cirrigera, E. junaluska, E. wilderae, and morph A of Sever possess a cluster of acinar exocrine glands in the skin of the middorsal tail base that is absent in females of the species. These glands secrete a mucoprotein during the breeding season. During courtship, a female places her head so that the nasolabial grooves are oriented dorsal to the tail base. Because this "tail-straddle" by the female is stereotyped for plethodontid courtship, caudal hedonic glands may occur widely in other genera in the family. The secretions of these glands may encourage females to remain astride the male's tail during spermatophore deposition.
3893630| A new species of the Eleutherodactylus nigrovittatus Group is described from five localities, at elevations of 1800-2760 m in cloud forests in the Cordillera Oriental in central Peru (Distrito de Paucartambo, Departamento de Pasco). The new species is assigned to the Eleutherodactylus nigrovittatus Group, and differs from all described species therein by having a combination of smooth skin on the venter, undilated discs on the digits, Finger I and Finger II of variable length (slightly shorter, slightly longer or of equal length), Toe III and Toe V of variable length (slightly shorter, slightly longer or of equal length), and a snout-vent length up to 48.8 mm in females. In life, dorsum is tan with dark brown blotches, venter flesh to pale gray with small gray blotches, and posterior surfaces of thighs tan. The new species occurs sympatrically with E. lacrimosus, E. peruvianus, E. platydactylus, and Eleutheodactylus cf. rhabdolaemus. Phrynopus lucida and P. nebulanastes are changed to Eleutherodactylus based on morphological and osteological characters and are assigned to the Eleutherodactylus nigrovittatus Group. /// Se describe una nueva especie del grupo Eleutherodactylus nigrovittatus procedente de cinco localidades, a elevaciones de 1800-2760 m en bosques secundarios de la Cordillera Oriental en el Per central (Distrito de Paucartambo, Departamento de Pasco). La nueva especie es asignada al grupo Eleutherodactylus nigrovittatus, y difiere de todas las especies descritas del grupo por tener una combinacin de piel lisa en el vientre, discos no dilatados en los dgitos, dedos I y II de la mano de longitud variable (ligeramente ms corto, ligeramente ms largo o de igual longitud), dedo III y dedo V del pie de longitud variable (ligeramente ms corto, ligeramente ms largo o de igual longitud), y longitud hocico-cloaca de hasta 48.8 mm en las hembras. En vida, el dorso presenta marcas pardas oscuras, vientre color carne a gris plido con pequeas manchas grises, y las superficies posteriores de los muslos color tabaco. La nueva especie es simptrida con E. lacrimosus, E. peruvianus, E. platydactylus, y E. cf. rhabdolaemus. En base a caracteres morfolgicos y osteolgicos Phrynopus lucida y P. nebulanastes se cambian a Eleutherodactylus y se asignan al grupo Eleutherodactylus nigrovittatus. 
41406820|We examined the morphology and somatic growth rate of Green Sea Turtles living in San Diego Bay, California; one of the northern-most foraging areas for the species in the eastern Pacific. A power plant had discharged heated effluent into the urbanized bay from 1960 to 2010. Straight carapace lengths of 101 Green Sea Turtles were recorded from 31 March 1990 to 15 April 2011 (45.4 to 110.4 cm). Green Sea Turtles in San Diego Bay were morphologically indistinguishable from those foraging in Baja California Sur, Mexico. The median growth rate was 1.03 cm/yr ( 1.6 to 11.4 cm/yr) for all turtles and was 4.9 cm/yr for turtles 90 cm. These growth rates were one of the fastest for the species in temperate areas and comparable to those reported for tropical regions. The estimated growth parameter of the von Bertalanffy growth function (mean growth coefficient = 0.21, 95% posterior interval = 0.19-0.23) also was greater than for other populations of Green Sea Turtles. Based on behavioral observations and information from other diet studies, we think that the altered environment from the power plant effluent affected the growth of the Green Sea Turtles directly (longer active periods) and via shifts in the environment (changes in prey composition, abundance, and distribution). With the termination of the power plant operation at the end of 2010, the ecosystem is reverting to its natural state, which we expect will result in decreased growth rates of these turtles in the coming years.
3892620|Four species of frogs that inhabit the leaf litter of a primary rainforest in Central Amazonia exhibit different patterns of juvenile recruitment and reproduction. Although reproductive period was similar among species (two dendrobatids, one leptodactylid, and one bufonid), the timing of juvenile recruitment differed with different reproductive modes. In species with terrestrial tadpoles (Adenomera andreae and Colostethus stepheni), juvenile recruitment is synchronized with rainfall, while in species that depend on standing water for development of tadpoles (Colostethus marchesianus and Dendrophryniscus minutus), recruitment occurs in the dry season. We suggest that earlier egg deposition and/or shorter developmental period would be selected for in species with terrestrial tadpoles due to threat of desiccation during the dry season.
3892650|This study examines the behavioral responses of larvae of the American toad, Bufo americanus, to the presence of an invertebrate predator, larvae of the dragonfly Anax junius. In particular, we examine whether responses to predators are categorical ones to some threshold level of predation risk or alternatively whether the responses are adjustable depending on the level of predation risk. If the responses are graded, does the response vary according to what cues about predation risk are available to prey? Because avoiding predation can incur costs in terms of resource acquisition, does food availability affect the responses of toad larvae to their predators? Finally, because predation risk is a function of body size, we also examined whether the response to predator presence was affected by size of toad larvae. We addressed these questions by measuring the activity levels and habitat use of toad larvae in the presence and absence of predators while manipulating predator density, whether the predators had fed, food availability, and larval toad size. In an additional experiment, we also measured activity and movement speed of toad larvae when we manipulated food availability and predator density. We found that toad larvae were less active as predator density increased and as food availability increased. Small toad larvae were more sensitive to the presence of predators than were large larvae. Although toad larvae did reduce activity by 35% in the presence of fed predators as opposed to unfed predators, the result was not statistically significant. Toad larvae did avoid predators, but the level of avoidance could not be shown to vary with predator density, food availability, or body size. However, there was a borderline effect of predator feeding status. Movement speed was not significantly related to either food availability or predator density.
3892374|Local and geographic variation in several life-history characteristics (size-specific clutch size, clutch frequency, egg mass, relative clutch mass, size and age at maturity, juvenile growth rates, and generation time) were analyzed for four intensively studied populations of the iguanid lizard Urosaurus ornatus. Different life-history strategies are interpreted in terms of the productivity and predictability of resources and the variability of the demographic environment (juvenile and adult mortality rates), and the prediction of several theories of life-history evolution are tested. Demographic theory and the theory of r- and K-selection are incapable of explaining the pattern of geographic variation in life-histories observed among these four populations of U. ornatus.
3892951|Information on crocodilian egg and clutch characteristics is reviewed. The relationships between female size and egg mass, clutch size, and clutch mass are quantified, and the effects of nest mode, relative snout width, and family are examined. At the interspecific level, egg mass, clutch size, and clutch mass are strongly correlated with female size. However, larger species produce relatively smaller clutches and eggs. In most cases, similar relationships were found at the intraspecific level as well. Crocodylids are more variable in terms of nesting mode (hole and mound nesters) than alligatorids (all mound nesters). After correcting for differences in female length, no trade-off between clutch size and egg size was found at the interspecific level. The effects of family, snout width, and nest mode were also examined independent of female size. Clutch size and clutch mass were greater in the Alligatoridae than in the Crocodylidae and the Gavialidae. However, data on reproductive frequency suggest that crocodylids nest more frequently than alligatorids, and no significant difference in mean annual clutch mass was found between these two major phylogenetic groups. Narrow-snouted species lay significantly smaller clutches than other crocodilians. Consistent patterns of relative egg mass/clutch size variation were found within genera in the Alligatoridae. Alligator produces large clutches of small eggs. Tropical alligatorids have large relative clutch masses due to the production of relatively large eggs (Melanosuchus and Paleosuchus) or relatively large clutches (Caiman). Within the genus Crocodylus, the four species that inhabit strongly seasonal riverine or lacustrine environments are all hole nesters that invest relatively little in each reproductive bout (C. intermedius, C. palustris, and C. johnsoni) but may compensate with high reproductive frequencies. Gavialis may also follow this general pattern. Among the true crocodiles, two species have notably large clutch masses (C. niloticus and C. porosus). In terms of reproductive characteristics, C. cataphractus is the most unusual species, laying very small numbers of very large eggs.
3892487|Temporal variation in oviposition season is poorly known for most plethodontid salamanders, which oviposit in seclusion. Temperate North American plethodontids have been described as exhibiting clinal geographic variation in oviposition season and possessing annual, biennial, or irregular reproductive cycles with more than one oviposition season during the year. I found no evidence of oviposition during any season but early summer, in six Ohio and Kentucky populations of Desmognathus fuscus. Oviposition in these populations was relatively synchronous, although several statistically significant differences were found in interpopulation comparisons of oviposition peaks. The range of interpopulation variation was no greater than, and was superimposed on, the intrapopulation variation. Oviposition was almost entirely restricted to July. Embryological development required approximately 46-61 days. Higher ambient temperature increased developmental rates, explaining slight geographic trends. Hatching occurred at different developmental stages and was not synchronous within clutches. Variation in hatching peaks was greater than for oviposition peaks; annual differences were the largest. Associations could not be determined between temperature or moisture and oviposition or hatching peaks.
3893598|Breeding behavior of individuals can play an important role in the success of an invasive event. I studied the breeding behavior of the Cuban treefrog Osteopilus septentrionalis, an invasive anuran species endemic to Cuba, but accidentally introduced to Puerto Rico and other countries. Breeding events lasted only one night, the sex ratio was male-based, and male mating behavior changed from acoustic competition to scramble searching over the breeding event. Most of the males had similar opportunities to mate with a large or small female. Males did not defend territories and did not exhibit parental care. Males of any size could fertilize most eggs of any female, although larger females produced more eggs than smaller females. Thus, there were no direct adaptive benefits for high mating selectivity by females. This absence of high selectivity by females can increase the invasive capacity of O. septentrionalis because it can reduce the strength of Allee effect (fitness reduction in small population primarily to the difficult of finding mates).
3892260|The nocturnal body temperatures of painted reed frogs were measured in the field at a tropical breeding site. Measurements of environmental temperature were inadequate substitutes for direct measurements of body temperature. Although males (n = 80) called from elevated perches, their body temperatures were significantly higher than dry-bulb air temperatures throughout the sample. However, body and dry-bulb air temperatures were strongly positively correlated (r = 0.90). Elevated body temperature may result from the combined effects of basking in the sun and the low rate of evaporative water loss in this species.
3890833|A disjunct population of Taricha granulosa from Latah County, Idaho was compared with two Washington populations, one Oregon population, and the data in Riemer's monograph of the genus Taricha. Idaho specimens are most similar in pigmentation and body proportions to specimens from the southern end of the species range. It is suggested that the Idaho T. granulosa were introduced into the area from the southern portion of the species range.
25209095|Herpetology and herpetologists have the potential for forward-thinking leadership in the science of the 21st century. By examining old questions with new tools and by developing new, synthetic questions and approaches, the field continues to advance many areas of biological science and science more generally. At the same time, some paradigms need change, and herpetologists would benefit from greater activism in effecting those changes. Such areas include more integrative approaches to research and education, more effective collaboration in research and in effecting a more unified voice for the meaning and value of science, and more attention to responsibility to the public that all scientists share.
3892956|Multivariate analyses using 10 morphological characters measured on specimens from 26 populations representing 14 species within the Plethodon glutinosus complex and two other species of eastern large Plethodon revealed significant among-species variation. Variation in overall body size explained 75.2% of the morphological variation observed in this study, but there were also differences in shape and proportion. Species within the complex formed two major morphological groups: a group of small bodied species the geographic ranges of which lie primarily within the Coastal Plain physiographic province and a group of large bodied species the ranges of which lie outside the Coastal Plain. Plethodon aureolus, a species from the Unicoi Mountains in Tennessee that clustered with the Coastal Plain group, was the sole exception to this pattern. Plethodon kentucki, a species from the Cumberland Plateau, did not cluster with either group. Nei's genetic distance determined from an extensive allozyme survey of the complex and Mahalanobis distances calculated from morphological data were significantly correlated, but morphological variation appeared to be influenced more by physiographic province than by genetic similarity. Morphological variation among populations within species is similar in scale to variation among species.
3891330|Natrix rhombifera is confined to the Coastal Plain and ranges eastward to the eastern boundary of the Mobile Bay drainage in Alabama. Natrix taxispilota replaces N. rhombifera in drainages farther east and ranges into the Piedmont in the Chatahoochee River system in Alabama and Georgia. The two forms are easily separable. Examination of specimens collected from near the common boundary of their ranges reveals no evidence of intergradation.
3891804|Pelusios is the only known member of the suborder Pleurodira to have evolved a "semi-box turtle" morphotype. The closing mechanism incorporates a transverse hinge between hypoplastra and an enlarged set of mesoplastra. A modified axillary buttress serves as a lever for attachment of a large closing muscle of the shell, the M. levator plastralis. Similarities in anatomical relationships, function, and innervation indicate that the M. levator plastralis is a derivative of an exhalant respiratory muscle, the M. diaphragmaticus. The rigid attachment of the pelvic girdle to the shell and the mode of neck retraction severely reduce the evolutionary potential for shell kinesis among pleurodiran turtles.
3892546|Electrophoretic comparisons of proteins are used to resolve phylogenetic relationships among 12 species of Bolitoglossa beta lineage. Phylogenetic inferences from protein comparisons are consistent with the species groups recently proposed by Elias (1983). Included in this study are samples of all species of his B. dunni, B. morio and B. rufescens groups and single representatives of his B. dofleini, B. franklini and B. veracrucis groups. The two species groups of primarily lowland distribution (the B. dofleini and B. rufescens groups) appear to form a natural lineage. Protein variation within the B. rufescens group is extensive and is apportioned into two major subgroups, one distributed in northern Chiapas and Veracruz, Mexico, and the other in central and southern Chiapas, Guatemala and Honduras. A major split in the latter group separates the B. occidentalis populations of southern Chiapas and western Guatemala from the B. rufescens populations of eastern and central Guatemala and Honduras. These protein comparisons suggest that the diagnostic morphological features of the B. rufescens group, which include small size, increased interdigital webbing, reduction and loss of phalanges, mesopodial fusions and reduced skull ossification, were established between 12 and 18 million years ago. If the establishment of these derived morphological features was coincident with the invasion of tropical lowlands by this lineage, the lowland tropical invasion is ancient. Species of the B. rufescens group (B. occidentalis, B. rufescens), as currently recognized, do not form cohesive, monophyletic units.
3893179|A ten-year (1989-1998) mark-recapture study on long-lived aquatic filesnakes (Acrochordus arafurae) challenges conclusions from two earlier short-term (1982-1983 and 1985-1988) studies on the same population. Because of methodological shortcomings and substantial annual variation in most demographic traits in this population, the earlier work (1) underestimated mean growth rates (and thus, overestimated age at maturation) and (2) underestimated the mean frequency of reproduction by adult females. Based on our more extensive data, we estimate that most filesnakes mature at about three years of age (versus 5-7 years in earlier studies), and that adult females reproduce (on average) once every 3-4 years (versus 8-10 years in earlier studies). These data support two general conclusions. The first is that long-term studies are necessary before we can accurately characterize the mean values for demographic traits of long-lived organisms in variable environments. The second conclusion is that the mean value of a trait may be less important than its variance. Even when we have enough data to quantify "mean" values for traits such as age at maturation or reproductive frequency, few individual females in the population may display those values. Instead, a female's life-history depends upon the conditions that she encounters during her lifetime. Biological insight into the life-histories of organisms in such systems will come from consideration of the variance, rather than the mean.
3891577|A new species of unisexual whiptail lizard, Cnemidophorus laredoensis, from Laredo, Webb County, Texas is described. Besides being unisexual this new species may be diploid and probably reproduces parthenogenetically. Morphological and biochemical studies indicate that it may have arisen as a result of hybridization between Cnemidophorus gularis and C. sexlineatus.
3891968|Comparison of female size, clutch size, and newborn weight for three California populations of the live bearing northern alligator lizard Gerrhonotus coeruleus demonstrates that: (1) geographic variation in clutch size is correlated with variation in female size, (2) variation in newborn weight among populations is independent of female size, (3) newborn weight is positively correlated with female size in one population, and (4) clutch size is inversely correlated with newborn weight in two populations. These data are applied to a model that considers the balance between size and number of young in lizards and the possible effects of this relationship on fecundity. If reproductive resources are partitioned into either larger young or larger clutches, selection for larger newborn may provide a mechanism that results in reduction in number of young. Such an inverse relationship between newborn size and clutch size may account for variation in clutch sizes in lizard populations beyond that which is correlated with variation in female size.
3892572|Cutaneous gas exchange is "diffusion limited" in most amphibians. Hence plethodontid salamanders, which lack lungs as adults, may be unable to maintain high rates of oxygen uptake at high temperatures, large body sizes, or when oxygen is scarce. However, this physiological constraint apparently does not limit plethodontids ecologically. For example, tropical plethodontids attain large size and experience high temperatures, yet they differ little from temperate zone forms in their respiratory physiology. A far more important consequence of cutaneous respiration for terrestrial plethodontids is that the skin must be moist and permeable if it is used in gas exchange, a constraint that restricts plethodontids to moist microhabitats. Even in moist terrestrial habitats, plethodontids lose water when outside of retreats or burrows. Water loss may restrict foraging and courtship opportunities on all but very wet nights, and plethodontids may abandon surface activity entirely during dry periods. The moist diurnal retreats of most active terrestrial plethodontids may lack sufficient thermal diversity to allow behavioral thermoregulation. Consequently, field body temperatures of plethodontids usually resemble prevailing local climatic conditions, are negatively correlated with elevation, and undergo predictable seasonal variation. Thermal acclimation of metabolism may be instrumental in compensating for this variation in body temperature. The lives of terrestrial plethodontids may consist of long periods of inactivity interspersed with brief periods of activity and energy processing when thermal and hydric conditions permit. Key specializations (low metabolic rate, relatively large energy stores, profound resistance to starvation) may enable plethodontids to survive indefinite periods between unpredictable bouts of feeding. The absence of energetically costly "adaptations" that might allow more regular activity may be a partial explanation of the extraordinarily low energy requirements of plethodontids.
3893326| Thecadactylus rapicauda in the eastern and western Amazon region occurs on large trees within the forest but readily moves into buildings. Thecadactylus in the western Amazon is more common in buildings than in the eastern Amazon where Hemidactylus invades buildings. Body temperatures averaged 26.9  0.3 C and were similar to both air and substrate temperatures. There was very little morphological variation between sites or sexes, although lizards in the western Amazon region were larger. Frequencies of tail loss were high and presumably reflect success of escape from predation attempts. Thecadactylus in the eastern Amazon ate a variety of prey, many of which are arboreal, whereas Thecadactylus in the western Amazon ate mostly cockroaches. There was a relationship between prey size and lizard snout-vent length, and Thecadactylus in the western Amazon ate disproportionately larger prey than Thecadactylus in the eastern Amazon. Clutch size is one egg, and evidence suggests that females produce multiple clutches in rapid succession. 
3893359| A new species of Centrolene is named from the La Escalera Region in Estado Bolvar, Venezuela. The three species known from the Guianan Region of northeastern South America represent a single clade characterized by a white bib-like parietal peritoneum; this clade is referred to as the Centrolene gorzulai species group. Centrolenella auyantepuiana is placed in the synonymy of Centrolene gorzulai. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Centrolene de la Regin de La Escalera, Estado Bolvar, Venezuela. Las tres especies conocidas de la Regin Guayana al noreste de Sudamrica son reunidas en un nuevo grupo del gnero Centrolene. Centrolenella auyantepuiana es considerada sinnimo de Centrolene gorzulai. 
3891923| Ritualized combat between Elaphe obsoleta bairdi adult   was observed. Two days later, courtship and copulation were observed between an adult  and . Accounts of both sequences are given. Forty-three days later the first clutch of eggs was laid. Six days after oviposition, copulation between the same pair was observed. A second clutch of eggs was laid 45 days after the first clutch. Seven major elements of combat behavior and two elements of courtship and copulatory behavior in this subspecies were observed: combat: investigation-recognition, alignment, solicitation display, orientation, topping, recovery, and biting; courtship: tactile-chase and coitus. Length and weight data for eggs and neonates are given. Behavioral and reproductive schemes of E. o. bairdi and their respective relationships to those of other American colubrid snakes are discussed. 
3893383|Fossils of a spectacularly large (ca. 500 mm SVL) iguanid lizard were found in late Quaternary sediments on Fiji's main island Viti Levu. The lizard is distinct from the living Fiji iguanas, Brachylophus, by the presence of a parietal foramen located in the frontal bone, an anterior inferior alveolar foramen in the splenial, the possession of autotomic fracture planes in the caudal vertebrae, and much larger size. Like Brachylophus, this lizard appears to be basal among Iguanidae, but its relationship is unresolvable with the evidence available. This giant iguana probably became extinct in Fiji soon after the first human colonization about 3000 yr ago.
3891898| Analyses of videotape recordings of 175 ritualistic bouts between two Varanus gilleni   indicate that each bout involves embracing by both the fore- and the hindlegs, lateral twisting to mutual belly contact followed by lateral, mutual flexures of the trunks forming a rising arch supported only by the snouts and tails of the two adversaries. Most bouts last 5 s or less. The bout winner appears to be the positionally-superior  when the arching collapses. 
3893215|The North American box turtles belong to a taxonomically diverse assemblage adapted to a wide variety of habitats. Relationships within the genus are complex, and variation within T. carolina is especially problematic. I analyzed 32 morphological characters phylogenetically to deduce the most parsimonious relationships among the 11 currently recognized taxa. Two species groups, the ornata and carolina groups, are recognized. The ornata group includes T. ornata and T. nelsoni, the carolina group includes T. carolina and T. coahuila. Terrapene coahuila is the basal clade of the carolina group. Within T. carolina, T. c. major is the most basal subspecies with the rest comprising two monophyletic groups: (1) T. c. yucatana, T. c. mexicana, and T. c. triunguis and (2) T. c. carolina and T. c. bauri. Within the ornata group, T. ornata is the sister taxon of T. nelsoni.
3892065|Unattended, developmentally advanced eggs of the mountain dusky salamander (Desmognathus ochrophaeus Cope) lost more water/hour than unattended, recently oviposited eggs. However, advanced eggs contained significantly more water than recently oviposited eggs; due to their smaller surface area/volume ratio, advanced eggs lost a smaller percentage of their total water during the test period. For both groups, the presence of the female significantly reduced water loss from the eggs. Since water loss was similarly reduced when an inanimate object was wrapped about the eggs, it appears that the female decreases clutch desiccation by reducing the exposed surface of her egg mass.
3892361|Measurements of circulating gonadotropins and sex steroids during the annual gonadal cycle in turtles provide a somewhat different view of the dynamics of reproductive activity than has been derived from standard histologic and gravimetric studies. In males, testosterone levels closely follow testicular growth and spermatogenesis instead of showing a separate peak during the spring mating period. Patterns of estradiol, testosterone, and progesterone secretion in female turtles are highly variable among species and do not show a consistent relationship to the ovarian cycle. For example, while plasma estradiol tends to correlate with vitellogenesis, some species with multiple clutches do not exhibit multiple peaks of this steroid, and concentrations may drop in species that maintain preovulatory follicles for long periods. Plasma progesterone and luteinizing hormone undergo dramatic increases ("surges") around the time of ovulation (shortly after nesting in multiclutched sea turtles); these changes are of relatively brief duration and thus may not be observed in typical seasonal studies.
3891892| The desert spiny lizard, Sceloporus magister was studied by mark-recapture and sampling along a stream in southern Utah (Washington County) from 1969-1971. The species is primarily arboreal and coexists in the trees with Sceloporus undulatus. Hatching occurs in early August and the young reach a size of 65-75 mm by their 2nd summer. The   (and presumably  ) reach maturity in their 3rd summer at an age of 22-23 months and a body size of at least 80 mm (snout-vent). Reproduction occurs from May to July, during which time most   produce two clutches averaging about six eggs. Sex ratio is near 1:1 in most age groups and density is about 7.4 adults and 7.4 yearlings/hectare. Survivorship of hatchlings (17%), yearlings (23%) and adults (42%) was estimated from recapture of marked animals. The mean generation time is near 3 years. Tail breaks are common in yearling lizards (22%), but few were sustained by adults indicating a decrease with age in frequency of contact with predators. Comparative data from two other detailed studies of this species are presented and discussed. 
3893198| Two new species of Atelopus from Ecuador are described; both are from the highlands of the Cordillera Occidental of the Andes, one from the Chimbo Basin and the other from the Pramos del Cajas. I include osteological data of both species and the description of the gastromyzophorous tadpoles of one of the new species. Patterns of diversity and endemism of Atelopus justify the necessity of further research and conservation efforts directed toward Andean habitats. /// Se reconocen dos especies de Atelopus de Ecuador nuevas para la ciencia; la una de la Hoya de Chimbo, la otra de los Pramos del Cajas; ambas provienen de regiones altas en la Cordillera Occidental de los Andes. Se proveen descripciones osteolgicas de ambas especies y del renacuajo de torrente de una de las especies nuevas. Los patrones de diversidad y endemismo de Atelopus justifican la necesidad de mayores investigaciones biolgicas y esfuerzos de conservacin dirigidos a habitats andinos. 
3892167|Keratin biochemistry of 11 species of vipers was analyzed using isoelectric focusing and cladistic methodology. The genus Agkistrodon (sensu lato) appears to be monophyletic. Cladograms were congruent with our a priori hypothesis of relationships among the taxa studied. Our data suggest that A. bilineatus and A. contortrix are not sister species as previously suggested and that New World members of the genus Agkistrodon may not be monophyletic. We conclude that biochemical analysis of snake skin keratin in snakes appears to be of systematic value.
3893428| We describe a striking new lizard of the genus Abronia from the Sierra de Los Cuchumatanes of Guatemala. Adults of the new Guatemalan species have a unique body pattern of white or yellow transverse markings on a black background and a suite of morphological characters that differentiate them from all congeners. It is the only species of Abronia known from Guatemala that lacks protuberant supra-auricular spines. The closest relatives of this new species appear not to be any of the members of the genus previously known from Guatemala, but rather may lie with certain species occurring in El Salvador and Honduras that previously have been placed in two different subgenera (Abaculabronia and Lissabronia). Re-evaluation of phylogenetic hypotheses of Abronia suggests that the subgenus Abaculabronia contains only two species (A. reidi and A. ornelasi) and that A. montecristoi should be placed in the subgenus Lissabronia (formerly containing only A. salvadorensis), along with the new species described herein. The Sierra de Los Cuchumantanes, like many regions in Latin America, currently is undergoing an ecological disaster. The demands by humans on the land and its forests have reduced much of the range to barren, grassy slopes or fields of exposed lateritic clays punctuated with karstic pinnacles. Undoubtedly, this range still contains a great biodiversity but currently receives no effective protection. With the burgeoning and uncontrolled human population growth, it appears likely that the once magnificent forests of the Sierra de Los Cuchumatanes will be reduced to a few stands of trees on the steeper slopes by early in the next decade. /// Se describe una llamativa nueva especie de lagartija del gnero Abronia de la Sierra de Los Cuchumatanes, Guatemala. Los adultos de esta nueva especie guatemalteca tienen un patrn nico de marcas transversas blancas o amarillas sobre un fondo negro, adems de poseer un grupo de caracteres morfolgicos que los diferencian de sus congneres. Esta es la nica especie de Abronia conocida de Guatemala que carece de espinas supra-auriculares protuberantes. Al parecer, los parientes ms cercanos a esta nueva especie no son ninguno de los miembros del gnero previamente descritos para Guatemala, sino ms bien ciertas especies existentes en El Salvador y Honduras, previamente colocados en dos subgneros diferentes (Abaculabronia y Lissabronia). Una re-evaluacin de la filogenia de Abronia sugiere que el subgnero Abaculabronia contiene solo dos especies (A. reidi y A. ornelasi) y que tanto A. montecristoi como la nueva especie descrita aqu deben ser ubicadas en el subgnero Lissabronia (que antiguamente inclua solo a A. salvadorensis). La Sierra de Los Cuchumatanes, como otras muchas regiones en Amrica Latina, actualmente est sufriendo un desastre ecolgico. Las demandas para el uso de la tierra y bosques han reducido gran parte de la sierra a pastizales infrtiles o a zonas de arcillas laterticas expuestas marcadas con pinculos calizos. Indudablemente, esta sierra contiene an gran biodiversidad, pero actualmente no recibe ninguna proteccin. Con el aumento incontrolado de la poblacin humana, los una vez esplndidos bosques de la Sierra de Los Cuchumatanes sern reducidos a unos cuantos rboles en las pendientes ms pronunciadas durante la prxima dcada. 
3892619|Re-examination of the holotype of Japalura swinhonis from the northern part of Taiwan revealed that this specimen differs from the population currently treated as swinhonis but is identical with J. mitsukurii. Thus, mitsukurii is a junior synonym of swinhonis. The population of Japalura from northern Taiwan, long regarded as swinhonis, in reality is an unnamed subspecies of J. polygonata, here described as Japalura polygonata xanthostoma.
3891741|During November, the salamander Ambystoma cingulatum deposits single eggs in terrestrial situations later flooded by rain. Eggs are scattered in small groups on the substrate and are not brooded or attended by adults. Hatching normally occurs in December, but inundation is required for hatching and time of hatching depends on rainfall. Eggs and early larval stages are described. Egg deposition habitats of A. cingulatum are compared to those of A. opacum, which also deposits eggs terrestrially. The terrestrial mode of reproduction is probably a convergent trait that evolved in response to environmental conditions on the coastal plain of southeastern USA when both species were restricted to that area.
3891073|The critical thermal maxima for two spring-breeding ambystomatids, Ambystoma jeffersonianum and Ambystoma maculatum, were determined to be 34.04 C (SE = 0.06 C) and 34.85 C (SE = 0.17 C) respectively. The former breeds earlier than the latter and has a lower CTM. Order of breeding and thermal tolerances of anurans present at a pond in Pennsylvania showed this same correlation.
3891966|Significant decreases in hatching rates of the eggs of the loggerhead (Caretta caretta) can result from gentle inversion of the egg between about 12 hr and 14 days after the eggs are laid. Since movement of large numbers of sea turtle eggs probably has the potential for killing a large proportion of the eggs, such movements should be undertaken with extreme care.
3892475|Larval development of the red salamander, Pseudotriton ruber, is described for two populations on the Upper Coastal Plain of South Carolina. The smallest larvae, presumably hatchlings, were collected in January 1979 and 1980 and measured 11.2-13.5 mm in snout-vent length (SVL). Estimates of growth for the first 6 mo of life ranged from 1.2-2.0 mm/mo based on field collections and 2.8 mm/mo from experimental cages. Most larvae metamorphosed from June through November, 18-23 mo after hatching. The period of larval development was shorter than described for populations in the Blue Ridge and Piedmont Physiographic Provinces of North and South Carolina. Size of larvae at metamorphosis ranged from 45.5-50.0 mm SVL. The maximum size of larvae and size at metamorphosis were significantly larger than reported for Blue Ridge and Piedmont populations.
3892362| In vitro incubations of ovarian tissue from Lacerta vivipara with labeled pregnenolone indicated that progesterone biosynthesis and metabolism occurs throughout the reproductive cycle. Progesterone, the main metabolite synthetized during gestation, is further metabolized to 5 /-reduced compounds during the remaining cycle. Plasma progesterone concentrations are low during hibernation, increase during the vitellogenic phase, peak during the luteal phase, remain elevated until parturition, and fall abruptly thereafter to basal levels. The large amount of plasma transcortin-type protein, which has a high affinity for progesterone and saturable binding sites, might be commensurate with the elevated levels of plasma progesterone. Correlated variations of plasma steroid binding protein and progesterone concentrations were analyzed during the annual cycle. 
3891493|The behavior of mixed groups of adult and young Morelet's crocodiles, Crocodylus moreleti was observed at the Atlanta Zoological Park during three reproductive periods. While maintaining a strong protective response toward all young approached by humans, adults threatened and occasionally attacked young (40-75 cm in total length), especially when these young were in contact with or approached small hatchlings. This aggressive behavior resulted in the segregation of successive age classes. Hatchlings (23-40 cm) were never threatened or attacked by adults.
3892406| A new species of colubrid snake, Adelphicos ibarrorum, is described from pine-oak forest of the south-central Guatemalan highlands. This is one of the largest and most robust species in the genus, and it may be easily distinguished from its congeners by its color pattern and a combination of scale and osteological characters. Despite a phenetic similarity to A. nigrilatus of the Meseta Central of Chiapas, Mxico, this species is apparently the sister species to the lineage containing A. veraepacis and A. daryi, species occurring in the highlands of Guatemala. 
3893507| A new species of Hydrops is described. The new species has a disjunct distribution with regard to other species in the genus, occupying subtropical to temperate areas of Paran and Plata River basins (between 19 and 28 30 S), from Pantanal in Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil, through Paraguay and Paran Rivers, with records in the Esteros de Iber, Argentina. It differs from all congeners in the number of total ventral scales (ventrals plus subcaudals), number of dorsal scales and color pattern. Based on our data and those of previous authors, we present the variation in lepidosis and measurements, description of the hemipenes, and known distribution for the new species. Furthermore, a key for the identification of all taxa of the genus is presented. /// Se describe una especie nueva del gnero Hydrops. La nueva especie tiene la distribucin ms meridional del gnero (entre los 19 y 28 30 de latitud sur) es disyunta con las otras especies y ocupa reas subtropicales a templadas de la cuenca del ro Paran o del Plata, desde el Pantanal de Mato Grosso do Sul (Brasil) a travs de los ros Paraguay y Paran, con registros en los esteros del Iber, Argentina. Se diferencia de todas las otras especies del gnero por el nmero de escamas ventrales totales (suma de ventrales y subcaudales), por el nmero de hileras de escamas dorsales y por su coloracin. Se presenta la variacin de los caracteres, descripcin de los hemipenes, distribucin conocida y una clave para la identificacin de todas las especies del gnero, basada en nuestros datos y autores anteriores. 
25209096|Nest site selection occurs when females place eggs at sites that differ from random sites within a delimited area. Selection of components of the microhabitat that increase embryonic survival is expected. Female four-toed salamanders, Hemidactylium scutatum, at two montane study ponds in Virginia selected nesting locations that had more moss, grass, and other living vegetation than found in other locations around the pond. In addition, selected nest sites had steeper bank angles and average lower pH's than other sites and were more often found facing north than expected by chance. Of the variables selected by H. scutatum when choosing a nest site, bank angle, nest aspect, and pH were correlated with embryonic survival. We found that north-facing nests were cooler than south-facing nests. Embryonic survival was highest in nests on steep slopes that faced north with lower average temperatures and that had lower pH's. A third pond that historically had fewer nesting females and was characterized by low embryonic survival did not have nesting habitats that combined steep bank angles with a northerly aspect. When constructing ponds for wildlife in areas where H. scutatum is of special concern, we suggest that steep bank angles be situated so that they face north.
3891394|Metabolism was measured in relation to body weight, temperature, and temperature acclimation. Weight regression coefficients (b) determined for nonacclimated snakes at 5 C intervals between 10 and 35 C averaged 1.03, for acclimated snakes, 0.68. The value of b tended to vary with temperature in a consistent pattern. The acutely determined R-T curve of snakes held at 22 C was double sigmoid. Acclimation occurred in snakes held above 20 C, but not in snakes held at 20 C or lower. Acclimation apparently involved the translation of the R-T curve of warm acclimated animals. Q
3892129|Chelonian lipid reserves show annual variation with egg development constituting a primary demand for stored lipids. Kinosternon flavescens maintains the highest carcass lipid index of all reported turtles. Juveniles had larger lipid stores than females throughout the activity period. Incorporation of lipids in ovarian follicles occurred at a constant rate and at direct expense of the female's lipid reserve. Mean lipid index of the oviducal eggs was among the highest reported for chelonians. Lipid index of oviducal eggs was not correlated with lipid index of the females. Individual egg mass and clutch size increased with size of the female. Lipid index of individual oviducal eggs increased with clutch size.
3890771|Karyotypes were prepared from males of 12 species in 12 genera of colubrid snakes. Eleven species have a diploid number of 36, with 16 macrochromosomes and 20 microchromosomes, and a total arm number of either 50 or 52. Trimorphodon vandenburghi has a different diploid number (38) comprised of 18 macrochromosomes and 20 microchromosomes, and a total arm number of 46. Karyotypes of representatives of Arizona, Lampropeltis, Phyllorhynchus, Pituophis, Rhinocheilus, Coluber, and Masticophis are similar in detail. Minor differences appear to exist between this pattern and the karyotypes of Diadophis, Contia, Chionactis, and Chilomeniscus.
3891937| Thermal ecology of 2 parthenogenetic (C. exsanguis and C. tesselatus) and 3 bisexual (C. inornatus, C. gularis, and C. tigris) species of whiptail lizards, Cnemidophorus, was studied in southwestern Texas, USA. Randomly collected ambient temperatures vary among sites and environmental temperatures measured at time and point of collection of specimens vary between syntopic species. Among species, overall body temperatures ( T
23254557|Studies of diet are central to our understanding of organismal biology. We describe the diet of the Red Diamond Rattlesnake (Crotalus ruber) using data collected from museum specimens, live specimens from a field study, road kills, opportunistic behavioral observations, and existing literature. Dietary samples were collected from across the species' range, including Southern California (USA) and Baja Norte and Baja Sur (Mexico). Examination of 272 individuals resulted in 227 prey items recorded from 219 snakes. The diet of C. ruber consisted largely of mammals (91.6%), but also included lizards (7.5%) and birds (0.9%). No ontogenetic shift in prey type was evident, with mammals consumed by all snake size classes. However, adults fed on larger prey than juveniles. Sexual dimorphism existed in snake length, with adult males averaging longer than adult females. Juvenile males consumed larger prey than females, but no sexual differences in prey mass existed for adults when controlling for snake body length. Snakes from coastal populations averaged longer in body length than snakes from desert populations. Coastal snakes consumed a higher proportion of rodents, and prey of larger body mass when controlling for snake length, than snakes from desert populations. The presence of prey was independent of snake collection month, suggesting year-round feeding, as supported by observations of occasional winter feeding by snakes in California. Although C. ruber may scavenge food opportunistically, behavioral observations suggest that it relies heavily on ambushing mammal prey.
24634320|Abiotic factors have been demonstrated to mediate predatorprey interactions in aquatic and terrestrial communities. For amphibians changes in pH, pollutants, temperature, ultraviolet-B, and moisture levels can alter behavioral, developmental, and physiological aspects of predatorprey relationships resulting in reduced survivorship. Some rhacophorid frogs deposit eggs as foam nests on vegetation overhanging water, presumably as an adaptive response to the risk of egg predation by aquatic animals. Terrestrial insects are known to feed on frog embryos in foam nests, and anecdotal observations in tropical East Asia and Southeast Asia suggested that predation of frog embryos by dipteran fly larvae may be higher in unshaded areas. To understand the role that shading may play in this relationship, I compared survival of embryos of the Brown Tree Frog (Polypedates megacephalus) infested by larvae of a calliphorid fly (Phumosia coomani) in shaded and unshaded conditions in a controlled field study. When foam nests were infested by flies, survival to hatching was more than 15 times higher in shaded than in unshaded nests. Less than 1% of frog embryos survived to hatching in unshaded, infested foam nests which contained twice as many fly larvae as shaded nests. These results combine to suggest that both colonization and predation by flies are higher in unshaded foam nests. The mechanism triggering increased colonization of unshaded nests is unclear, but warmer temperatures on the surfaces of unshaded foam nests may decrease hatching time for fly eggs, permitting fly larvae to move inside the foam nest more quickly and begin feeding on amphibian embryos. Although the risk of predation by calliphorid flies is higher for P. megacephalus in unshaded areas, the benefits of developing in warmer conditions, including faster embryonic and larval development and larger size at metamorphosis, may offset this risk.
3892883|When injured by predators, Bufo tadpoles release an alarm substance from their skin which triggers conspecifics to move rapidly away from the source of the chemical. To determine whether American toad (Bufo americanus) tadpoles can balance conflicting chemical stimuli associated with avoiding predators and maximizing food intake, I manipulated levels of food and alarm substance in a farm pond in North Carolina, USA. Tadpoles quickly located and exploited food-rich patches that were created experimentally along the shoreline. Skin extracts from a single injured tadpole contained sufficient alarm substance to reduce significantly local tadpole density. Probability of vacating a local feeding area increased with predation risk: i.e., the number of crushed tadpoles used to prepare extracts. The response of tadpoles exposed simultaneously to alarm substance and food was intermediate between that of tadpoles exposed only to alarm substance or only to food. These results support the hypothesis that tadpoles can balance conflicting demands between avoiding predators and maximizing foraging rates.
3892042| Thirty-two captive snakes from contaminated natural habitats showed single-phase radiocesium (mainly
3891222|Sceloporus shannonorum, known only from the Mexican states of Sinaloa and Durango, is arboreal (especially oak trees) in montane, tropical habitats in southern parts of the Sierra Madre Occidental. The large body scales of S. shannonorum correspond in size to those of Sceloporus grammicus disparilis living in the Sierra de Tamaulipas. The geographic variation in two features of squamation indicates a subspecific relationship between S. shannonorum and S. heterolepis; intergradation occurs in western Jalisco.
25209128|Two new species of montane, torrent-dwelling toads of the genus Ansonia from Fraser's Hill and Sungai Lembing, Pahang, West Malaysia are described based on morphological and color pattern characteristics. The new species from Sungai Lembing most closely resembles A. leptopus of Borneo but differs from it in numerous aspects of its mandibular asperites, degree of toe webbing, presence of warts at the angle of the jaw, size of tubercles around the tympanum, having an inner metatarsal tubercle, lacking rows of tubercles on the back, having paired vocal slits, and having a light dorsal spot between the scapulae. The new species from Fraser's Hill most closely resembles A. malayana but differs from it in its greater degree of dorsal tuberculation, more webbing on the third and fifth toes and less webbing on the first and fourth toes, and various aspects of coloration. Finally, we express the importance of continuing to conduct montane surveys in remote areas as well as in those areas that are considered to be well-studied.
41239000|Amphisbaenians are a group of reptiles specialized for a fossorial life, which makes the study of their peculiar biological and ecological adaptations difficult. The population biology of amphisbaenians is almost unknown. We described the seasonal variation in the size, age, and sex structure of a population of the amphisbaenian Trogonophis wiegmanni from the Chafarinas Islands, in North Africa. We specifically described body size (length and weight), frequency distribution of newborn and older juvenile individuals and adults, sex ratio of adults (which did not differ from a 1:1 ratio), and proportion of juveniles and newborn individuals in the population. The results indicated that T. wiegmanni is a viviparous species that delays reproduction until at least 2.5 yr, that almost half of adult females do not reproduce every year, and that females have a very small brood size (i.e., reproductive females give birth to a single juvenile at the beginning of autumn). We also used our data to infer growth and survival of juveniles, suggesting that mortality of newborn individuals is low. There are many aspects of the population biology of amphisbaenians that remain unknown and further studies are clearly needed.
3891435|African flat lizards of the genus Platysaurus are oviparous, despite statements to the contrary in the literature. Two large parchment-shelled eggs are laid in early summer. P. intermedius rhodesianus establishes communal egg depositories in rock crevices.
3891332|The reptilian genus Zygaspis inhabits the southern half of Africa north to the Congo River. This paper reviews the genus on the basis of about 600 specimens. A non-dimensional and species-in-space approach is utilized. The results confirm that the assemblage includes the new species Z. niger Broadley and Gans. It is furthermore demonstrated that Z. quadrifrons is so completely polytypic that the usage of trinomials is not applicable.
3892754| The taxonomic status of Thamnophis hammondii and T. digueti was reevaluated using characters of squamation and color pattern. A comparison of scale counts using discriminant function analysis and a Student-Newman-Keuls multiple range test and the presence or absence of certain color pattern characters demonstrate that T. digueti is an invalid taxon. Therefore, it is placed in the synonymy of T. hammondii. It appears that T. hammondii was once broadly distributed in Baja Clifornia and has since become isolated in mesic refugia due to xerification of central peninsular regions. Similar patterns of distribution are also observed in other transpeninsular mesophilic taxa. /// Corrientemente, el complejo Thamnophis couchii est compuesto de las especies T. ordinoides, T. elegans, T. couchii, T. gigas, T atratus, y T. hammondii. Anteriormente, T. digueti estuvo incluido en este complejo pero obras ms reciente simplemente no han hecho caso de T. digueti. Nosotros pudimos examinar 279 especimenes de Thamnophis de Baja California incluyendo los especies T. digueti y T. hammondii. Basado en detallas de las escamas y color, concluimos que T. digueti debe poner en la sinonoma de T. hammondii. Est hipotezado aqu, que la fragmentacin que se observa en su distribucin contempornea a lo largo del longitud de Baja California result por la formacin de desiertos en Norte America durante los ltimos 8000 a 12.000 aos los que dejaron poblaciones aisladas en reas con agua permanente. La mayora de la variacin observada entre estas poblaciones est relacionada a esa aislamiento y es un ejemplo de evolucin paralela. 
3893584|Behavioral thermoregulation is used by tortoises (Family Testudinidae) to moderate the effects of daily and seasonal fluctuations in ambient temperature on their body temperature. Extensive use is made of refuges to facilitate this behavioural thermoregulation. The Nama-Karoo in South Africa experiences wide temperature fluctuations both daily and seasonally. We investigated the seasonal use of refuges by the leopard tortoise (Geochelone pardalis) and the orientation of the tortoises within the refuges. Turtles used a wide variety of refuges, with Lycium spp., Eberlanzia ferox, Opuntia ficus, and grass clumps being preferred. Seasonal variation in the use of these refuges depended on whether the refuges were used as forms or shelters. Tortoises in spring and winter often remained in the same refuge for the entire season or returned to the same refuge on consecutive nights. We found seasonal and behavioral variation in (a) the orientation of the tortoises within a refuge, and (b) the portion of the shell of each leopard tortoise within a refuge that was exposed to solar radiation. Tortoises in winter and spring maximized the amount of solar radiation received on their shells, while tortoises in summer and autumn minimized the solar radiation received. Consequently, using a combination of refuge type, and body orientation, leopard tortoises appear to passively thermoregulate and thus control for temperature fluctuations experienced in an extreme environment.
3891459| Reproduction of the tropical iguanid lizard, Tropidurus hispidus was studied in Cuman, Venezuela during 1969-70. This species undergoes ovarian and testicular cycles, producing more than one clutch per  per year.   with snout-vent lengths  68 mm were considered sexually mature. Ovulation occurs when an ovum is  10 mm in length. Reproductive potential (clutch size) determined by count of yolked follicles was 5.90 per . Based upon counts of oviducal eggs and/or corpora lutea the average was 5.50.   attain maximum testis volume in May and have maximal sperm levels in both the seminiferous tubules and epididymis. Samples from August to February show a considerable reduction in testis size. The adaptation of T. hispidus to dry environments is discussed and it is compared with other tropical species studied by other authors. /// La reproduccin del lagarto iguanido tropical, Tropidurus hispidus se estudi en Cuman, Venezuela en los aos 1969-70. Esta especie se caracteriza por tener ciclos ovricos y testiculares, y producir ms de un esfuerzo reproductivo por hembra anualmente. Las hembras con longitudes de cuerpo 68 mm se consideraron sexualmente maduras. La ovulacin ocurre cuando un vulo tiene 10 mm de longitud. El potencial reproductivo (total de huevos), determinado por el contaje de los folculos yemados, fu de 5,90 por hembra. El mismo, determinado por el contaje de los huevos oviductales y/o cuerpos lteos, di un promedio de 5,50. Los machos alcanzan el mximo volumen testicular en mayo, cuando tambin tienen gran abundancia de espermatozoides tanto en los tbulos seminferous como en los epiddimos. Los ejemplares de agosto a febrero muestran los testculos considerablemente reducidos de tamao. Se discute la adaptacin de T. hispidus a los ambientes secos, y se le compara con otras especies tropicales estudiadas por otros autores. 
3891419| The Komment-kampf or ritualized struggle between rival   was observed in the pygmy mulga monitor, Varanus gilleni, on four occasions. Attempts at copulation prior to and during the struggle were noticed. The elements which separate the Komment-kampf from other threatening behavior are explained and the comparative aspects of varanid threat behavior are discussed. 
3891468|Laboratory observations of three species of iguanid lizards suggest that social interactions can influence feeding behavior. "Social facilitation" of feeding is effected by co-action in which lizards feed as a result of the activity of a feeding cohabitant, and by nonspecific arousal elicted by co-habitant activity. Local enhancement can be demonstrated in which lizards are attracted to a feeding site by the activity of another lizard engaged in feeding-related behavior. Food-stealing is a common social feeding phenomenon and may be a source of information about novel prey. A feeding response may be elicited by a novel stimulus as a result of exposure to similar behavior performed by another lizard.
3892687|The study of skeleton formation in Chamaeleo hoehnelii, as compared to Bradypodion pumilum, shows that the separation of a prefrontal fontanelle from the external naris, the contact of pre- and postorbitofrontal bones along the dorsal margin of the orbit, the contact of the ascending process of the squamosal with the parietal, the reduction in size of the vestibular fenestra, and the complete ossification of its ventral margin, as well as the closure of the fontanelle between basisphenoid and basioccipital, are all features developing late during ontogeny. Chamaeleo hoehnelii also has a broad and rather flat skull table, characteristic of Bradypodion pumilum, during early stages of ossification. I discuss character incongruence in the analysis of chamaeleonine interrelationships in light of heterochrony. Developmental observations necessitate a re-interpretation of the highly derived autopodium of chamaeleons, which in turn highlights the problems of the assessing potential homology.
25209082|Populations of eastern red-backed salamanders, Plethodon cinereus, exhibit color polymorphism, and two color morphs are common: the red-striped morph and the lead-phase morph. A recent hypothesis attributes the maintenance of the polymorphism to selection on behavior and physiology. We conducted a series of laboratory experiments and a field study to determine whether striped and lead-phase salamanders exhibit different antipredator responses and whether predators differentially attacked the color forms. In predation trials, red-striped salamanders spent significantly more time in an "all trunk raised" posture and tended to remain immobile, whereas lead-phase salamanders were significantly more mobile. In field collected museum specimens of individual P. cinereus, we found more lead-phase salamanders with autotomized tails compared to red-striped salamanders, possibly indicating different attack rates on the two forms. The results from this study demonstrate that striped and lead-phase salamanders of P. cinereus respond differently to snake predators and may be attacked differently in the field. These differences may contribute to the maintenance of color polymorphism in this species.
3893610| Garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis) in Manitoba court and mate at communal overwintering dens and then disperse to feeding ranges in summer. The restriction of mating activities to den areas may reduce gene flow between populations from adjacent dens, in turn allowing divergence in traits such as antipredator behavior. We quantified responses of adult male snakes to the approach of human observers at four dens, prior to dispersal in late spring. Larger snakes bit us more frequently than did smaller individuals, at all four dens. Although some of the dens were <20 km apart (and hence, individuals from each would likely encounter each other during summer), we found strong geographic differences in antipredator tactics (approach distance and propensity to bite). These differences may reflect genetic isolation of den populations, due in turn to den-based mating and philopatry. However, to rule out alternative explanations such as learned responses to different predation exposure, studies are needed on nave snakes. 
3891635|Additional early Wisconsinan turtle fossils from Jones Spring, Hickory County, Missouri include Terrapene carolina putnami and Chrysemys (Trachemys) scripta. Specimens identified earlier as Emydoidea blandingii are actually Terrapene carolina putnami. Jones Spring is the northernmost Wisconsinan record of T. c. putnami. Fossil pollen and plant macrofossils associated with the specimens suggest a pine-parkland vegetation with Pinus banksiana, indicating colder or more equable climates than those of previous Terrapene carolina putnami fossil localities.
3891666|Although it is most probable that the ultimate factors leading to long-range remigrations of green turtles are not the same for all populations, it is hypothesized in this paper that some of the better-known green turtle remigrations had their origins in short distance movements between feeding pastures and nearby nesting beaches. The feeding pasture was the center of activity, and movements to the nesting beach were based upon a familiarity with the local environment. Semipermanent residents were selected for because of changing conditions on the feeding pasture or on the nesting beach. Passive drift in dominant surface currents probably gave rise to some of the first distant remigrations. A refinement of passive drift includes an adult's identification of a previous nesting site, and this short-range discriminatory ability may have been a precursor to long-range, unidirectional homing, and this in turn to true navigation. Some of the long-distance remigrations seen today, although highly developed, may only be remnants of more widespread patterns that are now selected for because of their survival value.
3890623|A new subspecies of Sceloporus graciosus that differs from other races of the same species in color, pattern, scalation, and habitat preference is described from sand dune areas of southeastern New Mexico and adjacent Texas. Several aspects of the lizard's natural history are considered.
3892536|The biochemistry of reptilian keratins was investigated using green gecko (Phelsuma) epidermis. The keratin components are highly heterogeneous, particularly those of the low sulphur fraction. Disc polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicates that these components have a range of molecular weights, but isoelectric focussing on specially formulated gels indicates that the components are far more heterogeneous with regard to their isoelectric point. In spite of some isoelectric coincidence, as revealed by two dimensional electrophoresis and a comparison of high and low sulphur fractions, isoelectric focussing of unfractionated samples is of considerable taxonomic and evolutionary value. The quantified comparison of samples based on the presence or absence of bands at a particular isoelectric point indicates that there are differences between genera, species and races and that the relative similarity in the pattern is directly related to the taxonomic/evolutionary affinity. Keratin samples are generally consistent within populations, but there is some evidence of polymorphism.
3891565| Intraspecific interactions, calling site, and home range of the dendrobatid frog, Dendrobates histrionicus Berthold, were studied in the Serrana de Baud, Colombia, by observation, marking, and recapture. Wrestling was observed between males. Amplexus was not observed. Courtship behavior included calling, pursuing, touching, sitting, hugging, shaking, bowing, crouching, and circling. Courting pair recapture data do not support my hypothesis that a pair bond is formed in this species, but do not disprove it. Calling individuals occupied more elevated sites, on the average, than did non-calling individuals. The mean estimated home range was about
3893183| We describe a new species of hylid frog of the genus Hemiphractus (Hemiphractinae) from the eastern slope of the Andes and Amazon Basin of Ecuador and Peru. The new species has been attributed incorrectly to H. johnsoni for nearly a century, but is widely allopatric and easily distinguished from H. johnsoni. External and cranial morphologies of these two species are described in detail. A brief discussion of the phylogenetic position of these species with respect to the other members of the genus is included, as well as a comment on the structure of the bony postorbital arch in these highly ossified anurans. /// Se describe una especie nueva de un hlido del gnero Hemiphractus (Hemiphractinae) de la Cuenca Amaznica y la vertiente oeste de los Andes de Ecuador y Peru. La nueva especie ha sido atributida incorrectamente a H. johnsoni por casi cien aos, pero su distribucin es ampliamente aloptrica y su morfologa claramente diferente de H. johnsoni. La morfologa externa y osteolgca de ambas especies se discrita en detalle. Se incluye una breve discusin de las relaciones filogenticas de estas especies, y se comenta sobre la estructura del arco postorbital en estos anuros muy osificados. 
3890632|Spectrographs were made of the sounds emitted by female leatherback turtles, Dermochelys coriacea, when nesting. The sounds were relatively intense in the 300-500 Hz range. The possible importance of audition in sea turtles is discussed.
3892149|Seasonal, daily, and diel activities of the nocturnal eublepharine gecko, Eublepharis kuroiwae kuroiwae, were studied in a subtropical secondary forest on Okinawa-jima Island from 1977-1979. There were two seasonal activity phases, one temperature-dependent (October-May) and the other temperature-independent. During the temperature-dependent phase, the number of active geckos, both adult and immature, was positively correlated with ambient temperature, and the number of active adults increased in April-May probably due to mating activities. During the temperature-independent phase, active geckos were most abundant in June and July, then decreased in August-September. This decrease in the number of active adults seems to be attributable to reduced mating activity.
3892069|A recent collection of reptiles from Kerala State, India, includes 17 lizards representing a new species of the genus Cnemaspis described herein. A large sample of a second species of Cnemaspis included in the same collection provides reason for changing the status of C. kandiana tropidogaster (Boulenger).
3893379|Many amphibian populations have declined and others are at risk. Developmental stability analysis (DSA) has been proposed as an "early warning system" because it may detect environmental or genetic stress before they lead to population declines. Deviations from perfect symmetry (fluctuating asymmetry or FA) may indicate stress. We experimentally evaluated the efficacy of DSA to detect sublethal acid stress in the salamander Ambystoma maculatum. Our results indicate that traditional fitness correlates, such as size at metamorphosis, were affected by pH stress and revealed pond-specific responses to pH treatments. Fluctuating asymmetry was not correlated with pH stress, suggesting that pH stress did not disrupt aspects of the developmental program that enforce symmetry. Furthermore, FA was altered through preservation, changed through time, and differed in fore and hind limbs. Conclusions about developmental stability depended on whether traits were analyzed separately or with a composite index. Finally, we found that measurement error frequently differed among treatments, such as among pH treatments and between live and preserved groups. In such cases, measurement error must be partitioned out of each FA mean square term in order to make valid comparisons. Any amphibian monitoring program should incorporate a variety of techniques appropriate to the species being investigated and should consider including measures of traditional fitness correlates, which may provide more sensitive indicators of changing levels of environmental stress than does DSA.
3893177|The majority of anuran amphibians shows a sexual size dimorphism, with females being larger than males. It is unknown, however, whether this difference already develops during the larval stage or whether it is exclusively the result of postmetamorphic differences in growth. Using tadpoles of the European water frog Rana ridibunda, I compared larval life-history traits between sexes and found no significant differences in larval period and size at metamorphosis, indicating that the sexual size dimorphism is only established after metamorphosis. Rana ridibunda was used in this study because it is one of the parental species of the hybrid frog R. esculenta, for which this finding is particularly relevant. Within the hybridogenetic R. esculenta complex, different mating combinations produce either all-female offspring or offspring with even sex ratios. Comparisons of larval performance between crosses therefore often rely on the assumption that male and female tadpoles do not differ in the traits measured. My result suggests that for larval period and size at metamorphosis, this assumption is justified in European water frogs.
3893017|The effect of recent growth history on the timing of metamorphosis and body mass at metamorphosis was examined in a field experiment with Bufo calamita tadpoles where we manipulated growth rates by shifting tadpoles between environments with high and low food levels. Body size varied depending on recent growth history. Covariation between body size at metamorphosis and timing of development also depended upon recent growth pattern. Time of development response was, however, a function of the direction of the shift in the growth pattern. Tadpoles grown initially at low growth rates and then shifted to a rich resource environment with high growth rates had shorter larval periods than tadpoles raised with slow growth rates throughout the larval period. However, tadpoles raised at high growth rates only during 40% of the total larval period and then shifted to a low food environment with slow growth rates did not differ in timing of metamorphosis from tadpoles grown at high growth rates throughout the larval period. Therefore, tadpoles in this treatment were not using growth history as a cue to metamorphic timing. Moreover, it appears that the early growth pattern set developmental rates only when tadpoles were grown in a rich environment. This result meshes well with the model of Smith-Gill and Berven (1979) which predicts that developmental rate and growth rate are uncoupled to each other but seems inconsistent with the model of Wilbur and Collins (1973) that postulates that developmental rates should adjust to growth rates. The observed asymmetric response mediated through food levels suggests that energy accumulated during periods of optimal growth rates or certain differentiation inertia may be responsible for these different responses.
3893368| We describe a new species of Barisia from the oak-pine and cloud forests on the southern slopes of the central Transvolcanic Belt in the states of Mexico and Morelos, Mexico, and report on variation in a sample of 21 specimens of the poorly known B. rudicollis. The new species and B. rudicollis appear to have allopatric distributions and to be sister taxa. Because of increasing fragmentation and destruction of their habitat, we suggest that these species be regarded as threatened. We discuss synapomorphies for the genus Barisia. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Barisia de los bosques hmedos de pino-encino y de neblina de la vertiente meridional del Eje Neovolcnico Tranversal en los estados de Mxico y Morelos, Mxico, y se reporta la variacin en una muestra de 21 ejemplares de la poco conocida B. rudicollis. La nueva especie y B. rudicollis parecen tener distribuciones aloptricas y ser especies hermanas. Debido a la creciente fragmentacin de su hbitat, sugerimos que estas especies sean consideradas como amenazadas. Se discuten las sinapomorfas para el gnero Barisia. 
3892834|Karyology of five species of Gekko from East and Southeast Asia (G. tawaensis, G. yakuensis, G. petricolus, G. smithii, and G. kikuchii) is reported for the first time. The first three species have 2N = 38 chromosomes, in two size groups. Gekko smithii from Sabah also possesses 2N = 38 chromosomes, forming two size groups, but this species from Thailand has 2N = 42 chromosomes of graded size. The karyotype of G. kikuchii is distinct from those of any other congeneric members in consisting of 44 elements in a graded series. The relationship of these results on the chromosomal divergence and taxonomy of the genus Gekko is discussed.
3893550| A new species of the Eleutherodactylus unistrigatus group is described from forests near Oxapampa, Peru, at elevations of 2050-2200 m in the Cordillera Oriental in central Peru. The new species differs from all described species by having an extremely long, acuminate snout and a red (white in preservative) longitudinal stripe on the posterior surface of each thigh. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Eleutherodactylus del grupo unistrigatus procedente de los bosques cerca a Oxapampa, Per, a elevaciones de 2050-2200 m en la Cordillera Oriental de Per central. La nueva especie difiere de todas las especies descritas por tener un hocico acuminado extremadamente largo y una marca longitudinal roja (blanca en preservativo) en la superficie posterior de cada muslo. 
3892804|Agonistic behavior of Aneides flavipunctatus is described from staged encounters between individuals in the laboratory. Both males and females display agonistic behavior toward intruding conspecific individuals. These behaviors include snout-to-snout, cheek-to-cheek, bite, grip, bite-hold, and a defensive posture. The behavioral patterns of A. flavipunctatus are similar to those of Plethodon vehiculum and P. cinereus but differences occur in behavioral intensity and in types of specific behaviors; snout-raised, bite-hold, and a distinctive defensive posture have been observed only in species of Aneides. Scarring frequency, which provides indirect evidence of aggression, is greater in A. flavipunctatus and A. ferreus than in the other species examined. Data on scarring frequency for A. flavipunctatus are consistent with the hypothesis that the derived morphological specializations of the head found in Aneides result in an increased cost of agonistic interactions. The data for A. lugubris, however, are not consistent with the hypothesis and thus suggest that the derived jaw musculature may have evolved independently of agonistic behavior. The relative scarring frequency on the trunk and tail of A. lugubris differs from the patterns observed for species of Plethodon, suggesting that the dynamics underlying scarring frequency are complex, reflecting both the relative value of the body area as well as the salamander's ability to protect that area.
3892309|Thirty-eight populations of Desmognathus fuscus were analyzed for 21 proteins by standard electrophoretic methods. Spatial autocorrelation analysis was used to demonstrate geographic relationships among the four clusters that resulted from an UWPGA analysis of the electromorph frequency data. Evidence is provided to suggest that southern D. fuscus populations are genetically differentiated from northern D. fuscus populations. The genetic data also permit identification of a new species from the Gulf Coastal Plain of Florida, Georgia and Alabama. The systematic position of the new taxon is discussed. Additional analyses of gene diversity in subdivided populations were performed.
24634292|Natural and sexual selection are frequently invoked as causes of sexual size dimorphism in animals. Many species of turtles, including the Diamond-backed Terrapin (Malaclemys terrapin), exhibit sexual dimorphism in body size, possibly enabling the sexes to exploit different resources and reduce intraspecific competition. Female terrapins not only have larger body sizes but also disproportionately larger skulls and jaws relative to males. To better understand the relationship between skull morphology and terrapin feeding ecology, we measured the in-lever to out-lever ratios of 27 male and 33 female terrapin jaws to evaluate biomechanics of the trophic apparatus. In addition, we measured prey handling times by feeding Fiddler Crabs (Uca pugnax), a natural prey item, to 24 terrapins in the laboratory. Our results indicate that although females have disproportionately larger heads, they have similar in:out lever ratios to males, suggesting that differences in adductor muscle mass are more important in determining bite force than jaw in:out lever ratios. Females also had considerably reduced prey handling times. Understanding the factors affecting terrapin feeding ecology can illuminate the potential roles male and female terrapins play as top-down predators that regulate grazing of Periwinkle Snails (Littorina irrorata) on Cord Grass (Spartina alterniflora).
3890974|The stomach contents of 133 seepage salamanders, Desmognathus aeneus, were examined. Most of the items present were arthropods. Among the insects, beetle and fly larvae and springtails were the most important foods. Arachnids were mainly represented by mites, the most frequent item encountered, and spiders. Myriapods, earthworms, crustaceans, terrestrial snails, and nematodes were also present. One specimen had consumed a small D. aeneus. Detritus occupied about 16% by volume. No differences were noted that could be attributed to sex, size, locality, or time and date of collection.
3890822|Twelve Trichobatrachus robustus were collected in Rio Muni, West Africa, during April, May, and June, 1968. Males were usually captured one month earlier than females. Males were larger than females in snout-vent length and thickness of foreleg. Females in captivity laid large numbers of eggs, mostly in clusters of 2-23 eggs.
3891930|Based on its embryonic development and on its position relative to cranial nerves and blood vessels, the laterosphenoid is shown to be a bone peculiar to snakes (and some skinks), not homologous to the bone in crocodilians and birds, to which the term pleurosphenoid should be applied.
3893517| We describe a new species of Cochranella from the Cordillera de Carpish, Departamento Hunuco, Peru. The new species is placed in the Cochranella ocellata group and can be distinguished from all other species of Cochranella by having: (1) small white and dark purple spots on the dorsum; (2) a snout slightly protruding to truncate in lateral aspect; (3) and basal webbing between Fingers III and IV. 
3891605| An extended annual reproductive cycle is typical in Sternotherus minor   in north Florida springs. Vitellogenesis begins in late August-early September and continues until ovulation of the last clutch. The period of greatest reproductive activity is from November to early June. No vitellogenesis is apparent from late June or early July until late August or early September. Mean clutch size is 2.4 (range = 1-4), 3-4 clutches are common, and the production of 5 clutches in many individuals is probable. Clutch and egg sizes are positively correlated with the size of  . Post-oviposition involution of corpora lutea is initially rapid, followed by a more extended period of final resorption. Nest site selection appears to be more dependent upon elevation above mean water level than upon distance from the shoreline. 
40602603|Demographic data are essential to determine the probability that species will persist over time. Unfortunately, demographic studies are rarely part of the initial evaluation of potentially threatened or endangered species. Here, we studied the population dynamics of a poorly known knob-scaled lizard species (Xenosaurus sp.) from Mxico with the use of a population matrix modeling approach. We measured annual fecundity and survival over three consecutive years (2001-2004) and used these data to generate transition matrices. From these matrices we estimated annual variability in finite population growth rate (), stable stage structure, and the relative importance of the life-cycle components for  (elasticity values). In 2 of the 3 yr population growth rates indicated a tendency toward population increase (2081_ = 1-20 and _ = 1.14), whereas in 1 of the 3 yr population growth rate indicated population decrease (_ = 0.78). The negative population trend observed during 2003-2004 was explained by warmer and drier environmental conditions that caused the lowest observed survival rates in all size classes. We examined this annual demographic variability using stochastic simulations. This allowed us to project population trends under hypothetical scenarios with increasing frequency of unfavorable years, manifest through reduced survival, fecundity, or both. Our simulations revealed that small increases in the frequency of harsh annual conditions vastly increased extinction risk in this species. Given the highly restricted geographic distribution of this species and its susceptibility to extinction, we recommend that it be given a high priority for conservation.
23255783|Drought represents a significant stressor to aquatic animals. However, empirical data regarding the response of many aquatic animals, particularly amphibians, to drought are limited. The southeastern United States experienced a supraseasonal drought in 20072008, which provided an opportunity to examine the resistance and resilience of salamanders to drought. In this study, we used 5 yr of presenceabsence data at 17 first-order streams and 61 mo of markrecapture data at one stream to examine the effects of drought on occupancy and vital rates of the salamander Desmognathus fuscus (Northern Dusky Salamander). We tested three hypotheses regarding the effects of drought: larvae would decrease in occupancy during drought conditions, but adult occupancy would remain stable; adult temporary emigration rates would be greatest during supraseasonal drought conditions; and adult survivorship would be equal or nearly equal during nondrought conditions and drought conditions due to higher rates of temporary emigration. We found that adult salamander occupancy remained stable through the 5 yr of sampling; however, larval salamander occupancy decreased by an average of 30% during the supraseasonal drought. We found that adult temporary emigration probabilities were twice as high during supraseasonal drought conditions than during nondrought or typical drought conditions. Monthly survival of adults was relatively high during nondrought (S = 0.89  0.02), typical drought (S = 0.97  0.02), and severe drought conditions (S = 0.90  0.01). Our findings suggest that high survivorship of adult D. fuscus likely buffers the negative effects of drought on larvae and high rates of temporary emigration allow adult salamanders to be resilient to supraseasonal drought conditions.
3893286|I evaluated the participation of women in the field of herpetology by examining published papers from three herpetological journals, Copeia, Herpetologica, and Journal of Herpetology, over a 21-year span. Using only first authors of all papers examined, I observed several trends in the proportions of women as first authors publishing over time, between subdisciplines, and between taxonomic groups. The number of women publishing in the three journals more than doubled from 160 (8%) during 1973-1982 to 346 (15%) during 1983-1993. Women published relatively more in the subdisciplines of ecology and evolution than in the subdiscipline of systematics and relatively more on amphibians than on reptiles. Women reviewed papers in a lesser proportion than they published papers.
3893340|Amphibian call count surveys in Ontario use a common survey protocol. We evaluated the precision and accuracy of data collected by these methods. Multiple observers monitored the same routes to determine inter-observer variation. Inter-observer agreement in evaluation of calling intensity and occurrence was generally high, and the experience of the observer affected estimation of both calling intensity and the number of individuals calling. There was no significant increase in inter-observer agreement in evaluation of calling intensity or occurrence with 5-min versus 3-min surveys. Longer surveys rarely resulted in the identification of species not heard in the first 3 min. Surveys of 30-60 min duration indicated that return for effort declined sharply during the second minute of the survey, although new species were sometimes heard after as long as 15 min. Simultaneous intensive and extensive monitoring was performed on populations of Fowler's toads (Bufo fowleri) in southern Ontario and bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) in central Ontario to determine whether there was a relationship between calling intensity and chorus size or population size. We found a linear relationship between call counts and chorus size in both species. We conclude that the data generated with the call count surveys were adequately precise, but accuracy remains to be validated. Further investigation of the relationships among population size, chorus size, calling intensity, and environmental factors are required to determine whether extensive monitoring of calling amphibians can be used as an index of actual population size. However, until that time, we recommend that calling amphibian surveys be used as the first part of an integrated program using extensive monitoring to identify areas where populations may be declining, and intensive monitoring to confirm or refute reports of declines.
23352102|Evolutionary and ecological theory generates testable predictions concerning the effects of species interactions on ecological, behavioral, and morphological traits. Throughout Ohio, two closely related and ecologically similar salamander species, Plethodon cinereus and P. electromorphus, occur in similar habitats and in many localities are found in sympatry. Geographic and behavioral patterns previously described between these two species could be the result of interspecific competition, a hypothesis that also predicts distinct patterns of resource use, morphological variation, or both when the two species occur in sympatry. Here we tested these predictions by examining patterns of resource use and morphology in sympatry and compared them to patterns observed in allopatric populations of each species. We found that morphological differences in head shape between species were location-specific, with morphological divergence occurring at some sympatric locations and convergence occurring at others. The degree of food-use overlap was also variable between locations but, in general, the two species used similar food resources.
3893508|Three new species of frogs allied to Rana megatympanum are described from Laos and Vietnam. One new species is from the Bolaven Plateau of southern Laos, a second is from central Laos and adjacent central Vietnam, and a third is from northern Laos. The three new species are distinguished from similar species by skin texture, the location of white spinules on the skin in males and females, spotting one the lips, body size, relative tympanum size, and unpigmented eggs.
25621898|The treefrog genus Hyla (Anura: Hylidae) consists of at least 31 species found in North America, Central America, Europe, and Asia and is the only genus of hylids that occurs outside the New World. Despite intensive work on the phylogeny of the genus in the past few years, several problems still exist regarding relationships within Hyla. These problems include the unusual placements of H. gratiosa and H. walkeri in some recent studies and the relatively limited taxon sampling of Asian species. In the present study, we revisit the phylogeny of Hyla to address some of these problems. First, we tested the unexpected placements of H. gratiosa and H. walkeri by sampling additional individuals of these species. Our results show that the unusual placements of H. gratiosa and H. walkeri in previous studies were most likely due to a mislabelled tissue sample and a misidentified specimen, respectively. Second, we included two species of Asian Hyla not included in previous phylogenies. Our study provides additional evidence for two separate colonizations of Hyla from the New World into Asia, and suggests an unusual biogeographic pattern in the Asian Hyla clades.
3893160|We studied ability of the crevice-dwelling Mexican lizard Xenosaurus platyceps to discriminate prey chemicals by tongue-flicking cotton-tipped applicators bearing cricket surface chemicals, cologne (pungency control), and deionized water (odorless control). When tested outside crevices, juveniles tongue-flicked at higher rates in response to prey chemicals than to control stimuli, but adults did not tongue-flick at all. When tested later in crevices, adults also tongue-flicked at higher rates to the prey chemicals than to controls. This suggests that defensiveness in the presence of an experimenter, a context inappropriate for feeding, or both may have inhibited tongue-flicking in adults outside crevices. We discuss implications for interpretation of swab tests when no significant differences occur. Prey chemical discrimination occurs in all four families of anguimorphan lizards tested to date (Xenosauridae, Angudiae, Helodermatidae, and Varanidae), strengthening the hypothesis that this ability is plesiomorphic in Anguimorpha.
4497933|For many taxa, little is known about whether territoriality of adults affects the behavior of juveniles. Laboratory research has shown that aggression of adult territorial red-backed salamanders (Plethodon cinereus) decreases with familiarity, but it is not clear whether juveniles are randomly or nonrandomly associated with adult or parental territories. Using data from mark-recapture surveys, we compared the number of captures of first-year juveniles and adults of P. cinereus to ambient meteorological data. We found no evidence for temporal separation of foraging; weather conditions did not affect the proportion of first-year juveniles captured. We then conducted nearest-neighbor analyses to evaluate whether first-year juveniles were spatially associated with or disassociated from adult home ranges. Juveniles were neither closer to nor further away from adults than would be expected by random chance. Nearest-neighbor distances also were not significantly different from the mean radius of adult home ranges. There was no evidence that the distribution of adult home ranges affected the distribution of juveniles, at least after recent rainfall events; there is a possibility that interactions between age classes may occur under drier conditions.
3893388| We describe a new species of Tantilla (Serpentes: Colubridae) from the highlands ("campos rupestres") of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, southeastern Brazil. The new species belongs in the T. melanocephala group and is characterized by its uniform reddish orange dorsum with no dark middorsal stripe, a broad pale nuchal band medially divided, and a dark head cap without posterior lateral extensions. Color photographs of adult individuals and illustration of hemipenes of both the new species and T. melanocephala from the Cerrado formation south of the Amazon are provided and comparisons with congeners are made. /// Descrevemos aqui uma espcie nova de Tantilla (Serpentes: Colubridae) dos campos rupestres da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, sudeste do Brasil. A nova espcie, do grupo T. melanocephala, caracteriza-sepela colorao dorsal do corpo laranja-avermelhado uniforme e sem faixa dorsal, banda nucal larga, clara e dividida medialmente e parte dorsal da cabea escura, sem extenses laterais posteriores. So apresentadas fotografias em cores de indivduos, ilustrao dos hemipnis da nova espcie e de T. melanocephala de formaes de cerrado ao sul da Amaznia, bemcomo comparaes com espcies congenricas. 
3891950| Three   and 1  tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) were tested in an optokinetic drum in order to examine their binocular and monocular optokinetic reflexes. The animals rarely performed optomotor responses. Stabilization of the moving visual field was accomplished by means of both head and eye nystagmus. Binocular performance was superior to monocular performance. Optokinetic responses were much more frequent in monocular animals when stimuli were presented in a temporal-to-nasal direction with respect to the open eye, as opposed to a nasal-to-temporal direction. The number of responses elicited by the latter method of stimulation was not statistically different from the number observed when the optokinetic drum was stationary. The data are not consistent with the hypothesis that unidirectional monocular optokinetic responses are confined to animals whose eyes lack a retinal fovea or well developed area centralis. Complete crossover of the optic nerves at the optic chiasma also does not serve to distinguish animals which display unidirectional monocular responses from those which display bidirectional monocular responses. 
3891597| Density of snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina) in two 0.40 ha western West Virginia ponds approximately 70 m apart was estimated at 60.5 turtles/ha of surface area using three different methods of population estimation. Density estimates were higher than most previous investigations and causes for discrepancy are discussed. Trapping data showed a progressive reduction in turtle movement beginning in midsummer and increasing through the fall. Space use by turtles appeared to be nonrandom as the same individuals (weights between 0.91 and 11.36 kg) were often captured at different locations throughout the ponds during the study. Trapping data indicate a : ratio of 1:1.3 on the study area. 
3891179|Desert spiny lizards were studied at nine different localities between Mojave, California and Estero de Tastiota, Sonora, Mexico, from 1963 to 1970. The species is usually arboreal in association with a wide variety of trees or large cacti, but is sometimes terrestrial or saxicolous. Food consists primarily of ants and adult beetles. Adults consume a wider range of different-sized prey, contain more food items per stomach, and eat more of the smallest food items than do smaller lizards. Females >80 mm SVL are mature. Fourteen gravid females were collected from April to early August and contained an average of 8.4 eggs/clutch. Males mature at about 95 mm SVL and have enlarged testes from April to mid-June. Seasonal changes of abdominal fat bodies were irregular in females, but a gradual increase in fat body size occurred from spring to late summer in adult males, and a decrease during the same period in immatures. Body temperatures of active lizards in nature are maintained over a fairly narrow range (30.3-37.8 C) and average 34.8 C. Mean preferred body temperature of 6 lizards was significantly higher (36.7 C vs. 34.5 C) in a thermal gradient chamber after 2 months under laboratory conditions at 20-25 C. Older, larger lizards have higher frequencies of broken regenerated tails than smaller ones. The life history of S. magister appears closer to S. orcutti than to S. clarki or S. olivaceus among members of the spinosus group.
3892541|Agonistic behavior of Geochelone elephantopus was studied at the San Diego Zoo, California, and in the Galapagos, Ecuador. Neck extensions to several vertical postures occurred most often. Winners extended their heads higher than losers. Gapes and bite attempts occurred frequently, but physical contact was rarely observed. Males were dominant over females, and contacts between females were uncommon. Saddle-backed tortoises contacted one another more often and performed neck extensions and gapes more often than dome-shelled tortoises. Dominance in saddle-backed tortoises was related to shell shape and neck and limb length. The saddle-backed morphology appeared to increase the effectiveness of ritualized fighting.
3892988|The available information on the identity of the embryonic and adult cartilaginous elements in the anuran carpus is limited, often confusing, and sometimes even contradictory. Based on a comparative study of complete ontogenetic series of seven anuran species (representing three families), we map some of the diversity encountered in the ontogeny of the anuran carpus and propose an updated general scheme of homologies. Elements are identified by observation of the spatial patterns of early chondrogenetic condensations. We report the presence of an element that differentiates in association with the ulnare and propose it to be homologous to the intermedium of tetrapods. An unusual preaxial element that forms in the vicinity of the radiale is described. The absence of centralia in the anuran carpus is confirmed. Based on our analysis, we propose an unified nomenclature for the skeletal elements of the anuran carpus.
3891866| The Australian death adder (Acanthophis antarcticus) feeds mainly on lizards and small mammals with a higher proportion of endothermic prey being found in larger snakes than in smaller animals. Feeding rates and inferred growth rates are low, and sexual maturity is not attained until about 24 months () to 42 months () of age. Approximately half of the adult females are non-reproductive, suggesting that individual females reproduce only in alternate years. All of these features of the ecology of death adders are unusual among the elapids, but highly convergent with viperids. I interpret these convergences as adaptations to ambush foraging. 
4497954| We analyzed variation among Hylodes with nuptial tubercles using morphometrics, vocalization, and external morphology. We identified three species: Hylodes phyllodes from the Serra do Mar, State of So Paulo, and southern portion of the State of Rio de Janeiro; a new species from Ilha Grande, municipality of Angra dos Reis; and a new species from the Serra dos rgos, municipality of Guapimirim. The new species are both from the state of Rio de Janeiro, southeastern Brazil. 
3893257| Lacerta vivipara is a bimodal reproductive species of lizard with allopatric oviparous (egg-laying) and viviparous (live-bearing) populations. The demography of this species has previously been studied in several viviparous populations but has never been studied in oviparous populations. We present a four-year mark-recapture study, including estimates of survival rates and densities for two oviparous populations in the French Pyrnes. Densities fluctuated between 513 and 709 individuals/ha in the mountain population at Gabas and between 920 and 1830 individuals/ha in the lowland population at Louvie. Survival rates of juveniles from first clutches, subadults, and adults were generally higher at Louvie than at Gabas. These demographic characteristics are very likely responsible for the difference in density. Earlier maturity and higher annual fecundity (due to the ability to lay two clucthes/year) could also account for the higher density observed at Louvie. A comparison of demographic (density, survival) and reproductive (birth dates, maturity, reproductive frequency) characteristics of oviparous and viviparous natural populations reveal that oviparous populations occur under ecological conditions that allow (1) birth dates and age at first reproduction to be similar to those observed in viviparous populations and (2) density levels and annual fecundities to be at least comparable to (Gabas), or even greater than (Louvie), those observed in viviparous populations. Differences in survival rates between oviparous and viviparous populations were generally not clear-cut. Although these comparisons between allopatric oviparous and viviparous populations cannot be regarded as direct tests of the theories of the evolution of viviparity in reptiles, they yield data for future research (transplant experiments) designed to test these theories. 
25621889|Drymarchon couperi (eastern indigo snake) has experienced population declines across its range primarily as a result of extensive habitat loss, fragmentation, and degradation. Conservation efforts for D. couperi have been hindered, in part, because of informational gaps regarding the species, including a lack of data on population ecology and estimates of demographic parameters such as survival. We conducted a 2-year radiotelemetry study of D. couperi on Fort Stewart Military Reservation and adjacent private lands located in southeastern Georgia to assess individual characteristics associated with probability of survival. We used known-fate modeling to estimate survival, and an information-theoretic approach, based on a priori hypotheses, to examine intraspecific differences in survival probabilities relative to individual covariates (sex, size, size standardized by sex, and overwintering location). Annual survival in 2003 and 2004 was 0.89 (95% CI = 0.73-0.97, n = 25) and 0.72 (95% CI = 0.52-0.86; n = 27), respectively. Results indicated that body size, standardized by sex, was the most important covariate determining survival of adult D. couperi, suggesting lower survival for larger individuals within each sex. We are uncertain of the mechanisms underlying this result, but possibilities may include greater resource needs for larger individuals within each sex, necessitating larger or more frequent movements, or a population with older individuals. Our results may also have been influenced by analysis limitations because of sample size, other sources of individual variation, or environmental conditions.
3892856|Intra- and interpopulational variation in advertisement and release calls, and calling behavior were investigated in populations of the southwestern toad, Bufo microscaphus, in Arizona, California, and Utah. In populations from Arizona, chorusing activity was initiated independent of recent rainfall and usually occurred for a total of a few weeks each year. In a population of B. m. microscaphus from central Arizona, pulse rate and duration of the advertisement call were significantly correlated with temperature, but frequency was not influenced by temperature over a 5 C range. Dominant frequency of the advertisement call was not significantly correlated with snout-vent length within this single population. Temperature-adjusted pulse rate did not vary significantly among the populations, including B. m. californicus. Additionally, for both call duration and frequency, B. m. californicus was not significantly different from two of the three eastern populations of B. m. microscaphus. It appears that these taxa share specific mate recognition systems.
3891636|Dissections and laboratory observations reveal that Regina alleni (at least individuals > 300 mm total length): (1) feed almost exclusively on hard-shelled crayfishes, particularly Procambarus alleni and Procambarus fallax; (2) possess a specialized feeding behavior that includes immobilization by wrapping coils around the crayfish's body and ingesting it tail first; and (3) house an intestinal trematode (Telorchis sp.) that probably gains entrance into the snake through crayfish. A strategy that is used by crayfish (Procambarus fallax) to avoid predation by Regina alleni is also described.
3892926|Gonocephalus grandis and G. miotympanum have karyotypes consisting of 2N = 42 chromosomes forming two size groups. The smaller group comprises eight metacentric and 12 telocentric microchromosomes, whereas the larger group has 22 metacentric and submetacentric chromosomes. Slight interspecific differences were recognized in the centromeric positions of a few large pairs. These species are karyologically strikingly different from any other agamids including G. spinipes from Australia, and we suggest the possible presence of a zoogeographic dichotomy between Asian and Australian species currently assigned to the genus Gonocephalus.
3890639|The true gavial, Gavialis gangeticus, is a representative of a phyletic line which had already appeared by the early Eocene. The superficial resemblances of the gavials to the tomostomine crocodilians are not necessarily indicative of a monophyletic origin from an unknown eusuchian ancestor. The Eocene and Oligocene Fayum crocodilians formerly allocated to the genus Tomistoma should be removed from this genus and allocated tentatively to the broadened genus Gavialis.
3891177|Habitat and range of Sceloporus merriami are briefly discussed. Geographic and nongeographic variation are given detailed treatment involving analyses of several characters of scutellation and pattern. A new race is described from Presidio County, Texas.
3892943|Peripheral populations of Cnemidophorus tigris tigris and C. t. gracilis contacted one another a short distance south of Lake Mead at Detrital Wash, Mohave Co., Arizona. A canonical variates analysis revealed a pronounced shift from phenotypes of C. t. tigris to C. t. gracilis across a distance of only 16 km. A sample from the center of this transition area contained two discrete classes of specimens, (1) a group phenotypically intermediate to the two putative parental forms and (2) representatives of C. t. tigris. The presence of an intact parental phenotype from the center of the zone suggested the presence of an impediment to introgression. Nevertheless, individuals with recombinations of the dorsal and ventral color patterns of the two parental forms provided evidence of hybridization throughout the 41 km sampling transect. Free range expansion of the relatively small population of C. t. tigris is effectively blocked to the west, north, and east by physiographic features, and impeded to the south by suboptimal habitat and the population of C. t. gracilis. This provides an unusual opportunity to monitor the vulnerability of the phenotype of C. t. tigris to assimilation into a hybrid group.
3891755| Fifty-three species of anurans (six families) are reported from a study site at an elevation of 200 m on the Ro Llullapichis in Amazonian Per. The largest assemblage of species (26) is nocturnal and arboreal; of 21 terrestrial species, only 7 are nocturnal. More species (19) have the generalized reproductive mode (eggs and tadpoles in quiet water) than any other; 11 species have direct development of terrestrial eggs, whereas the remaining 23 species exhibit five additional reproductive modes. Comparison of the anuran community at the Ro Llullapichis with that at Santa Cecilia in Amazonian Ecuador reveals similar proportions of species in different habitats and utilizing the same modes of reproduction. 
3892041|Total body length, gut length, inside gut diameter, and the amount of inorganic material/unit volume of the gut were determined, and gut areas and volumes were calculated for 13 species of tadpoles plus specimens of Pseudacris triseriata in three ontogenetic stages and from two habitats. These measurements may be indicative of the feeding role of the tadpoles, but habitat, ontogeny, and population structure may modify these results. At present, it appears that tadpoles thought to be carnivorous have shorter and less voluminous guts than herbivorous tadpoles, and ones that are thought to feed away from the bottom have less inorganic material in the gut than bottom forms.
3892330|Populations of arboreal frogs (Eleutherodactylus coqui) were studied at two elevations in the Luqillo Mountains of eastern Puerto Rico. Males at elevations of 660-750 m were larger than males at 340-370 m. Males at the higher elevation produced the first note ("Co") and the second note ("Qui") of the advertisement call at greater mean intensities than males at the lower elevation. Sound radiation patterns of 14 males were measured; 11 were found to be nondirectional and three were directional. Calling males most often sat vertically oriented at elevated, partially protected sites. These results are discussed in relation to the known functions of the call notes of E. coqui.
3892400|Previous studies have shown that juvenile lizards of Anolis aeneus prefer to acquire territories in areas already occupied by conspecifics. However, in those experiments both the potential settlers and the established territory owners were small in body size. The current study investigates two effects of size on preferences for previously used habitats by juvenile lizards. When presented with a choice of two homesites, one of which had been previously occupied by a conspecific, small juvenile residents showed significantly stronger preferences for "used" territories than did large residents under comparable conditions. These results suggest that younger, less experienced individuals rely more heavily on conspecifics as cues to territory quality than do older, more experienced individuals. In a second experiment, hatchlings arriving in juvenile habitat were offered a choice between homesites near established residents and comparable homesites near unoccupied habitat. The new arrivals exhibited a strong preference for the occupied area when the previous residents in that area were small, but this preference was reduced or reversed when the established residents were large. These results suggest that juveniles are attracted to established residents, but that this attraction is reduced if the established residents are much more competitive that the potential settlers.
3893074| Thoraciliacus rostriceps, an early Cretaceous anuran from Israel, is a moderately small frog (approximately 32 mm snout-vent length) characterized by a large head; an opisthocoelous vertebral column; a narrow, only moderately dilated sacrum; a long pelvic girdle; relatively short hind limbs; and large hands and feet. Included in the peculiar mlange of characters are the presence of pedicellate, bicuspid teeth; a broad azygous frontoparietal; and vertebral centra that are round in cross-section and apparently notochordal. The bicapitate scapula is well developed and the ischium exceedingly large. Thoraciliacus lacks an Eustachian canal and free ribs as an adult. The results of this study are compared with previous descriptions of this taxon, and a new reconstruction of the skeleton is presented. The combination of characters present in Thoraciliacus justifies its continued inclusion in Pipoidea, but excludes it from Pipidae, as this family of archaeobatrachian anurans is currently defined. 
3892380|Upstream and downstream (= drift) movements of plethodontid salamanders were studied in an Appalachian stream using drift net sampling. Eurycea bislineata predominated in these samples; other species taken, in order of decreasing abundance, were Desmognathus quadramaculatus, D. ochrophaeus, and (tied) D. monticola and Pseudotriton ruber. In E. bislineata, downstream movements predominated over upstream movements. Downstream samples were dominated by first-year larvae, whereas the smaller upstream samples contained higher proportions of second-year larvae and metamorphosed individuals. In comparing upstream and downstream samples, the higher frequency of first-year larvae in the latter represented a significant difference, but frequencies of second-year larvae and metamorphosed individuals did not differ significantly between samples. For E. bislineata, I conclude that upstream movements are not sufficient to compensate for downstream drift, mainly of first-year larvae. Thus, in this species, drift may represent a density-dependent means of population regulation. Bottom samples of E. bislineata taken by dip net above and below the drift net zone showed slight differences in age-class frequencies, with the upper sample having more first-year larvae and adults than the lower sample. Drift net results for the other four species, though meager, followed the trend observed in E. bislineata.
23352172|Terrestrial amphibians may dehydrate when exposed to low humidity, representing an important factor affecting spatial distribution and community composition. In this study we investigated whether rates of dehydration and rehydration are able to explain the spatial distribution of an anuran community in a Restinga environment at the northern coast of the State of Bahia, Brazil, represented by 11 species distributed in 27 sample units. The environmental data set containing 20 variables was reduced to a few synthetic axes by principal component analysis (PCA). Physiological variables measured were rates of dehydration, rehydration from water, and rehydration from a neutral substrate. Multiple regression analyses were used to test the null hypothesis of no association between the environmental data set (synthetic axes of PCA) and each axis representative of a physiological variable, which was rejected (P < 0.001). Of 15 possible partial regressions only rehydration rate from neutral substrate vs. PC1 and PC2, rehydration rate from water vs. PC1, and dehydration rate vs. PC2 were significant. Our analysis was influenced by a gradient between two different groups of sample units: a beach area with high density of bromeliads and an environment without bodies of water with low density of bromeliads. Species of very specific natural history and morphological characters occur in these environments: Phyllodytes melanomystax and Scinax auratus, species frequently occurring in terrestrial bromeliads, and Ischnocnema paulodutrai, common along the northern coast of Bahia and usually found in forest remnants within environments with low number of bodies of water. In dry environments species with lower rates of dehydration were dominant, whereas species showing greater rates of dehydration were found predominantly in microhabitats with greater moisture or abundance of bodies of water.
3893443| Four species of Tropidurus live in the vicinity of the Serrana de Huanchaca, an isolated mountain range overlapping the northeastern border of Bolivia and Brazil. We describe three of the four species as new to science. A new saxicolous species is most similar to T. melanopleurus. Like T. melanopleurus, females of the new species are smaller and more brightly colored than males. A new arboreal species resembles T. spinulosus and differs most strikingly by its squamation and brighter coloration. A second new saxicolous species resembles T. etheridgei and appears to develop gravid coloration, a phenomenon widespread among iguanians but previously unreported for species of Tropidurus. Tropidurus umbra ochrocollaris from the Serrana de Huanchaca is ecologically and morphologically similar to T. u. ochrocollaris elsewhere in Amazonia, but it has a short dorsal crest like the nominate race. Tropidurus spinulosus guarani Alvarez, Cei, and Scolaro is accorded specific status. 
3891794|Southeastern crowned snakes (Tantilla coronata) were sampled during 1979 from five types of habitat in South Carolina. Males and females did not differ in snout-vent length (SVL) or body mass, but tail length was sexually dimorphic. Mature adults ranged in size from 160-250 mm SVL. Two juveniles were taken in August and September; juveniles represented a disproportionately small part of the snakes collected. The sex ratio of adults was 2:1 in favor of males. Tantilla coronata were most active during July and August, and the number of captures was significantly associated with maximum and minimum air temperatures but not with temperature range or rainfall. Within habitats, xeric locations were more often utilized than mesic locations, but Carolina bays and pine plantations were equally used.
3893622|Prey animals may enhance their fitness by avoiding predators, but unnecessary responses to predators that pose little threat may be maladaptive. Dietary cues from predators may be used by prey individuals to identify "dangerous" predators (i.e., those that have been feeding on conspecific prey), and consequently to minimize needless reactions to cues from innocuous animals. We tested for the presence of diet-mediated antipredator responses in a terrestrial system involving wandering garter snake predators (Thamnophis elegans) and amphibian prey (spotted frogs, Rana luteiventris; long-toed salamanders, Ambystoma macrodactylum; and Pacific tree frogs, Pseudacris regilla). Wild-caught prey were exposed to cues from predators fed heterospecific (worm) versus conspecific diets in two-sided behavioral arenas, and patterns of selection for particular sides of the arena were assessed. We found that none of the amphibian prey species responded to differences in the diet of their predator, but two species avoided cues associated with injured conspecifics. These results suggest that some amphibians lack the capacity to distinguish between "dangerous" and "safe" predators, possibly due to historically low levels of predation, or because their predators possess the ability to break down or mask cues allowing for such discrimination. However, given that our experimental protocol tested for a single metric of predation risk reduction (i.e., behavioral avoidance), further analyses will be required to determine whether diet-dependent antipredator behavior is largely absent from this predator-prey system.
3893185|We review the taxonomic history and status of the poorly known endemic New Guinea microhylid Choerophryne. Available material indicates at least three species belong to this genus: C. rostellifer (Wandolleck); C. proboscidea, van Kampen, resurrected from the synonymy of C. rostellifer; and a new species. Diagnostic features and detailed descriptions are provided for each species, and neotypes are designated for the two previously named species so as to avoid continued taxonomic confusion within the genus.
23254563|We describe a new species of brachycephalid frog from Atlantic forest of Serra do Morato, Municipality of Guaraqueaba, state of Paran, Brazil. Brachycephalus tridactylus sp. nov. is characterized by the absence of external trace of finger IV, orange color in life, dorsolateral and ventrolateral regions with regular small olive-gray spots, and ventral region and thighs orange with olive-grayish irregular coalescent spots and small dots; skin on the dorsum of head and central body dorsum smooth with no dermal coossification. The advertisement call of the new species has a single short note that decreases in dominant frequency from beginning to end.
3891080| The identities of eight nominal species of hylid frogs are discussed. These are recognized as comprising three species; each is redescribed on the basis of series of fresh material. Hyla quinquefasciata Fowler, 1913, is a member of the Hyla rubra group occurring on the Pacific lowlands of Ecuador and Colombia; it is most like the Central American Hyla elaeochroa, from which it differs in coloration. Hyla funerea (Cope, 1874) is known from the upper Amazon Basin in Eucador and Per; it is a member of the Hyla rubra group (sensu lato); Hyla depressiceps Boulenger, 1882, and Hyla rubra inconspicua Melin, 1941, are junior synonyms. Hyla pellucens Werner, 1901, is a member of the Hyla albomarginata group occurring on the Pacific lowlands of Ecuador and Colombia and is most closely related to the Central America Hyla rufitela, from which it differs in coloration and mating call; Hyla pulicaria Werner, 1901, Hyla rubracyla Cochran and Goin, 1970, and Hyla guibei Cochran and Goin, 1970, are junior synonyms. 
3893532|Many techniques commonly used by herpetologists for monitoring amphibian populations and communities yield censuses of the total adult population size (N). However, for many studies, e.g., of reproductive output, development of populations and potential for evolutionary changes, the effective population size (N
3893079|Eggs, hatchlings, and tadpoles of bufonids are unpalatable or toxic to some aquatic predators but are readily consumed by other species without ill effect. We investigated the effects of toxic Bufo marinus on potential predators (tadpoles) which are phylogenetically related but which differ in their history of evolutionary exposure to B. marinus. Our aim was to determine whether the behavioral and/or physiological responses of tadpoles to toxic B. marinus varied depending on their history of evolutionary exposure to these toxins. Dead tadpoles of B. marinus and other species were offered as food to anuran larvae in controlled laboratory experiments in native (Brazil) and exotic (Australia) habitats of B. marinus. Tadpoles in Brazil consumed dead tadpoles of B. marinus without any apparent ill effect but avoided them when alternate food was available. In contrast, the majority of Australian tadpoles died after consuming dead tadpoles of B. marinus. The tendency of Australian tadpoles to avoid consuming larval B. marinus when alternate food was available varied widely. Some species largely avoided larval B. marinus and experienced high survival rates. Other species, however, did not avoid consuming tadpoles of B. marinus and experienced low survival rates. Differences in the responses of tadpoles in Brazil and Australia to toxic B. marinus may result from differences in their evolutionary histories of exposure to these toxins.
3890762|Oxygen consumption and body temperatures were measured in active and resting whiptail lizards (Teiidae, Cnemidophorus). When active near the eccritic body temperature, whiptails (1) consume over 2 cc O
3892602| Sceloporus mucronatus is a high altitude viviparous lizard with a seasonal reproductive cycle involving distinct periods of gonadal activity followed by an interval of regression and quiescence. Monthly samples of a single population in the Parque Nacional Ajusco, D.F. Mxico, provide specimens representing all stages of gametogenesis. Spermatogenesis was initiated in October at a time of low testicular volume. Spermiogenesis coincided with maximal testicular volume during the summer months (May through August) and spermatozoa were present in epididymides in June, July, and August. Interstitial cells occurred in greatest abundance from May-July. Vitellogenesis commenced in June with ovulation occurring in October. Corpora lutea persisted throughout the winter gestation. Atretic follicles were present in the vitellogenic phase and throughout embryonic development. Timing of sperm maturation and ovulation differs, indicating that germ cell maturation and gonadal cycle are not synchronized between sexes. /// Sceloporus mucronatus es una lagartija vivpara que presenta un ciclo reproductor estacional, el cual involucra diferentes fases de actividad gonadal con un intervalo de regresin y uno de reposo. De colectas mensuales durante un ao, de una poblacin de Sceloporus mucronatus del Parque Nacional Ajusco, D.F. Mxico, a una altitud de 3300 metros, se obtuvieron especmenes representando todas las fases de la gametognesis para ambos sexos. La espermatognesis se inici en octubre, con la proliferacin de espermatogonias. En los meses invernales, cuando los testculos presentan el volumen ms bajo hay una gran produccin de espermatocitos primarios y secundarios. La espermiognesis ocurre cuando se presentan los mximos valores en: volumen testicular, dimetro de los tbulos seminferos y tamao de las clulas epiteliales del epiddimo durante los meses ms clidos (mayo a agosto), coincidiendo adems, con el mximo nmero de clulas intersticiales y volumen nuclear de las mismas, as como con la mayor cantidad de espermatozoides en tbulos seminferos y en epiddimo. Las hembras tambin muestran cuatro fases durante su ciclo reproductor, sin embargo, el tiempo de mayor actividad difiere del de los machos. La vitelognesis comienza en junio y la ovulacin ocurre en octubre, inmediatamente despus se forma el cuerpo lteo, el cual persiste a travs de la gestacin invernal. Los folculos atrsicos se encuentran presentes en el ovario durante la vitelognesis y tambin durante el desarrollo embrionario. El tiempo de maduracin de espermatozoides y de la ovulacin difieren, indicando que la maduracin de las clulas germinales y el ciclo gonadal no se encuentra sincronizado entre los dos sexos. 
3890817| Sceloporus gadoviae, S. nelsoni, and S. pyrocephalus comprise the pyrocephalus species group. All have a diploid number of 34 chromosomes, including 12 bi-armed macrochromosomes and 22 microchromosomes, and each species has an inconspicuous XY():XX() sex chromosome system. Despite these similarities, small interspecific differences in centromere positions occur in these karyotypes. These differences probably resulted from unequal pericentric inversions. 
3892567|Data on calls and snout-vent lengths of 25 species of frogs from open habitat of the Central Amazon, Brazil and 31 species from forest habitat were compared. Frogs from open and forested habitats had calls that differed significantly in mean dominant frequency and sound type (i.e., tonal or broadband). However, these differences were associated with differences in body size and phylogenetic relationships and did not appear to be related to habitat type. Calling station microhabitat and variable transmission ranges are suggested as possible factors that might obscure a correlation of call structure with habitat type. However, there was some evidence that call pulse rate was lower in species that called in dense vegetation. Therefore, theories that relate the structure of acoustic signals to habitat acoustics in birds and monkeys could not be used to explain most gross structural differences between Central Amazonian open habitat and forest frog calls.
41238975|Knowledge of life history and population demography of threatened amphibians is poor. I used skeletochronology in conjunction with mark-recapture data to examine growth rates, age at maturity, and longevity of the spotted tree frog, Litoria spenceri, a critically endangered Australian species. Ages were reliably determined for 578 individuals across two populations at 335-and 1110-m elevation. Females attained larger body sizes than males and took longer to reach sexual maturity, consistent with most anurans. Males matured at 2 yr and females at 3-4 yr at lower elevations, whereas at higher elevations, males matured at 3-4 yr and females took up to 6 yr to mature, which is slow compared with most anurans. Overall, L. spenceri is long-lived, with a maximum confirmed age of 14 yr. These life history attributes have implications for population dynamics of L. spenceri, which may have markedly different demographic responses to certain threatening processes compared with faster growing, shorter lived species. This study highlights the value and need for more life history and demographic data on threatened species. Generalizations about population demography and dynamics across environmental gradients should be made cautiously.
41406801|Detailed observations on interactions between parasites and prospective hosts during the infection process can clarify (1) the routes by which parasites enter the host and (2) the ability of prospective hosts to detect, avoid, or resist potential parasites. Such information can clarify determinants of host vulnerability. Infective larvae of the nematode Rhabdias pseudosphaerocephala entered the bodies of their anuran host the Cane Toad (Rhinella marina, formerly Bufo marinus) primarily through the orbit (i.e., by crawling over the surface of the toad's eye) rather than by burrowing through the skin (believed to be the usual route of infection for rhabditid parasites). In our experimental infections, metamorph Cane Toads detected infective R. pseudosphaerocephala larvae but did not avoid them, nor did they manage to restrict rates of infective larvae penetration by using behavioral means (the toads kicked at infective larvae but failed to dislodge them). Rhabdias pseudosphaerocephala cause damage to their toad host during the process of host entry and throughout the ensuing infection. Despite the high cost of infection and the low cost of avoidance, metamorph Cane Toads seem to lack effective parasite avoidance strategies.
3892595|The fire salamander, Salamandra salamandra, has the ability to spray defensive secretions. The sprays contain neurotoxins and are projected directionally at high velocity (>300 cm/s) in response to simulated predator attack. The greatly enlarged, specialized skin glands are individually encased by connective tissue sheaths and embedded in the epaxial musculature. This evolutionarily derived arrangement allows contractions of surrounding muscles to pressurize the gland contents to above 300 cm H
3891951| The chromosomes of the Texas coral snake, Micrurus fulvius tenere, were examined to provide comparative information on karyotypes within the family Elapidae. The diploid number of 32 (16 macrochromosomes and 16 microchromosomes) is the lowest reported in this family. All chromosome pairs are homomorphic except pair 6, which is heteromorphic in   only. This karyotype differs from that of the South American Micrurus lemniscatus carvalhoi by having no telocentric macrochromosomes and 4 fewer microchromosomes. It is superficially similar to that of Naja naja kaouthia in that both have 8 pairs of biarmed macrochromosomes, but the 2 karyotypes do not have a close pair-for-pair correspondence; the karyotype of M. f. tenere also has 6 fewer microchromosomes. 
3891750|In northeastern Tennessee, male Plethodon richmondi attain sexual maturity during the third year of life and females during the fourth year. Mating takes place from November to March, and egg deposition probably occurs the following May. Females surviving the first reproductive season may exhibit a biennial cycle of egg-laying. Mean clutch size is 8.3. Comparison with sympatric Plethodon cinereus reveals differences in the time juveniles emerge onto the surface and in age of females at maturity. It is suggested that size differences correlated with these differences in the life cycle may reduce food competition between the two species.
24634280|Based on 2431 captures of 757 individual frogs over a 9-yr period, we found that the population of R. sierrae in one meadowstream complex in Yosemite National Park ranged from an estimated 45 to 115 adult frogs. Rana sierrae at our relatively low elevation site (2200 m) grew at a fast rate (K = 0.730.78), had high overwintering survival rates (44.695%), lived a long time (up to 16 yr), and tended to be fairly sedentary during the summer (100% minimum convex polygon annual home ranges of 139 m2) but had low year-to-year site fidelity. Even though the amphibian chytrid fungus (Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, Bd) has been present in the population for at least 13 yr, there was no clear downward trend as might be expected from reports of R. sierrae population declines associated with Bd or from reports of widespread population decline of R. sierrae throughout its range.
3890837|Effects of hypophysectomy and of administration of TSH (0.02 USP units/g body weight) and human chorionic gonadotropin (0.8 unit/g body weight) on the functional integrity of the gonad of the oviparous snake, Arizona, were studied. Hypophysectomy prevented resumption of spermatogenesis after a postnuptial break. Spermatogenesis in the seminiferous tubules of hypophysectomized snakes was restored and indeed stimulated beyond normal by administration of either TSH or human chorionic gonadotropin. Hypophysectomy impaired egg laying and resulted in retention of eggs in the oviduct. Neither TSH nor human chorionic gonadotropin was effective in restoring normal egg laying. It is suggested that egg laying, like parturition, requires participation of the posterior pituitary hormone.
3893224|Male carpenter frogs, Rana virgatipes, have a complex vocal repertoire including advertisement and single-note aggressive call types. The primary frequency of the advertisement call was lower than that of the single-note aggressive call. In contrast, the secondary frequency of the advertisement call, defined as the frequency of greatest energy excluding the primary frequency, was higher than the secondary frequency of the aggressive call and more variable than any other measured frequency. I conducted two playback experiments using male frogs as subjects. In the first, I compared the advertisement calls emitted before and after bouts of aggressive calling that were elicited by simulated vocal intrusions on subjects' calling sites. After aggressive calling, males emitted an advertisement call with lower secondary frequency, fewer notes, and longer note duration. In the second experiment, I used two synthesized advertisement calls as stimuli. Both had identical primary frequencies but differed in secondary frequency by 600 Hz (1500 versus 2100 Hz). Males emitted a higher rate of aggressive calls in response to the 1500 Hz stimulus. A lower secondary frequency makes the frequency structure of an advertisement call more like an aggressive call. This study suggests that in aggressive contexts, males alter the secondary frequency of their advertisement calls towards that of aggressive calls, while maintaining other temporal and spectral properties of the advertisement call that may be important in female choice.
3893113|The spadefoot toad Scaphiopus couchii lives in desert environments and has the shortest larval period known among anurans. We compared the larval period of Sc. couchii with that of a sympatric relative, Spea multiplicata, under identical laboratory conditions. It was possible that (A) Sp. multiplicata might metamorphose as fast as Sc. couchii when both taxa were reared under the same conditions, because larval periods are phenotypically plastic, or (B) Sc. couchii might metamorphose more quickly even under identical conditions due to taxon-specific physiological control of larval period length. We reared six clutches of Sc. couchii and Sp. multiplicata under laboratory conditions, varying in temperature, food type, and density to test for differences in growth and development between these taxa. Rearing conditions affected the larval period in both species, but within each condition, Sc. couchii developed 1.2-1.5 times faster and metamorphosed 4-6 days earlier than Sp. multiplicata. Also, Sc. couchii grew 2-3-fold slower in body and tail length and 10-20-fold slower in mass and metamorphosed at half the length and about 14% the mass compared to Sp. multiplicata. Because no rearing condition altered the rank order differences between taxa in growth and development, these taxa may differ in physiological mechanisms underlying larval period lengths. We discuss these consistent differences between taxa in terms of their physiological, ecological, and evolutionary significance.
3891077| The reticulate collared lizard, Crotaphytus reticulatus Baird, inhabits the thorn brush desert of the Tamaulipan biotic province of southern Texas and adjacent Mxico. The species is wary, habitually seeking refuge in brush piles, Opuntia thickets, pack rat nests, or in rodent burrows. Diel activity follows a general pattern which begins with early morning basking, followed by prey searching, intensive sunning activity, retreat during extreme temperatures, and re-emergence for afternoon basking and limited foraging until dusk. Seasonal activity may start as early as 8 February; the latest seasonal record is for 22 September. Winter dormancy may occur in relatively shallow retreats. Mating takes place between mid-April and early June. There is evidence for two clutches of eggs during the season. Mean clutch size is 9.8 eggs. Hatchlings have an average snout-vent length of 35.3 mm. Food consists chiefly of grasshoppers as well as insects associated with the blooms of perennial shrubs. Smaller lizards and snakes are also eaten. 
3892623|Previous studies have identified two phases of a tadpole's development during which selection should favor rapid growth and development: (1) small, young stages and (2) metamorphic stages. However, no previous study has examined size selectivity of tadpoles by large vertebrate predators such as birds. In a series of field experiments using free-ranging great kiskadees (Pitangus sulphuratus) and four size classes of tadpoles of Pleurodema borelli, we document that the birds greatly preferred the larger of two classes of tadpoles offered in pairwise combinations. Given a choice between two densities of tadpoles, great kiskadees preferred to forage where density was higher. At both densities of tadpoles, the birds chose primarily the larger tadpoles.
27669747|A new species of fanged frog (genus Limnonectes) is described from Davao Del Norte Province, eastern Mindanao Island, Philippines. The new species can be diagnosed on the basis of external morphology, with notable diagnostic features being its moderately large size (79.6 and 84.3 mm SVL for two males and 69.3 mm SVL for the single available female specimen), the possession of white-tipped dorsal asperities, arrangement of asperities into distinct circular clusters throughout the skin of the dorsum, a completely visible tympanum, fully webbed feet, and moderately large odontoid processes of the lower jaw. Discovery of the new species emphasizes the degree to which the biodiversity of the Mindanao Faunal Region currently is misunderstood.
25209126|We analyzed and described quantitative differences in morphology and calls of Physalaemus petersi and P. freibergi, both members of the monophyletic Physalaemus pustulosus species group. We found significant differences between the two species in both morphometric and call parameters. Physalaemus petersi has proportionately longer legs and a narrower dorsum and head than P. freibergi. The calls of P. petersi are higher in frequency and longer than P. freibergi. Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA) of morphometric variables correctly classified 76.7-87.4% of individuals to species. DFA of call variables correctly classified 96.8-100.0% of males to species. Physalaemus petersi is found north of the Ro Maraon and Ro Amazonas in eastern Ecuador, northeastern Peru, and southeastern Colombia; P. freibergi is found south of these rivers in Amazonian Brazil, southeastern Peru, and Amazonian Bolivia. Calls and geographic locations are the most reliable means of identifying these species in the field. /// Analizamos y describimos diferencias cuantitativas en la morfologa y los cantos de anuncio de Physalaemus petersi y P. freibergi, ambos miembros del grupo monofiltico de especies Physalaemus pustulosus. Encontramos diferencias significativas entre las dos especies en parmetros morfomtricos y de cantos de anuncio. Physalaemus petersi tiene piernas proporcionalmente ms largas y un dorso y cabeza ms estrechos que P. freibergi. Los cantos de P. petersi son ms altos en frecuencia y ms largos que los de P. freibergi. Un Anlisis de Funcin Discriminante (AFD) de variables morfomtricas clasific correctamente 76.7-87.4% de los individuos a cada especie. La AFD de variables de cantos clasific correctamente 96.8-100.0% de machos a cada especie. Physalaemus petersi se distribuye al norte del Ro Maraon y del Ro Amazonas en el este de Ecuador, noreste de Per, y sureste de Colombia; P. freibergi se distribuye al sur de estos ros en la Amazona de Brasil, el sureste de Per, y la Amazona de Bolivia. Los cantos y la ubicacin geogrfica son la manera ms confiable de identificar estas especies en el campo.
3891706|Amphibians and reptiles are reported from 4 Miocene sites of the Gulf Coastal Plain of Texas. One site is considered to represent the Hemingfordian mammal age, and the other 3 sites are considered to be Barstovian mammal age. Four salamanders, 4 anurans, 1 crocodilian, 1 lizard, and 9 snakes are discussed. New forms include the salamanders Siren miotexana sp. nov. and Amphiuma antica sp. nov.; the lizard Eumeces miobsoletus sp. nov.; and the snake Texasophis fossilis gen. et sp. nov. Differences between the Texas Barstovian fauna and the lower Valentine Barstovian fauna in north-central Nebraska may be due to the existence of a much lower energy aquatic system in Texas than in Nebraska and a climatic deterioration in Nebraska during the late Miocene.
3893620|Caudal luring is a behavior used by many ambush-foraging snakes that increases their encounter rate with prey. In this study, we used the dusky pigmy rattlesnake, Sistrurus miliarius barbouri, in a series of trials involving prey and measured the frequency and duration of caudal luring. This behavior varied ontogenetically, with adults never performing caudal luring. Juveniles that lured for longer durations were more successful in attracting prey. Males and females caudal lured in equal frequency but females took longer time periods to achieve a similar level of foraging success. Because the tails are sexually dimorphic in this species, we suggest that the longer tail of the male may be a more effective luring device. This is the first quantification of a sex difference in caudal luring, and the results suggest important differences in foraging ecology among males and females.
3892531|The Clarkforkian Land-Mammal Age is the transitional Paleocene-Eocene interval in the history of North American vertebrates. The Clarkforkian reptile fauna may be distinguished from earlier Paleocene faunas by the occurrence of the horned alligator Ceratosuchus and the anguid lizard Melanosaurus. A more dramatic faunal change occurs at the Clarkforkian-Wasatchian boundary when champsosaurs and Ceratosuchus disappear, emydid turtles and glyptosaurine lizards undergo significant radiations, and several families of turtles presumably migrate into the region. The Bighorn Basin Clarkforkian reptile assemblage is dominated by large aquatic taxa such as champsosaurs, alligators (Allognathosuchus in particular), the crocodylid Leidyosuchus, and trionychid and emydid turtles. The terrestrial component of this fauna is far less abundant and diverse, containing no snakes or distinctly terrestrial turtles and only two abundant lizards, Melanosaurus and the small anguid Machaerosaurus.
3893566|Anurans that breed in plant-held water bodies (phytotelmata) often have larvae with unique modifications for surviving in micro-aquatic environments. These larvae are exposed to severe abiotic conditions (e.g., food limitation, low dissolved oxygen levels, risk of desiccation), and multiple cohorts are frequently found in the same container. To test for cannibalism and interactions among cohorts in two phytotelm-dwelling anuran larvae (Mantidactylus bicalcaratus and M. punctatus) from Madagascar, I reared larvae in experimental microcosms. Larvae of both species had significantly faster growth rates in a high detritus treatment compared to the control (P < 0.0001). The experimental evidence also demonstrated that the larvae of these two species display no cannibalistic behavior, regardless of multiple cohorts, sibling relationships, density, or food and water levels. These data indicate that larvae of both species obtain most or all of their nutrition from eating detritus and the organisms associated with detritus. In M. punctatus, experiments with multiple cohorts indicate that competition for food is strongest within, not among, cohorts, and I found no evidence for a priority effect. Relatively low stage-specific mortality, along with a prolonged breeding season, philopatry, and a lack of predatory behavior, may explain why cannibalistic behavior has not evolved in these species.
25209108|The costs of an aquatic life are likely to be strongly influenced by an animal's buoyancy, which can be measured as specific gravity (SG). The shells of chelonians are negatively buoyant, and the tendency to sink is opposed by air in the lungs. Turtles can therefore regulate buoyancy by adjusting residual lung volume, but must do so within the constraint of a relatively fixed body volume set by the rigid shell. Emydids have been reported to effect changes in lung volume with reciprocal changes in the volume of water stored in the urinary bladder and, perhaps, for rapid short-term adjustments, the cloacal bursae. We examined buoyancy control in two species, the eastern painted turtle Chrysemys picta (Emydidae), which has well-developed cloacal bursae, and the common musk turtle Sternotherus odoratus (Kinosternidae), which lacks bursae. We measured SG in captive turtles, then manipulated SG by attaching either weights or floats, and measured SG again at 4 h and 24 h after attachment. Initial SG was consistently and significantly higher in bottom-walking Sternotherus (1.03) than in more free-swimming Chrysemys (1.01). Both species compensated nearly completely for weights up to 6% of body mass by decreasing weight in water (reflecting higher lung volumes); compensation in both species was mostly complete at 4 h. Both species also compensated for attached floats (buoyant forces equivalent to up to 4% of body mass in Sternotherus and at least 7% in Chrysemys) by decreasing lung volume. Lung volume changes (gauged by underwater weight) were not matched by changes in stored water volume (gauged by body mass in air) in Sternotherus and only partially matched in Chrysemys. Changes in lung volume did not affect surfacing frequency. Small differences in buoyancy regulation between species reflect differences in natural history and, presumably, morphology, but neither the mechanisms of chronic lung-volume maintenance nor the function of cloacal bursae are clear.
3893465|We conducted behavioral trials to determine if egg preference by female northern dusky salamanders (Desmognathus fuscus) is influenced by the developmental age of their eggs. Within 72 h of oviposition, we divided 41 clutches in half and monitored the time the female spent with each of the genetically similar half-clutches. We then reared the eggs for 21 days in darkness under two temperature regimes (13 and 23 C) to produce a developmentally advanced and delayed half-clutch for each female. Initially, females divided their time almost equally between half-clutches. After thermal manipulation of embryo development, females spent the majority of their time with the developmentally advanced half-clutch. Of the 25 respondents included in the second trial, 21 spent >60%, and 15 spent more than 80% of their time in the presence of developed eggs. We hypothesize that females assess the developmental status of their eggs in order to optimize the tradeoff between the costs and benefits of parental care.
3893328|We investigated whether a relationship exists between the number of lamellae and the height and diameter of perches utilized by a diverse set of anoline lizards. Although the number of lamellae on both the fore- and hindfoot is related to both ecological variables, these results are confounded by body size. When the effect of size is removed, the number of lamellae is related to perch height, but not perch diameter. When the data are analyzed in a phylogenetic framework, results are similar, but only the number of lamellae on the forefoot is related to perch height. Consequently, although inter- and intraspecific correlations exist among the number of lamellae on different toes of the fore- and hindfeet, examining the number of lamellae on a single toe may be insufficient for ecomorphological analyses.
3892239|Seasonal changes in water balance, energetics, food consumption, daily behavior, diet, osmoregulation and body mass were measured using doubly labeled water, radiotelemeters, and field behavior observations of tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) through a year (1976-1977) in Rock Valley, Nevada. Aboveground activity extended over the warm seasons (between March and November), and tortoises hibernated in burrows through winter. In spring, tortoises were active for about 3 h every fourth day. Some drank rainwater and they all gained weight while eating succulent annual plants, which provided excess water and potassium that were stored in the urinary bladder, but energy intake was less than required to meet energy expenses via respiration, and body solids declined. As food plants dried in late spring, tortoises eventually achieved positive energy balance while eating grasses, but body masses declined due to negative water balance. Bladder urine became isosmotic with blood plasma, and both became more concentrated. As the summer drought continued, feeding diminished and tortoises spent progressively more time estivating in burrows. Thundershowers in July triggered emergence from estivation, and tortoises drank much rainwater, voided concentrated urine, accumulated dilute urine, restored normal plasma osmotic concentration, resumed feeding on the still-dry grasses and forbs, and accumulated much surplus energy. However, body masses declined during this time due to negative water balance, and osmotic concentrations in bladder urine increased. More rain in September again relieved this osmotic stress as tortoises drank, urinated, and stored dilute urine. Energy balance remained strongly positive until tortoises began feeding on the succulent new sprouts of annual plants that germinated in late September, and the tortoises returned to a spring-like physiological situation through mid-November when hibernation began. Tortoises apparently relinquish maintenance of internal homeostasis on a daily basis during most of the year, while tolerating large imbalances in their water, energy and salt budgets. This ability enables them to exploit resources that are only available periodically, while balancing their water and salt budgets on an annual basis and showing an energetic profit. The environmental properties of rainfall (beneficial to tortoises) and dietary potassium content (deleterious) appear to have major effects on the health of these impressive reptiles.
3892551|Hyla ebraccata males reduce their calling rates and proportion of multi-note calls when exposed to choruses of H. microcephala. The calls of these species overlap spectrally. We presented calling male H. ebraccata with filtered one-third octave noise centered at 2, 3, 4 and 6 kHz to assess their responses to acoustical stimuli shifted from the dominant frequency of their calls (3 kHz). The 3 kHz noise was most effective in reducing calling rate and multi-note calling. Our results suggest that the latter shift in behavior is due to the masking of the vocalizations of nearby males which elicit multi-note calls. Since all frequencies of noise except 6 kHz reduced calling rates in most frogs, these animals are potentially responsive to background noise generated by a number of anuran species in their environment. Calling by H. ebraccata also is inhibited by choruses of H. phlebodes. There is less frequency overlap between the calls of H. ebraccata and H. phlebodes than between H. ebraccata and H. microcephala. We demonstrate that male H. ebraccata that shift the timing of their calls in response to background noise have a selective advantage. In a two-choice experiment, female H. ebraccata discriminated against conspecific advertisement calls which were overlapped by a recorded chorus of H. microcephala.
3890850| Anolis carpenteri, a small, green species with an orange dewlap and smooth ventrals, is named from the Ro Reventazn, Turrialba, Cartago Province, Costa Rica. Resemblance is closest to A. fuscoauratus, A. biscutiger, A. limifrons, and A. trochilus (currently considered a synonym of limifrons), but carpenteri differs from each in several well-defined characters. The species was found in relatively open riparian habitat below the high water mark and was scansorial on lichen-covered rocks, tree trunks and shrubs. The territorial display is described. 
27669733|Cycloramphus jordanensis was described based on a single preserved specimen from Campos do Jordo (22 44 S, 45 35 W), State of So Paulo, Brazil. While examining the holotype; we noticed the presence of toe and tarsal fringes. Because these characters are absent in Cycloramphus, we suspected that the species was mistakenly placed in the genus. X-ray images of the holotype revealed T-shaped terminal phalanges and fang-like teeth. Together with the presence of toe and tarsal fringes, these characters squarely place the specimen in the genus Megaelosia. Considering the striking niche differences between Cycloramphus and Megaelosia, we expect the new combination will facilitate location of new individuals of this rare frog.
41406824|The loss and fragmentation of pristine habitat restrict specialized species to remnants of original habitat patches in a less suitable landscape. This may lead to a genetic differentiation of the subpopulations and to a decline in biodiversity. We used seven microsatellite markers to examine the genetic population structure of the Grass Snake, Natrix natrix, sampled in remnants of pristine habitat in a former wetland in the Swiss lowlands and in a rural valley in the Alps. On a regional level, the population structures of N. natrix in these two areas were compared with that of Grass Snakes living in an intensively used agricultural area. The three study areas were 30-100 km apart, but were interconnected by the river Aare. At the local scale, no genetic differentiation was found in either of the N. natrix populations inhabiting the rural alpine valley or the intensively used agricultural area. However, two subpopulations in the former wetland area were genetically differentiated with a low but significant measure of genetic differentiation between subpopulations, FST. This slight genetic differentiation can be explained by isolation by distance. At the regional scale, we found significant genetic differentiation between N. natrix populations inhabiting areas separated by 30-100 km. The genetic structure was highly related to isolation by distance with 85% of the among-populations genetic variance explained by the geographical distance between subpopulations. Euclidean distance explained genetic differentiation of Grass Snake populations better than the distance following watercourses. Our findings indicate regular gene flow between N. natrix subpopulations and show that this species also moves across intensively used terrestrial habitat. The genetic structure of Grass Snakes is mainly affected by geographic distance, while human activity and habitat alteration do not seem to reduce the snakes' movements. Our results suggest that conservation actions in landscapes altered by humans should focus on the maintenance of a habitat mosaic with anuran breeding ponds and adequate oviposition sites.
3891754| Seventeen species of anurans are reported from the Serrana de Sira, an isolated mountain range between the Ro Pachitea and the Ro Ucayali in eastern Per. Twelve of the species occur in the surrounding lowlands; two species represent significant range extensions, and three species are named and described: Bufo nesiotes, Phyllomedusa baltea, and Centrolenella mariae. The endemic fauna apparently represents relicts isolated from Andean relatives that had spread across the intervening lowlands during periods of climatic depression in the Pleistocene. 
3892445|We report the first chromosome study of Hynobius arisanensis Maki, a primitive caudate species endemic to Taiwan. The karyotype, 2N = 58, consists of nine large, four medium, and 16 small homologous pairs. The morphology of the large chromosomes is quite similar to that of the previously examined Hynobius species found in Japan. However, the karyotype of H. arisanensis is characterized by the absence of a telocentric pair in the medium-size group and the presence of six biarmed pairs of small chromosomes. In both of these morphological features, the karyotype resembles that of H. (Pachypalaminus) boulengeri, a Japanese, mountain stream-type species.
3892698|Three surfaces known to function in the aquatic respiration of Elseya latisternum were examined. The buccopharyngeal cavity showed no morphological specialization. The skin in front of the rear legs was heavily vascularized with two distinct capillary beds, one close to the epidermis and one deeper. Specialized cloacal bursae had a musculature capable of pumping water in and out of the cloaca and highly vascularized processes protruding from the bursal wall into the lumen.
3892471| The reproductive biology and spermathecal anatomy of Eurycea quadridigitata was examined in samples collected from December 1976 through February 1979 in east-central Alabama and in specimens previously collected. Peaks in terrestrial activity coincided with late fall-early winter rains. Spermiogenesis dominated testicular histology from October to late December. Vasa deferentia were packed with spermatozoa from October to early February. Numbers of enlarged ovarian follicles varied from 14 to 59 (x = 33.6) and were positively correlated (r = 0.48) with snout-vent length. The spermathecae may contain spermatozoa from late November to late February. Spermathecae were devoid of spermatozoa and reduced in size from March through most of November. Brooding females were observed in February. 
3891446| Bacteria isolated from the intestinal tracts of bullfrogs, Rana catesbeiana, maintained for 30 days at 3  1C proved to be facultative psychrophiles. These bacteria would not grow at 37C and the isolates were species of Acinetobacter, Aeromonas, Bacillus, and Pseudomonas. Some species of the gram negative genera are considered pathogenic for frogs. Our observations indicate that hibernating temperatures provide a selective advantage for the maintenance and survival of these potential pathogens. These results also suggest that frogs are at a decided microbiological disadvantage either during or immediately after extended periods of maintenance at low temperatures. 
3891100| A new species, Hyla blairi, related to Hyla rubra, is described from the provinces of Vaups and Meta, Colombia. The species is differentiated from related forms in northwestern South America by a combination of external features, mating call, and sperm morphology. Its nearest relative is apparently Hyla baumgardneri. 
3892180|The fossil record of the distinctive erycinine boid genus Geringophis, previously known only from the Miocene of Nebraska and Wyoming, is extended back to the middle part of the Oligocene (Late Orellan Land Mammal Age) of western Nebraska. This Oligocene form represents a new species thought to be ancestral to the Miocene Geringophis depressus. The fossil record of Geringophis is summarized and a simplified diagram of the possible relationships of the species of Geringophis is presented.
3893069| Mannophryne lamarcai sp. nov., is described from the Cerro Socopo in the state of Falcn in northwestern Venezuela. It is distinguished from congeners by the combination of a dark dorsolateral band (indistinct in darkest females and males), an oblique yellow band on flanks in living females, a narrow collar (in adult females and some males), belly in living females pale white with yellow peripherally, tip of snout almost truncated; pad on third toe 2.4 times wider than adjacent phalanx; and a characteristic webbed toes formula. The generic allocation of Colostethus larandinus Ystiz 1991 is briefly discussed and the new combination Mannophryne larandina (Ystiz, 1991) is proposed. /// Mannophryne lamarcai sp. nov., se describe del Cerro Socopo,  1250 m, Estado Falcn, noroeste de Venezuela, Se distingue de sus otros congneres por la combinacin de una banda dorsolateral oscura (bien visible en 3/4 de las hembras y 4/5 de los machos adultos) y por una banda oblcua blanca en el costado (amarilla en vida, ausente en los machos), por un collar oscuro slido, estrecho y pequeo (relativo al visto en los otros Mannophryne, visible en hembras y algunos machos adultos), vientre crema blancuzco con amarillo en la periferia (en hembras), punta del hocico casi truncada, almohadilla del tercer dedo pedal 2.4 veces al ancho de la falange adyacente y una membrana interdigital pedal caracterstica. La situacin taxonmica de Colostethus larandinus Ystiz, 1991 es discutida brevemente, y se propone la nueva combinacin Mannophryne larandina (Ystiz, 1991). 
3893104|Only a few species of frogs, represented in four families (Bufonidae, Dendrobatidae, Hylidae, and Leptodactylidae), inhabit elevations above 3000 m in the tropical Andes, an environment that is characterized by dramatic thermal fluctuations. This degree of thermal variation forces Andean frogs to be eurythermic. One species in particular, Colostethus subpunctatus (family Dendrobatidae), is intriguing because it remains active year-round, calls from dawn to dusk, and experiences temperatures during calling activity that range from 6 C to more than 25 C. This frog, therefore, represents an excellent model for studying the effects of temperature on natural behavior in ectothermic vertebrates. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that eurythermy is associated with thermal independence of behavioral performance in C. subpunctatus. We recorded and analyzed vocalizations of more than 50 calling males from populations at 3500 m and 2900 m and at various temperatures. At least nine calls from each individual were selected at random, and characteristics, including calling rate, call duration, and peak frequency, were analyzed. Most temporal parameters were indeed affected by temperature, although thermal sensitivity was low. Some temporal and all spectral parameters exhibited interpopulational differences.
3891084|A review of the harlequin frogs, genus Atelopus, from Costa Rica and western Panama indicates the presence of a slope species (A. varius) and two allopatric highland species, A. senex in central Costa Rica and A. chiriquiensis in southern Costa Rica and adjacent Panama. Analysis of variation in 17 population samples of A. varius demonstrates that 9 nominal species and subspecies recognized by previous workers are representatives of local populations within a single species. Color and pattern exhibit a complex mosaic in terms of geographic distribution in A. varius. The latter form occurs sympatrically with A. senex in Costa Rica and A. chiriquiensis in Panama at the lower limit of the highland species altitudinal ranges. The Central American species of the genus are restricted to humid evergreen forest habitats: A. varius from 16-2000 m, but most records are below 1600 m, A. chiriquiensis from 1400-2100 m, and A. senex from 1100-2200 m in elevation.
3891456|New localities (Dry Cave and Robledo Cave) for late Pleistocene Gopherus agassizi in southeastern and south-central New Mexico, USA, are 350-550 km east of the nearest modern populations. Plant community reconstructions from radiocarbon-dated fossil packrat middens from nearby areas suggest that the tortoises were living in xerophilous woodland rather than the desert scrub habitats commonly inhabited today. A paleoclimate with mild winters and cooler summers is postulated to explain G. agassizi in the late Pleistocene of the northern Chihuahuan Desert.
3892298|Thermal effluents raised water temperature in one arm of a nuclear reactor cooling reservoir as much as 9 C but had little or no effect on temperature of other areas, or on shoreline microclimate. Pseudemys scripta used an opportunistic strategy of thermoregulation. None resided near the point of thermal discharge. Turtles in heated areas underwent aquatic basking. Body temperatures telemetered from unrestrained turtles were within the preferred temperature range and indicated that aquatic basking raised body temperature 1-3 C above water temperature. In normothermic portions of the reservoir, turtles underwent atmospheric basking on sunny days throughout the year. In summer, basking frequency during the day showed a bimodal curve. Thermoregulatory strategies of these turtles and other turtles from diverse ecological habitats and geographic areas are discussed.
3893334| We present the redescription and the geographical distribution of Chiasmocleis albopunctata (Boettger). Chiasmocleis mehelyi sp. nov., a small, related species, is described from Miranda, State of Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil. Comparisons are made between these two species and Chiasmocleis centralis Bokermann. /// A redescrio e a distribuio geogrfica de Chiasmocleis albopunctata (Boettger) so apresentadas. Chiasmocleis mehelyi sp. nov., uma espcie morfologicamente relacionada, de pequeno porte,  descrita de Miranda, Estado do Mato Grosso do Sul, Brasil. So feitas comparaes entre essas duas espcies e Chiasmocleis centralis Bokermann. 
3893115|Actively foraging, insectivorous lizards locate and identify prey using chemical cues sampled by tongue-flicking. For two species of lygosomine skinks of the genus Tiliqua, I used the swab method to test experimentally the hypothesis that omnivores derived from actively foraging insectivores can discriminate both plant and animal chemicals from control substances. Both T. scincoides and T. rugosa exhibited significantly stronger responses to plant and animal food chemicals than to control substances. Responses were stronger to prey chemicals than to plant chemicals in both species, but the difference was significant only for T. scincoides. The absence of elevated tongue-flicking or biting responses to plant chemicals by an insectivorous, actively foraging lygosomine species suggests that responsiveness to plant chemicals was derived in association with omnivory. Responsiveness to prey chemical cues appears to have been retained from the ancestral condition in actively foraging skinks. The findings are consistent with the hypothesis that dietary shift to omnivory or herbivory induces evolution of chemosensory responsiveness to plant chemicals.
3893077| We describe a new species of Xantusia from near the Ro Juchipila in southwestern Zacatecas, Mxico. This southernmost known member of the genus is found in a semitropical habitat on the Pacific versant and lives under exfoliating bark of live mesquites, Prosopis. It is most similar in morphology to X. vigilis but differs in numbers of undivided fourth toe lamellae and scales composing the caudal annulus. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Xantusia (X. sanchezi) de los alrededores del Ro Juchipila en el suroeste de Zacatecas, Mxico. Esta especie vive debajo de la corteza de mezquites, Prosopis sp. Morfologicamente es muy similar a X. vigilis, pero difiere de sta en el nmero de lamelas no divididas del cuarto dedo y en el nmero de escamas que componen el anillo caudal. Datos moleculares (secuencias del citocromo b) sugieren que X. sanchezi es un miembro del clado nico que incluye a X. bolsonae y a X. vigilis extorris. La distribucin geogrfica de X. sanchezi sugiere la independencia de esta poblacin de otras del mismo gnero y representa un interesante problema biogeogrfico. 
3891797|Western toads (Bufo boreas) learned to recognize the odor of their prey and discriminated between it and the odor of another prey insect. Evidence of learning (e.g., approach to odor, lowering nose, extrusion of tongue) appeared after a single feeding experience. The rate of learning varied with the prey species used.
3892043|A population of the red-spotted toad, Bufo punctatus, was studied in a desert oasis in southern California for 3 years. Most toads became active by late April and inactive by early October. Individuals showed a preference to their section of the stream, but not to a particular site. They homed back to this section when displaced distances up to 900 m. Individuals tended to use the same burrow each day.
23352109|We describe a new species of Helicops from the southern Amazon Basin in the state of Mato Grosso, Brazil. It differs from all congeners by having dorsal scales in 21/21/19 rows in males and 23/21/19 rows in females, subcaudal keels, a banded dorsal color pattern, and 1419 ventral blotches. Besides presenting information on the lepidosis and morphometric variation, we also describe the hemipenis and discuss the known distribution of the new species.
3892884|Communal nesting has recognized disadvantages, but it seems to be more common than formerly thought. Communal nesting has been attributed to the scarcity of suitable nesting sites; this paper discusses other possible reasons for communal nesting in large iguanids. Four nesting burrow systems were excavated in four different ctenosaur (Ctenosaura similis) and green iguana (Iguana iguana) nesting sites in Palo Verde Wildlife Refuge, northwestern Costa Rica. The excavations showed simple and complex burrow systems that were sometimes shared by the two species. The number of nests and characteristics of the tunnels varied from three ctenosaur nests (in one simple system of two entrances and 7.5 m excavated) to 10 ctenosaurs and six green iguana nests (in a complex burrow system of five entrances and 68 m excavated). A fifth system excavated during the nesting season showed five female ctenosaurs working simultaneously in the same burrow system. Observations and population density estimates were carried out during the 1984-1986 nesting seasons.
3892021|The male reproductive cycle of Cnemidophorus gularis and Cophosaurus texanus was investigated by gross and histological examination of the testes. Both species emerge from hibernation with relatively small testes which rapidly increase in size to a maximum occurring in May followed by gradual gonadal regression until September. This season of testicular activity closely parallels the season of ovarian productivity reported for females. The specific time as well as length of the testicular activity period are suggested to be important evolutionary indicators of reproductive effort in male lizards.
3892346|Among fossils of the turtle family Emydidae from the United States are a series of taxa that appear to belong to a monophyletic group referable to the genus Trachemys. All known Pleistocene Trachemys from Florida represent the species T. scripta; assignment of subspecific names to Pleistocene T. scripta is unwarranted. Previously undescribed cranial material verifies the assignment of Chrysemys platymarginata Weaver and Robertson (1967) of the Pliocene of Florida and Pseudemys idahoensis Gilmore (1933) of the Pliocene of Idaho, Kansas, Nebraska, and Texas, to Trachemys. Based on morphology, geography, and chronology, T. platymarginata and T. idahoensis are considered conspecific and likely immediately ancestral to T. scripta. Trachemys idahoensis probably fed on vegetation, as indicated by morphological similarity of the jaw structure to that of extant members of the P. rubriventris group. Relationships of Miocene Trachemys, including T. hillii and T. inflata from the Great Plains and Florida, respectively, remain unclear.
3892277|The microstructure of the dorsal scales in 12 of the 16 species of xantusiid lizards is examined by scanning electron microscopy and compared with that of species reported elsewhere and five species described for the first time here (Gerrhosaurus nigrolineatus, Anadia bogotensis, Echinosaura horrida, Pachydactylus bibronii and Hemidactylus brookii). Cricosaura typica and all three species of Xantusia have a lamellate cell arrangement. Lamellae and cells with a large, dome-like central projection (micro-dome morphotype) are present in all Lepidophyma examined. Five species of Lepidophyma also have cells with a large, tubercle-like projection (micro-tubercle morphotype). The addition of micro-tubercles to the range of morpho-types is associated with the presence of keeled tubercular scales. Structures which superficially resemble the micro-tubercles occur in several non-xantusiid species which also have tubercular scales, but their shape and construction suggest that they are not homologous with those of xantusiids. The micro-dome and micro-tubercle morphotypes appear to be unique to xantusiids. The lamellate cell arrangements of xantusiids are similar to those of a variety of anguimorphan and scincomorphan species. Comparative data supplemented by a morphotypic series based on topographic gradients between morphotypes suggest that (1) the micro-dome morphotype is derived from lamellate cells, and (2) the morphotypic series (micro-dome to micro-ridge to micro-tubercle) replicates the evolutionary sequence in derivation of the morphotypes. The lamellate cell arrangement is judged to be primitive within the Lacertilia and is found in all members of the Xantusiidae. Spinules and juxtaposed cell boundaries, derived features found in gekkonids, are absent in xantusiids. Uniquely derived characters include: a particular type of dorsal scale organ for the Xantusiidae, cells bearing a micro-dome for Lepidophyma, and cells bearing a micro-tubercle for five species of Lepidophyma.
3891962|Geographic variation in the Mexican pygmy rattlesnake, Sistrurus ravus, is studied throughout its range. A new subspecies of Sistrurus ravus is described from the highlands of the Mexican state of Guerrero. This form is distinguished from the Oaxacan and nominate subspecies on the Altiplanicie Meridional by squamation, body proportions, color, and pattern. The distribution of Sistrurus ravus is of zoogeographical interest because it demonstrates the presence of disjunct populations restricted to widely separated highlands in central Mexico. The distribution is discussed in regard to climate, physiography, and sympatry with other crotaline species.
3892552|The diets of breeding males of Ranidella signifera and R. parinsignifera were compared for 2 yr. In each year, the size-frequency distributions of prey were similar, as were the taxonomic representations of prey in the diets. The amounts of prey consumed at any given time also were similar. Thus, these species of Ranidella, which are morphologically alike and occupy similar microhabitats, are not differentiated with respect to diet. Prey species characterized by small size (i.e., <1.2 mm long) were consumed most consistently by both species of Ranidella. Investigation of size-frequency distributions of available prey showed that smaller prey were numerically most dominant.
3893191|Intraspecific communication is an important component of social behavior in many species. In urodeles, chemical signals found in scent marks or other glandular secretions are often the mechanism by which such communication occurs. I tested the hypothesis that individuals of Batrachoseps attenuatus, the California slender salamander, can discriminate between self-marked substrates and substrates marked by conspecifics. After housing salamanders (n = 30) for five days with moistened sphagnum moss, I presented each individual in 15-min behavioral trials with two pieces of moss, one from the individual's own housing chamber and the other from a conspecific's chamber. Individuals nose-tapped (chemodetection) significantly more often and spent significantly more time in the threat posture when in the vicinity of conspecific-marked substrates relative to self-marked substrates. This suggests that individuals of B. attenuatus discriminate between self-marked substrate and conspecific-marked substrate, implying self-recognition, and that this discrimination may be effected by scent marks.
40602631|Recent surveys of the herpetofauna in the rainforest of the Fort d'Ambre Special Reserve, northern Madagascar, revealed a distinctive fossorial microhylid anuran species of the genus Rhombophryne. The new species is characterized by medium size (snout-vent length up to 49 mm in males), a stout body, short legs, and tuberculate skin on dorsal surfaces. It is most similar and closely related to R. testudo from the Sambirano region, but differs mainly by the absence of barbels on the lower lip, a different advertisement call, and a pairwise total sequence divergence of 8.5% the mitochondrial 16S RNA gene. We consider this species to be at particular risk from a conservation perspective because it appears to be endemic to a relatively small area of lowland transitional forest heavily altered by human activities. According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature criteria, its threat status is classified as "Endangered."
3893430| We describe a new species of Bachia from the upper Ro Negro drainage of southeastern Colombia and southern Venezuela. The new taxon is diagnosed by a complement of phalanges that is unique among gymnophthalmid lizards and intermediate relative to other Bachia and closely related genera. Variation in limb osteology among the species of Bachia and close relatives is reported. We discuss the distribution of B. panoplia and the taxonomic status of B. flavescens. 
3891773|Sceloporus undulatus in Missouri lay two clutches of eggs each year. A comparison of hatchling weights between the two clutches generally revealed no significant differences. These results contrast with data reported for both a prairie population of S. undulatus and a western population of Sceloporus graciosus, in which late-season hatchlings are larger than earlier ones. The larger young were concluded to have a higher survivorship. It is suggested that phenomena such as egg retention, rather than an increase in hatchling size, maximize second-clutch survivorship in Missouri S. undulatus.
