3682443|Several environmental factors were measured in a transect across a snow accumulation area in order to indicate (1) possible controls of arctic vegetation patterns; (2) water, carbon, and nutrient budgets of different vegetation types; and (3) relationships of Eriophorum vaginatum tussock tundra to other vegetation types. The results indicate that the vegetation zones are largely associated with different levels of nitrogen and phosphorus availability rather than length of the snowfree season, water availability, and soil pH. Nitrogen uptake was highest in the forb-grass and lower deciduous shrub zones and lowest in the lichen-heath. Phosphorus uptake was highest in the lower deciduous shrub zone and lowest in the lichen-heath. On the basis of several floristic and environmental factors tussock tundra has the lowest affinities to the lower deciduous shrub zone.
3682551|Shredding stream invertebrates should have a positive influence on the breakdown rates of leaf litter via direct consumption and particle fragmentation. To determine the effects of shredder density on litter breakdown, breakdown of the emergent stream macrophyte, Nasturtium officinale, was investigated using three litter bag mesh sizes [fine (0.2 mm), medium (1 mm) and coarse (3 mm) mesh] and four stocking densities of the shredder, Gammarus pseudolimnaeus, (0, 4, 8 and 16 per bag). Watercress decayed very rapidly, with breakdown rates (k values) ranging from
3682613|In European floras Cirsium palustre (L.) Scop. usually is classified as a biennial and monocarpic species. The value of this classification was examined in a population growing in a spring area in Jutland, Denmark. It was possible to describe five ontogenetic states, i.e. life-states, in the population, the seed state excluded. Each state normally lasted for one growing season. Therefore the flowering state was generally not reached until in the fifth growing season. Observation on mortality revealed that seedlings were exposed to an extremely high death risk. However, in the other vegetative life states the death risk was rather low and constant.
3682056|The presently published data of variation in pheromone content in bark beetles (Coleoptera: Scolytidae) and moths (Lepidoptera) are reviewed. In both taxa high coefficients of variation, often up to around 100% for amount of pheromone, seem to be the rule. The contribution to the variation from errors in the chemical methods was small in most studies compared with the intrinsic biological variation. Examples are given of variation in both absolute amounts, proportions of geometric isomers and in enantiomeric composition. Ratios of isomers often had lower coefficients of variation (25% or less). A lower average variation among sex pheromone in moths could relate to a mating system involving singly calling females, compared with the aggregation pheromone of bark beetles, which often call in large groups. The origin of a resource-based aggregation pheromone system by evolution working via individual selection is outlined.
3682457|The relationship of growth to plant water potential was studied in several arctic tundra species by experimentally altering the water regimes on excised tussocks, by clipping leaf area, and by clipping roots. Most species, including evergreen shrubs, showed greater growth under waterlogged conditions. The reduction of leaf area did not affect plant water potentials or growth. Root pruning decreased both plant water potentials and growth. Growth was suppressed when plant water potentials were -12 to -15 bars.
3682368|Populations of two Helophorus species from a Swedish lake were sampled during the ice-free periods of two years. Dispersing beetles were trapped in light-reflecting glass traps. Both species are univoltine and breed in the spring. The populations of adult H. brevipalpis are largest during the summer when great numbers emerge and migrate. Very few H. strigifrons adults emerge before spring. Its adult populations are largest in the spring, and small numbers of mature individuals fly with mature H. brevipalpis specimens. This is discussed in relation to their habitat utilization: H. strigifrons inhabits permanent waters only and is dimorphic for flight musculature; H. brevipalpis inhabits both permanent and ephemeral waters and is always equipped with a functioning flight apparatus. H. brevipalpis is an effective colonizer of ephemeral waters due to its large dispersal capacity and to the fact that the habitat of juveniles differs from that of adults. Age, sexual maturation and feeding in flying and non-flying groups are compared. Food is seldom found in the gut of fliers of either species. In the spring flying H. brevipalpis females have larger oocytes than non-flying ones; flying H. strigifrons females have smaller oocytes than non-fliers. It is possible that the summer migrations of H. brevipalpis favour outbreeding since fliers are sexually immature; spring fliers, being sexually mature, are more efficient as colonizers.
3682344| Nitrogen (N) deficiencies in tundra ecosystems could be caused, in part, by the kinetics of root N uptake. The objectives of this study were to quantify NH
3682529|Winter activity of arthropods from the forest floor were studied in snow and the subnivean space. All but one epedaphic (soil surface dwelling) Collembola species moved up into the snow during winter. Three groups of activity patterns were found. (1) Hypogastrura socialis had a complex behaviour, moving up and down in the snow profile depending on the temperature. It was often found in large numbers on the surface. (2) Other species were occasionally observed on the snow surface, but were usually found in the deeper part of the snow profile. (3) Most epedaphic species were only found in the deeper part of the snow profile. Activity in the snow is assumed to be related to microclimatic conditions occurring mainly in late winter. However, the behaviour pattern is also influenced by the summer ecology of the species. Some collembola and most other arthropods found in the snow were only casual visitors from trees and soil. However, one oribatid species and some predaceous Gamasina mites did also show distinct snow behaviour.
3682564|Mountain hares in Scotland live on open tree-less moorland in a harsh winter environment with frequent high winds and drifting snow. By day they rest in forms in tall heather, seats in shorter heather or snow, or scrapes in snow or peat. All these reduce wind speeds by 84-90%, but vary in the degree of shelter and concealment. Forms afford the best concealment and shelter and occur as often on flat ground as elsewhere. Seats and scrapes are commoner on sheltered slopes. They command a wide field of view but offer little concealment. During snow-lie, when forms may be covered, hares move to seats and scrapes, often at the edge of snowfields and gather, sometimes in large groups, on sheltered slopes.
3682609|Earthworm burrows as microhabitats for other soil fauna were studied in a horn-beam-oak mixed forest in Hungary. Comparative chemical analysis and feeding experiments were carried out to find out whether the leaves in the burrows of large-bodied earthworms are more decomposed than those from the surrounding areas. The total organic matter content, the C/N ratio, the stability coefficient and the percentage of tannins and lipids indicate that the chemical breakdown of the litter material is more advanced in the burrows than on the other parts of the forest floor especially in autumn. No consistent differences were observed in the amounts of other organic components. Feeding experiments showed that three species of the fauna preferred the leaves pulled into the burrows to those from the surrounding areas and the preference was greater in autumn than in spring. It is suggested that the high density of some soil animals in the burrows in autumn is due to the more palatable food there; in summer the microclimate of the burrows is favoured, whereas spring can be considered as a transition period.
3682131|During a five-year period, 1975-1979, a total of 2881 prey individuals of 65 prey species were collected at 162 golden eagle nests from northern Sweden and from the island of Gotland. In northern Sweden birds are taken in higher numbers than mammals but calculated as weight the two categories are of equal importance. The main prey during the breeding season are capercaillie, black grouse, willow grouse, ptarmigan, mountain hare and reindeer fawns which together from 91% of the total food biomass. The capercaillie and the black grouse are taken more in the southern part of the coniferous region than in the northern. In contrast, in northern areas, reindeer fawns are more preyed upon than in the South. Ptarmigan and willow grouse are the most commonly captured prey species in mountain areas. The total number of reindeer fawns taken (dead and/or alive) by the Swedish golden eagle population during one summer is estimated at 600 individuals. On Gotland the golden eagles take mammals more often than in its northern distribution area. Rabbit and hedgehog are the most important species.
3682740|The objective was to quantify elemental movement through small tundra watersheds as affected by nutrient and water additions. Nutrient (slow-release NPK fertilizer) and water additions were applied to small tundra watersheds along Imnavait Creek Northern Alaska. Suction lysimeters and weired watersheds were used to monitor elemental mobility. Elemental concentrations in undisturbed watersheds were similar to Hubbard Brook watersheds except for NO
3682514|The morphological development of eggs of the grasshopper Chorthippus brunneus, laid during successive periods through a single season, was closely monitored in the field at a site in NW England. Eggs within the same clutch developed synchronously. However, there were significant differences between clutches laid at the same time, reflecting spatial variation in microclimate (and possibly maternal effects and/or genetic differences). Eggs laid early in the season entered diapause and hatched relatively synchronously in the following spring. Eggs laid later failed to reach the diapause-stage before winter, but hatched, albeit late and with greater variance. Diapause was averted in these eggs. Plasticity in the nature of diapause has been documented from laboratory studies of many insect species (including C. brunneus), but this study directly relates the incidence of such developmental plasticity to oviposition date and seasonal temperature cycles in the field. The adaptive significance of diapause aversion and the evolutionary consequences for female reproductive behaviour are considered.
3682694|Energy pathways of a natural brown trout Salmo trutta population were constructed. The main subjects taken into account were: the biomass, calorific values and production of the population, natural mortality and annual yield, energy intake, calorific values and composition of the food, efficiency of food absorption, spawning and migration of young trout. The specific energy value of trout increased with increasing weight of the fish. An energy decrease of almost 50% was demonstrated for the spawning trout of both sexes, and the calorific values prior to spawning were not reached before the next summer. Energy intake was estimated to 6.87, 10.31, 8.42 and
3682244| Age distributions and fruit production of populations of Oxyria digyna (L) Hill were studied in Norway and Greenland. The observed age distributions were described by the negative exponential function and by the power function. Three kinds of age distributions were observed: steep, flat and bell-shaped with the corresponding fruit production: 33-917, 8-108 and 76-303 fruits per individual. The population with the steep age distributions and high fruit productions were assumed to be increasing. They were found in sites with almost no vegetation (10% cover). The populations with the flat age distributions and the low fruit production were assumed to be stable. They were found in sites with a vegetational cover of 50-75%. The populations with the bell-shaped age distributions and the intermediate fruit productions were assumed to be decreasing. They were found in sites with a closed vegetation (cover 100%). 
3682108|Adult chironomids feed readily on materials containing sucrose and glucose, and the addition of dyes is an easy way of demonstrating that food passes through the gut. Male and female flies are shown to make very different use of the food they take in. Males show no change in longevity but extend their flight time for an average of 160% over unfed males. Females, by contrast, show no detectable increase in flight time, but increase longevity by about 40%. Sexual dimorphism in the use of food seems appropriate to the roles of the sexes. We infer that males improve their swarming performance while females may benefit from increased longevity both in gaining time to find suitable mates and in the distance dispersed after mating. Males, and to a less extent females, are found on aphid infested trees near fresh water, and the suggested biological value of feeding is in sustaining the swarming flight especially for the males. Trichoptera adults are found feeding on aphid infested trees and the earlier findings that adult Trichoptera feed are confirmed.
3682256|Bryophyte species distributions were analyzed with respect to microtopography at an alpine tundra site in central Alaska which is dominated by tussocks of Eriophorum vaginatum. Bryophyte distributions were found to be significantly correlated with slope but not with azimuth. Different types of tussocks and hollows and mats between tussocks also supported different bryophyte floras. Water loss resistances of three species of moss did not account for differences in their distributions.
3682355|Goshawks were studied in their boreal forest breeding habitat in central Sweden from 1977 to 1982. Nests were regularly spaced, with a nearest neighbour distance of 6.3 km, corresponding to a density of about 3 pairs
3682074|Breeding red-throated divers Gavia stellata were studied in Shetland during 1981-1983. The overall probabilities of nest success were 0.35 in 1981 and 0.25 in 1982, as calculated by the Mayfield method. Productivity was shown to be at least 0.51 chicks fledged per breeding pair in 1981 (n = 100) and 0.36 in 1982 (n = 91), and a review of all field studies for Shetland gave a mean value of 0.45 per year (n = 1104) with no detectable trends in productivity since 1918; this was considered probably sufficient to maintain a stable population. Nests at lochs smaller than one hectare experienced the greatest hatching success. The majority of known breeding lochs were used in three consecutive years, with a significantly greater re-use of lochs which had previously supported successful pairs. Breeding success declined with season in 1981 and 1982 largely due to reduced hatching success of late nesters, and a slight seasonal decline in egg volume was found in 1983.
3682575|A breeding population of European common frogs Rana temporaria was studied during six springs. Male and female body length varied significantly between years. Females averaged 6 mm longer than males. Amplectant males did not differ significantly from non-amplectant males in body or leg length. No significant correlation was found in body or leg length between males and females in amplectant pairs at any time of the breeding season.
3682655| The population dynamics of a population of crested newts Triturus cristatus were studied in 1983 at a pond in southern England. Three length classes of individuals were distinguished. Adult newts between 67 and 84 mm snout-vent length migrated to the pond in spring, on days when the temperature approached 5C. Males tended to arrive earlier than females and to remain in the pond for longer. A second period of immigration of smaller adults, between 57 and 70 mm in length, took place in the autumn; these newts overwintered in the water and may have been about to breed for the first time. Juvenile newts measuring between 40 and 51 mm in length also visited the pond during the spring and summer. Immigrant male and juvenile crested newts were significantly higher in weight than emigrants; there was no significant difference between the weights of immigrating and emigrating females. 
3682635| The arctic vascular hemiparasite Pedicularis dasyantha has a lower diffusion resistance for water vapour than any associated species. Excised leaves die within one hour of drought stress under laboratory conditions, in spite of a high succulence. Transpiration rates of P. dasyantha in the field are almost two times higher than in Dryas octopetala, which is the most important host within investigated sites. Diffusion resistances are higher in inflorescences than in leaves, probably because the dense pubescence reduces transpiration rates and raises temperatures in inflorescences to 14C above air temperature on clear days. Pedicularis dasyantha contains significantly more N, P, and especially K than its host. The high rate of transpiration probably enables the hemiparasite to capture a larger fraction of nutrients supplied by the xylem of its host. 
3682578|Patterns of larval coexistence, density and mortality of six birch feeding Stigmella leaf-miners were analysed in four field sites in the Netherlands. Larval feeding was further characterized by quantitative records on phenology, oviposition (per host, per tree and per leaf), larval growth rate and relative use of different mesenchyme layers. As the Stigmella guild on birch in western Europe is known to consist of three phylogenetically distinct species-groups, the specific feeding syndromes were primarily interpreted in this context. Ecological segregation among species groups tended to be larger than that within these groups. Among group segregation mainly involved differences in phenology, types of birch trees, mesenchyme layers used for feeding and larval body size and growth rate. Within group differentiation primarily concerned the distribution and clumping of eggs and the use of differently sized trees. A preliminary analysis of the frequency of mines per infested leaf produced a rather aggregated pattern, suggesting that only a limited number of the available birch leaves are considered as suitable by ovipositing females.
3682438|Size and structure of a South Swedish population of Lampetra planeri larvae were studied during 5 yr. Population size fluctuated considerably within the studied section of stream with a general decline. The fluctuations were positively and strongly correlated (multiple
3682313|In a natural population of the self-incompatible Achillea ptarmica, many-headed inflorescences attracted most pollinators (flies), and each pollinator visited more heads on large inflorescences than on smaller ones. The visitation rate did not increase disproportionately with inflorescence size, as would be expected if clusters of heads had a synergetic effect on pollinator attraction. Both the calculated visitation rate per head and the percentage seed set increased slightly as a function of head number. The removal of rays from all heads in the inflorescence reduced the approach rate by 51%, but had only a small negative effect on seed set (12%). Hence, ray removal probably affected male fertility (pollen donation) to a greater extent than female fertility. The decline in pollination success was similar for all inflorescence sizes, suggesting that ray and inflorescence size have independent effects on the total display, and thus represent separate targets for pollinator-mediated selection. Residual variation in seed set was strongly correlated with patch identity, indicating clonal or environmentally induced differences in female reproductive success.
3682649| We studied the relationship between increase in body weight and reproductive performance in different populations of Norwegian moose to evaluate costs associated with early onset of reproduction, viz. whether early onset of reproduction was correlated with low adult body weight or reduced adult fecundity. The mean carcass weight of non-ovulating yearlings was significantly lower than for ovulating yearlings. However, those 2.5 yr old females that conceived as yearlings were lighter than non-reproducing females of the same age. Thus, to begin to reproduce as a yearling was assumed to be expensive because it reduces the possibilities for further growth. The cost associated with reproduction was further illustrated by the fact that the difference in mean carcass weight from age 2.5 to 3.5 yr of females that produced calves in both years, was less for the females from regions with lowest mean yearling weights, i.e. regions with probably the lowest resource availability. In populations with high mean yearling carcass weights, the proportion of cows with calf and the number of calves per pregnant female in the early reproductive phase (2.5 or 3.5 yr old) were higher than in populations in which the mean yearling weights were low. There was a negative correlation between growth rate in the population after 1.5 yr of age and the mean yearling carcass weight. Thus, low yearling weight was associated with a prolonged period of growth and thereby a reduced reproductive output during the first year of the female's life. For old females ( 9.5 yr old) the number of calves produced per pregnant female was highest in populations where yearling carcass weights were highest. Furthermore, mean yearling weight and the mean adult female weight were positively correlated in those regions. This relationship suggests that within this species early onset of reproduction is not related to retarded reproduction or lower weight later in life. We suggest that the moose has been selected for an early onset of reproduction. 
3682416| Betula pubescens Ehrh. s.l. is the only forest-forming tree-species which has spread naturally to Iceland and southwesternmost Greenland. No trees have immigrated naturally to the Faroe Isles. Afforestation experiments and gardening have resulted in successful introduction of several tree species. Recent experiments comprise planting of Rocky Mountains tree-line species in SW-Greenland northward to Sndre Strmfjord (67N), and the introduction to the Faroe Isles (62N) of trees and shrubs from cool temperate forests of the southern hemisphere, e.g. Nothofagus spp. and Embothrium coccineum Forst. (Proteaceae). 
3682688| The species composition, distribution, seasonal variations in abundance, life cycles, emergence periods, length-weight relationships and biomass of the Ephemeroptera of vre Heimdalsvatn were investigated. Detritus was a significant factor in explaining the variation in total ephemeropteran numbers around the lake. Numbers in the exposed zone reached a maximum during July due to emergence activity. The ephemeropteran biomass at emergence, to which Leptophlebia vespertina (L.), L. marginata (L.) and Siphlonurus lacustris Eaton were the main contributors, was estimated to be
3682647|In this paper I investigate the resource partitioning of roach Rutilus rutilus and bleak Alburnus alburnus in two eutrophic lakes in SE Norway. Zooplankton was the preferred food item for both species during summer, whereas blue-green algae dominated the diet in September/October. There was no diet overlap in May, with the roach feeding mainly on detritus and the bleak feeding on surface insects. During summer the diet overlap increased, reaching high values in autumn. Habitat overlap was close to unity in spring and early summer. Coinciding with increasing diet overlap during summer and autumn the overlap in habitat decreased.
3682381|During winter and spring the oak Quercus robur, was the tree species most utilized by middle spotted woodpeckers. In March, saptrees, mainly maples Acer platanoides, were preferred for a short period. In winter the birds foraged in the crowns of oaks but in spring they preferred lower stem parts. Dead branches were utilized more in winter than in spring. The birds mostly used a gleaning and probing technique, which may render the species more sensitive to severe weather conditions than other woodpecker species. Arthropods collected from trees were mostly spiders, beetles, thrips or springtails. The nestlings were mainly fed on scale insects and larvae of moths and sawflies. The oak habitat specialization is believed to be caused by competition for food with other gleaning forest birds. Food shortage might possibly occur during periods of bad weather, causing increased mortality.
3682206|Litterfall in two deciduous woods in Ontario, Canada, was caught in bag traps and by new screen traps for two years. The beech-maple wood produced
3682542|A leaf washing method was used to compare the numbers and species composition of the phylloplane microflora of corsican pine saplings (a) uncontaminated, (b) exposed to zinc, lead and cadmium pollution from a smelter and (c) artificially dosed with zinc, lead and cadmium oxides to simulate the emissions from the smelter without the complicating effects of other pollutants. There was little difference in total numbers of most groups of micro-organisms isolated from each site, although both sets of metal-contaminated saplings generally supported a higher percentage of metal tolerant isolates than the uncontaminated plants. Artificially dosed plants also supported greater numbers of Aureobasidium pullulans and orange and pink chromogenic bacteria. These particular organisms were also among the most metal-tolerant fungi and bacteria in vitro.
3682332|In a 15-20 yr old forest of Pinus sylvestris, Tylenchus spp., Paratylenchus spp? and Malenchus tantulus were the most abundant stylet-bearing nematodes. Soil layers and ground cover affected the abundance. Mycophagy was observed for Tylenchus sp., M. tantulus, Aphelenchoides sp. and Tylencholaimus stecki. Feeding on roots of the forest grass, Deschampsia flexuosa was recorded for M. tantulus, Paratylenchus spp? and Rotylenchus sp. The latter fed also on pine roots. Connections occurred between feeding habits and field distribution. The facultative feeding habit of M. tantulus probably allowed this species to reach higher numbers under D. flexuosa. The importance, in the field, of the grass Calamagrostis arundinacea for Paratylenchus spp? was confirmed by laboratory experiments. As pine was a non-host, these nematodes were probably grass feeders. Paratylenchus spp? dominated the obligate root feeders with forest grass being a key-factor for the group abundance. Suspected high densities of Paratylenchus spp? on clearings should not affect the growth of pine seedlings and although Rotylenchus sp. to some extent reduced seedling growth its pathogenic status on P. sylvestris was doubtful.
3682298|This investigation was performed during a 5-yr period (1974-1978) in the oligotrophic Lake Langvatn, Central Norway. In 1975 and 1976 the lake was enriched with a commercial fertilizer. In 1975 increase in phytoplankton biomass was first recorded more than three weeks after the fertilization started, despite a near fivefold increase in the primary production after fertilizer application. The mean seasonal biomass increased from c.
3682686| The molluscan fauna was surveyed monthly in 1972 during the ice free period. Densities were low and the most common species were the gastropods Gyraulus acronicus (Frussac) and Lymnaea peregra (Mll.). 
3682656|Stomach contents of 209 dead and droppings of 57 mist-netted migrating or wintering European robins Erithacus rubecula in a Mediterranean area in southern France showed the following seasonal trends: (1) a dominance of invertebrates in early autumn, (2) a dominance of fruits in mid-autumn, (3) acorns being important in mid-winter, and (4) a strong dominance of invertebrates at the end of winter and in early spring. The fruits of 23 plant species had been consumed. The most widespread and abundant ones were also the most commonly taken (Rubia peregrina at the regional level and Viburnum tinus at a local one). The size of these fruits ranged from 4 to 12 mm, mostly between 6 and 8 mm. Owing to the amoutn of fruits consumed and the numbers of birds involved, the European robin is one of the few main dispersers of the numerous fleshy-fruited plant species of the Mediterranean area. Nevertheless, a correct evaluation of its role is only possible within the dense network existing between these plant species and all their dispersers (mainly birds but also mammals).
3682493|The perennial herbaceous mire plant Saxifraga hirculus was grown for two years in a greenhouse under two nutrient regimes. Based on metric characters, primarily those associated with the potential for lateral spread, I found ecotypic differentiation both between plants originating from three adjoining but different habitats on one mire and between plants from three widely separated habitats. The fact that seeds from the different habitats germinated in different proportions after a first and second period of stratification, suggests that there is a habitat-specific, innate seeddormancy. Also the degree of phenotypic plasticity differed among the plants, viz. plants from the least fertile habitats exhibited the largest plasticity.
3682143|Bats were surveyed and insects were trapped in several different habitats to test the hypothesis that insect abundance and types are the most important factors affecting the regional distribution of bats. A bat community of ten species dominated by Eptesicus nilssoni and Pipistrellus pipistrellus was analysed. The results show that the general pattern of bat distribution in different habitats, and the seasonal changes in habitat utilization, could be explained in terms of the abundance of swarming insects, mainly chironomids. Deciduous woodland near water provided essential habitat in early summer for each bat species. Later on, in July, all species spread out to many different habitats. In autumn street-lamps were an important factor affecting bat distribution.
3682621|Predation by goshawks was studied in a central Swedish boreal forest area. Data were collected in winter (January-February) 1977-81 by tracking radio-tagged goshawks, and in the breeding season (April-July) by collecting prey remains at the nest. In the breeding season birds dominated the prey, amounting to 86% of prey number and 91% of prey biomass. Wood pigeon Columba palumbus, black grouse Tetrao tetrix, hooded crow Corvus corone cornix and jay Garrulus glandarius accounted for more than 50% of the prey animals, whereas capercaillie Tetrao urogallus and black grouse accounted for more than 50% of prey biomass. There was no functional response to black grouse density fluctuations. Every year goshawks killed significantly more females than males of both capercaillie and black grouse, due to high vulnerability of the grouse hens while laying and incubating. It was estimated that during spring and early summer goshawk predation removed 25% of the female, and 14% of the male black grouse population. In winter squirrel was the dominating prey, both in terms of number (79%) and weight (56%). The proportion of squirrel in the diet was equally high both in winters of low and high squirrel density. The high proportion of squirrel in the winterdiet, as compared to the breeding season, is believed to be due to squirrels having to accept an increased predation risk in winter, in order to feed efficiently enough.
3682496|This study evaluates a conceptual model on functional and numerical response to short-term fluctuating vole populations of a red fox (Vulpes vulpes L.) population in south-central Sweden. The model assumes that this particular population is located in between socially regulated stable populations to the south and direct food-limited populations to the north. The model predicts: (1) food availability as the primary factor for limiting fox numbers, causing reduced rates of reproduction and survival during years of low vole densities, and (2) density-dependent regulation during years of increasing and high vole densities resulting in increased group sizes within territories of fixed dimensions. During 1973-1980 data were obtained from 1216 fox scats, 874 fox carcasses, 63 tagged foxes, nine radio-collared females and from yearly den counts in an area of
3682577|The diet of dippers in south west Norway was investigated by faecal analysis during the 1985 breeding season. Overall, the diets of adults and nestlings were similar and consisted mostly of nymphs and larvae of Baetidae (mayflies), Leuctridae/Nemouridae (stoneflies), Hydropsychidae, Limnephilidae and Rhyacophilidae (caddisflies). However, strong trends were apparent with nestling age: large items such as caddisflies declined in adult diet but increased in nestling diet as the chicks grew. The pattern probably reflected the growing energy demands of the brood in a central-place. Because some of the items of dietary importance are scarce in acidic streams, we stress the need for research on the influences of acidification on the ecology of Scandinavian dippers.
3682331|In a 15-20 yr old forest of Scots pine, the total number of nematodes under the dominating cover grass Deschampsia flexuosa, reached
3682737|The objectives of this study were to (1) provide a baseline estimate of soil and plant element concentrations for an intensive research site at Imnavait Creek in northern Alaska, and (2) examine the relationships between soil and plant elements in an arctic ecosystem. Soil and plant element concentrations were highly variable along biotic, spatial, and temporal axes. Deciduous shrubs had higher leaf concentrations of N, P, K and Mg, whereas an evergreen shrub had higher leaf concentrations of Ca, Mn, Al and Si. Based on high required solution phase turnover rates, the most likely elemental deficiencies are N > P > K > Ca = Mg. Based on low required solution phase turnover rates and high soil concentrations, Fe, Mn, Zn and Cu deficiencies are unlikely. Manganese could be present in toxic concentrations. The nutrient bottleneck in tundra ecosystems appears to be the rate of nutrient movement to the solution phase.
3682565|Densities of Drosera intermedia were low in two studied habitats (
3682455|Growth patterns were investigated for Eriophorum vaginatum tussocks from disturbed and undisturbed tussock tundra at two sites in Alaska. Total basal area of tussocks decreased with increased cryoturbation but mean basal area per tussock did not. Flowering was observed in tussocks of significantly smaller size on disturbed compared to undisturbed tundra. For tussocks with <10% cover by shrubs and moss, number of tillers per tussock was linearly related to tussock diameter in most disturbed and undisturbed sites. Exceptions occurred in an area that had been bladed with a bulldozer 7 yr before our survey where tiller number increased as the square of diameter and in an area with much frost activity where tiller number was not correlated with diameter. The ratio of daughter tillers to adult tillers decreased with diameter in disturbed tundra, whereas the trend was less pronounced in undisturbed tundra. Microsuccession in undisturbed tussock tundra was investigated by sampling tussocks with different amounts of shrub and moss cover for number of daughter tillers per adult tiller, weight per tiller, percent nitrogen, and percent phosphorus. Small tussocks without cover by other species and large, partially covered tussocks were not significantly different by any measures, but tussocks that were almost completely buried had significantly (p < 0.05) lower values of tillering index, weight per tiller, and percent phosphorus.
3682599|Seedlings of the annual, Salicornia europaea (sensu stricto), germinated in the outer marsh sand flats at Skallingen in early May, and the relative growth rates of root and shoot were high during the establishment phase. Mortality of plants, which was not density-dependent, was greater than 70% in most plots from early May to early October, as a result of wave action, desiccation and the presence of algal mats. Salicornia ramosissima was present in the outer and inner marshes mixed with Puccinellia maritima. Seedling densities of this annual were high, and in early May growth rates were lower than those for Salicornia europaea. Overall mortality of plants from early May to early October was density-independent. Mortality of S. ramosissima in the inner marsh was only 50% from May to October, whereas the mortality of S. ramosissima in the outer marsh was 95% in the same period. Different levels of seed production per plant, which reflected differences in plant architecture, were evident between the two micro-species. Reciprocal transplants from the inner marsh failed to survive on the outer marsh sand-flat. Mean seed production per plant in plants transplanted from the outer marsh sand-flat to the inner marsh was only 10% of the value of the control populations. The distances of seed dispersal were different in the outer and inner marsh. Low recruitment occurred in areas cleared of Salicornia plants in the inner marsh, unlike the situation in the outer marsh sand-flat where tides dispersed seed.
3682079|The voles Microtus agrestis and Clethrionomys glareolus consume more bark in north than in south Sweden in spite of lower availability in the former area due to snow-pressed ground. Field experiments with genetically homogeneous aspen sticks demonstrated that this pattern reflects differences in animal behaviour and not differences in plant palatability. Within a region consumption in snow-pressed areas was usually less than in subnivean spaces or runways. The amount of bark consumption was generally correlated with population density and amount of grazing impact. Great differences in bark consumption between north Swedish areas with high peak vole populations and south-central Swedish areas with moderate peak numbers imply that nutrition is of different importance at population declines in different regions. The ability of voles to move into snow-pressed areas and locate woody sticks in the snow suggests that control of ground cover will not protect tree seedlings at reforestation.
3682377| The investigation was carried out on a sparsely forest covered poor fen 350 m a.s.l. in the inland part of northern Sweden (6432N, 1855E). On the investigated mire the natural regeneration of pine Pinus sylvestris has been relatively successful from the 1920's up to the beginning of the 1970's. Natural regeneration of spruce Picea abies has taken place throughout the period 1938-1970, whereafter no establishment at all has occurred. The age and size structures of the pine and spruce stands on the mire vary in pattern according to the particular type of vegetation in which they are growing. Both the climatic amelioration during the first half of the present century and the successional stage of the mire vegetation were found to be important in regard to present-day age and size structures of the pine and spruce. Root competition and snow conditions are probably important determinants of the size structure of pine stands in the mire environment. 
3682687|The stonefly fauna was studied in the exposed zone and on soft bottom in deeper waters. Emergence was recorded by traps. Ten species were found. All were recorded in the exposed zone. Diura bicaudata (L.) and Nemoura avicularis Morton dominated. During the winter N. avicularis occurred in large numbers on soft bottom at nearly all depths while D. bicaudata was only recorded on stony substratum in shallow water. N. avicularis was therefore more susceptible to predation and was recorded in trout stomachs during most of the year, while D. bicaudata was preyed upon only during the short emergence and flight period. The growth of the most numerous plecopteran species took place partly while the lake was covered by ice. D. bicaudata had two thirds of its growth during this period, while N. avicularis only had one third of its growth during the same period.
3682235|Elements in surface peat and ground water were estimated on seven mire sites in central and north Sweden. The variation in tissue element concentration was studied in eleven plants occurring on the studied sites. The elements estimated were: N, P, K. Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn, Al, Cu, Mo, Na, S, B, and Si. The species studied were: Carex diandra, Carex limosa, Carex rostrata, Epilobium palustre, Menyanthes trifoliata, Pedicularis palustris, Rumex acetosa, Saxifraga hirculus, Scirpus hudsonianus, Stellaria crassifolia and Tofieldia pusilla. In surface peat over the range of sites, the variation in total concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus was six and tenfold, respectively. The variation in total concentration of potassium was four-fold. Extractable concentrations of these three elements showed an even greater variation between sites. Over the range of sites, the variation in tissue element concentration was larger in roots than in above-ground parts. In above-ground parts, floral parts varied less in tissue element concentration than did stems and leaves. The largest variation in tissue element concentration was found in Carex rostrata and Menyanthes trifoliata. The smallest variation was found in Saxifraga hirculus. Tissues of the rich fen species Saxifraga hirculus and Stellaria crassifolia had the lowest concentrations of heavy metals. The correlation between substrate element concentration and tissue concentration differed both between tissues and species. Concentrations of N, P and K in tissues of the Carex species were highly correlated with the concentrations of these elements in the substrate, while N, P and K concentrations in tissues of the herbaceous species, especially Saxifraga hirculus, correlated less well.
3682527|The Smoking Hills in the North West Territories, Canada have burnt for centuries causing long term acidification of ponds in the vicinity. Chironomus riparius, a red chironomid larva dominated the bottom fauna in the ponds. It was investigated if it was the buffering capacity of the hemolymph rather than the oxygen binding capacity of its hemoglobin that gave these larvae a selective advantage and explained their high abundance. Canadian C. riparius larvae were compared with larvae of the same species from Sweden and with larvae of Chironomus plumosus and C. anthracinus also from Sweden. The Canadian strain of C. riparius survived 7 d exposure to pH 3.5 much better than the others. Titration curves on the hemolymph showed that the Canadian larvae had the highest buffering capacity. Within the pH range 6.0-7.0 it was 17-18 meq
3682219| Species composition and abundance relations of flies attracted to and bred from different sizes (20-100 g) and types of carrion (small mammal, cow liver, bird, and fish) were studied experimentally in natural breeding conditions in South Finland. Large pieces of carrion did not attract significantly more individuals or species than did small ones, but there was a positive correlation between size of carrion and numbers of flies bred, apparently because of competition. Altogether 10 species emerged from 50 cultures, and on average 2.78  1.22 (SD) species emerged from one culture. The number of co-occurrences among the emerging flies indicated random colonization. Variation in species composition between like pieces of carrion was not less than variation between carcasses of different size or type; hence, size and type of carrion are not important determinants of community structure within the size and type ranges used. Lucilia illustris (Meig.) was the predominant species, comprising 50% of flies trapped and 85% of flies bred. The difference indicates changing species composition in the community. Two sets of cultures were left open for egg-laying for 2 and 7 d. Competition was less intensive in the former cultures, which produced 4.0 individuals per gram of carrion, contrasting with only 1.4 individuals per gram in the latter cultures. Competition delayed development in all species, but least in L. illustris, which suggests that fast developing species are at a competitive advantage. In agreement with this, abundance was positively correlated with the rate of development. 
3682211|The structure of seven local bumblebee communities was studied in eastern Finland. The number of species in the study sites varied from 5 to 10, 11 being the number in the species pool. Most of the species (queens) had proboscis lengths of 8-11 mm. When floral resources were analysed on the basis of corolla tube depths, a group was found between 4 and 8 mm. In terms of flower utilization, species with similar proboscises had higher pairwise niche overlaps than species differing by their proboscis lengths. Spacing between neighbouring species along the proboscis length dimension was not more uniform in the realized communities than what was expected on the basis of random draws from the local species pool. The results were the same for all species observed in the communities and for the abundant species only (frequency >50%), although competition among species in the latter group is expected to be more intense. When the structure of bumblebee communities and of floral resources was expressed in terms of diversity of proboscis lengths and corolla tube depths, respectively, a positive correlation was found. Data suggest that species with similar proboscis tend to co-occur on fields with availability of appropriate corolla tubes.
3682053| Tomicus piniperda is the first bark beetle to swarm in the spring in Fennoscandia. The intensity of swarming is directly related to air temperature above a certain threshold and reaches 100% asymptotically. While temperature sums above the threshold accumulate, swarming rate slows down. A non-linear model was built on these considerations. The model was calibrated to window trap material from northern Finland, and it was validated against published material mainly from Norway. The threshold temperatures in these materials were 10.8C and 11.6C, respectively. The predictions of the model were satisfactory, and the model will be tried as a part of an entire population dynamics model. The possibilities to predict not only timing, but also the frequency of attack are discussed. 
3682406|Light penetration measurements of blue (Schott filter BG 12), green (VG 9), and red (RG 630) light was made in 30 Finnish lakes with different degree of humus content and eutrophy for the comparison of the structure of phytoplankton communities and the light environment in the waters. The relations between Secchi disc visibility and the penetrations of different spectral regions and relations between the light conditions and the colour of the water was examined. The increase of
3682193|Benthic organic matter was collected quarterly from streams draining a 9-yr-old clearcut, an 18-yr-old "old-field", a 25-yr-old successional forest, and two reference watersheds at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory in the Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina, USA. Samples were separated into large benthic organic matter (LBOM >1 mm) and fine benthic organic matter (FBOM <1 mm). An additional survey of large (>5 cm diam.) and small (1-5 cm diam.) wood was conducted. Standing stocks of LBOM ranged from 124 to
3682234|This study was based on two years of field observations of a Linnaea borealis population in a coniferous forest in Sweden. Detailed information on performance and survivorship of shoots were gathered from consecutively made drawings of 90 individually marked shoot systems of Linnaea distributed among 15 plots in the forest. Branching of the shoot systems was correlated to growth of the main shoot. Increasing light flux negatively affected growth of Linnaea. A tendency for a competitive effect on Linnaea of Vaccinium spp. was also found. In contrast, the surrounding mosses, and intraspecific density of Linnaea had no significant effect on the shoot systems. The growth rate of the shoot population was analysed by matrix models. Population growth rate was most dependent on survivorship and growth of main shoots in Linnaea, while the survivorship of lateral shoots was of less importance. In spite of an average decrease in the population size as revealed by the matrix model simulation, the incorporation of the observed spatial variation in shoot growth increment, branching and shoot survivorship, yielded varying population growth rates. Parts of the population increased in size. The importance of choice of spatial scale in population analyses of forest understory plants is emphasized.
3682696| The Norwegian subalpine lake, vre Heimdalsvatn, has a surface area of
3682700|Densities of Bombus flavifrons and B. rufocinctus were measured over one summer in 23 and 11 discrete subalpine meadows, respectively. I assessed the relation between observed bee densities and meadow size, elevation, floristics, temperature, and time of day by multiple regression. Multivariate regression solutions for each week of observation accounted for 38 to 61% of the variation in density for B. flavifrons and 47 to 87% for B. rufocinctus. Temperature or time of day consistently accounted for the most variation in density of the two species. In early summer meadow size or elevation also accounted for a large proportion of explained variation in B. flavifrons density; as the summer progressed meadow floristics increasingly contributed to the explanation of variation in both species. In mid- to late summer a statistically significant portion of the variation in densities not explained by habitat characteristics was accounted for by densities of congeners: i.e., densities of B. flavifrons and B. rufocinctus were negatively related in eight meadows where they co-occurred. In experimental meadows where all Bombus but one of the two target species were removed, B. rufocinctus underwent significant positive density compensation but B. flavifrons did not. To the extent that B. flavifrons appeared to limit the density of B. rufocinctus these statistical and experimental results are consistent with the hypothesis that competition limits local bumblebee densities.
3682588|Valley Spring is a hardwater rheocrene consisting of a single point issue and a springbrook some 60 m long. The fauna consists of > 60 taxa, with insects and mites predominating. During 1985-86, benthic densities varied both along the springbrook and at single stations over time (range 58 to 756 animals
3682678| The paper describes abiotic factors of basic importance for the biological research carried out simultaneously in the lake vre Heimdalsvatn. 
3682114|The two tree-like birch species Betula pendula and B. pubescens are of medium preference to moose during winter in northern Sweden. Because these birches are abundant in many biotopes, they form a major part of the moose diet. The two birches are very similar in appearance and often occur in mixed stands. Twenty-one birch stands where B. pendula formed from 2 to 97% of the birches were investigated to determine how the relative composition of the stands affected browsing of the two species by moose. In stands composed of 60% or less of B. pendula, there was a preference for this species when regarding 1.5-3.0 m high birches, which carry the largest amount of available browse per tree. At higher proportions B. pendula was still preferred, but use was closer to availability. However, in all stands there were significantly more moose bites per tree of B. pendula than of B. pubescens. In four birch stands browsing on 1.0-1.5 m high birches was also investigated. For this height class there was still a preference for B. pendula, but the difference between the two species was less pronounced than for the 1.5-3.0 m height class.
3682695|The energy consumption of the ducks is based on estimates of bird density and discovery chance together with juvenile production, metabolic rate and assimilation efficiency given in the literature. The approximate values for food energy consumed were 230000, 143000 and 165000 kcal in 1970, 1971 and 1972 respectively, or in terms of lake surface between 0.2 and
3682507|Mercury levels in feathers of nestling (162 broods) and fully-grown individuals (n = 48) were studied. Within feather variation was considerable in many individual flight feathers. In juv. ospreys the mercury levels in distal parts of secondary coverts were significantly higher than those in proximal parts (p<0.01). In total feathers, the mercury levels were higher and their variations were larger in ad. than in juv. accipiters. Various irregularities in the mercury levels in different parts of the plumage of a bird seem to support the hypothesis that the mercury in the food eaten during feather growth considerably affects the mercury levels of the feathers, while the regular trends mainly support the hypothesis that the amount of mercury stored in body tissues is a determining factor of plumage levels. The importance of these factors seems to vary depending particularly on the age of the birds. From the result of this study, feathers as indicators of environmental mercury pollution should preferably be from nestlings. Small feathers are preferable to larger ones, and total feathers should be analysed rather than only parts of them.
3682386| Spartina (Sp.  townsendii H. & J. Groves and Sp. anglica Hubbard) was introduced in Mariager Fjord in 1948. The present study of a 154 ha sample area is based partly on topographic mapping and partly on photogrammetric plotting. The total area covered with vegetation was almost constant
3682336| An investigation covering hydrography, chemistry, vascular and cryptogamic plants, nitrogen fixation, phytoplankton biomass and production, and zooplankton was carried out from April to November 1976 in a tarn in W Norway. The volume of the tarn was
3682291|Fourteen species of carabids were studied throughout the snowfree season in outdoor arenas above the timberline at Finse, South Norway
3682133| The dynamics of sedimentary detritus was examined over a 17-month period in a third-order mountain stream in Colorado. Autumnal and vernal peaks in total detritus standing crop (197 g and
3682087| In studying populations of the land snail Arianta arbustorum in the eastern Swiss Alps, juvenile and subadult snails were found to be aggregated all the time, while adults were mostly aggregated during summer, the main mating period. The mean size of aggregations was 25 cm  25 cm but varied, according to the area a grass tuft covered, while the intensity of aggregations was influenced by weather conditions. Densities of 10-15 subadults and 3-6 adults m
3682716|Using a three-way factorial experimental design the effects of water temperature, ionic content (water type) and total dissolved solids on the mortality rates of Nephelopsis obscura and Erpobdella punctata were examined. A strong interaction between temperature and water type and temperature and total dissolved solids was observed on the mortality of E. punctata. Other than differences in mortality due to reproductive condition, N. obscura showed uniformly low mortality not significantly affected by temperature, water type or total dissolved solids. Thus the numerical dominance shown by N. obscura in Alberta and Western Canada could be explained by the differentially higher mortality of E. punctata with respect to the three tested independent variables.
3682192|Body surface pollen load and gut pollen (pollen diet load) of flower visitors in a Danish population of Saxifraga hirculus were analyzed. The four most frequent visitors, Eurimyia lineata (Syrphidae), Neoascia tenur (Syrphidae), Asindulum nigrum (Mycetophilidae), and Zygaena trifolii (Zygaenidae) had total surface loads (and S. hirculus loads) of 1031 (771), 137 (106), 108 (78), and 318 (27) pollen grains, respectively. Other syrphid visitors had on average a load of 407 (192) pollen grains. Males of E. lineata, N. tenur, and A. nigrum carried more surface pollen than the females; females of E. lineata had a lot of pollen from Ranunculus acris and S. hirculus and males had a lot from S. hirculus. Females of N. tenur carried pollen mostly from S. hirculus, Lotus uliginosus and Galium uliginosum; males carried pollen mostly from S. hirculus. The surface pollen load of A. nigrum was dominated by S. hirculus pollen, whereas that of Z. trifolii was dominated by Cirsium palustre and Lychnis flos-cuculi pollen. The amount and kind of pollen varied enormously both intraspecifically and interspecifically. Eurimyia lineata, N. tenur and other syrphids had total pollen diet loads (and S. hirculus pollen diet loads) of approximately 14900 (657), 3739 (2327) and 17784 (13040). The average syrphid contained pollen from five plant species, only one to two, however, were quantitatively important. The average diet load in females was nine times that in males in both E. lineata and N. tenur. Eurimyia lineata ate a lot of R. acris; N. tenur ate a lot of S. hirculus and G. uliginosum. Generally, no correlation was observed between size or season and the composition of surface load and diet load. Eurimyia lineata made most of the pollen visits. Thus, the seed set from this Danish population of S. hirculus was dependent on a single syrphid species.
3682431|Epipelic production was studied over three years in Lake Gunillajaure, a small, subarctic lake in northern Sweden. In 1977 the lake was in its natural state and in 1978 and 1979 it was continuously fertilized with phosphorus and nitrogen. The fertilizations in 1978 and 1979 did not increase the annual epipelic production measured with
3682265| Lactating female harp seals, most with their pups, were collected on the "whelping" ice in the Gulf of St. Lawrence in 1976 and from 1978 to 1980. During lactation females lost weight at an average rate of 3.170.52
3682117|The utilization of microhabitat and food resources by Triturus vulgaris and T. cristatus was studied in an upland pond in mid-Wales. From April to June T. vulgaris was more evenly distributed across the pond than T. cristatus, which showed a preference for the middle of the pond and the bottom of the water column. From July to September however, when most T. vulgaris had left the pond, T. cristatus was evenly distributed within the water column and a much higher proportion was captured around the shorelines. Both species appear to be generalist predators with diets limited by prey size. Zooplankton were the most important prey for T. vulgaris, while leeches formed the bulk of the diet of T. cristatus. However, T. cristatus did not select larger-sized zooplankton than T. vulgaris. Large body size therefore enables T. cristatus to consume a wider range of prey sizes than T. vulgaris. Microhabitat niche overlap was greater than feeding niche overlap between the species.
3682421|The general feature when the northern limit of distribution of spruce Picea abies L. and meadow fescue Festuca pratensis Huds. is approached, is that individuals tend to become more homozygous at their gene loci, but different alleles are still retained in the populations. This is due to the fact that individuals within populations differ strongly in their genotypes - i.e. not one but many different genotypes are retained also at the species margin. This polymorphism in the marginal populations is probably due to some form of frequency dependent selection. Clines in gene frequency are much more pronounced in spruce than in meadow fescue probably due to a much higher environmental autocorrelation in the spruce case with its very long generation interval.
3682684| For the purpose of benthic studies vre Heimdalsvatn was divided into three depth zones. These were the exposed zone (from the shore down to 1-2 m depth), the macrophytic zone (1-2 m to 5-5.5 m depth) and the non-macrophytic zone (5-5.5 m to 13 m). The reasons for this division and the main characteristics of each zone, including the substrata present, are given. 
3682548|The capture of meadow vole Microtus pennsylvanicus and short-tailed shrew Blarina brevicauda by male and female ermine Mustela erminea was observed in an indoor enclosure which simulated field conditions. We made 114 trials using 15 different male and 17 different female ermine. Each trial involved one ermine deprived of food for either 0, 10 or 20 h, and only one individual of either prey species. In most trials, the hunting efficiency (indicated by search and handling durations, and number of captures) of male ermine was greater than that of females. Females hardly ever captured shrews, whereas males hunted them successfully independently of the level of food deprivation. However, when deprived of food for 20 h, females spent less time than males in searching for voles. These results suggest that smaller females may be specialized and more effective at hunting meadow voles than larger males under severe food deprivation. This advantage may allow them to channel a greater proportion of energy into reproduction.
3682224|Partitioning of food and space resources of two dominating unionid mussel species, Anodonta piscinalis and Unio pictorum, was investigated in a South Swedish lake outlet. Differences in diurnal activities were not considered to be a mechanism for niche segregation. The two species ingested particles of almost identical size distribution indicating a high overlap in food. Mussel distribution was correlated to environmental variables including substrate properties, water depth, current velocity, and distance from the lake, the latter being a relative measure of food quality and quantity. U. pictorum dominated near the lake and in the centre of the river while A. piscinalis had its peak density ca. 500 m below the lake and was relatively more abundant along the river margins. At maximum mussel densities, which were found near the lake, a separation in space was more obvious than downstream, implying possible interspecific interactions.
3682253|Analyses of a recent N. sertifer outbreak in southern Sweden were made during on-going attack, comprising a regional and local mapping of defoliation severity, as well as a study of intensity of larval consumption, abundance of cocoons and parasitation of larvae in relation to fertilizer application. It was found that (1) the outbreak was preceded by summer and autumn droughts, (2) it was limited to infertile soils, (3) pine stands aged 20-40 yr suffered most, (4) it was less severe in trees benefiting from a reduced inter-tree competition, as measured from tree-ring growth, and (5) less severe in a fertilized stand. The findings support the hypothesis on a fundamental effect of stand nutritive state on changes in number of the sawfly.
3682328|The seed-bank in a Baltic sea-shore meadow was studied and soil samples were taken regularly along a 60-m transect. The transect reflected a successional gradient. The seed bank had its highest density around the mean water level for August, which was about 10 cm above the yearly mean water level. It was totally dominated by seeds of Juncus gerardii. The depth distribution was investigated. Only at two of ten sampling points (i.e. around mean water level of August) could a significant peak in the second cm from the top be observed, otherwise the distribution was quite even. A comparison between present vegetation and the seed bank revealed a strong difference.
3682334|Activity of the longtail vole Microtus longicaudus, was monitored in a 25- m
3682371|The aquatic feeding behaviour of moose, and the abundance, species, and chemical composition of aquatic plants, were studied in a small Canadian lake which attracted many animals. Feeding was much more common in June than later in the summer, and somewhat more common during the morning and evening than in the afternoon. Individual adult moose appeared to use the lake intensively during 1- to 4-day visits. Compared to deciduous browse, the aquatic plants had high levels of sodium and iron, less fat, and similar levels of crude protein, crude fibre, sulphate and other minerals. In the preferred feeding areas, compared to other parts of the lake, plants were more abundant, had a different species composition, and were richer in iron and calcium. Recent flooding, a flow of water through the feeding areas, and a bicarbonate-rich tributary may all have contributed to the lake's attraction for moose.
3682449|Soil oxygen flux was measured polarographically in undisturbed tussock tundra and in an old vehicle track at Eagle Creek, Alaska. Because some polarograms did not show effective voltage plateaus, the polarographic method was tested for use in the tundra by experimental manipulation of soil water content and microbial oxygen demand. The response of soil oxygen flux was as predicted for artificially waterlogged systems, and the response to increased microbial demand indicated relatively high oxygen availability. Soil oxygen flux ranged from
3682248|Mercury levels in feathers are presented for both captive and wild eagle-owls from the period 1963-1976. Levels are compared between wild birds occupying old territories and released birds in newly occupied territories. The wild population in SW Sweden shows decreasing levels in the inland territories, and at present these levels are similar to the natural background level. The coastal owls have significantly higher levels which show no decrease. Low levels prevail in captive eagle-owls, fed on low-contaminated food. Birds in newly occupied territories (mainly released birds) have similar mercury levels as native birds. After being released captive birds therefore seem to accumulate mercury rather quickly.
3682691| The species composition, seasonal and spatial distribution, and biomass of the coleopteran fauna of the exposed zone of vre Heimdalsvatn in 1972 are presented. Individual weight data are given for the 8 species present in the lake: Haliplus fulvus F., Hydroporus palustris L., Deronectes alpinus Payk., D. multilineatus, Flkstr., D. rivalis Gyll., Platambus maculatus L., Colymbetes dolabratus Payk. and Helophorus glacialis Villa. Deronectes alpinus occurred in highest densities, but P. maculatus, on account of its higher individual weight, was the major contributor to the coleopteran biomass. 
3682376|Periphyton samples were collected at 15 sites in the Middle Fork of the Salmon River drainage basin, Idaho, USA to test certain principles of the River Continuum Concept (RCC) and to characterize the diatom communities. The standing crop of chlorophyll a increased from 2nd to 4th order streams, peaked in the 5th order stream, and declined in higher orders. These data support the RCC predictions except that peak values were reached somewhat earlier, in terms of stream order, because of the lack of shading in these streams. Also, downstream decreases were not completely attributable to increasing turbidity and decreasing benthic productivity, and may be partially related to discharge. The number of scraping invertebrates was positively correlated with the standing crop og periphyton (AFDM, not chlorophyll a); this, too, supports the predictions of the RCC. One hundred forty-five species of diatoms were identified and the system is characterized by an Achnanthes minutissima - Fragilaria pinnata - Navicula seminulum - Cocconeis placentula community.
3682515| An investigation of the edaphic conditions and the vegetation of 21 fixed plots in Sgne municipality, Vest-Agder, South Norway was carried out in 1967-69 and 1987. Loss on ignition, pH, total nitrogen, total exchangeable bases, base saturation, exchangeable hydrogen, sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium and manganese was analysed. The species composition of vascular plants was investigated. The total cover of the bottom layer was scored. The soil pH had decreased in the more basic soils but had increased in the more acidic soils. The organic content had increased and base saturation had decreased in most samples. Na
3682562|Ground-living spiders were studied, using pitfall traps, in six habitats between 580 and 960 m (deciduous forest, fir forest, forest-line and three alpine mountain top sites) on Mont du Lac des Cygnes. Altogether 88 species of spiders were found during the study summer (June-mid-September 1985), of which 51 belonged to Linyphiidae (s. lat.), 9 to Lycosidae and 8 to Gnaphosidae. The highest species number and diversity were found in the forest-line habitat, the highest individual number on the main summit and the lowest in deciduous forest, the lowest site. Lycosidae and Gnaphosidae species and individuals characterized the alpine habitats, Linyphiidae (especially Linyphiinae) the forested sites and Amaurobiidae and Agelenidae the deciduous forest site. Erigoninae occurred commonly at all sites; their individual numbers were very high at coniferous forest sites. The dominant species in all three alpine habitats was Pardosa concinna, on the forest-line Hybocoptus gibbosus, in balsam fir forest Sisicottus montanus and in deciduous forest Amaurobius borealis. The material included several (sub)arctic-alpine species.
3682590| During three consequtive years, 1975-1977, individually tagged Baltic salmon Salmo salar smolts of sexually immature male and female fish (n = 35027, mean size: 15.2 cm) and precocious males (n = 6518, mean size: 14.2 cm) were released into Umelven (Ume river), northern Sweden. Rate of survival (% captured adults) based on 3714 recoveries was significantly higher (p < 0.01) for smolts from immature fish (10.2%) than those from smolts of early maturing males, i.e. precocious males (2.2%), corresponding to an average yield of 474 and 85 kg per 1000 smolts released, respectively. Gain in survival was on average 2.5% and 1.4% per cm increase in smolt size for immature smolts and smolts from precocious males, respectively. The poor survival among smolts of precocious males is suggested to be related to an interaction between sexual maturation and smolting linked to incompletely resorbed gonads leading to a non migratory behaviour. These non migratory males are then suggested to suffer heavily by predation in the river. The two smolt categories had a similar growth pattern in sea. Smolts from precocious males did not mature early in sea indicating no relation to grisling, i.e. sexually maturing fish returning after first winter in sea. Adult weight of fish returning the fourth summer after release was related to smolt size (P < 0.05). Our Response Surface Model (RSA) predicted that large smolts (19.0 cm) had a higher specific growth rate over their life-span compared to small smolts (<15.0 cm),
3682633| Population dynamics of the coypu, Myocastor coypus, were studied in central-West France. This species has recently colonized temperate regions despite physiological sensitivity to cold weather. Live-trapping over three years demonstrated that increasing population densities from summer into autumn were associated with a faster population turn-over, homogeneous dispersion, and reduced rates of weight gain. Densities fell by 71% over a cold winter in which canals froze for 20 consecutive days, and by 69% over a mild winter with a flood of 5 weeks duration. Mortality was high in the coldest weather, and 45% of those surviving had frost lesions. A scarcity of males after the cold winter (up to 1: 3.3) was matched in a nearby population at artificially low density, where dispersing males predominated after the flood. The effect of the cold winter on reproductive output was to synchronize littering in summer, at a time of rich food supply. It was concluded that a flexible response to winter conditions enabled coypus to minimize the effects of extreme events and maximize their colonizing potential. 
3682379|Effects of lime and artificial rain of varying acidity on the enchytraeid fauna were studied in 4 field experiments in coniferous forest. Artificial rain was applied 5 months per year in quantities of 25 or 50 mm per month and with pH values from about 6 to 2. The "rain" was produced by mixing groundwater and sulphuric acid. The greatest total abundance of enchytraeids and the greatest population densities of Cognettia sphagnetorum and Mesenchytraeus pelicensis were found in plots supplied "rain" of pH 6, pH 4 and pH 3. Their abundances were lowered by additional acidification (pH 2.5 and 2) and also by liming. Species like Enchytronia parva and especially Enchytraeus buchholzi and Fredericia parnoniana were mostly stimulated by liming.
3682372| Hierochlo odorata (L.) Beauv. is restricted to the upper zone of salt marshes and rarely becomes dominant. In the field, the species was found not to have strict N, P, K requirements. It grew in a range of pH values from 4.3 to 7.9, tolerated salinities up to 500 mhos and favoured soils with a moisture content from 25 to 30%. It grew in situations with a mean water table between 14 and 28 cm below the surface. Natural shading in the field was found to increase the heights of plants by about 30%. The application of fertilizer in the field increased the height of sweet grass but also stimulated the growth of associated species. In the greenhouse, the effects of different soils and fertilizers on plant growth were assessed. Inorganic fertilizer (12:18:12) application produced more leaves and tillers than organic fertilizer (6:2:0). Sweet grass grows in a zone of reduced competition between the dune species and the salt-marsh species. Near the salt-marsh, the species may be limited by high salt concentration. The low levels of competition offered by cultivation and the responsiveness of the species to fertilizer suggests that cultivation of Hierochlo odorata may be successful. 
3682290|More than half the lakes in the deciduous and boreal forest regions of southern Quebec harbour at least one aquatic bird species during the nesting period. Although the number of nesting pairs per lake is generally small, those pairs are most commonly seen on lakes with a surface area of more than 15 ha, a winter pH lower than that of normal rain (i.e. < 5.6), an irregular shore configuration marked by abundant riparian vegetation, and islands. In a correspondence analysis, the first axis, representing lake acidity, explains 68% of the total variance. The common goldeneye Bucephala clangula, which is frequently seen on the most acidic lakes, and the American black duck Anas rubripes, which tends to avoid acidic lakes, show the largest contributions to that axis. The second axis describes an altitude/surface area gradient and brings the cumulative percentage of explained total variance to 94%; the great blue heron Ardea herodias and the common loon Gavia immer primarily use large, low-altitude lakes, whereas the ringnecked duck Aythya collaris and the American black duck are often found on the smaller, higher-altitude lakes. Those results are discussed as they relate to the feeding requirements of the various species of bird and the biology of their main prey. The ecological segregation of the three waterfowl species is attributed to interspecific competition.
3682369|Browse supplies in different growth stages of 4 forest associations and forest site types were estimated. Two ecological situations were compared: exclusion from browsing and unrestrained access of ungulate animals. Harvest technique was applied. Three big forest tracts in eastern Poland provided study locations. Results were tested with the use of analysis of variance. The fresh mixed coniferous forest revealed the highest species diversity in the understorey and regeneration zone, while fresh coniferous forest had the lowest. No obvious influence of animal exclusion upon the number of plant species was found. Altogether, 41 plant species were found in the understorey and regeneration zones. In young plantations shoot weight was higher than in thickets, pole-sized and timber stands. Shoots clipped in autumn were heavier than those clipped in spring. The browse biomass varied from
3682160|Six cestode and two nematode species were recovered from a cyclic population of Clethrionomys glareolus in southern Norway. The cestode Aprostatandrya macrocephala and the nematode Heligmosomum glareoli were euconstant species which displayed late spring/early summer peaks in numbers after which they declined. This decrease in prevalence was correlated with decreasing mean age of the host population. Increases in the prevalence of infections with the nematode Syphacia nigeriana in bank voles were correlated to increasing numbers of Microtus agrestis in the mixed woods. Cestode larvae were at maximum prevalence during peak years of bank vole abundance. Pathological conditions such as ascites and peritoneal adhesions, as well as splenic and adrenal hypertrophy, were associated with cestode larvae. There was no general trend of an increase in the prevalence of helminth infection with increasing population density of the bank voles.
3682601|A total of 1560 breeding frogs were collected in three consecutive years at sites in the west of Ireland. All were weighed and measured and the ages of 702 individuals were determined by skeletochronology. The length-weight relationship differed between gravid females, spent females and males, with the gravid females showing the largest weight gain for any increase in length. The majority of males bred for the first time at two years, but most females delayed maturity until they were a year older. While the two-year olds were of similar size, the females subsequently grew at a faster rate and achieved larger maximal sizes than the males. However, both sexes exhibited a decelerating growth rate with age. There was no apparent difference between the sexes in post-maturation survival, which was estimated to be about 50% annually. The oldest frogs were seven years old.
3682312|From the close correlation between the body size of European stoats and the mean size of their vertebrate prey it ought to be possible to predict the body size of European stoats living on a prey fauna of a given size distribution. In New Zealand, stoats of European stock have lived for >100 yr on a prey fauna containing fewer small and more large vertebrate prey than in Europe. They have become generally larger than their ancestors, as expected - especially the females. The vertebrate prey size index for New Zealand stoats extends the correlation predicted from European data. New Zealand stoats also eat large numbers of native insects. If these are included the local prey size indices are lower but still tend to vary with the substantial local variation in body size of stoats within New Zealand. Recent results from southern Ireland also fit the European correlation, but the few data so far available from Northern Ireland do not.
3682223|The patterns of growth and seasonal changes in body weight and fat reserves of three herds of introduced reindeer on the sub-Antarctic island of South Georgia were investigated. Two of the herds, derived from the same stock, were at different densities but the higher density herd was on the better range. In this herd there was a significant growth advantage to the male reindeer, but not to females. The third herd, of a different stock, was also at a lower density on a range which had become overgrazed. The two lower-density herds showed the same annual changes in body weight and only slight differences in the fluctuation of their fat reserves. In addition, body weights in both these herds fluctuated to the same degree as those of a barren-ground caribou in the Northern Hemisphere but fluctuations in the fat reserves of South Georgia reindeer were considerably more severe. The results suggest that the South Georgia reindeer herds are limited by forage availability.
3682692| The lotic communities in vre Heimdalen were completely dominated by insects. The species distribution of stoneflies (Plecoptera), mayflies (Ephemeroptera) and caddisflies (Trichoptera) is given together with autecological notes on the Plecoptera and certain other major species. The species distribution of these groups, especially the Plecoptera, was clearly related to the deciduous vegetation along the streams. There was a reduction in species parallel to a reduction in Salix vegetation. The main inlet stream to the lake, vre Heimdalsvatn, the outlet and the outlet stream had different faunal compositions. The inlet fauna consisted to a large extent of winter growing species, mainly detritus feeders, while the outlet and outlet stream had a fauna dominated by summer growing species, several of which were filter feeders. 
3682500|The experiment was carried out in eastern Spain from 1986 to 1988. The nest-boxes were placed at the height where natural holes occur, visited twice a week, and cleaned after every breeding season. Four vertebrate species used the nest-boxes: great tit Parus major, house sparrow Passer domesticus, tree sparrow Passer montanus, and black rat Rattus rattus. The first species to occupy the nest-boxes, the great tit, was the least able to defend them. During the third year breeding by the great tit in the nest-boxes decreased markedly, probably due to the increase of house sparrow and black rat occupation. We suggest that differences among species in their ability to discover and use new holes could allow some inferior competitors to breed in a habitat along with more aggressive competing species.
3682047|The applicability of qualitative analysis and modelling is discussed with reference to the population dynamics of the spruce bark beetle Ips typographus. On the basis of a set of assumptions and postulates, the structure of the population dynamical interactions is discussed. Dynamic analysis suggest that the Scandinavian spruce bark beetle population is a stable system which may be triggered into "boom and bust" dynamics. We suggest that qualitative analysis should proceed, explicitly, through four steps: (1) An explicit statement of the biological assumptions and postulates. (2) A structural analysis, wherein the critical interaction network of the system is defined. (3) An equilibrium analysis, wherein the potential equilibrium points of the key organism (e.g., the pest species) are deduced. (4) A dynamic analysis, wherein the multispecies equilibrium points are found and their sensitivity to pertuberation analyzed. This formal approach should expose many and varied population systems to the interpretive and explanatory powers of qualitative analysis.
3682637|The ringed seal breeding habitat of the Van Mijen fiord, Svalbard, Norway, was studied from 30 March to 22 May 1986. A Siberian husky dog was used to detect ringed seal birth lairs and breathing holes. Fifteen percent of the total fiord areas was sampled. We estimated the densitites of birth lairs and breathing holes to be
3682040|Seeds of 25 plant species from calcareous fen hay meadows were exposed to different experimental conditions and their germination was characterised. Constant temperature inhibited germination especially in Cyperaceae. Both gibberellic acid and potassium nitrate failed to terminate dormancy. Increased germination rates were found in dicot species after treatment with gibberellic acid. Temperature fluctuations increased germination of Cyperaceae as well as dicotyledons. Treatment with gibberellic acid removed the chilling requirement in some of the species. Dormancy of small seeds with thin seed coats was broken by the application of gibberellic acid or fluctuating temperature; large thick-coated seeds were unaffected by gibberellic acid. No obligatory darkness requirement was found in any species; three species germinated irrespective of light treatments. All other species achieved higher percentage germination in daylight or in red (670 nm) light. Permanent darkness and far-red light (730 nm) reduced germination drastically. The results indicate that germination characteristics of the species investigated can be related to their seed bank types.
3682366| Hydropsyche incommoda, H. rossi, Cheumatopsyche pasella, Macronema carolina, Chimarra mosleyi, and Neureclipsis crepuscularis were studied on woody substrates (snags) in the lower Savannah River. Distribution of most species biomass was positively correlated with attached macrophytes on snags at medium (25-50 cm s
3682236|Epeorus longimanus is a widely distributed mayfly in the western United States that forms relatively large mating swarms. The operational sex ratio of swarms is highly male biased and males are potentially polygynous, suggesting that male-male competition over mates may be intense. We investigated whether body size influenced male mating success in E. longimanus, as evidence of sexual selection. Males collected as mating pairs had significantly greater body lengths compared with males collected randomly from the swarm on each of six sampling dates examined, and had significantly greater head widths than males from random collections on two dates. There was no indication that large males occupied preferred positions within the swarm, and we suspect that the large male advantage may be due to greater success in pursuing females. We found no evidence of size-assortative mating in E. longimanus indicating that males attempt to mate with every female encountered, consistent with the brief copulatory period in mayflies and overall low parental investment of males.
3682495| The life cycles of Cyclops scutifer Sars (Copepoda, Crustacea) in two high mountain lakes in Norway, Gjende and Bessvatn in Jotunheimen, are presented. The population in Gjende has an exclusive 2-yr life cycle and that in Bessvatn a 3-yr cycle which is exceptionally long both among freshwater and marine zooplankton. Bessvatn is situated about 400 m higher than Gjende, and the heat preservation is lower with longer periods of ice cover and lower primary production explaining the difference in cycle length. The prolongation of the life cycle is due mainly to retardation of the developmental rate during the long periods of winter stagnation with water temperatures mostly below 2C. The retardation is especially evident in the nauplii and in the copepodid instars III, IV, and V. Neither population diapauses. Reproduction takes place only in late summer and no adults survive the winter. 
3682134| The daily onset of flight and the time of activity of moths were studied at an arctic and a subarctic locality in midsummer under natural light conditions but with all other factors kept constant. The daily variation of light intensity is much smaller than at temperate latitudes, and the illumination is continuously at levels that normally inhibit the activity of moths. In spite of this, the investigated species showed a distinct daily periodicity with the activity occurring at about the same time of day as in the same or related species from lower latitudes. It is suggested that this is the result of a process of acclimatization to high light intensities. A number of species show a diurnal activity pattern, and it is suggested that this is connected with their high temperature requirements. In the field, Anarta zetterstedti Staud. thermoregulates by settling frequently on dark rocks which can reach high temperatures when the sun is shining. This species can not fly unless its body temperature is above 30C and it prefers an ambient temperature of about 36C. 
3682393| For the one year period considered, it is calculated that
3682130|The macrofauna associated with Fucus serratus at Dale in south-west Wales contained 30 taxa of which five were common: these comprised four encrusting bryozoans and a hydroid. The bryozoans Flustrellidra hispida and Electra pilosa showed significant variations in abundance according to the size and structure of plants colonised. Electra was most abundant on plants where other bryozoans were least numerous. Colony growth in Electra was proportional to the amount of space provided by individual plant segments whilst growth in competitively superior species appeared to be independent of the size of the plant segments colonised. Dynamena pumila was larger and more abundant on larger segment faces where competition was presumably weaker. Each species showed a specific pattern of zonation along the fronds. The dominant species were generally more abundant on the concave surfaces of the plants. There was some evidence for the tendency for certain taxa to co-occur but the degree of association between species was weak and probably of limited biological significance. Species diversity varied with plant structure. More species occurred on concave surfaces at all plant levels but the overall pattern of diversity on the two segment faces was similar; diversity was greatest in the shrubbier mid-frond regions. Differential distribution of the dominant encrusting taxa within this Fucus community results in a considerable degree of niche segregation and ecological isolation.
3682159|An investigation of the blood parasites of Clethrionomys glareolus, Microtus agrestis and Apodemus sylvaticus from southern Norway revealed four genera, Trypanosoma, Babesia, Hepatozoon and Grahamella. C. glareolus and M. agrestis harbored all four genera, but Hepatozoon was not detected in A. sylvaticus. Babesia was fairly common in M. agrestis but rare in the other rodents. The peak prevalence of Grahamella and Hepatozoon in C. glareolus occurred in early summer whereas trypanosomes peaked near the end of the summer. Infections with trypanosomes and/or Grahamella in C. glareolus were associated with lowered hematocrit levels and enlarged spleens.
3682042| Five-year-studies of two wood mouse populations (Apodemus sylvaticus L.) were carried out outside the village Vk, S. Iceland, and in a birch forest close to the lake Mvatn, N. Iceland. The population at Vk was studied on a 1.10 ha grid on a slope covered with Angelica archangelica L., the seeds of which constituted a major food resource for the mice. Altogether 948 individuals were caught, marked and followed during 1973-1978. No other free-living small mammals occur in Iceland, and predator pressure is low and considered non-existent on the Angelica slope. The population density was extremely high; highest autumn density recorded was
3682182|An outbreak of heather beetle Lochmaea suturalis on a wet heath in north-east Scotland was monitored. In many respects, the outbreak was similar to those described in lowland heaths; it started at a particular locus and when the Calluna vulgaris was depleted, spread throughout the heath. Population size then decreased annually due to some undetermined exogenous factor. A contributory factor may be the high incidence (35%) of parasitoid infestation which is density independent and, thus, not controlling. There is no evidence that the hairiness of the var. hirsuta of Calluna has an effect on herbivory by Lochmaea. The distribution of larvae through the canopy is neither influenced by the morphology of Calluna, nor by the associated species, and appears to be at random. This probably represents the distribution of eggs since little lateral migration of the larvae takes place. The response of the vegetation to herbivory is not simple. Associated with decreased cover of Calluna is an increase in Sphagnum plumulosum and Hypnum jutlandicum and reduction in S. compactum and Pleurozium schreberi. Changes seem to depend on initial vegetation and other parameters not measured (e.g. proximity of propagules, microclimate). Regeneration of Calluna does occur, largely by layering; although seedling occurrence increases in some areas, especially in Sphagnum, it seems unlikely that this will make a major contribution to the recovery of Calluna.
3682072|During a six-day period the energetics of the suspension feeding larvae of the mosquito Culex torrentium were studied. An experimental assessment of ingestion, growth and respiration were made at near to field conditions. Assimilation and egestion were calculated and an energy budget for an average larva during the experimental period was established. Gut retention time was measured by marking the gut content with charcoal. Organic carbon in the gut contents, of larvae feeding on natural food, and in the tissues (i.e. to establish growth from 2nd and 4th instar) were measured by an elemental analyser. Oxygen consumption was measured as a decrease in volume of a closed system where the respired carbon dioxide was absorbed by KOH. Only 1.6% of ingested organic carbon was assimilated. The ratio between respiration and growth was 13.8. The high value of the ratio is suggested to occur because of the very active behaviour of the larvae. The results are discussed in relation to the energetics of other aquatic primary consumers (Simuliidae and Trichoptera).
3682316|Few investigations deal with the subterranean phytomass in fens (minerotrophic peatlands), their results differing widely. This study was carried out in a "rich fen" in central Sweden, and involved excavation of peat monoliths, depth-sectioning and hand-sorting as to species, type of organ, and living or dead condition. The below-ground living phytomass was large, over
3682612|In a stepwise regression analysis, oak habitat area and habitat isolation were the most important parameters explaining numbers, density, regularity, and probability of presence in two successive years of middle spotted woodpeckers. No estimate of habitat quality contributed significantly to the equations. A 50% regularity of occurrence during the study period was found in oak areas of 75 ha. It is suggested that, for a small population, habitat fragmentation that gives rise to partially isolated subpopulations will make the population more vulnerable. The large area required by Swedish middle spotted woodpeckers compared with Central European ones, is believed to be a result either of an 'extinction disequilibrium' or of poorer habitats in the periphery of the distribution area of the species.
3682214|Propappus volki was recorded in Dorset chalk streams from gravel substrata where it represented up to 88% of the oligochaete fauna. It was absent from silted sediments associated with marginal and submergent macrophytes. P. volki showed an annual life cycle with a peak of mature individuals in the period April to June, whilst young worms were most abundant after July. The mean monthly biomass in Bere Stream was estimated to be 0.29-0.45 g wet weight m
3682731| The "Response, Resistance, Resilience to, and Recovery from Disturbance in Arctic Ecosystems" (R4D) program initially concentrated on impacts of altered water and nutrient inputs on tussock tundra vegetation. The intensive site is at Imnavait Creek (68C 37 N, 149 17 E), near Toolik Lake, Alaska in the foothills of the Brooks Range, approximately 200 km south of Prudhoe Bay. Tussock tundra was selected for initial study because it has an extensive distribution in the Alaskan Arctic (80% of the arctic region), the majority of the pipeline corridor north of the Brooks Range passes through tussock tundra, and disturbances of arctic tundra are expected to occur in the future. Also important is that 18% of the circumpolar arctic primary productivity and 47% of the circumpolar arctic stored carbon are in tussock tundra. Water and nutrient additions were performed because they frequently accompany disturbance and development in the Arctic. Emphasis was placed on determining responses of physical, physiological, and ecosystem processes to environmental change in such a way that extrapolations to other areas would be facilitated. The hills near Imnavait Creek are covered by glacial till of the Sagavanirktok River glaciation, with a deep organic layer on the less exposed hill slopes and valleys. The vegetation is dominated by Eriophorum vaginatum L., Betula nana L., Vaccinium uliginosum L, Vaccinium vitis-idaea L., Ledum palustre L., Salix pulchra L., and Sphagnum spp. Winds were rarely calm but seldom exceed
3682628|Small mammals dispersing in habitat corridors to and from an abandoned field in south-central Sweden, at the forest edge and inside the forest, were continuously sampled during 1977-81. Altogether 967 specimens of ten species were obtained. Number and dynamics of grassland species were censused intensively in the centre of the abandoned field and extensively on other abandoned fields nearby. Numbers of resident and dispersing animals correlated positively. Grassland field voles Microtus agrestis were almost only obtained in the corridors and woodland bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus mainly in the forest and in narrow grassland corridors. Both these species are folivorous. Granivorous-insectivorous Apodemus and Sorex species moved more on a broad front through various habitats. Different population categories did not show any clear differences in dispersal routes. The findings of different dispersal strategies in a species gradient are discussed in relation to the local dynamics of subpopulations belonging to metapopulations inhabiting whole landscapes. Implications for pest management and conservation of endangered species are considered.
3682490|The open, dish-shaped flowers of Saxifraga hirculus reflected ultraviolet and yellow light, contained very small amounts of nectar, and contained an average of about 75300 pollen grains per flower. Almost 11% of the pollen was inviable. Stigmatic pollen loads and seed set decreased during the course of the season. The plant appeared to be fully between-ramet compatible and partially within-ramet compatible. Seed set for the population was 30.3%. The protandrous flower opened during the day and had male and female phases of nine and three days, respectively. The protandrous system reduced the number of pollination days by a third. At least 26 species of insects, 16 of which were syrphids, visited the flowers. Based on the number of flower visits, four species were the dominant visitors of S. hirculus: Eurimyia lineata and Neoascia tenur (Diptera: Syrphidae); Asindulum nigrum (Diptera: Mycetophilidae), and Zygaena trifolii (Lepidoptera: Zygaenidae). Eurimyia lineata was the most frequent visitor (51% of all visits). As the season advanced, the visits by E. lineata decreased, whereas the visits by A. nigrum increased. Z. trifolii disappeared completely towards the end of the season. Only two thirds of the pollination days were "good" foraging days for these visitor species. The four major visitor species spent an average of 11.7, 27.4, 30.7 and 22.6 s per flower, respectively. Estimates suggest that about 6.5 visits (which is equal to 2.6 min of flower-visiting) and 2100 grains of pollen were required to produce one seed.
3682650| The incubation rhythm of four female great snipe was monitored with telemetric equipment. The mean daily incubation constancy was 90.3  2.0 (SD) per cent, and the mean daily time off the nest amounted to 139.8  28.8 min. The number of recesses per day averaged 8.7  1.9, with a mean duration of 15.7  6.1 min. Generally, the birds incubated for long bouts during the night, and left the nest frequently during the daylight hours. Recesses were concentrated in the warmest part of the day in cool periods, but were more evenly distributed throughout the day in warmer periods. Recess duration decreased with decreasing temperature. These adjustments minimize egg cooling when the bird is off the nest, and thus allow the incubating bird more time to feed without lowering the mean egg temperature. Calculations of the cooling rates of eggs indicate that the bird minimizes incubation energy expenditure as far as possible, but without letting the eggs cool beyond the temperature of no embryonic development. 
3682125|Due to high numbers of mountain hares in recent winters in northern Finland the barking of winter dormant Scots pines was widespread. The hares fed selectively upon upper crown bark of grafted pines, nitrogen fertilized trees and trees in poor condition. Bark of preferred upper crown branches and physiologically mature scions contained less total phenols than lower parts. However, there were no differences between total phenolic concentrations of graft bark preferred by hares and nearby unbarked juvenile phase Scots pine. Neither decrease in resistance after nitrogen fertilization n- or stress was correlated with bark total phenolic concentration. Thus, total phenolic concentration is not a reliable predictor of the susceptibility of Scots pine to winter barking by the mountain hare.
3682062|A method of trapping local populations of Ips typographus was investigated in the field. The size of a population emerging from a hibernation site in the forest litter was estimated using tent traps. This estimate was compared with another estimate where beetles from the population were marked and recaptured in pheromone traps. The estimate of population size with mark-recapture was much higher than the estimate with tent traps, indicating a high degree of immigration. According to calculations only a minor part (less than 20%) of the beetles caught in the pipe traps originated in the local population. Re-emerging parent-adults were marked and released during the second flight period. The recapture rate was 29.8%, almost the same as during the first flight. Immigration during the first and second flight periods was estimated to be of similar magnitude. The results show that it is difficult to suppress local populations of highly mobile bark beetles by trapping.
3682559|Trapping of frass-drop from needle-eating insects in three Scots pine stands, 18-, 55- and 120-yr-old, respectively, in three years, revealed that the consumption rate in the two older stands on average displayed three peaks: in July (consumption by Panolis flammea and a first wave of diprionids), late August/early September (lasiocampid/sphingids, a second wave of diprionids), and September/October (Bupalus piniarius). Annual consumption was the same in these two stands, on average
3682652|Breeding bird communities in five stages of secondary forest succession were studied in northeastern Finland in 1980-82. Three groups of communities were distinguished: open land, brush phase and forest communities, dominated by Motacilla alba and Oenanthe oenanthe, Phylloscopus trochilus and Anthus trivialis, Phylloscopus trochilus and Fringilla montifringilla, respectively. Pair density, number of species, biomass of adult birds and species diversity increased in the course of succession, none of these, however, monotonously. Average bird weight showed a decreasing trend although the variation was considerable. The degree of specialization in communities (measured by ratios derived from numbers of species, genera and families) increased in the course of succession with the exception that the initial stage had relatively high values. Species nesting and feeding in trees and shrubs increased in numbers during forest regeneration whereas species nesting and feeding on the ground showed the opposite trend. The proportions of hole-nesting and sedentary species increased with increasing forest age. The initial stages of forest succession in the north are occupied by specialized open habitat species breeding originally on open bogs and shores. These communities thus clearly differ from those predicted from the general theory of succession, which postulates that the pioneer stages of succession are dominated by habitat generalists and that these communities should have relatively low values of community diversity.
3682148|We studied overwintering in the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus in four 0.5 ha enclosures in an abandoned field in central Finland in the winter 1987/88. In two of the enclosures food was offered evenly distributed over the whole enclosed area (Even Enclosures = EE), in the two others food was offered in one feeding patch with four feeding chambers 2 m apart (Patchy Enclosures = PE). Food was provided in about the same amount in both enclosures. The experiment commenced in early October, with 13 females and 11 males in EEs and 12 + 13 voles in PEs. After two months the voles in the PEs were concentrated around the feeding patches. Territoriality was not observed in EEs, instead the voles formed small exclusive overwintering groups consisting of 2-3 females and at least one male. The size of the home range of the females and males was identical during mid-winter as the voles were non-breeding. By the onset of breeding, range size increased in both sexes, but significantly more in males, however. The survival was about the same in all populations. Every population showed a mid-winter decline suggesting the effect of the mustelid predators observed in and around the enclosures. In the PEs the over-wintering aggregations lasted until the maturation of the first litters. Food distribution affected the spatial distribution of the populations. We conclude that the patchiness of the habitat and especially the availability of food are the most important factors determining the social structure of overwintering populations.
3682084| The reproduction of an undescribed species of the genus Chiloplacus from the Canadian High Arctic was studied at 10C. The mean number of eggs laid per female was 317.889.2, of which 46.87.8% hatched, resulting in net reproduction of 148.8 juveniles per female. Beginning as new-laid eggs the observed maximum age attained was 99 d, and the calculated generation time was 52.6 d. Egg-laying began 26 d after hatching and the reproductive period spanned 56 d. The intrinsic rate of increase was 0.095, and the first 12 reproductive days contributed 80.58% of the value of r. When r = 0.095 the stable age distribution was calculated to be 91.5% immatures and 8.5% adults. Chiloplacus sp. is intermediate in fecundity for free-living soil nematodes, lying between the generally highly fecund Rhabditidae on the one hand, and the much less fecund Dorylaimidae on the other. Chiloplacus sp. lays a larger portion of its eggs early in the reproductive period at 10C than do species from warmer environments, suggesting that reproduction of Chiloplacus sp. is low-temperature compensated. 
3682089| Eggs of the predaceous water beetle Dytiscus alaskanus were incubated in the laboratory at 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30C. All measures of rate of development showed a significant linear regression with temperature. Mortality rates showed no significant regression with temperature. Data for this species were compared with similar data for D. marginalis and results discussed with reference to the climate each experiences. 
3682611| The two prawn species Palaemon adspersus Rathke and P. elegans Rathke differ in their distribution patterns in estuaries: P. adspersus occurs at lower salinities and also extends further into the Baltic than P. elegans. Yet, at low salinities adult survival does not differ between the two species. Reproductive success was, however, substantially reduced in P. elegans at low salinity, but not in P. adspersus. Berried P. elegans females from the Swedish west coast hatched significantly fewer clutches at 10 than did P. adspersus females from the same locality. Furthermore, larval survival in P. elegans was significantly lower at 5 and 7.5 than in P. adspersus. At higher salinities (10 and 24.5) no interspecific differences in larval survival were found, except in one experiment where P. elegans larvae had a lower mortality. It is concluded that the different estuarine distributions of the two palaemonid prawn species result from these interspecific differences in reproductive success at low salinity. 
3682472|This paper examines patterns of structure in the helminth communities of long-billed curlews collected on their breeding grounds in Alberta, Canada. The communities are neither large nor species rich but they do show evidence of having structure which is mediated by interactive mechanisms between some helminths. In particular, we focus on the role played by congeneric host-specialists in contributing to community patterns and suggest that even in low diversity systems, some species may set the stage around which other species must assort.
3682327|Mortality rates in Svalbard reindeer followed the "U"-shaped pattern, with higher mortality rate among calves and old animals than in middle aged individuals. Assuming a stable population size, the mortality data predict a 16.2% annual mortality and recruitment rate among 6 months and older animals, and a male:female sex ratio of 48.5:51.5 among 1-yr old and older. Both predictions are supported by field data. Female mortality rate increased and differed from the male rate in the age interval 2-4 yr, while the male rate increased sharply and differed permanently from the female rate in the age interval above 6 yr. First and last breeding are thought to cause the increased mortality among 2-4 and 11-13 yr-old females. Increased involvement in rutting activities with age associated with lower grazing activity and depletion of fat reserves probably cause the increasing mortality rate among the 6+ yr males. Maximum life span was 17 yr in females and 12 yr in males. Apart from the unknown but possibly high neonatal calf-mortality, only few animals died during summer or during the rut in autumn. Death among calves, yearlings and most of the females occurred before antler-shedding in May-June. Most of the 2-yr and older males died after antler shedding, which occurs from December among the oldest and during April-May among the younger males. Hence, the major part of the mortality takes place in spring. The lack of visible subcutaneous and femur fat in most carcasses indicated starvation as the major mortality cause.
3682119|We have investigated environmental factors influencing the choice of breeding pools by Bufo calamita in two different habitat types in Britain, using a number of methods including the construction of artificial pools and the translocation of spawn laid by competitively superior anuran species. On heathland, major determinants were aspects of pond chemistry especially pH, Na and SO
3682677| The Lake vre Heimdalsvatn is greatly affected by wind. Precipitation, especially heavy rainfall, has probably a good possibility of eroding and leaching material into the lake. The mean annual temperature is -1.2C, and the estimated mean annual evapo-transpiration is about 200 mm. The lake is covered by ice from late October to the beginning of June. Run-off, lake level and precipitation are well correlated, indicating that the influence of the catchment is large and rapid. 
3682284| The colonization by Scots pine of a former middle-geolittoral habitat on the Umelven river, northern Sweden, laid almost completely dry in 1958, was compared with that of a similar habitat, subject to natural changes in water-level, on the Vindellven river. The geographical position, altitude, exposition, slope and type of vegetation were similar at both sites. The percentage cover of field and bottom layers of the middle geolittoral are considered to have decreased after the fall in water-level of the Umelven river. The pines were dated by making annual ring counts. During the period 1962-67 a significant increase in pine colonization took place at the Umelven site above the new, regulated, high-water level. The tree densities (pines m
3682646|The major decline of the West Greenland caribou herd during the 1970s prompted a study in 1977-78 of caribou behaviour in relation to environmental factors associated with the decline. Quantification of caribou activity revealed behavioural responses to critically low standing crops of preferred winter forage. Caribou on poor winter range were mostly inactive with low feeding intensities and abnormal diurnal activity patterns. In addition, these animals exhibited very restricted movements, frequently occurred alone or in small groups, and were unable to maintain normal social bonds. In contrast, where fruticose lichen winter forage was available, caribou did not display these behavioural traits. After the initiation of new vegetative growth, feeding intensity increased and social tendency returned. Comparison with behavioural data from other Rangifer populations suggests that the observed responses to low forage quality are not restricted to Greenland but are a normal response of barren-ground caribou to winter ranges poor in lichen forage.
3682333|Germination of caryopses and seeds of Festuca rubra L. coll. from wet, dry and dune areas in the salt marsh at Skallingen, Jutland, Denmark, was tested in deionized water and diluted sea water. A strong correlation was found between percentage of germination and the topography of the collection sites. Further it was found that salt tolerance for the most salt tolerant populations, growing on low dunes, was provided partly by the husks rather than only being a characteristic of the seed. In less salt tolerant populations from low and dry areas, husks had no influence on germination percentage in 25% sea water.
3682064|The achievement of the Scandinavian campaign is seen in the swift development and unorthodox transfer of an innovative trapping technique into the management of pest populations of the spruce engraver Ips typographus without the use of pesticides. The pheromone traps proved to be far more efficient in the prevention of engraver reproduction and the reduction of beetle numbers than the cumbersome trap trees they replaced. The wholesale application of pheromone traps as an integrated part of engraver pest management is justified alone by the empirically proven benefits that result from a "surveillance with the intent to control", although appraisal of the actual impact of trapping on the population density remains scientifically ambiguous for the lack of reliable methodology. Furthermore, the campaign opens a new era in bark beetle management by stipulating for the commercial availability of pheromones and traps as well as for research on basic and applied aspects. As the years to come may show, behaviour chemistry is likely to bear more promises to engraver management than just trapping techniques.
3682753|A total of 41 stands was sampled for species composition and 29 of these stands for plant standing crop and net annual production at 7 sites on 6 arctic islands. Fourteen additional sites on 10 islands were studied in less detail. Through polar ordination, three groupings were recognized: polar barrens with an average species richness of 6, a phytomass of
3682632|The diet of black guillemots Cepphus grylle (L.) was studied in Shetland between 1982 and 1985, both during and outside the breeding season. Full-grown birds consumed a wide variety of fish and invertebrate species in summer, broadly reflecting the diversity of the inshore benthic fauna. In winter a greater diversity of invertebrates was taken, which assumed increased importance in the diet as the availability of benthic fish probably declined. Chicks were fed a diet of fish, with 70-80% being sandeels Ammodytes marinus and butterfish Pholis gunnellus on the island of Mousa. Sandeels were delivered more frequently in the early morning, coincident with a peak in their feeding activity. Older chicks were fed significantly longer fish. The composition of chick diet varied significantly with date, not chick age. A seasonal decline in the proportion of sandeels in the chick diet may have reflected changes in zooplankton abundance, but the possibility that intensive industrial fishing of sandeels had adversely affected local stocks can not be ruled out.
3682746| A population dynamics analysis for planktonic diatoms is presented that allows estimates of the net rate of increase (k), the death rate (), the sedimentation rate () and, in absence of grazing, the growth rate (). It requires counts of live and dead cells suspended in the euphotic part of the water column and accumulated in sedimentation traps. The application of the model is demonstrated for the three dominant summe diatom species in Lake Constance, Asterionella formosa Hass, Fragilaria crotonensis Kitton and Stephanodiscus binderanus Krieger. Only during the first two weeks of the summer bloom of diatoms the loss rates were unimportant in comparison to the growth rates. Thereafter diatom population dynamics was strongly influenced by sedimentation and mortality, which sometimes led to a decrease in population density even when cell division continued at high rates. There were two periods of extraordinarily high death rates, which were associated in the case of A. formosa with silicon depletion and in the case of F. crotensis with fungal parasitism. 
3682157|Five common indices were compared to see which of them would be most suitable in the study of long time changes in a phytoplankton community. Margalef's index d showed the same course during the year as did the number of species. This is also valid for Brillouin's, Shannon's, Simpson's and McIntosh's indices when based on number of individuals. Brillouin's and Shannon's indices based on cell number were found to differ from the diversity values obtained by Simpson's and McIntosh's indices depending on their different sensitivity to the two components of diversity, species richness and species evenness. Diversity indices including species richness and evenness (e.g. all except Margalef's) are recommended, but their different sensitivity to their species richness and evenness component should not be overlooked. A description of the phytoplankton composition should always be given together with diversity indices. This is very important since any index used gives no information on the species and their ecology.
3682487|Grazing by the crayfish Procambarus clarkii (Girard) on the abundance of submersed sago pondweed, Potamogeton pectinatus (L.), was quantified during 1984 through 1986 at Coyote Hills Marsh (Alameda County, California, USA). Annual marsh surveys indicated that P. pectinatus abundance declined (from 70% to 0% of the marsh surface), whereas P. clarkii abundance increased (from 1.6 to almost
3682745| Life cycle, growth, mortality and production of the polychaetes Nereis virens and N. diversicolor were studied in Norsminde Fjord, Denmark. When 3 yr old, N. virens showed synchronous spawning induced at new moon in April when water temperature was 10-12C. Nereis diversicolor showed a prolonged spawning during early spring and summer at an age of 12-18 months. Average weight-specific growth rate for N. virens and N. diversicolor were 0.0062 and
3682395|The importance of the presence of nymphs of Ephemera danica for the emergence and survival of phoretic Epoicocladius ephemerae was tested in the laboratory. Only a few midges survived when hosts were absent. The synchronization of emergence of the host and its associate was examined in the field. Fecundity and total egg volume per unit wing length was compared between E. ephemerae and several free-living chironomids. The number of eggs was about the same in E. ephemerae as in the other species, but total egg volume was comparatively large. A comparison is also made between the host-related adaptations and feeding habits of E. ephemerae and of the parasitic Symbiocladius rhithrogenae. Some larvae of E. ephemerae use the fullgrown nymphs as pupation sites, probably because the emerging hosts carry the pupae to the water surface. The reason why not all midge larvae make use of nymphs for this purpose is probably because they are unable to adapt to the exact emergence time of the nymphs. Analysis of the emergence data of the midge and of the mayfly support this hypothesis.
3682699|The trophic basis of production of the macroinvertebrate communities at three sites on a second-order, low gradient blackwater stream in southeastern U.S.A. was determined. The sampling sites were located above, within and below a low-flow swamp system. From 47-64% of macroinvertebrate production was supported by FPOM at the three sites, with dependence on FPOM being greatest at the swamp site. Algae (filamentous species and diatoms) supported 15-31% of production, indicating that algae can be of considerable importance even in fully canopied headwater streams. The production of some collector-gatherers including Stenonema modestum (55%), Hexagenia munda (58%) and Baetis spp. (78%), was supported predominantly by algae. Algae also supported 61-79% of Hydropsychidae production and 68% of Simuliidae production. Animal material supported 16-26% of macroinvertebrate production at the three sites. CPOM was of minor direct importance to the macroinvertebrate community of this headwater stream, supporting only 1-3% of macroinvertebrate production. Shredders ingested only
3682135|The aim of this study was to find out whether the low plant production under a canopy of Heracleum laciniatum Horn was due to competition for water, nutrients or light or to chemical inhibitors produced by H. laciniatum. The main conclusion is that the low plant production observed under the canopy is due to competition for light. There were also indications that the competition for nutrition was larger in the soil under H. laciniatum than in the meadow outside the stand, but it has not been shown that nutrient supply limits the plant growth under the canopy. There were no indications that competition for water was a limiting factor. Water percolated through pots with H. laciniatum plants slightly inhibited growth of Poa pratensis and Phleum pratense, but had no effect on H. laciniatum. In soil samples collected from mid of June to late October seeds of Phleum pratense germinated better in meadow-soil than in soil collected under H. laciniatum. Allelopathy is suggested to account for a minor part only of the suppressed plant production under a H. laciniatum canopy.
3682713|Small rodent populations were monitored by autumn snap trapping in 22 localities of Norway during the years 1971-1979. A total of 105528 trap days yielded 7987 small mammals, out of which the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus and the short-tailed vole Microtus agrestis made up 52.3 and 29.0%, respectively. Third in abundance was the wood mouse Apodemus sylvaticus. Both M. agrestis and C. glareolus fluctuated fairly regularly, with general peak years of abundance in 1973 and 1977. Other Microtidae, such as M. oeconomus, C. rutilus and Lemmus lemmus apparently also exhibited cyclic fluctuations. In Arvicola terrestris, Apodemus, and in Sorex shrews, regular fluctuations could not be demonstrated, although the abundance varied considerably. The body weights of sub-adult C. glareolus cycled in accordance with the fluctuations in abundance; the highest weights being recorded in peak years. In M. agrestis, this correlation was less obvious.
3682748|The establishment of Plantago maritima seedlings and juveniles along a distributional gradient was investigated with pantograph technique. Mortality was closely dependent on vegetational characters such as cover, height of vegetation and amount of litter. Superimposed on these factors was mortality due to flooding. The density dependent mortality of seedlings was also investigated. The number of surrounding seedlings seemed to be of vital importance for survival, i.e. self thinning occurred most likely as a result of competition for light. The establishment and survival of seedlings cannot fully explain the distribution of adults.
3682690| A total of 67 species of chironomids were caught in emergence traps placed at the shoreline. Additional larval records increase the number of species to be at least 75, a high number of species possibly explained by the exposed nature of the lake, which also provides habitats for lotic forms. The species composition and relative abundance of the four main groups of Chironomidae indicate that vre Heimdalsvatn is a subarctic lake, with a strong oligotrophic character. The emergence period starts in mid-June and lasts to mid-September. Diversity studies show similarity with mountain lakes in France and with the Bodensee, but the equitability in vre Heimdalsvatn is lower. The chironomid faunal composition of vre Heimdalsvatn seems to be determined by abiotic ecological factors and not the history of distribution. 
3682269|The results of three surveys of wood decomposing on the forest floor of two sites in an abandoned beech and oak coppiced woodland, between 1968-1979, are described. Total wood stainding crop on the forest floor was estimated as
3682672|The interdisciplinary study of the lake ecosystem was carried out under the auspices of the International Biological Programme. The reasons for the choice of the lake and the personnel and institutions involved in the project are described. A brief description is given of the lake itself, its catchment area and its location, together with a short historical review of the development of the area and the degree of human influence.
3682069|Pitfall trapping within enclosures is proposed as a method to get a reliable impression of the relationship between the abundances of a number of coexisting carabid species. The investigations were performed during two years in a heavily grazed pasture at Melle (Belgium). On a rather large scale soil samples could be compared with both enclosed and open pitfall catches. In all cases fenced pitfalls gave ratios between the catches of the different species showing a much better correlation with those from soil samples than the catch-ratios from open pitfalls. This method seems especially suitable to compare the relative abundances of a number of carabid species in short term investigations during periods of peak activities.
3682573|The adult demography of a population of Speyeria mormonia (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) near Gothic, Colorado USA was studied for four years. Values of demographic parameters, including survival, dispersal and sex ratio, varied yearly, without major changes in density. Shift in sex ratio with constant population numbers entails variation in effective population size among years. Flight period, catchability, relationship between body size and eclosion date, and significance of correlation between weather and daily survival rates differed between the sexes. Sexual dimorphism in correlation of wheather with survival rate may partially explain the lack of yearly variation in total population size. There was no significant sexual dimorphism in large scale habitat use, or in dispersal, except in 1982. The demography of this insect is compared to that of related species of Argynnis and heliconiines, from the old world temperate zone and new world tropics, respectively. While some differences are observed which can be ascribed to differences in length of the growing season, many patterns are similar. This implies conservation of demographic traits, even across broad habitat and geographic areas.
3682714|In this paper we provide quantitative information on the occurrence of larvae and nymphs of the tick Ixodes ricinus in populations of the lizards Lacerta agilis and L. vivipara. Levels of infestation were rather low, at least when compared with those of small mammals and sheep. Hence we suppose that lizards feed only a minor fraction of the total tick population. Differences in tick loads among lizard subpopulations are probably attributable to difference in body size and mobility among the host groups. Ticks exhibit a markedly clumped distribution on the lizards. This distribution pattern fits with the negative binomial distribution. The overdispersed distribution of tick larvae in the field and aspects of the lizards' behaviour are considered as factors which contribute to the observed infestation patterns. Tick larvae were active throughout summer, with peak levels occurring during June-July. Nymphs were most numerous during May-June but almost absent during the summer months. Almost always ticks were attached near the lizards' forelimbs. Possible mortality resulting from tick infestation does not contribute significantly to the overall lizard mortality. Hence, these ectoparasites seem to have but a minor impact on the lizard populations.
3682751|Radiotelemetry was used to study the movements of female meadow voles Microtus pennsylvanicus Ord through the reproductive cycle. The study was conducted on a commercial field of crownvetch Coronilla varia L., a plant which provides excellent cover but contains a toxin making it unsuitable as forage. In this habitat, food is limited to small patches of grass and other non-crownvetch species dispersed throughout the fields. Four measures of movement (activity radius, distance moved per hour, nest radius, and area covered) showed significant reductions at parturition. Females maintained low levels of movement throughout the first week of nursing as they concentrated activity around the brood nest. After seven days of lactation, they began to spend less time at the nest. A slight increase in median activity radius occurred through the last six days of gestation. Brood nests were constructed in a portion of the home range that contained a relatively high concentration of food. Chi-square tests revealed a significant positive association of females with non-crownvetch plants during the first six days of lactation but no association with non-crownvetch was found before parturition. Females chose nest locations in which, prior to parturition, they had spent little or no time presumably because nutritious plants were less grazed there.
3682383|The population dynamics and production of D. galeata Sars were investigated from April 1974 to April 1975. The population density and biomass was maximum in June. Population dynamics indicated that food supply was better in spring and early summer than mid-summer. Net production was calculated by method of daily addition of biomass for eight size groups. The total net production of biomass for the year of investigation was
3682061|An analysis of semiochemical communication between host trees, bark beetles and commensal or entomophagous insects discloses five principal means by which semiochemicals can influence the population dynamics of bark beetles. These are: mediation of aggregation and mass attack on new hosts, cessation of aggregation and shifting of attack to uninhabited hosts, induction of aggregation by competing species, inhibition of aggregation by competing species, and mediation of host finding by commensal and entomophagous insects. Further analysis suggests major points of natural vulnerability which lead to six fundamental strategies for potential pest management: prevention of production of aggregation pheromones, sabotage of olfactory perception, exploitation of semiochemical-based secondary attraction, exploitation of antiaggregation pheromones, exploitation of repellent allomones, and exploitation of the kairomonal response by entomophagous insects. Investigations of the many possible tactics arising from these strategies have led to three types of operational pest management programs: prevention of pheromone production by excluding bark beetles from their hosts; suppression of bark beetle populations through the utilization of semiochemical-baited traps, trees or logs; and the use of antiaggregation pheromones to protect vulnerable hosts from attack.
3682597|Larvae of Neureclipsis bimaculata (Trichoptera: Polycentropodidae) construct elaborate catchnets in lotic habitats to trap small drifting invertebrate prey. Three populations located at two oligotrophic and one eutrophic site were studied in southern Sweden. Measurements were made of larval weight, net size, seston quality and quantity, and stream velocity. Neureclipsis larvae alter their net dimensions in response to both velocity and seston concentration. This was determined by comparing net structure and seston at the three locations. Larvae from the eutrophic, high quality seston site attain a significantly (P < 0.001) heavier instar V dry weight, spin a smaller catchnet, filter a volume of water dependent on body size, and slightly alter their catchnet dimensions with velocity. Larvae from the two oligothrophic sites are significantly smaller than those from the eutrophic site, spin a larger net at comparable velocities, filter a larger volume of water at comparable weights, and alter net dimensions with velocity. Estimates of silk production indicate that the net cost is minimized by spinning a very fine silken strand and by adding silk over a period of time. The cost while large is offset by a large capture rate of prey. The structure of Neureclipsis nets appears to be the result of a trade-off between maximizing food capture and minimizing hydraulic stress on the net.
3682175| The purpose of our study was to compare on a seasonal basis the emergence, the drift and the benthos on a short and uniform section (18.5 m) of a stream in the Laurentian Hills of Qubec. Nineteen species occurred on this stretch, but only six were abundant: Leptophlebia cupida (Say), Habrophlebia vibrans Needham, Baetis pygmaeus (Hagen), Eurylophella verisimilis (McDunnough), Stenonema modestum (Banks), and Stenonema vicarium (Walker). Emergence was monitored for 5 years; densities differed from one trap to the next, as did species dominance, but total densities were similar. These data conform to Illies' rules of constancy and harmony. Nymphal densities were high (mean of
3682285|Weight loss and dynamics of plant nutrients (N, P, K, Ca, Mg, S, Fe, Mn, Na, Zn and Cu) in leaf litter were studied in a mature beech forest in South Sweden, using the litter bag technique. An initial decomposition period of about 12 to 18 months was characterized by an absolute net increase of N, P, and S contents in litter, followed by a period of net release of these elements. This development, which was most obvious for N and P, was interpreted as a change from a phase where decomposer activity was limited by the availability of nutrient elements to an energy-limited phase. A net release of nitrogen did not occur until after two years of decomposition, and a transfer of nitrogen and phosphorus between different litter layers is here proposed to work as a retention mechanism. Potassium and sodium were quickly leached from the litter, while release of magnesium, calcium, and initially also manganese, was more associated to organic matter weight loss. Iron, zinc and copper were all strongly accumulated in the litter material. This is explained by mineral soil admixture for the former element and by atmospheric fall-out in combination with the chemical complex formation character for the latter two elements. Finally, the importance of the different release processes in the total nutrient recycling of the forest is discussed.
3682162|Some descriptive data concerning a nest-box breeding goldeneye population in SW Sweden is given. Clutch size and the proportion of breeding adults were not significantly correlated to proximate factors like food and air temperature. A relationship between population density and the proportion of breeding adults cannot be excluded. Predation was the most important nest mortality factor. There was a preference for nest-boxes with successful breeding results in the previous year, while no preference for nest-boxes at good feeding lakes for the ducklings was found. Duckling survival seems to be regulated in a brood size dependent way, and an important mortality factor is losses during travels between different lakes. A negative correlation between temperature and laying date was found, while the yearly variations of the laying date did not influence the proportion of breeding adults, clutch size or hatching success. Clutches which started later contained fewer eggs and produced fewer young than early ones from the same breeding season.
3682723|The distribution of microbial populations that decomposed sugar, cellulose and lignin-related substrates was examined in a beech Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. and maple Acer saccharum Marsh. dominated woodlot developed on glacial till. The topography of the woodlot, characterized by rises, depressions and more extensive level areas about 1 m in diameter with a 0.5 m vertical maximum, produced a mosaic of decomposer habitats designated as high, level and low sites. In general, populations of sugar, cellulose and lignin decomposing organisms (based on ten estimates made from April to October) were two to four times higher in litter and soil samples from low sites than those from high sites. Sugar decomposing bacteria in litter were most abundant at all topographic sites,
3682138| Seasonal measurements of the oxygen and nitrate uptake by a reed swamp sediment were carried out in a shallow, eutrophic Danish lake, Arreskov S. The oxidation of organic carbon in the sediment by aerobic and nitrate respiration was 290 and 188 g
3682091|The Icelandic small mammal fauna is depauperated as is the associated ectoparasite fauna. Three small mammal species occur, viz. Apodemus sylvaticus L., Mus musculus L., and Rattus norvegicus Berk. (R. rattus is probably not a regular member). The mice supposedly came to the island by settlers from the 10th century and onwards. Apodemus and Mus from five localities altogether had seven ectoparasite species, five mites and two fleas. All species occurred on Apodemus whereas Mus was infested by four. Compared with the numbers of ectoparasite species recorded in similar studies in the Nordic countries, there are conspicuously few species in Iceland. Further, Apodemus had an overall higher infestation frequency than Mus (90% and 30%, respectively) and a higher total density of ectoparasites (3.3-20.3 and 0.5 inds/host, respectively). The density figures were high compared with those for mainland Apodemus. Especially the mite Laelaps agilis C. L. Koch and the flea Ctenophthalmus agyrtes (Heller) were common on Icelandic Apodemus. Reduced competition among parasites and/or low predator pressure on small mammals may explain the density figures obtained. The ectoparasite species compositions on small mammals in Scandinavia and Iceland have many features in common that renders it probable that Apodemus originate from Scandinavia.
3682640|Persistent pollutants in mustelid species (e.g. otter, mink, marten) were investigated. For a given animal, concentration of PCB and DDT in muscle were correlated with concentrations in its anal gland secretion. The correlation suggests that small samples of secretion could be used for pollutant analysis thereby eliminating the need to sacrifice animals. There was also a correlation between muscle and liver concentrations of these compounds, indicating a partitioning between different organs. Furthermore, we showed that habitat differences between species led to interspecific variation in the uptake of persistent pollutants. Mink, which mainly feed in aquatic environments, contained a higher proportion of p,p-DDT than marten, which feeds on terrestrial prey. Differences in PCB uptake were also noted between the two predators, though the congener distribution was heavily domined by a few hexa- and heptachlorobiphenyls.
3682359|Soil carbon dioxide efflux was measured in hummock and hollow microhabitats of a subarctic peat bog near Fairbanks, Alaska, during the 1983 growing season. Regardless of the presence of permafrost, hummocks showed a late June or early July peak in soil respiration followed by a gradual decrease. Hollows and wet Carex Lawns showed a gradual increase in soil respiration with no mid-season peaks. Regression equations using soil temperature and soil moisture as independent variables explained 76% of the variance associated with soil carbon dioxide efflux. Sucrose
3682276| Reproduction in the European hare Lepus europaeus Pallas populations was studied in three study areas in South Sweden during 1974-1976; two on the mainland and the third on the Island of Ven in resund. The monthly birth rates was calculated on the basis of the age of juvenile hares shot in autumn. The first births always occurred in February, indicating that the onset of the breeding season was governed by day length rather than by climate. Later, the reproduction rate was determined by temperature, snow cover, and precipitation. Low temperatures in spring delayed the reproduction; high temperatures in autumn favoured a prolongation of the breeding season. Low precipitation in May-July caused a decline in reproduction in July in a sandy pasture area, mainly because water amount was low in the green forage. Annual fertility, estimated on the basis of placental scars, varied between 6.8 and 8.9 young per female. There was a significant negative correlation between fertility and population density. The largest variations were recorded in one-year-old females, and on average the values were significantly higher in three-year-old females. 68% of all females examined had three litters annually; four litters were found in only 13% of all females. The mean litter size for the whole period was about 2.9 in all areas. The size of the first litter was significantly higher in females producing one or two litters than in females with three or four litters. The postnatal losses were on average 30-35% lower in the island population than in the mainland populations (73-84%), probably due to lack of predators, sparse road traffic, and inhibited juvenile dispersal. 
3682310|Photoperiod extension with weak incandescent light from 8 to 24 h stimulated relative growth rate (RGR) of Poa alpina up to 20%. The response was greatest in young plants at low temperatures. The leaf area ratio (LAR) increased by about 50% which more than compensated for a reduction in net assimilation rate (NAR) by about 20%. The effect of daylength extension on RGR was similar for an arctic ecotype of P. alpina from Svalbard, an alpine ecotype from southern Norway and a boreal-temperate ecotype from southern Norway. The main changes in the growth parameters occurred over the 13 to 17 h photoperiod range in P. alpina from both Svalbard and Rondane, although plants at Svalbard are exposed to midnight sun throughout their growing season. The ecotype of P. alpina from southern Norway had fewer tillers and allocated less dry matter to the roots than the two other ecotypes.
3682481|Natural mineral-rich springs which attract moose Alces alces and white-tailed deer Odocoileus virginianus were studied in a small area in central Canada. The spring water was particularly rich in Na and Cl but also contained levels of K, Ca, Mg, HCO
3682526| The adult Trichoptera communities of a small watershed in the Qubec Laurentian Hills were studied during two years with emergence and light traps. Some 180 species and more than 164500 specimens were collected, belonging mainly to the families Hydropsychidae, Polycentropodidae and Leptoceridae; the Limnephilidae with 41 species were the most diverse family. A comparison of catches in emergence and light traps revealed the importance of species from distant or specialized habitats in the composition of local communities. Two series of light trap catches show little similarity (Sanders index) although the traps were only some 60 m apart; this is in accordance with the suspected limited range of efficiency of light traps. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index, the Simpson dominance index as well as the Lloyd and Ghelardi equitability index have been used to describe community structure; our four data series have also been shown to conform to the log-normal frequency distribution of Preston. The sex-ratios of the abundant species are given. In most light trap series and in half the emergence trap series, the ratio differs significantly from 50: 50; there is however no overall dominance of one sex. Differences exist between the ratios obtained for the same species in the two types of traps and probably reflect sexual differences in behaviour at light. 
3682665|Deer mice Peromyscus maniculatus were captured along an altitudinal gradient that extended from 1524 m up to 3353 m in central Colorado during August and early September 1976. No differences were found in mean body weight along the altitudinal gradient. Mean hair length was found to increase along the gradient up to an altitude of 2438 m where it leveled off. Hair density was higher in mice captured at 3353 m than at 1524 m. This suggests that Bergmann's Rule was not found along the altitudinal gradient and that insulation was modified in response to the cooler conditions that exist at high altitude.
3682461|The response of seed germination to substrate water potential was determined for several plant species of the arctic tundra. Seeds were collected from Cape Thompson and Eagle Summit, Alaska and germinated on dialysis membranes over water solutions of polyethylene glycol with osmotic potentials of 0 to -6 bars. Germination did not occur with potentials below -3 bars, except for three fellfield species. Germination was delayed at lower osmotic potentials. Because the response of most species was similar, substrate water potential is probably not a factor affecting the establishment of most tundra plant species from seeds.
3682581| The pelagic amphipod, Hyalella montezuma comprised nearly 90% of the diet of the leech, Erpobdella montezuma in the near thermally constant environment of Montezuma Well, Arizona. This restricted diet, confirmed by both gut content and serological analyses, occurred even though other potential prey were abundant throughout the year in the pelagic column, littoral vegetation and sediments. Seasonal electivity indices for this pelagic prey species were 0.9. It is suggested that the highly predictable environmental conditions in Montezuma Well have contributed to this very close predator-prey relationship. 
3682469|Three isolates representing two species of the Saprolegniaceae were investigated using standard manometric techniques to determine what effect culture temperature and nutrient availability had on respiration following treatment with artificial seawater. All three isolates manifested decreased respiration following treatment in most temperatures and salinities whether or not exogenous nutrient were present, but no treatment prevented test fungi from resuming vigorous growth and infesting sterile bait after the 18.5 h treatment period. In light of previous published reports the present result suggest that saprolegniaceous fungi may become dormant in estuarine salinity regimes, but probably remain viable for prolonged periods. Ecological implications of this phenomenon are discussed.
3682679| Two sediment cores, 143 cm and 268 cm in length, have been investigated. The oldest dating is 8240  500 radiocarbon years B.P. The variation in the composition of the sediments is probably caused solely by climatic changes. The organic fraction is small, never exceeding 20%, reflecting the low primary production and rapid decomposition of allochthonous organic matter within the lake. The proportions of inorganic constituents indicate that the mineral fraction consists of clay and silt particles flushed into the lake from the drainage area. 
3682477| Activity patterns of the muskrat Ondatra zibethicus L. were examined during summer and winter in Delta Marsh, Manitoba, Canada (5011N, 9823W). Animals exhibited intermittent activity throughout the day with a mean periodicity close to 6 h in both seasons. The 24-h activity pattern in summer was typically bimodal with major peaks occurring between sunset and sunrise. Muskrats were more diurnal in winter when maximal levels of activity occurred in late afternoon and early evening (1500-2000). Pronounced inter- and intra-individual variability in daily activity ensured continuous, or nearly continuous occupation of winter shelters by a variable number of muskrats, and thus enchanced microclimate stability. Daily variation in activity and weather were weakly correlated both summer and winter. Of the environmental variables tested, only photoperiod and wind speed in summer, and photoperiod and air temperature in winter correlated significantly with total time spent in lodge or burrow per day. 
3682456|Eriophorum vaginatum tillers were collected at Eagle Creek, Alaska and cultivated in aerated solutions under controlled environmental conditions. The nutrient solutions contained traces, 1.05 and
3682166|Seasonal activity of Ixodes ricinus L. was studied with two different sampling methods at three localities in southern Sweden: blanket dragging in vegetation and collection from small mammal hosts (mainly larvae in the latter case). The blanket method yielded all development stages. The seasonal pattern - bimodal, with one peak in spring and another in autumn - was clearer for larvae collected on small mammals. The nymphs had a similar seasonal activity pattern as the larvae, but nymphal activity usually started somewhat earlier in spring. Adults had three activity peaks - spring, summer and autumn - in the vegetation. The autumn peak seems similar to that found in other European countries, but the timing of the spring peak differs. Weather, influencing development rates, seems to be the main agent behind these differences, since ambient weather (above a certain threshold) cannot explain the patterns. Abundance and activity of hosts (different hosts for different developmental stages) probably also plays a certain role.
3682659| Recent mathematical indices summarizing biological communities of indicators are recapitulated. Improvements of these indices based on weighting according to width of trophic ranges of each species are suggested. Their principle deficiencies, however, are pointed out. Revised lists of characteristic profundal as well as littoral and sublittoral chironomids in Nearctic and Palearctic lakes show that at least 15 characteristic chironomid species communities can be delineated, 6 in each of the oligotrophic and the eutrophic ranges and 3 in the mesotrophic range. It is proposed that these communities be lettered consecutively in the Greek alphabet from  (alpha) to  (omikron). A key to the 15 divisions based on the species associations in the profundal zone of harmonic lakes is put forward. There is very good correlation between the 15 divisions and the ratios of average total phosphorus to mean lake depth and average chlorophyll a to mean lake depth. The ratio of chironomids to oligochaetes and the distribution patterns of single species have proven useful in pin-pointing localized areas of pollution. The primary mechanism governing the distribution of chironomid communities in oligotrophic and mesotrophic lakes appears to be the availability of food materials rather than the annual hypolimnetic oxygen concentration. In eutrophic lakes the relationships between organic matter accumulation and oxygen levels are so interdependent as to be inseparable. 
3682549| Muskoxen Ovibos moschatus in northern Greenland (79-83N) are at the northern limit of their distribution and exist under seasonal extremes dominated by nearly 10 months of winter, much of which is without sunlight. The period of summer vegetative growth is less than two months. In the Kap Kbenhavn area (8230N), diversity of plant species is low (76 species of vascular plants) and forage biomass in major vegetation types in summer varies from over 40 g m
3682321| 1. Alpine vascular plants seem to use other strategies in surviving a cold environment than reducing the reflectance in level leaves. Pubescence in alpine plants has small effect upon total reflectance, but may increase the amount of photosynthetic active radiation within the sheltered canopy. Alpine cushion plants like Silene acaulis, Diapensia lapponica and Loiseleuria procumbens maximize the absorptance of radiant energy with minimum heat losses, probably as an effect of the dense canopy structure. The young inflorescences of Eriophorum vaginatum were found to be extremely efficient absorbators, while the reflectance in Salix catkins was close to that of green leaves. 2. In lichens, a great variation both in visible (400-700 nm) and infrared (700-1400 nm) reflectance was found: (A) The Pseudephebe pubescence group consists of species with very low reflectance at all measured wavelengths. The species are chionophobous, probably because of the high absorptance which makes growth possible during the cold season. (B) The Sticta sylvatica group, characterized by very low visible reflectance and very high infrared reflectance, is well adapted to shade. (C) The Cetraria nivalis group consists of fruticose species with high reflectance both in the visible and the near infrared. The intense visible reflectance probably makes net photosynthesis possible in well protected layers of the canopy. (D) The Nephroma arcticum group with spectral properties resembling green leaves in vascular plants. (E) The Haematomma ventosum group and the Parmelia perlata group with spectral properties intermediate between group C and D. 3. A modified method determining lethal temperatures and energies of activation in the process leading to death during a heat shock, is described. The two parameters are rather species specific in many of the 118 Scandinavian plants investigated. The lethal temperatures completely overlap the values in hotter parts of the world. However, habitat specific lethal temperatures were found; low values in wet- or shade-growing species and high values in dry-growing species. In Picea abies lethal temperatures and energies of activation showed pronounced, but diverging, year cycles in 12 ecotypes from different parts of Europe. Only negligible differences between the ecotypes exist, and cycles are probably photoperiodically determined. 4. Heat hardening can be achieved quickly, both in an active and dormant stage, by increasing the temperature. A linear correlation between hardening temperature, both in the optimal and supraoptimal temperature range, and hardening capability was found. In most species, but especially in cold adapted species, the hardening capability at supraoptimal temperatures decreases with increasing cultivation temperature. 5. Diffusion resistances with open
3682552| We examined ontogenetic changes in diel patterns of habitat use and activity of the lotic isopod Lirceus fontinalis in relation to differences in predation risk from green sunfish, Lepomis cyanellus. Juveniles are 5 mm total length (TL), individuals 6-9 mm TL are mature females (c. 90%) and immature males, and mature males are 10 mm TL. Isopods of all sizes were far more dense in Cladophora, a filamentous green algae, than in open silt/sand substrates in fish pools. Densities of each size did not increase in open areas at night in fish pools when risk of predation presumably decreases. Few individuals of any size class occurred in open silt/sand areas in fish pools. However, habitat use did not depend on fish presence. Densities and relative abundances of all sizes were similar between algal and open habitats in fishless pools both day and night, except for mature males which were more abundant in open areas during daylight. All sizes of isopods were significantly more dense in fishless versus fish pools, and density of a size class was influenced by fish presence. Densities of size classes were typically juveniles > individuals 6-9 mm TL > mature males. Green sunfish are size selective feeders on isopods, thus demography of isopods within pools may be partially influenced by the size structure of the fish population. Isopods reduced their activity, as measured by captures in benthic traps, in the presence of caged green sunfish only at night. This behavior coupled with relatively high activity levels during daylight regardless of fish presence suggests other predators or factors may influence diel activity. Mature males were overrepresented in traps relative to their occurrence in fish runs, indicating high activity levels. Mature males were also more active than gravid and nongravid females and juveniles in the presence of fish in laboratory aquaria. Number of male encounters with nongravid females depended on activity level. 
3682200|Dynamics and performance of established individuals of Ranunculus glacialis at the time of peak flowering were monitored in a mountain area in Finnish Lapland for five years (1982-1986). The plants reproduced only sexually, and their spatial distribution in
3682278| Seasonal activity patterns of Patrobus atrorufus (Strm) were studies by the use of pitfall traps. The samples were taken from three habitats at different altitudes, situated in an alder forest, a spruce forest, and a subalpine birch forest, respectively. With increasing altitude the breeding time of the species and the corresponding peak of activity shifted from autumn towards spring. This change in the breeding pattern was found mainly to be caused by climatic factors, thus the species seems able to accomplish considerable alterations in the life history as an adaptive mechanism. 
3682608|Collection records of adult dytiscid beetles (Coleoptera, Dytiscidae) from 312 sites within the province of Alberta, Canada, were analyzed for patterns of similarity in species distribution. Sites compared on the basis of species occurrence (Jaccard co-efficient of similarity and group average cluster analysis) separated into 12 principal clusters, interpreted as communities. However, cluster inclusion occurred at very low levels of similarity and 30% of sites were unclustered outliers. Ecological characteristics of sites that were recognized as varying between clusters were salinity, productivity, stability, water temperature, substrate type, flow and vegetation. An index relating these qualitatively defined variables to species numbers is presented. An analysis of co-occurrence patterns of species was conducted as an alternative approach to definition of multispecies associations. Each possible combination of co-occurrence between pairs of species occurring in more than 5 collections each was tested for significance (p = 0.005) by means of Yates corrected 
3682478|The fruit fall from the canopy and the understorey in an oak Quercus petraea (Mattushka) Liebl. wood and in a yew Taxus baccata L. wood at Killarney, Ireland, were measured over a period of approximately 18 months; this included two complete fruit crops in each wood. Fruit represents the great bulk of the food of the small rodents present: wood mice Apodemus sylvaticus (L.) and bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus Schreber. From a knowledge of the particular fruits or their parts eaten, the amounts of available food, in
3682085|A peak density population of Clethrionomys glareolus was studied by snap-trapping to determine by experimentation whether spacing behaviour regulated the breeding density. On control plots onset of reproduction was asynchronous, litter size of overwintered females decreased significantly during the summer and no year-born animals matured during the reproductive period. A removal experiment in the early summer resulted in sexual maturation of year-born females. A second removal in late summer indicated an inhibition of maturation in year-born females despite continued intense reproduction of overwintered females. We conclude that spacing behaviour regulated maturation of females early in the summer but other factors, such as food quality, limited maturation in late summer.
3682340| The macrofungal flora (species producing fruitbodies) of oak forest in Scania and N.E. Smland, south Sweden, is compared on the basis of soil chemical and stand structural properties and general differences in the deposition of acid and acidifying pollutants between these two regions. Deposition in Scania is, on average, twice as high and the mean base saturation of the oak forest humus only half of that in Smland. Species characteristic of soils with high base saturation/pH values (e.g. Cortinarius nemorensis, Entoloma nidorosum, Camarophyllus spp., Marasmius epiphyllus) were usually more common in Smland, whereas the opposite was true for most species characteristic of highly acidic soils (e.g. Entoloma cetratum, Lactarius camphoratus, L. theiogalus, Mycena sanguinolenta). Known changes of soil acidity and base saturation in south Sweden during recent decades and information from this and related studies suggest that the species composition of the macrofungal flora in deciduous forest of south Sweden is gradually changing as a result of changing soil chemistry. 
3682350|This paper deals with a change in abundance of a population of Fritillaria meleagris L. The results of the investigation were compared with those of a study performed about 40 yr ago. The comparison showed both a change in the vegetation and in the abundance of the fritillary along a topographical gradient. The study reported here was a transplant experiment carried out in order to evaluate the hypothesis that regulation of the water levels of an adjacent lake was the main reason for the change. The transplantations showed that the performance of the fritillary was negatively affected by the high ground water levels and inundations of the site where the fritillary earlier was most abundant.
3682280|Larval drift of the trichopteran Rhyacophila nubila (Zett.) was studied in a West Norwegian river. The frequency distribution of different instars in the drift samples was significantly different compared with the benthic samples. The drift, measured as the number which passed a transect of the river, rised markedly in periods of high water discharge. Different instars can be arranged according to the extent in which they are drifting: 2 > 3 > 4 > 1 > 5. Instar 1 and 2 shared a neutral phototaxis. From the 2nd instar and on, the larvae became increasingly night-active with a culmination in the last instar which was highly night active, also confined by laboratory studies. It is suggested that changes in activity patterns is associated with a shift towards a more carnivorous way of life.
3682528|The survival of Plantago maritima seedlings was studied on a Baltic sea-shore meadow and related to a topographical gradient and to microtopography. The seedlings showed different survival at different microtopographical levels. These differences could be identified all along the gradient but did not show in the same place in every year. The survival of seedlings was also different in different parts of the gradient. This means that the distribution of safe-sites fluctuates with time. Areas with the highest survival rate of seedlings did not coincide with areas with the highest abundance of adults.
3682404| Cooking Lake (11302W, 5326N), a well-mixed, shallow (mean depth 1.59 m), eutrophic lake in Alberta, Canada, is characterized by eutrophic chlorococcalean and cyanophycean phytoplankton associations, and little change in standing crop with increasing depth. Standing crop and primary productivity are low during the winter but pronounced spring and summer maxima occur. Mean yearly areal standing crop (B) and primary productivity (A) were
3682712|Reproductive output of the golden eagle Aquila chrysaetos (L.), was studied in two areas within the species distribution in northern Sweden during 1975-1980. Reproductive success was compared with the abundance (based on hunting bag statistics) of small game prey species and with the microtine cycles. The proportion of golden eagle pairs with successful breeding and the number of young produced per occupied territory varied greatly between years (21-85% and 0.27-1.24, respectively). In the northern study area I found a significant correlation between the proportion of pairs with successful breeding versus total hunting bag of small game species. There were also significant correlations between vole density and breeding success one year later. This was not the case in the southern study area, mainly due to a good reproductive year for golden eagles in 1977 when small game species were scarce. The good reproductive output in 1977 may be explained by favourable weather conditions that spring. Whether breeding occurs or not is probably determined by prey abundance early in spring just before the golden eagle female lays her eggs.
3682387| Stand structure and rates and patterns of wood litterfall, between 23 June 1977 and 27 June 1979, are described for two sites in a coppiced beech Fagus sylvatica L. and oak Quercus petraea (Mattuschka) Liebl. woodland in south-east England. Total wood fall (excluding trunks) was estimated at
3682170|Feeding on Chironomus riparius, Glyptotendipes paripes (Chironomidae), and Daphnia magna by the predatory freshwater leech, Nephelopsis obscura, was investigated in the laboratory and predictive models developed to estimate prey capture rate in the field. Experimental arena (container) size significantly affected predation rates when arena diameter was less than twice the total body length of the predator. Both chironomid and Daphnia magna capture rates were influenced by predator size, temperature and prey density.
3682156| In Iceland Cepaea hortensis Mll. reaches its northern limit of distribution occurring in restricted areas along the south coast. Samples of snails collected along steep cliffs in two such restricted areas were effectively monomorphic for shell colour (yellow), but were polymorphic for banding pattern and revealed strong area effects. In both localities samples from sites facing east contained varying frequencies of unbanded snails whereas in ecologically similar sites facing south unbanded were absent. In an experimental population released at a south-facing site unbanded snails failed to become established whereas banded individuals survived and bred. It is suggested that the area effects are maintained through non-visual (most likely climatic) selection though other possibilities cannot be ruled out. 
3682326|Malus domestica, Salix caprea L. and Betula pubescens Ehrh. are host plants for Orthosia gothica L. The influence of the three plant species on time of larval development, mortality, and weight gain, and of adult fecundity, was studied. M. domestica was the most suitable food plant for the O. gothica larvae, and there was a positive correlation between the live weights of the females and their fecundity. The consumption, digestion and respiration of O. gothica larvae reared on foliage of S. caprea and B. pubescens were compared. Larvae fed on S. caprea had a shorter time of development, a higher weight gain, and a lower mortality, consumption, digestion and respiration compared with larvae reared on B. pubescens. Larvae reared on B. pubescens used a greater part of metabolism for maintenance than those on S. caprea. The different effects of the two food plants on the larvae were due to nutritional and/or physical conditions.
3682592|From 1981 to 1986 an isolated adder population was studied in the extreme south of Sweden. During this period 48 adult males and 44 adult females were marked. Male adders did not grow as large as the females. Large males had a significantly higher annual mating success and were engaged in more combats than smaller males. The mean length of recaptured males was significantly lower than that of those not recaptured, indicating a higher motality of larger males. Females brood size was positively correlated with body size. In females there was no difference in mean length of recaptured vs not recaptured individuals. The adder is one of the few snake species with male combat where males are smaller than females. I suggest that this is due to stronger selective advantages for large body size in females than in males.
3682752|Predation on brown hares and pheasants in relation to their production was examined in an open field area in southern Sweden. Biomass and numbers of hares and pheasants eaten by the predators were calculated from data on food habits, food requirements, and numbers of the mammalian and avian predators present (11 species). At the same time estimates of numbers and production of hares and pheasants were obtained. At least 40% of the estimated annual production of hares and almost 60% of subadult-adult pheasants in autumn were consumed by the predators. Estimated numbers of hares and pheasants taken by the predators greatly exceeded shooting and road mortality. Foxes and cats were the predominant predators on hares (about 90% of total hare consumption). Foxes accounted for about two-thirds of predation on pheasants; cats and goshawks were of secondary importance. Pheasant nests were preyed upon by hooded crows and also by badgers. Hares and pheasants contributed only about 3 and 1%, respectively, of the food of the predators.
3682589| Adults were obtained from three populations of Taeniopteryx nebulosa and four populations of Brachyptera risi; their eggs were incubated at seven constant temperatures (range 3.8-22.1C). There were interspecific, but not intraspecific, differences in adult life-span, mean number of eggs laid per female, hatching success and egg incubation periods. The optimum temperature for hatching success and the range over which at least 50% of the eggs hatched were lower for T. nebulosa (6.5C, 2.7-15.0C) than for B. risi (9.0C, 5.1-15.8C). No eggs hatched at 22.1C. The relationship between incubation period (d days) and water temperature (TC) was given by:
3682100|The Meadow Brown Butterfly, Maniola jurtina L., which is polymorphic for spotting on hind wings, was studied for five years on four small (
3682437|Adult mountain hares in outdoor cages were studied in order to evaluate the consumption and the digestibility of natural winter foods. Food, feces and urine were analysed for nitrogen, phosphorus, calcium, potassium, magnesium and sodium, and food and feces for fiber as well. The metabolism of the different nutrients are presented in this paper. When energy equilibrium was maintained hares assimilated as an average 21.6 g dry matter per kg body weight and day
3682618|Numbers and proportions of southern bird species in Norway were analyzed, mainly using data from the literature. Southern, regularly breeding, bird species constituted 18% of water/wetland birds and 45% of landbirds. This difference is related to the opposing latitudinal gradients in species richness. Also, the majority of southern water/wetland bird species in Norway are associated with a habitat type that covers small areas, in contrast to southern landbird species. Correlation analysis showed that May temperature and respiration equivalent (a measure of potential for plant growth and ripening) each could account for about 85% of the variation in proportion of southern passerine species, and about 75% in proportion of southern wader species. Significant second-order, partial correlations were found between proportion of southern passerines and latitude, May temperature and respiration equivalent. It is suggested that the northern distributional limits of passerines, may be indirectly causally related to May temperature and respiration equivalent, and also directly causally related to May temperature. Evidence of causal relationships between northern distributional limits of waders and May temperature or respiration equivalent was not found. For May temperature this may be because of insufficient number of wader censuses.
3682458|Eriophorum vaginatum ssp. spissum is a dominant plant species of undisturbed cotton grass tussock tundra in Alaska. It also quickly invades and dominates recently disturbed sites. The hypothesis tested in this research was that the success of E. vaginatum on disturbed sites might be achieved through a higher allocation of biomass to reproductive structures relative to other tundra species. Reproductive allocation of tundra plants in general also was compared with plants of the temperate zone. The results indicate that E. vaginatum is about average among the common tundra species in terms of total reproductive allocation, allocation to seeds, and the proportion of total reproductive allocation that is accounted for by viable seeds. Tundra species, on a relative basis, allocate less biomass to all reproductive structures than temperature species but not necessarily less biomass to the output of viable seeds.
3682408|The concentrations of Cd, Cu, Pb, and Zn were determined in the abiotic and biotic components at two sites in the Fox River, Illinois. Analysis of the metals was completed on solutions of wet ashed or dry ashed samples with a single beam atomic absorption spectrophotometer. Despite different inputs of the trace metals there were no significant differences in the concentration of Cu or Zn in the biota between the two sites. This was postulated to be due to physiological control of these metals. However, Cd and Pb concentrations were higher in the biota and substrate at the high input site. No accumulation of Cd or Pb occurred at higher trophic levels. Cu and Zn concentrations were similar for all biota with the exception of crayfish and snails which had higher Cu and Zn concentrations, respectively.
3682452|The effect of a 1976 nitrogen, phosphorus, and nitrogen-phosphorus-potassium fertilization at Eagle Creek, Alaska, on photosynthetic rates was investigated in 1978 in eight vascular and three nonvascular plant species. While NPK fertilization increased the growth rate of shoots of most vascular plant species, this treatment depressed photosynthetic rates in all vascular species. Therefore, it appears that nutrient limitation of growth is a direct limitation and not mediated through nutrient effect on carbon uptake rates and levels of available photosynthate. The reason for the reduction in photosynthetic rates with fertilization is not known. It is speculated that increases in growth with fertilization causes a dilution of other nutrients or factors, the effect of which is to depress photosynthesis. Moss photosynthesis is stimulated with fertilization. High NPK fertilizer levels stimulate photosynthesis more than low NPK fertilizer levels. This may indicate basic differences in the ecology or physiology of the two growth forms. It is not yet known if the growth of mosses in this area is stimulated by NPK fertilization.
3682598|Vertical distribution of primary production and phytoplankton was studied in a polyhumic brownwater lake and in an oligo-mesohumic lake. During summer both lakes were thermally, chemically and biologically stratified. In the brownwater lake primary production was restricted to the uppermost layer of 1-1.5 m of epilimnion. In the oligo-mesohumic lake noticeable primary production was detected down to depths of 2-3 m. The ice-free period primary production was about 20% higher in the oligo-mesohumic lake, though occasionally the surface production was 2-3 times higher in the brownwater lake. Epilimnetic total phosphorus and total nitrogen concentrations were higher in the brownwater lake, while nitrate-nitrite, ammonium and phosphate concentrations were very low in both lakes. Phytoplankton was confined to the uppermost productive layer in the brownwater lake. In the oligo-mesohumic lake phytoplankton was distributed more evenly, though the mean maximum biomass was at the depth of 3-4 m. Below the oxic water layer biomass decreased abruptly in both lakes. In the oligo-mesohumic lake chlorophyll concentration was extremely high
3682343|The total aestival ectoparasitic burden of six small mammal species (Sorex araneus, Clethrionomys glareolus, C. rutilus, C. rufocanus, Microtus agrestis, and M. oeconomus) was investigated in terms of frequency distribution, frequency of occurrence, species diversity and joint occurrences. The mammals were collected in northern Fennoscandia during peak density years. The frequency distribution of the ectoparasites was best described as negative binomial on C. glareolus, M. agrestis, and M. oeconomus but not so on S. araneus, C. rutilus and C. rufocanus. The distribution did not fit the Poisson distribution in any species. The percentage of S. araneus that had ectoparasites was 49%, and of the microtidae species, 73-96% had ectoparasites. The median number of ectoparasites on the vole species was between 2 and 9 specimens of 1 or 2 species. There was a significant, positive correlation between the number of ectoparasitic species and the total number of individuals on all host species. Pairs of ectoparasitic species occurring together more or less often than expected by chance were found on all host species. However, the pairs rarely repeated themselves on the same host species under different environmental conditions, or on other host species under similar circumstances. Differences in total infestation between reproductive categories and sexes were observed in M. agrestis but not in S. araneus and C. glareolus.
3682538|Different ectoparasitic species occur on different areas on the small mammal host: chiggers in the ear muzzle, ticks on the ears and other parts of the head, fleas and lice on the back and most gamasid mites on the posterior part of the host body. The distribution might be affected by (1) the mechanical interference of the host. Thus attached species such as ticks and chiggers occur in areas where direct predation is limited and small and/or very mobile species are found on other parts of the body. (2) Interaction between parasitic species. In areas where species meet, there might be a segregation in time or in space. Species such as Laelaps agilis (C. L. Koch) and Haemogamasus nidi Michael are most frequently found within a restricted area on the host, but differ in their seasonal occurrence. In other combinations of species, such as in fleas, there are marked differentiations in body areas used. These differentiations may be evolutionary fixed or manifested at first when species meet. (3) Abundance, where an increasing abundance enlarge the habitat used.
3682208| The nitrogenase activity of free-living microorganisms was investigated in a brown forest soil beneath a mature oak-stand outside Uppsala, Central Sweden. The effect of season, air temperature, soil depth and some soil parameters on nitrogenase activity was studied. Only heterotrophic nitrogenase activity was detected. The main activity occurred in the upper 5 cm of the soil profile. The amount of nitrogen fixed during the growth season was calculated to
3682180|The effects of ice-push on shoreline population age structure of Salix planifolia was investigated at Clearwater Lake, a large lake (
3682706| Between midsummer 1976 and November 1977 some 29000 spiders belonging to 168 species were caught in pitfalls on 42 peat and upland grassland sites covering an altitude range of 11-827 m in the north of England. The similarities between the spider faunas of each site have been assessed using a modified form of Srensen's Index and the sites clustered according to their similarities. The sites divided into two major groups; (1) mineral soils where grasses are dominant or shallow peat soils where Juncus squarrosus is dominant and (2) peat soils where Eriophorum vaginatum and Calluna vulgaris are dominant. It is suggested that this major division is the result of the plant "architecture" rather than the species composition of the vegetation. Direct comparison between paired peat and grassland sites at the same altitudes shows no marked separation in the spider species composition on the two soil types but there are differences in abundance of individual species. The three peat site clusters form an altitudinal sequence which is not the result of the decline in numbers of non-linyphiid species with increase in altitude as the cluster formation is largely dependent on the linyphiid species which dominate the catches. Twenty one common species have been used to identify the communities. Many of these species are often found together and form associations. Typically, a number of associations contribute to each community. Only 19 species contribute more than 4% to the numbers of individuals caught in any one community. Diversity declines with increase in altitude, as does the number of species caught. The decline in the number of species caught is the effect of a decrease in non-linyphiid species with increasing altitude. There is no significant decline in the numbers of species of linyphiids with increase in altitude. 
3682302| Populations of Heterotrissocladius subpilosus and Phaenopsectra (Sergentia) coracina were studied from 1974 to 1978 in Langvatn, South-Trndelag, Norway. During 1975 and 1976 the lake was fertilized respectively by 1600 kg and 1000 kg fertilizer, (20% N, 4,8% P). Fertilization had a positive effect on primary production and zooplankton. The effect on the two chironomid species, which both need more than one year for development, was ambiguous. However, there was a positive relationship between the density of H. subpilosus larvae and the primary production. The number of P. (S.) coracina larvae steadily increased during the investigated period. Production estimates gave values in the range
3682489|Food habits of sympatric northern and brown long-eared bats were examined by analysis of droppings collected in six maternity roosts of each species. Relatively large, nocturnal flying insects such as moths (Lepidoptera), June-beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae), crane-flies (Diptera: Tipulidae) and caddis-flies (Trichoptera), were eaten by both bat species, representing 47% (by volume) of the northern and 57% of the long-eared bat's diet. Small dipterans were important food items for the northern bat (47% of the diet) but not for the long-eared bat, which instead consumed large amounts of diurnal or predominantly non-flying taxa such as blow-flies (Diptera: Calliphoridae), earwigs (Dermaptera), spiders (Araneae) and harvestmen (Opiliones) (40% of the diet). The difference in food selection by the two species is probably due to the different foraging strategies used.
3682624|Variation in reproductive traits (sexual maturity, clutch size, clutch weight, mean egg mass, newborn weight) was studied during a four year period in a population of the live-bearing lizard Lacerta vivipara. Sexual maturity was associated with attaining a minimum body size. Clutch size increased with female body length and litter weight increased with clutch size. A major component of the within year variation in these reproductive traits was attributable to female size. Analysis of successive clutches in individual females indicated that a significant fraction of the variation in litter size, adjusted for female length, was due to consistent differences between individuals. Newborn weight varied within and among litters, but no relations between hatchling mass or mean egg mass in a litter and other traits were detected. Size-adjusted reproductive performances remained constant during the course of this study, even though environmental conditions (weather factors, food availability) varied annually. Observed among year variations in reproductive characteristics were attributable to differences in the body size distributions of the adult females.
3682451| Photosynthetic and respiratory response of four Alaskan tundra species comprising three growth forms were investigated in the laboratory using an infrared gas analysis system. Vaccinium vitis-idaea, a dwarf evergreen shrub, demonstrated a low photosynthetic capacity:
3682499|Penned moose Alces alces (L.) offered birch and rowan trees in various proportions in experimental tests showed a clear preference for birch both in terms of selection and use of trees. Both tree selection and tree use was frequency-independent, i.e. the preference for birches did not vary with either the number of birches, or total birch biomass available. The preference for birch was not absolute, i.e. rowans were also present in the diet. Birch were more profitable than rowans in terms of biomass intake rate, whereas rowans were more "nutritious" than birches. The results are consistent with both the optimal diet theory and the "nutrient mixture" hypothesis, although neither of the hypotheses are unambiguous regarding frequency-dependent food selection. It is argued, however, that tree selection and use by moose rather should be considered as a patch use problem and that trees should not be regarded as particulate food items as in most foraging models.
3682407|The annual minimum energy consumption of the bird community was
3682075|Variation in body weight of red deer in Norway was investigated along two climatic gradients; one with increasing latitude, and the other with proximity to the coast. Deer of all sex/age classes were significantly heavier in the northern parts of their range compared with the south and were also significantly heavier at inland localities compared with the coast. Body weights were negatively correlated with temperature and precipitation throughout the years. These clines in body weight apparently support Bergmann's rule, and may reflect selection for large size in cold environments. However, we interpret the results in the light of recent work on plant physiology which indicates higher quality forage at high latitudes, and in cooler and drier climates; conditions which are likely to enhance growth in the north and inland. Evidence that individual deer which migrate inland, following the snow melt, are heavier is also presented and discussed in terms of an adaptive behaviour that maximises the intake of digestible energy and high quality nutrients.
3682720|Six nests of white-tailed eagles in the southernmost Greenland were watched during the nestling period and food items recorded photographically by remote controlled cameras. The species composition of the food was representative even for the adult eagles' diet. Fish made up a major part of 90%, various bird species and arctic fox pups the remaining 10%. The total intake of an eaglet amounted to 50 kg from hatching to fledging. The daily requirements of fledglings, some 800 g fish food, are equal to previously reported values for older birds. The rate of food consumption of eaglets is constant through most of the nestling period.
3682364| A subjective analysis of the seasonal periodicity of phytoplankton populations in several natural lakes and experimental lake systems (Lund Tubes) has shown that the direction and patterns of change are both general and predictable. The paper distinguishes between autogenic successional changes, consistent with increasing community complexity and segregation, and allogenic changes resulting from turbulent disruption of the stratified system. The periodicity of the assemblages recognized is resolved through the interaction of two major variables - nutrient availability and column stability. A simple possibility matrix is proposed which can account for the observed changes in community structure. The principal pathways in eutrophic lakes (diatoms  Volcocales  Nostocales  dinoflagellates or Microcystis, with reversions through 'summer diatom' assemblages) and in mesotrophic lakes (diatoms  Chrysophyte/Sphaerocystis  dinoflagellates, with reversions through 'summer diatom-desmid' assemblages) are generally consistent with the growth and survival strategies of the principal algal species concerned. 
3682566|The response of photosynthesis to reciprocal transplanting was measured in 1980, 1981, and 1986 in two genetically-distinct populations of Dryas octopetala, a circumpolar dwarf shrub. Contrary to expectation, photosynthetic rates were lowest in "home" environments and highest in "foreign" sites. Also, "native" plants had lower photosynthetic rates than "alien" plants. A "rapid-transplant" experiment showed that the observed pattern was not caused by environmental differences between sites at the time of measurement, but rather by the long-term response of transplants to the environment. These results, in combination with the results of an analysis of the fitness response to transplanting (published elsewhere), caution against assuming that a positive relationship always exists between photosynthetic rate and fitness. Integrated measures of carbon gain may be more appropriate as measures of plant performance.
3682391|The distribution, size and abundance of Pelvetia canaliculata (L.) and Fucus spiralis L. and the epifaunal communities associated with these two high shore fucoid algae have been studied at several contrasting sites in North Wales. Several environmental parameters were measured at each site and correlated with the distribution of the algae and their associated fauna. These weeds, which occur in perhaps the harshest zone of the shore, support exceedingly impoverished epifaunal communities in which the amphipod Hyale nilssoni (Rathke), small littorinids and acarines predominate. This contrasts markedly with the extremely diverse epifaunal communities associated with algae situated lower in the intertidal zone.
3682641|The nest site selection of seven Norwegian woodpeckers, Dryocopus martius, Picus viridis, P. canus, Picoides tridactylus, Dendrocopos leucotos, D. major and D. minor, was compared. The following parameters were measured at the nesting tree: forest type, tree species, the tree's "degree of decay", the height of the tree, the hole's height above the ground, the stem's diameter at the hole and 0.5 m above the ground, earlier holes in the stem, and whether the tree was broken or not. Several differences between species were found in forest type and tree species. The use of weakened and dead nesting trees tended to increase with decreasing size of the bird. The following parameters usually decreased with decreasing size of the species: the height of the tree and of the nesting hole, and the stem's diameter at the hole and near the ground. Overlap in nest site parameters was calculated for four species, D. martius, P. viridis, D. major and D. minor, common nesters in Populus tremula. Overlap between D. minor and the other three species was low, whereas considerable overlap was found between D. martius and P. viridis. Both species prefer large, old Populus tremula trees.
3682250|The fluxes of water and chemicals in throughfall and stemflow of three subalpine balsam fir forests of New Hampshire, USA were measured. The three fir stands were highly dissimilar in structural characteristics, serving as a test of the importance of stand structure on these fluxes. The sum of throughfall and stemflow water exceeded incident precipitation by more than 18 to 29%. This difference was attributed to the unmeasured input of cloud droplets impacted on canopy surfaces. The principal effect of stand structure was a positive relationship between stand density and stemflow. The flux of NH
3682382| Larval production of ten species of Hydropsychidae and Philipotamidae was studied at six stations along 6.4 km of a southern Appalachian stream, encompassing stream orders 1-4 and a 600 m elevation change. Species-specific production estimates ranged from 23-983 mg AFDM m
3682701| A population of Tubifex tubifex in an organically rich stream was found to have an annual life-cycle with a prolonged period of reproductive activity throughout the winter and spring. Cocoons were produced mainly during the late winter and early spring. No cocoons were found during August and September, and there were few mature worms at this time. The population density ranged between
3682434| Species richness, abundance relations, exploitation efficiencies, and population dynamics were examined within four carrion fly communities from a small isolated island in the Baltic to the large island of land. A total of 23 species and 11408 specimens were collected. Species richness (studied by rarefaction) of potential carrion flies was lowest on the small isolated island, but the smallest number of species emerged from the second largest island. Lucilia illustris Meig. was the most numerous species at every site, comprising 46-56% of the potential breeders and 71-91% of the emerging flies. Exploitation efficiency, measured by the numbers of individuals emerging per gram of carrion, was highest on the smallest island, but faunal similarity and ordination analyses suggest that competition was more intense on the larger islands. 
3682479|The fungal flora in different parts of a beech forest ecosystem was investigated through a four year period as part of an IBP project. Both colony counts and direct measurements of fungal mycelium indicated that a vast majority of the fungal biomass is concentrated in the upper horizons of the soil, especially in the mull layer. The litter also contained large amounts of fungi when calculated per g dry weight, but still the litter fungi accounted for only a quite small percentage of the total fungal biomass. The fungi growing in direct contact with the living plants, i.e. in the rhizosphere and phylloplane, also accounted for only a few per cent of the total amount of fungi in the ecosystem. On basis of direct measurements of fungal mycelium the total biomass was estimated to be about 100 g dry wt per m
3682729|A population of the Italian crested newt (Triturus carnifex) was studied in 1984 at a pond near Druento (Turin, Piedmont, northwestern Italy). Animals entering and leaving the pond fell into paired pit-fall traps during both spring and autumn migrations. A positive correlation found between rainfall and migration, a shortening of migration periods and summer inactivity suggest that, in the Mediterranean region, air moisture may be a limiting factor for newt activity. During their aquatic period adults showed strong individual differences in weight changes that cannot be explained on the basis of initial body weight or length. High variability in crested newt life history traits may be the result of repeated bottlenecks caused by environmental stress and high population isolation.
3682533|We studied the seasonal dynamics of food niche width and annual niche relations of queens, workers and males of six abundant bumblebee species living on a slope of a subarctic hill in North Sweden. The basic data consist of analyses of pollen contents in nectar loads of individual foragers. At any given time of the season individual foragers utilized frequently more than one flower species during each trip, concentrating, however, most of their efforts on one species only. These "major" species varied between individuals thus widening the foraging niche of the species. No obvious differences were observed in niche widths of the sexes and castes of the species (neither day-to-day nor annual observations). Queens had highest niche overlaps and males the lowest ones. Sexes and castes were separated into groups by their foraging patterns. Difference in proboscis lengths are not obvious niche separating factors at the study area. The environmental uncertainty (in time and space) may occasionally lead to excess of resources, which, in turn, may open possibilities of wide utilization of available flower species, thus rendering close fit between proboscis length and corolla tube depths of the foraged flowers unnecessary.
3682710|Ephemerella inermis Eaton is a univoltine species that emerges in July. Eggs hatch in August and larvae grow rapidly in autumn and spring, but not during winter. Baetis tricaudatus Dodds produces three cohorts per year. Emergence periods occur in early June, July and early September. Only one cohort overwinters as larvae. Microdistribution of both species is controlled largely by the discharge pattern of the river. During 1978, a year of frequent floods, animals were equally distributed among slow and fast water portions of the river. Nocturnal drift densities of both species were much greater in slow than in fast water areas. During 1979, a year of relatively stable flow, benthic larval densities were significantly greater in fast water than in slow water. Early instar E. inermis larvae are most abundant in nearshore areas, but move to deeper water in late autumn. Baetis tricaudatus larvae are seldom numerous in nearshore areas. Densities of both species were positively associated with concentrations of detritus and of other invertebrates, but only when relationships were considered in areas of similar current velocity independently of season.
3682563|Winter activity patterns of 16 radio-marked capercaillie, Tetrao urogallus, were studied during 1981-83 at Varaldskogen, SE Norway. Activity was confined to the light hours of the day, closely following the photoperiod. Diel distribution showed a major peak near sunset during every month. A second peak was found in the morning. This peak was comparable to the evening peak in early and late winter, but nearly disappeared in midwinter. Ambient temperature rather than photoperiod seemed to be the important proximate factor responsible for the changes in morning activity. By postponing activity to the afternoon, capercaillie avoids energy expenditure during the coldest morning hours. Total daily activity (TDA) during the period November-April averaged about 3 h for both sexes. TDA of cocks was U-shaped with the lowest values (2.0 h) in December-January, whereas TDA of hens was fairly stable during November-March with mean value of 2.7 h, increasing abruptly to 4 h in April. TDA during December-January is believed to express the time used for feeding in pine trees. The significantly higher TDA of hens (26%) compared with cocks during this period may be explained by a higher relative heat loss of hens (body weights: hens 2.0 kg, cocks 4.3 kg). The increased level of activity during early and late winter among cocks was probably due to display and related territorial behaviour, whereas increased activity of hens during April probably was caused by a shift from feeding in pines to more time-consuming, selective feeding on the ground.
3682300|The effects of fish predation on the zooplankton community in an oligotrophic lake, Langvatn, near Trondheim in Central Norway, were investigated during six-year period (1973-1978), together with the added effects of changes produced by adding artificial fertilizer in 1975 and 1976. The improved nutrient conditions in 1975 resulted in a rapid increase in biomass and production of the largest herbivore zooplankton species and of the fish population. A change in the behaviour and food habits of the arctic char was recorded; they became more pelagic and fed mainly on zooplankton. An increased survival rate of 0-group and biomass of planktivorous fish in 1975 enhanced the degree of fish predation on the zooplankton during subsequent years (1976-1978). As a consequence of fish predation, the composition of the zooplankton changed, from a mainly large-sized to a mainly small-sized community, dominated by Bosmina longirostris and rotifers. Since fish predation is size-selective and visibility-dependent, it induced a decrease in mean size and in body length at onset of maturity of the cladoceran populations and probably also weakened their ability to produce resting eggs.
3682502|Home ranges and habitat use are described for three adult female, one adult male, and one subadult male wolverines in the Kluane Game Sanctuary, Yukon. When long distance excursions are not included, home ranges of wolverines in the Kluane Game Sanctuary were between 76 and
3682501|Distinct patterns of species distribution upon individual rockfaces are found n a saxicolous lichen community growing on a rockslide in the Canadian Rockies. A grid system was used for sampling individual rockfaces and the likelihood of finding a species on particular parts of the rockface was analysed. Use of chemicals in the field and collection of apothecia allowed specific identification of individual lichen thalli. Lichens were divisible into three groups: those which are distributed apparently at random over the rockfaces, those which are more likely to occur on upper, outer and southerly portions of the rockfaces and those which are found more often on lower, inner and northerly portions of the rockfaces. The upper rockface surfaces are often snow-free in winter while the lower rockface group experiences deeper and more persistent snow cover. Simple microclimatic measurements suggest that temperature also differs across the surface of a rockface. It is hypothesised that lichen distributions are at least in part explained by ecophysiological adaptations to their particular microhabitat, while it is recognised that competition may also play a role in community organisation.
3682390| The energetics of the shredder Sericostoma personatum Spence were studied in the laboratory at 3, 8, 13 and 18C using conditioned leaves of Fagus sylvatica L. as food. Ingestion (I), growth (G) and respiration (R) were dependent on larval size and temperature. Estimated assimilation (G + R) varied between 4.2-5.7%. Gross growth efficiency (G/I  100) varied between 0.4-3.4% and was dependent on temperature. Growth rates estimated from field and laboratory data were in the same order of magnitude. The low assimilation is discussed in relation to the life cycle pattern of the species and its ecological role in the stream community. 
3682539| Minnows have recently been introduced into the mountain lakes of southern Norway. In vre Heimdalsvatn, an intensively studied lake, the minnow population has increased rapidly during the last decade. Studies were performed on feeding habits, habitat preferences, age, growth, energy content, densities, parasites, predation and spawning activities. Several aspects were found to be different from other studies, e.g. higher age of sexual maturation, lower growth rate, no feeding on plants, and low infection of parasites. The interaction with the only other fish, the brown trout, is discussed in relation to the minnow population. In 1978 the minnows constituted little more than 10% of production and food consumption of the trout population, and only limited food competition and predation was documented. Increasing competition is likely with a greater minnow population. 
3682271|Two possible anti-predator strategies of prey were suggested by the distribution of moose at Isle Royale, a
3682352|Population density was estimated monthly by means of direct counts for 16 consecutive months. Capture-recapture experiments revealed that 9-22% of the population was observed by this technique. Most nymphs appeared in June, and the presence of nymphs in September suggests a second generation. There was a strong positive correlation between summer surface drift and mean annual population density for five out of six sections studied. In July-August the sex ratio was near equal, while in September females began to dominate. The bias towards females was strong until new imagines emerged in July. From September a marked weight dimorphism was observed between the sexes. Food limitation, and skewed sex and weight ratios implied intersexual competition in this population. Brown trout possibly affected the population density in one section with less shelter. Wing dimorphism was observed in July and August. Macropterous individuals represented a low percentage (<17%) and were only observed in sections with high densities.
3682553|In the Westerschelde estuary, salt marshes are present as isolated patches fringing the estuary. In the present paper tidal transport of stem-boring larvae of Agapanthia villosoviridescens (Coleoptera) from salt marshes of the upper reaches of the Westerschelde estuary to marshes of the lower reaches is demonstrated. The evidence for the origin of the larvae is based on comparisons of growth and development characteristics of larvae found in flood debris belts and resident larval populations. These characteristics are different on the various salt marshes along the Westerschelde, probably as a result of estuarine gradients. Additional evidence for the larval origin comes from the plant composition of the flood debris. The occurrence of upward tidal transport is discussed. Considering the comparatively large area of salt marshes in the upper estuary, tidal dispersal of larvae probably will be dominated by transport in seaward direction. So far, very little is known on the role of tidal currents with regard to the exchange between salt marsh populations. The present results suggest that tidal transport may not only be important for dispersal of aquatic organisms in an estuary, but also for organisms inhabiting the semi-terrestrial estuarine salt marshes.
3682198| We studied summer activity patterns and thermoregulation in the Mediterranean lizard Psammodromus algirus in a holm oak wood in Central Spain. The circadian rhythm curve was bimodal, with a pronounced peak after sunrise, a minimum at noon and a second lower peak in the afternoon. Increased activity in the morning could be explained by insolation levels, whereas the midday low was caused by the rise in temperature. There was a strong positive correlation between body temperature and both air and ground temperatures. Nevertheless, there was no significant correlation between body and air temperatures when the effect of radiation was removed, which was done by considering only individuals in the shade at high temperatures. Activity showed a bell-shaped relationship with body and air temperatures, with maximum activity at 24.5C (air temperature) and 31.4C (body temperature). The spatial distribution pattern of P. algirus (selection of sunny areas and distance to the vegetation edge) reflects the environmental temperatures that are optimal for activity; the lizards show a strong preference for sunny patches when air temperature is lower than the optimum. We conclude that heliothermy is the only viable thermoregulation pattern in Mediterranean forest environments, with heat conduction playing a negligible role. 
3682705|Hibernation behaviour of six common toads Bufo bufo was studied. Transmitters, generating pulses with a temperature dependent repetition rate, implanted in the toad's abdominal cavity, were used to measure the body temperature. Measurements of body temperature and soil temperature at various depths were used to establish the hibernating depth. All toads moved vertically between a few preferred depths and hibernating depth appeared to vary for individual toads. Upward movements mostly were apparent reactions on changes of the soil temperature gradient at the depth of the toad.
3682614|Ethanol extracts from fresh leaves of Cirsium palustre (L.) Scop. were tested for inhibitory effects on the germination of own seeds, and dried leaves were ground and incorporated in soil to determine if growth of own seedlings was affected. Leaf extracts strongly inhibited seed germination, and leaf residues seedling growth. Inhibition was apparently not mediated by effects on pH or by nutrient deficiency.
3682215|Data on hatching time in the willow warbler for different regions (S Germany, S Sweden and N Sweden) are compared with the median of the corresponding migration diagrams. By doing so it is possible to calculate the age, at which the young of the year start their autumn migration. Our calculated values for the above mentioned regions are 68, 62-66 and 61-62 d, respectively. In our opinion this difference is too small to justify the statement, that northern birds migrate at an earlier age than their southern conspecifics. An alternative explanation is that the German migration diagrams are influenced by the passage of northern migrants, resulting in a later median and an apparently higher age for southern birds.
3682168| Bird communities of high, cold shrubsteppes (pramos) and low, warm shrubsteppes (semideserts) of the Iberian Peninsula were studied using the line-transect method. The seven censused areas are distributed from north to south approximately forming a climatic gradient along which temperature increases and precipitation decreases. Alauda arvensis and Oenanthe oenanthe are typical of pramos and O. hispanica and the genus Galerida of semideserts, while Calandrella cinerea is the most widely distributed passerine. Pramos tend to have high spring densities whereas semi-deserts have high densities and greater diversity during winter. Changes of density between spring and winter are less pronounced in semideserts, showing a relation with the temperature decrease from north to south. These tendencies agree with those found in other habitats (scrublands and forests) along a north-south transect throughout the Iberia Peninsula, indicating that distribution and abundance of the winter avifauna respond positively to increase of temperature. 
3682750|Saplings of mountain birch Betula pubescens Ehrh. ssp. tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman, three years old, were transplanted into three contrasting habitats, viz. moderate and extreme snow-bed and windswept crest. The experimental sites were situated just below the present local tree-limit of birch. During 1978-1983 mortality and height increment were monitored. High initial mortality was succeeded by lower mortality at all three sites. The height increment was significantly higher in moderate snow-bed compared with the two extreme habitats (winswept crest and extreme snow-bed). The main conclusions are that after the first seedling stage the mountain birch survives broad climatic variation. However, normal completion of the life-cycle is only possible within more narrow limits. A minimum amount of the snow-free preriod is needed, e.g. to satisfy the requirements of nitrogen nutrition. The results stress the opportunistic nature of the mountain birch which gives it a selective advantage in the extremely unpredictable climate in mountainous areas in Scandinavia. The reproductive strategy of mountain birch apparently includes having a bank of persistent saplings.
3682754| A study of soils, plant communities, and net annual plant production was conducted with 41 stands at 3 sites on 3 arctic islands. Twelve additional sites were studied in less detail on Ellef Ringnes, King Christian and Melville islands and on four other islands. Through polar ordination five groupings were recognized. Alopecurus and Puccinellia barrens on sand to silty soils and on silty soils, high in sodium salts respectively. Species richness averaged 2.6  2.0 and total plant cover 6.8  2.7%. The Phippsia barrens occur on sheet eroded surfaces and in gulleys with deep winter snow. Species richness was 9.8  5.0 and total plant cover 14.8  9.6%. The graminoid steppes on sandy soils averaged 7.6  2.4 species and total plant cover 40.0  2.8%. Eight stands were dominated by moss-graminoids, mostly on loam soils. Species richness was 24.9  3.4 and total plant cover 77.7  16.1%. Plant producion was
3682307| Spring areas in Jutland, Denmark, representing gradients in physico-chemical conditions and providing a range of stable conditions in space and time, were examined for different aspects of community biology and population biology. Special attention was paid to aspects of the dynamic equilibrium resulting from interactions between stable environments and their biological communities. Localities were chosen to represent spring areas with clear differences in ground water chemistry and where stability in hydrological conditions had existed for many years. This was ensured by confirmation of the occurrence of arctic-boreal-montane plant species, being late glacial relicts. The degree of environmental stability of organisms of the study areas selected was otherwise determined by examination of a number of physical factors and the chemistry of the water. Tracheophytes and bryophytes comprising the macroflora of 14 main localities were described and the microflora represented by the diatoms described from the same localities plus one reference locality, Addit. These data provided a favourable basis for ordination and grouping of the spring areas and for discussing similarity coefficients applied to biological communities in general and to ecosystem stability in particular. Factors affecting the spring areas were surveyed by studies of peat deposits, hydrostatic potentials, historical events and human impact. Brief discussions on the functional aspects of the spring areas are given in an outline of the nutrient funds within the systems and the flow of nutrients in and out of them. Glacial deposits from the quaternary Period constitute the upper 10-150 m of land mass of Jutland, a low-lying moraine landscape reaching a maximum altitude of only 173 m a.s.l. A general description of the hydrological situation for watercourses in the
3682419|During the 1975 and 1976 seasons the net primary production of five common bryophytes in different stands of mature vegetation near Fairbanks, Alaska was investigated. Overall annual moss production at the intensive black spruce site was about
3682417|The treeline in Alaska is usually mapped as the limit of white spruce Picea glauca (Moench) Voss along the south slope of the Brooks Range and in western Alaska and as the limit of Sitka spruce Picea sitchensis (Bong.) Carr. on Kodiak Island and in the Alaska Peninsula. In some localities black spruce Picea mariana (Mill.) B.S.P. and paper birch Betula papyrifera Marsh. form components of the treeline community with white spruce. Of special interest are the grooves of balsam poplar Populus balsamifera L. occurring on the north slope of the Brooks Range and to the west and southwest of the spruce treeline. There is some question as to whether trees survived in unglaciated portions of Alaska during the last glacial period. Spruce trees became prevalent about 10000 yr ago and may still be expanding to their climatic limits. In some areas of Alaska the treeline was more expanded during the Hypsithermal period than it is at present, but in other regions evidence for such an expansion is lacking. Treeline in some areas seems to have been stable for the last several centuries, but is has been expanding rapidly for the last 40 yr in central and western Alaska and for a longer period on Kodiak Island.
3682051|In studying the attraction of spruce bark beetles Ips typographus to a pheromone trap, we have proposed a simple diffusion model with drift as a description of the flight of the bark beetles. The model predictions were compared with the results of a release-recapture experiment, and here we recapitulate the main results from the fitting of models to the data. Several modifications of the basic model were necessary in order to describe the data adequately.
3682494|Changes in reproduction and functional age structure of females in cyclic populations of Clethrionomys glareolus and C. rufocanus were studied by live-trapping individually marked voles during 1980 to 1984 in northern Sweden. A complete population cycle was observed in both species, with a synchronous 'summer-decline' in 1982. In both species, the length of the breeding season became successively shorter towards the peak, and it was extremely short at the decline. When the populations were expanding, the density of breeding females increased in a sigmoid way, and thereafter it remained fairly constant throughout the summer. At the decline, the density of breeding females decreased successively from spring to autumn. Year-born females matured and bred in all years except at the decline. Intrinsic factors, such as spacing behaviour of breeding females, are thought to limit the density of breeders in general, but only when the populations are expanding. Other factors such as deteriorating food conditions are more likely to operate at the decline.
3682571|In an experiment on the effect of zooplankton density on feeding behaviour and prey size selection in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) alevins, total behavioural activity (feeding, social, ambiguous) was positively related to prey abundance up to a density of
3682664|The population ecology of newts was investigated between 1969 and 1974 in two localities near Gothenburg, SW Sweden: the Gunnebo park pond (about
3682397| The seasonal variations in numbers and biomass of the mobile epifauna of a shallow, sandy bay in Gullmar Fjord (Sweden) was investigated during 1976-1977 using the drop-net technique. Juvenile plaice, Pleuronectes platessa L., sand goby, Pomatoschistus minutus (Pallas), and brown shrimp Crangon crangon L. are the dominant epifaunal species. A net enclosing an area of 100 m
3682121|Stoat Mustela erminea body size shows remarkably great variation over the species' European range. The pattern of this variation is opposite to that suggested by Bergmann's rule, i.e., stoats in central Europe are significantly larger than those in southern Sweden which, in turn are considerably larger than their conspecifics in northern Sweden. Neither winter temperature nor the length of snow cover shows any consistent correlation with stoat body size variation, and the larger body size of the southern populations could not be related to a widening of the stoat's feeding niche. A positive correlation was found between the frequency distribution, by size, of available prey and stoat body size in the different areas examined. This supports the hypothesis that body size variation in the stoat, especially females, is an adjustment to regional variations in the sizes of their available prey.
3682508|The phenology of the satyrine butterflies Coenonympha pamphilus L., Lasiommata megera L., Hipparchia semele L. and Maniola jurtina L. was compared under seminatural conditions with Festuca ovina as the food-plant. Coenonympha pamphilus shows striking phenotypic plasticity as revealed by initiating cohorts at successive dates during the whole flight period. Growth rate is finely tuned depending on season, and larvae can hibernate in any of the three first instars, but also aestivate when 'surplus' time is available. Hipparchia semele and M. jurtina have reduced growth rates as last instar larvae at the beginning of summer. Lasiommata megera, which has an obligate bivoltine life cycle, shows the highest overall growth rate of all four species. Results suggest that egg size variation has consequences for the life cycles of these species.
3682722|Habitat changes and the breeding bird populations were studied at Kraghede, N Jutland the years 1970-1980. Generally, agricultural practice was intensified leading to an increase in the area used permanently for growing barley, and the abandonment of grasslands and meadows. Animal husbandry decreased, until it was restricted to a small number of farms. These habitat changes were the largest ones to occur in the Danish landscape for some 150-200 yr and had a significant influence on the breeding birds. Species confined to the meadows, such as the lapwing Vanellus vanellus, meadow pipit Anthus pratensis and others, decreased by 50-80% or even more. Species associated with the grassland when feeding, like the swallow Hirundo rustica, starling Sturnus vulgaris and magpie Pica pica, all had lower population levels at the end of the 1970's compared to those at the beginning of the decade.
3682360| Larvae of Chironomidae, Simuliidae and Trichoptera exhibited various patterns of micro-distribution on the submersed macrophytes Potamogeton  zizii, with broad leaves, and P. pectinatus, with thread-like leaves. Seven common species of chironomid, six belonging to the subfamily Orthocladiinae and one to the Chironominae, showed four distinguishable patterns of distribution. The density of Simulium larvae was much greater towards the apices of the stems on both plants. Among three species of Trichoptera studied, the predatory Rhyacophila dorsalis had a pattern of distribution which was strongly related to prey density, particularly that of Simulium, on P.  zizii, but not on P. pectinatus. P.  zizii supported proportionately more free-ranging scrapers, such as the chironomid Thienemanniella vittata, than did P. pectinatus while the reverse was true for filter-feeders. These patterns are discussed in relation to habitat structure and behavioural characteristics. 
3682255| Fungal biomass and growth and microbial respiration were studied for two field seasons in a second-order subarctic stream where water temperature is 0C for approximately 6 months. Leaf packs (5-g) of alder Alnus tenuifolia, birch Betula papyrifera and willows Salix alaxensis and Salix arbusculoides immersed in autumn of 1979 and 1980 were sampled until June 1980 and January 1981, respectively. Fungal growth and microbial respiration occurred in submerged detritus at 0C. Total and FDA-active hyphal lengths were measured, the active proportion averaging 25% of the total (all leaf species, both years). Generally, microbial respiration peaked in all leaf species after two weeks in the stream. As water approached 0C, respiration declined by 20-50% depending on leaf species, but often increased later in decomposition (at 0C). Seasonal trends in microbial respiration and FDA-active hyphal lengths were not similar although maximal respiration usually occurred as FDA-active hyphae were growing most rapidly. The calculated leaf weight loss due to microbial respiration was small (7-10%) in all leaf species, compared with total weight loss over 98 d. Scanning electron microscopy provided a visual record of leaf surface microorganisms and apparent leaf cuticle dissolution by fungi and bacteria. 
3682237|The social organization of Clethrionomys glareolus Schreber was studied by live trapping in an enclosure of 0.8 ha in Central Finland between the years 1982-1986. The enclosure consisted of three habitats: abandoned field, brushwood, and moist spruce health forest. The population density increased from
3682483|Leptodiaptomus sicilis (S. A. Forbes 1882) in Pyramid Lake, Alberta, Canada, has only one main generation per year. A small summer generation probably does not survive. Adults may persist for 7 to 12 months, and individual copepods may live for up to 17 months. Retardation of the development of copepodid C 4 and C 5 seems to be food linked. The high percentage of survivors (up to 97%) from the first egg pulse of the main generation, and the low percentage of survivors (as low as 3%) from the second egg pulse, is likely due to the absence of cyclopoid adults and copepodids in spring, and to both cyclopoid predation and a poor food regime in summer. Production estimates by several methods gave closely comparable results. Mean daily production by L. sicilis is 0.29 mg dry weight m
3682221|The amount of organic matter and phytomass is estimated on three types of shrub tundras in northern Sweden. The organic matter ranges from
3682560| Composition of the winter diet, habitat selection and population fluctuations in the mountain hare Lepus timidus were studied in the Vrritunturi fell area, Eastern Finnish Forest Lapland, during the winters 1968/69-1984/85. The three population lows recorded during this 17-year period followed each other at intervals of 4 and 8 years. During the lows the hares occurred only in the most favoured (forest-covered) habitats and in two of them they behaved according to the concept of the refuge theory. The mountain birch Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa appeared to be the most important, but not the most favoured winter food item. When the population crashed, the proportion of birch in the diet decreased, and was replaced especially by juniper which is one of the secondary food items (and is for this reason often discarded although cut). It is suggested that the quality and/or quantity of the winter food (i.e. winter pastures) are one of the driving forces in the population fluctuation of the mountain hare in this area. 
3682480|Nest density was stable during the 8-year study period. The mean clutch size was 4.3, and the production of fledglings was 2.0 per pair. Incubation started, on average, when there were still two eggs to be laid and lasted for 18 days. Few eggs were lost but 23% of all broods of nestlings were lost to predators. Single nestlings in a brood were not lost to predators but often starved to death, this applied to 25% of all nestlings. A large proportion of the nestlings were probably infected by Syngamus tracheae, and some of these succumbed during the first weeks after fledging. A comparison with other studies of crow populations shows that the major causes of breeding failure are different in different populations. The causes of variation in breeding success between populations are discussed, especially considering the role of nonbreeding crows.
3682717|Using a three-way factorial experimental design the effects of water temperature, ionic content and total dissolved solids on the reproductive rates of Nephelopsis obscura and Erpobdella punctata were examined. For both species temperature showed the greatest influence on cocoon production and ionic content of the water the least. Water type had no significant influence on the rate of cocoon production in either E. punctata or N. obscura but E. punctata cocoon production was reduced in dilute media. E. punctata laid a larger proportion of deformed cocoons with fewer eggs and embryos than N. obscura which laid a significantly higher proportion of deformed cocoons in soft than in hard water. N. obscura was estimated to produce 1.8 times the number of offspring of E. punctata. Thus the numerical dominance shown by N. obscura in Western Canada could be explained in terms of the differentially higher reproductive rate of N. obscura with respect to the three tested independent variables.
3682535| In winter the water freezes into the substrate within considerable areas of unregulated northern rivers due to low temperature combined with a lowering of the water level. Living individuals of Nematoda, Gastropoda, Sphaeriidae, Oligochaeta, Hirudinea, Isopoda, Trichoptera and Chironomidae were found in samples of ice and frozen sediment from the bottom frozen hydrolittoral zone of the north Swedish river Vindellven. All abundant species in the frozen substratum, except Asellus aquaticus, seemed to be well adapted to withstand overwintering in this special habitat free from predation. Generally, between 80 and 100% of enclosed animals survived thawing. Cysts or other kinds of resting stage constructions, similar to those found during drought, were common in several enclosed species. Specimens of Gyraulus acronicus, Pisidium ssp., Molanna albicans and Chironomidae survived exposure to -4C for five month in a freezing experiment. Extracellular freezing of the invertebrates overwintering in the ice is probable, as the ambient temperature was below the true freezing point of most animals. The composition of the substratum may effect the survival of animals enclosed in ice. 
3682747| In the Oslofjord the amphipods Gammarus oceanicus Segerstrle, 1947 and G. salinus Spooner, 1947 were estimated to live for a maximum of 15 months. All specimens which survived during winter died in spring, mainly in May. A G. oceanicus population living on a freshwater influenced shore contained smaller specimens, had a lower proportion of the female population in breeding condition and probably produced fewer broods than a population living on a fully marine shore. The differences are discussed in relation to environmental factors and the distribution of G. salinus. Gammarus oceanicus possibly was breeding from December to May, some females even in June, resulting in an estimated maximum of three broods from December to May. Gammarus salinus showed two breeding periods, the first from December to May, a few of these females even bred in June, while new females bred from June to October, giving estimated maxima of respectively three (December to May) and five broods. Gammarus salinus females entered a reproductive resting stage in September-October. The sex ratio was mostly female dominated. A shift to male dominance was noted in one population and was related to possible infections. Information from the literature on longevity and breeding periods was compiled and compared to the Oslofjord data. 
3682607|The seasonal course of photosynthetic rate, and light and temperature relations were studied in the dwarf shrubs Vaccinium uliginosum L., deciduous, and Vaccinium vitis-idaea L., evergreen, at a subarctic site in northern Sweden. Using the photosynthetic characteristics and meteorological data from the site, the seasonal and life-span carbon dioxide gain was estimated. The photosynthetic capacity of V. uliginosum was at a maximum one month after the start of leaf expansion and declined rapidly in the beginning of September. The old V. vitis-idaea leaves needed about 2 wk to recover full photosynthetic capacity after snow-melt; the current-year V. vitis-idaea leaves needed the same time after budbreak to reach full capacity. The leaves of V. vitis-idaea showed no seasonal trend in photosynthetic capacity after the first two wk of recovery, but their capacity decreased by one third after the first winter and by approximately 10% yr
3682199|Waterlily leaf beetles inhabiting Nuphar luteum leaves in S. Sweden and Georgia, USA, differed markedly with respect to several life history traits. Developmental time (from oviposition to adult) was about 47 days in Sweden, while it was only 19 days in Georgia. In S. Sweden two generations were reached per year, while the corresponding number in Georgia could be eight. Instantaneous growth rate was three times as high in Georgia as in S. Sweden. Swedish eggs, larvae and imagines were larger than in the Georgian ones. However, clutch size was larger in Georgia, and total estimated fecundity was higher in Georgian females. Mortality rate of immature stages was higher in Georgia. Altogether, the results suggest two different species. Swedish N. luteum leaves were unpalatable to Georgian larvae, and the larvae died from starvation. Longevity of unprotected, grazed Swedish N. luteum leaves was about 28 days, while those protected from grazing lasted for 72 days. In Georgia the corresponding time periods were 13 and >42 days. Thus, it was impossible for beetles to cover all their immature stages on the same leaf, and drowning was presumed to be the main mortality factor. Swedish larvae and imagines were unpalatable to wagtails, and accumulated unpalatable plant chemicals may serve as chemical defences.
3682620|Muskoxen Ovibos moschatus in Jameson Land exist at a density of somewhat more than
3682188| A total of 135 trees were girdled or notched in a forest area close to the river Dallven in central Sweden. The purpose was to see whether good microhabitats for woodliving insects could be created and if so, could be used as food for the endangered white-backed woodpecker Dendrocopos leucotos. The chosen tree species were three of the most frequent used for foraging by the white-backed woodpecker, i.e. aspen Populus tremula, birch Betula alba and common alder Alnus glutinosa. The process of dying and decay in the manipulated trees was followed for eight to nine years, and the following variables were studied: tree condition, tree structure, wood-condition, consistency of bark and cambium, frequency of polypori, foraging marks made by woodpeckers and abundance of insect species of importance as food for woodpeckers. Notched aspen died faster and were more quickly colonized by wood-living insects than were girdled aspen. Since the notched aspen was also reduced more quickly to low stumps or lost their bark, their value for wood-living insects was short-lived. Notched birch died almost as quickly as girdled birch but were populated by slightly fewer insect species. Notching, in general, seemed to create good foraging trees in the short-term whereas girdling produced trees of a longer-term value. In order to improve the local food situation for the white-backed woodpecker, a combination of the two methods is suggested. Nonetheless, both must be seen as emergency measures and cannot compensate for a large-scale reduction in the abundance of old deciduous trees in the forest. 
3682107|The differences in vegetative expansion and in reproduction associated with the annual Spergularia marina and the perennial S. media were investigated and explained as a function of their differential utilization of meristems. Plant size and the time of first reproduction depended on at which node transition of the apical meristems from growth to reproduction took place. Leaf birth-rate and number of flowers depended on the time of activation and the proportion of axillary meristems used in producing shoots.
3682439| The sizes of 1034 Great Tit clutches were studied at the Oulu area (c.65N, 2530E) in northern Finland. The average size was 9.86 eggs in the first clutch and 7.51 in the second in 13 study areas. The decrease in clutch size from the first to the second laying was most pronounced in those females laying the largest first clutches. Irrespective of habitat, the clutch size was larger in the sparsely populated areas than in the densest area (Taskila). The clutch size decreased according to the season in all the areas, but this was not as pronounced in Taskila as in the other areas. The annual average size of the first clutches was inversely related to the breeding density and pronouncedly so to the mean date of laying. The latter was suggested to be an adaptation to the short season in the northern areas. An analysis of data from 27 study areas in Europe, north of the Mediterranean region, suggests that the clutch size does not vary with latitude or longitude. 
3682536|The growth and development of the predominant mycorrhizal fungus infecting the root systems of subalpine Pacific silver fir was examined seasonally in 23 and 180 yr old stands. All data was obtained by sorting roots from intact soil cores separated into forest floor and mineral soil horizons. The predominant mycorrhizal fungus infecting the root systems of 23 and 180 yr old Pacific silver fir was Cenococcum graniforme. C. graniforme comprised 36-97% and 40-96% of the total mycorrhizal root tips in the soil profile in the young and old stands, respectively. C. graniforme root biomass reached a maximum in autumn in the young stand, and in winter in the old. Dual mycorrhizal associations were commonly observed on the same root tip during the spring and autumn periods of root elongation in both stands. Over 80% of the C. graniforme roots were located in the forest floor and A-horizon throughout the study in both stands. Sclerotia were predominantly located in the A-horizon (38-70%) in both stands.
3682145|I examined the activity and habitat choice of white-tailed deer in winter to determine how deer balance feeding in habitats which may expose them to cold with resting in sheltered habitats. Average heat gain or loss of deer for feeding, resting and walking in four habitats in each of 24 h were estimated for two winter periods (early-mid and late winter). These values were used in a dynamic optimization model to predict the hourly behavior-habitat choices which enable deer to maintain thermal homeostasis, minimize the risk of exceeding lethal body temperatures and satisfy daily energy requirements. The behavior and habitat choices observed under natural conditions were consistent with the model predictions. Deer foraged for the maximum time that was thermally possible in both sampling periods and they used exposed habitats without incurring high heat losses. Deer appeared to avoid overheating in sheltered habitats during daylight and avoid hypothermia in exposed habitats at night.
3682488|There are few accounts in the literature of the marine fauna of European salt marshes. The marine invertebrate populations of a coastal salt marsh in eastern England were studied for two years. A total of 32 marine species were recorded. The community was composed of a subset of species from adjacent intertidal sand and mud flats, along with a brackish water component. This gave the marsh a characteristic fauna, which was dominated by infaunal and surface-living deposit feeders. The community showed a seasonal minimum in winter, and the infauna showed an additional summer decrease. This is attributed to increased interstitial salinities. Principal component analysis revealed the importance of the tidal gradient and the structure of the habitat in determining the community. The abundance of both epibenthic and infaunal predators were negatively correlated with the abundance of some prey. Also a small number of other pairwise negative interactions were revealed, but overall there was no strong evidence of interspecific competition exerting much influence on the community. The role of habitat heterogeneity and variation in the lateral movement of adult benthos and larval recruitment as promoters of diversity are discussed.
3682263|Nylon bags of 3.5 mm and 0.25 mm mesh were used to investigate the processing of Salix drummondiana Barratt leaves in two second order Alberta Rocky Mountain Creeks, Twin Creek and Cabin Creek. Micro-organism processing and macroinvertebrate shredding of the leaves were significantly greater in Twin Creek where it was estimated that macroinvertebrate shredding was responsible for 45% of the weight loss. The decay coefficient (k = 0.0209) for the leaves in Twin Creek, the more typical Rocky Mountain stream, was similar to that reported for the fastest decaying leaves in warmer streams. The predominant shredder among the leaves in the mesh bags, Zapada columbiana (Classen) (Plecoptera, Nemouridae) was also the most abundant macroinvertebrate in the benthos of Twin Creek. In Cabin Creek the predominant organism in the benthos, Oreogeton sp. was poorly represented in the leaves. Low orthophosphate concentration of the water and precipitation of calcium carbonate onto the leaves may have inhibited the biotic processing of leaves in Cabin Creek.
3682294|The annual activity and life cycles of thirteen species of carabid beetles coexisting in two forests in Belgium were studied by recording above-ground activity of adult and larval populations, and by examining the reproductive condition of adults in the course of the year. The cycles were far more complex and diversified than suggested by previous works. Besides typical "spring breeders" and "autumn breeders", species were found - with a continuous reproductive period from spring to autumn, - with several variable breeding periods, part of the population overwintering as adults, part as larvae, - with a breeding period that begins facultatively in autumn and continues the next spring, - with a winter reproduction. Comparison of life cycles in Scandinavia and in Belgium also shows their variability in relation to climate. More flexible and varied cycles are made possible by the milder winters further south. Existing classifications of life cycles of carabids appear unable to account for such a diversity and variability.
3682356|Continual heavy grazing of small patches of heather by mountain hares produces conspicuous, short, lawn-like bushes. Their probable development is described. The shoots of such heather bushes maintained a juvenile appearance, contained more nitrogen and phosphorus than the surrounding heather and, to judge from their chemical composition, were more digestible. The generalization that tree and shrub twigs of juvenile growth form are more unpalatable to hares than twigs of mature growth form did not apply in this case.
3682239| The population structure and spatial distribution of the "glacial relict" Pallasea quadrispinosa were studied in Lake Stora fsjn. Samples were taken at three depths throughout an eleven month period. The amphipods had an annual-biennial life cycle. The reproductive period started in October, and hatchlings were released from November until July. Four cohorts were present in November. Some one-year-old females appeared to reproduce more than once. Ontogenetic niche segregation occurred from June to September, when juveniles were found in shallow water and adults were found in deep water where temperatures were below 10C. The diet included phytoplankton, zooplankton and chironomid larvae. The amphipods were infested by several parasites, including larvae of Cystidicola sp., a swimbladder nematode that infects fish. 
3682600| The spatial distribution of bird species was studied by grid mapping in 273 (250  250 m) squares in an open rural area in Denmark in summer and in winter. Species frequencies (fraction of squares with species present) followed a logarithmic linear distribution when arranged by their rank. Species frequency probably reflects relative abundance as the two variables were highly positively correlated. The number of species increased with the number of vegetation layers, ground water level, and habitat diversity. The distributional segregation of species was similar in summer and in winter, even though the winter assemblage only comprised 62% of the species present in summer. The number of species per square in winter was positively correlated with the number of species in summer; the fraction of species wintering in various habitats increased with the number of vegetation layers and the presence of human habitation. Species that flocked had a low similarity between their summer and winter distributions. Among pairs of potential competitors the smaller species either changed distribution locally or emigrated from the area in winter. The number of habitat types was reduced from 5 in summer to 4 in winter, and the number of species assemblages decreased from 5 in summer to 3 in winter. Birds were absent from 52% of the squares in winter. 
3682124| Unisexual populations were found largely at the periphery of the geographic range of the mayfly Eurylophella funeralis in eastern North America. Bisexual populations generally had a normal sex ratio but at least two populations were observed with only about 2-11% males. Hatch success for unfertilized eggs depended on temperature but in general averaged > 61% in unisexual populations and < 14% in bisexual populations. Eggs took about 65 d to hatch at 10C and 19 d at 25C; no hatching occurred at 5 or 30C. Successful oviposition was observed for about 97% and 20% of unmated female adults from unisexual and bisexual populations respectively. The hatch success of unfertilized eggs for three geographically distinct bisexual populations was inversely correlated with the proportion of males in the populations. The genetic structure of bisexual and unisexual populations was very similar. Unisexual populations consists of clones, with as few as four recognizable phenotypes being present at a given location. All offspring had the same phenotype as the mother. Tychoparthenogenesis is suggested as the most reasonable working hypothesis concerning the origin of unisexual populations in E. funeralis. 
3682225| In material sampled from 0.5-6 m on two sampling dates and three subareas the dominant Oligochaeta were Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri Claparde and Peloscolex ferox (Eisen), both composing more than 30% of the abundances of oligochaetes present. The numbers of Oligochaeta were mostly higher in August than in May. Regional differences could be found although the lake seems to be very homogenous. Temporal and vertical variations were detectable in separate subareas. The oligochaete biomass was maximal at 2 m depth. In soft bottom sediments the oligochaetes composed 15.9% of macrobenthos biomass and 12.2% of numbers, but on the stony bottom only 1.9% of numbers. The ratio of Oligochaeta/Chironomidae was similar to those in profundals of oligotrophic lakes. Correlation coefficients between species and two measures of niche overlap were in partial agreement. A temporal niche seems to occur: when the chironomid larvae decrease during the summer, the oligochaetes increase. 
3682202|Interspecific and intraspecific differences in egg development, nymphal growth and the life cycles of Fennoscandian stoneflies are examined in relation to zoogeographical aspects and evolutionary trends. Data on other European and North American species are also considered. Egg development shows considerable diversity, the main categories being ovovivipary, egg development with diapause and non-diapause development. Egg development in species in the non-diapause category can be classified as eurythermal, cold stenothermal or warm stenothermal. Temperature has a marked effect on nymphal growth of some species but not others. The distribution of several species can be explained by their temperature relationships, either in the egg or nymphal stage. Several species modify their life cycle to fit local climatic conditions. In some species, such as Leuctra hippopus, environmental selection has been so strong that they have probably recently evolved into subspecies and/or species in northern Europe. Morphological and ecological variations in the Plecoptera have facilitated their colonization of the variety of freshwater biotopes that occur in Fennoscandia.
3682689|Trichopteran larvae were sampled on soft substrata at all depths, on stony substrata in the exposed zone, and the adults in emergence traps, placed along the lake shore. Fourteen species were taken as larvae in the lake. On stony substrata and in the exposed zone Polycentropus flavomaculatus (Pictet) was dominant, followed by Limnephilus nigriceps (Zetterstedt) in terms of numbers. In terms of biomass L. nigriceps dominated followed by Potamophylax cingulatus (Stephens). Species which usually inhabit running water made up for a larger part of the trichopteran fauna of the exposed zone. The two most numerous species showed different habit preferences. P. flavomaculatus was most common on stable stony bottom, while L. nigriceps was most common on unstable stony bottom. The other species showed no significant preference. On unstable soft bottom at 3 m and below, Mystacides azureus (L.) dominated, accounting for about 90% of the total trichopteran fauna both in terms of weight and numbers. The major trichopteran species in the lake were either detritus feeders, such as M. azureus, L. nigriceps and Potamophylax spp. or omnivores such as P. flavomaculatus and Molanna albicans (Zetterstedt).
3682639| Sediment samples from 5 stations in the northern Baltic proper, 6.5 o/oo S, were collected in April 1987 and the emergence of seedlings was recorded over 120 days in a greenhouse at 20C. Total seedling densities varied from 0 to
3682282|Palaemon squilla (L.) at the Swedish west coast occurred on bottoms covered with Zostera marina L., on bare sand bottoms, in moving water and in rock pools, while P. adspersus Rathke was found on Zostera covered bottoms only. During summer 1978 the increase in length of P. adspersus was 2.2 times greater than that of P. squilla, the former species also attaining a larger maximal size. Laboratory studies showed a wide tolerance in both species to combinations of temperature and salinity. P. squilla tolerated higher temperatures than P. adspersus. The locomotory activity of P. squilla was more than twice that of P. adspersus and concentrated to the dark period. Stomach analyses revealed no interspecific differences in food selection. P. squilla appears to be an opportunistic species able to survive in many different habitats, with a higher dispersal ability, smaller size and larger tolerance to extreme values of abiotic parameters, while P. adspersus is a K-strategist with a high competitive ability, a larger proportion of availably energy devoted to growth, and with larger body size and lower mobility. Although these differences enable the two species to coexist in certain habitats, their habitat segregation still appears to be of primary importance to reduce competition between them.
3682704|Phytoplankton structure and its relation to physical and chemical properties of the water was studied in 58 central Finnish lakes. The biomass ranged from 5
3682454|Standing crops of biomass and nutrients were measured in Eriophorum vaginatum tussock tundra and on a north-facing slope, called the camp site, with similar species composition during the summer of 1976 at Eagle Creek, Alaska. These data were then compared to similar data collected at Meade River, Alaska in 1975. Four species are compared: Ledum palustre, Salix pulchra, Betula nana, and Eriophorum vaginatum. The density of aboveground individuals was greater at the tussock site than at the camp site. The total late season above- and belowground standing crop of organic matter and of biomass was greater at the camp site. The nitrogen and calcium contents of new leaves usually increased during the season while phosphorus and potassium contents decreased. Most of the nutrients were in the mosses and lichen compartments rather than in vascular plants.
3682063|During the period 1971-81 there were severe outbreaks of the bark beetle Ips typographus in southern Norway that damaged trees equivalent to 5 million cubic metres of timber. The outbreaks were caused partly by an extensive windblow and partly by drought. Trap trees were used until 1979, when pheromone-baited traps were introducted as part of an extensive control program. The various aspects of this program are outlined and problems of scientific, technological, economical-administrative and informative character are discussed. Possible explanation for the decline of the epidemic after 1980 is presented and the main conditions which must be fulfilled for achieving successful mass trapping of insect pests are listed.
3682113|The development and feeding efficiences of larvae of Inachis io were compared on mature and regrowth leaves of Urtica dioica. The nitrogen and water content of regrowth leaves was higher than in mature leaves. Larvae fed on regrowth leaves both singly and in groups attained higher ECI and ECD values, completed development faster, and attained a greater body weight than larvae fed on mature leaves. AD values were not significantly different. The consequences on herbivore dynamics of the availability of good quality regrowth of food-plants are discussed.
3682726|In central Sweden, teneral adults of the strictly larval-overwintering carabid beetle Trechus secalis Paykull started emerging during mid-June and bred in mid-summer (July). In contrast, the strictly adult-overwintering carabid Bembidion lampros Herbst bred in early summer (June), and the new-generation emerged in late summer (August). Both species appeared to be univoltine and had a short period of sexual activity (2-3 months). Their main oviposition periods did not overlap, and gravid B. lampros contained a higher mean number of eggs than did gravid T. secalis. Conversely, T. secalis had a longer oviposition period than B. lampros. Prereproductive B. lampros accumulated in high densities along field edges prior to hibernation. The cereal fields appeared to be optimal for reproduction and larval development of both species. Trechus secalis also reproduced in adjacent uncultivated habitats, whereas B. lampros did not. Trechus secalis larvae were completely subterranean, whereas B. lampros larvae were partly surface active. The adaptive significance of their reproductive tactics and habitat preferences as adults and the suitability of cereal fields as habitats for reproduction and survival of populations are discussed.
3682681|Samples of drifting and periphytic microalgae were collected during 1972 from a fast-flowing, stony stream (Brurskardsbekken) in the Jotunheimen mountain area, central southern Norway. The predominant algal groups in the drift and the periphyton were diatoms and green algae, while only a few species were recorded in both communities. A considerable number of species from Chrysophyceae, Cryptophyceae and other algal classes were also recorded in the drift samples. The species composition was in good agreement with microalgal communities earlier described from mountain areas in Scandinavia, although species which probably are new to Norway, were also recorded. A quantitatively important fraction of planktonic species in the drift is interpreted as a contribution from lacustrine habitats in the watercourse. A general change in the periphyton during the summer, from green algae to diatoms, was observed, Altitudinal differences in the periphyton included a delayed green algal maximum at higher altitudes compared to lower. In the zone around the upper birch limit, a transition in species composition as one goes upstream, described in other investigations, was not observed.
3682520|The raccoon dog Nyctereutes procyonoides Gray was introduced from the Far East in several areas of the USSR, mainly the European part, in 1929-55. The first raccoon dogs were seen in Finland in the latter half of the 1930s, and by the mid-1950s, the frontier of the first regular observations had reached the most southeasterly parts of the country. Since then, the raccoon dog dispersed through southern and central Finland at an average annual rate of 20 km. The rate of population increase, as well as present density, has been highest in southern and southeastern Finland, and lowest in the northern parts of the distribution area. The northern limit of the distribution lies nowadays in southern Lapland, only a little further north than two decades earlier, when most of southern and central Finland was already inhabited. The length of the growing season seems to explain most of the variation in the population density between the provinces. The longer the growing season, the better the raccoon dog manages; in southern Finland where the summers are longer, the juveniles have enough time to grow and gather fat reserves before hibernation. Therefore, many of them survive the winter and even breed in the following spring. In the north, in contrast, juvenile mortality is high during the first winter because of the short summer. The food availability, the yield of wild berries and the abundance of small rodents, is mostly responsible for the annual variation in the population density. Near the northern limit of the distribution, climate may also cause some of the annual variation in population density.
3682482|Golden plover stomachs were examined through the breeding season at Hardangervidda, southern Norway. The main foods were Diptera larvae (in particular Tipula excisa), adult Coleoptera (notably Otiorrhynchus dubius and Carabidae), and in May and August berries of Empetrum hermaphroditum. Also some larvae of Coleoptera and Lepidoptera were taken. Adult Coleoptera were considerably more common in the diet than expected from abundance data, while Araneae were unimportant as food in spite of a high abundance. The males take the major parental duties after hatching, allowing the females a more undisturbed feeding, supposed to be strongly advantageous for them due to close proximity of egg-laying and the start of the postnuptial moult. This is reflected in the diet: in July males showed a larger tropic diversity, and ate more adult insects and less insect larvae than the females.
3682394|Nematodes, rotifers and tardigrades from a Swedish pine forest soil were investigated in a monthly sampling programme lasting for one year. The monthly mean values of number, biomass and oxygen consumption were estimated. All groups fluctuated rather much over the year with a summer minimum (
3682167|Variability of Chironomid wing length was studied for males and females of four terrestrial species inhabiting heathlands in Brittany (France). The larvae of two species live permanently in the soil. The populations of the two other species are strengthened or re-established by immigrants each year. Significant differences in average wing length were found within and between species depending on sex, year, emergence period and trapping method. The two migrant species did not have the longest wings. In contrast, within species, migrant individuals had longer wings. Relations between wingth length, wing area and wing loading are discussed with regard to life-history tactics (larval resistance to drought, flight ability, passive dispersal). The use of wing length to predict habitat characteristics was tested but the conclusions lead to promote a restrictive use of the wing length criterion.
3682530|As a part of weir-pond-ecosystem project, the growth patterns and food habits of Baetis rhodani (Ephemeroptera), Capnia pygmaea (Plecoptera), and Diura nanseni (Plecoptera) were investigated. B. rhodani was bivoltine. The winter generation consisted of three cohorts. C. pygmaea and D. nanseni accomplished their nymphal growth in one year. The predominate food consumed by B. rhodani and C. pygmaea was detritus. Variations in the diet of these detritivores are discussed in relation to microdistribution and possible competition. The most common prey items of the carnivorous D. nanseni were chironomids and nymphs of B. rhodani and C. pygmaea. Prey shortage is suggested to be the reason for small D. nanseni eating detritus.
3682161|Larvae of Meromyza pratorum Meigen (Diptera, Chloropidae) were found to affect tillers of Ammophila arenaria (L.) Link in the dunes of Newborough Warren, Anglesey, U.K. The highest percentages of affected tillers were found in September. There were clear differences between the proportions of affected tillers in the various successional stages of the dunes. It was found that the proportion of affected tillers was reduced by a fertilizer treatment but slightly increased by removing associated species.
3682506|The photosynthesis of Spagnum fuscum (Schimp.) Klinggr. at different water contents and CO
3682448|Cellulase, chitinase, and protease activities were examined in Eriophorum vaginatum tussocks at Eagle Summit, Alaska. Changes in the activities were recorded for tussocks of differing relative plant composition. Highest total activity was found in tussocks with at least 50% (relative surface) cover by mycorrhizal colonized shrubs. Total enzyme activity declined in tussocks as the variety of plants decreased. The lowest enzyme activity was found in the moss dominated tussock. Changes in the nature of cellulose hydrolysis suggested that decomposition may be primarily regulated by litter composition in some cases and soil environment in others.
3682203|The palatability of saplings of several different species, geographic origins and
3682586| Eighty-four species of Chironomidae were collected, using emergence traps, from three poor fens located in the Experimental Lakes Area (ELA) of northwestern Ontario. Of these, 37 were considered to be true peatland fauna. The majority (23) of the peatland species are new North American or Canadian records and, of these, 10 are previously undescribed. Numbers m
3682351|The diets of free-ranging male and female mink were sampled by analysing faeces collected from radio-tagged individuals. Significant sex differences were apparent in the predation upon three of the five principal prey groups. The larger males preyed much more heavily upon lagomorphs, the largest prey taken, while females preyed more upon fish and crustaceans than did males. These differences were consistent in each season except the autumn (September to November), when males preyed more heavily upon fish and crustacea than did females. Due to their large size, adult lagomorphs are felt to be relatively unavailable to female mink. Male mink are apparently large enough to specialize on lagomorphs, and male mink niche breadth was consistently lower than that of females. Dietary overlap approximated to 40% in all seasons except summer (68%), when female predation upon lagomorphs reached a peak. This reduction in intraspecific feeding competition was felt to be a valuable side-effect of body-size dimorphism.
3682122|In the first years after coppicing, Cirsium palustre is abundant in Dutch ash coppice woodlands and in the second year, it flowers abundantly. In later years the species is nearly absent. In contrast to its behaviour in meadow and spring communities, the species typically behaves as a true biennial in this system. Despite fairly high mortality, the plants flowering in their second year produce enough seeds to replenish the seed bank. It is suggested that the persistence of the species in this system depends on its ability to form a longlived seed bank and on a nutrient availability high enough to enable some rosettes to exploit the high photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) in the first year after coppicing and thus to reach the critical size needed for flowering in the second year. Rosettes persisting to the third year generally do not flower and ultimately die because shading by the tree canopy has become too severe.
3682414|The author stresses the need for more clearly defined concepts and terms related to ecological research in the northern biogeographical zones and regions. The concepts 'arctic', 'subarctic', 'tundra', 'forest-tundra', 'open woodland' (and similar expressions), 'taiga', etc., are discussed below. The expressions 'tree' and 'forest' are briefly mentioned. The main interest below is focused on terms related to the tree- and timber- (forest-) lines and their interrelations.
3682118| Two tubificid species Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri and L. claparedeianus formed more than 93% of the total number of oligochaetes in the profundal. Limnodrilus spp. worms were found down to 33 cm in the sediment but in great numbers in the upper zone in June and October. Worms confined to the top 15 cm of sediment accounted for 53-92% of the total number. There were two annual maxima in population density and biomass, one in late spring (
3682260|Ten closely-located kettle-hole ponds in northern Sweden were ordered along a vegetational, successional gradient from the present-day representation of the six vegetational units distinguished. Different rates of vegetational development caused by differences in depths of basins have made possible the long-term existence of early successional stages. A fact that has offered the possibility of studying most of the vegetational succession of these habitats. The number of water beetle species inhabiting each pond were correlated to successional stage and area of pond. Mean species numbers decreased from 34 to 14 per pond with increasing maturity of the vegetational succession. This decrease in species richness of water beetles is caused by a decrease in number of habitats or vegetational units present. The increased floral conformity is mainly due to a more stable water-level caused by lower rates of bottom seepage from the accumulation of organic deposits. Besides the extended zonation of littoral vegetation, a high water-amplitude is also connected with recurrent nutrient pulses caused by the faster detritus composition during drought periods. Thus the changing water-levels contribute to a high water beetle diversity through the maintenance of both a high habitat complexity and a high production. A positive correlation between pond size and number of water beetle species were only found if the fen ponds were excluded. From this it is concluded that the area effect is here a good predictor of species richness only within ponds of a similar successional stage.
3682173|Measurements of daily variations in the intensity, spectral composition and polarization of the direct and the indirect sunlight are presented, and the physics of light propagation through the atmosphere is discussed. Observations of daily changes in these properties of the skylight are presented from two different locations in Norway. Probable adaptations of the light detection systems of insects living at high latitudes are predicted from the observations. The adaptation processes under consideration are (1) changes in the light absorption characteristics of the visual pigments, (2) changes in the visual sensitivity to light and (3) a switch in Zeitgeber from the daily intensity changes to changes in the spectral composition of the light in polar regions. It is shown that in particular the intensity ratio between the ultraviolet and the green part of the diffuse light is well suited as a Zeitgeber for insects living at high latitudes.
3682110| The chironomid larvae of the Rouge River, Ontario, Canada, showed a longitudinal zonation which may have been influenced by water temperature and substrate composition. Species of Orthocladiinae predominated in the cooler headwaters while species of Chironomini dominated the comparatively warmer water near the estuary. In the middle section the chironomid assemblage was of a more mixed nature. Differences occurred in both food availability and feeding between sites along the river. Within genera, there were differences in the proportions of major food items between the larval guts and the available food material sampled from the same area. In most cases (e.g. Cryptochironomus, Polypedilum and Orthocladius) larvae selected detritus over diatoms. Some genera (e.g. Microtendipes) changed the proportions of food items ingested seasonally, while others (e.g. Psectrocladius) exhibited a more stable diet throughout the year. Second instar larvae appeared to seasonally adjust their diet most often (e.g. Cricotopus, Tanytarsus and Eukiefferiella), however these changes were not just in the types of food eaten, but also in the proportions of food types consumed. Larvae of all genera continued feeding throughout the cold water conditions (<5C) of winter. Incidence of predation was very low, for example <10% in the Tanypodinae. In the laboratory, species of Chironomini ingested and assimulated, to varying degress, isolated populations of diatoms, detritus and bacteria. 
3682172| Brown trout (Salmo trutta), Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar), brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) and lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush) fry entering the free-feeding stage, were tested for overhead cover preferences in stream channels at different temperatures and water velocities. Atlantic salmon showed strong preferences for overhead cover, brown trout moderate preferences, whereas lake trout had preferences only at high temperatures, i.e. 12.4-19.2C. Brook trout showed no cover preferences. Temperature influenced cover preferences of Atlantic salmon and brown trout considerably. The fry tended to seek more cover at low temperatures, i.e. 6.0-8.3C 
3682238| The relative variation in leaf nitrogen concentration and photosynthetic capacity among individuals and sites are compared for mountain birch populations (Betula pubsecens Ehrh. ssp tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman). Leaf nitrogen concentration and photosynthetic capacity showed significant differences among individuals; 35 and 26% of the total sum of squares respectively, was attributable to differences among individuals. Two measures of leaf morphology also showed differences among individuals (35-58% of total variation). The variation attributable to site differences ranged from 13% (leaf shape, P = 0.11) to 36% (leaf N concentration and photosynthetic capacity, P 0.01). Of the variation in photosynthetic capacity, 51% was related to leaf nitrogen concentration. Possible causes for and consequences of the differences found are discussed. 
3682043|Reindeer and caribou are best known as migratory, seasonally nomadic animals; many continental populations, for example, travel between distinct summer and winter ranges which may lie hundreds of km apart. Much less is known about the movements of animals belonging to island populations. This paper describes seasonal and annual movements of wild reindeer Rangifer tarandus platyrhynchus on the high arctic archipelago of Svalbard, based on observations of nine animals captured and individually marked in Adventdalen, Spitsbergen, between 1977 and 1982. Four ear-tagged reindeer (one male and three females) were followed extensively for between four and seven years. Five radio-collared females were followed intensively for seven months in 1982. Svalbard reindeer seem neither to undertake long migrations nor to be nomadic within seasons like mountain reindeer or barren-ground caribou. They appear instead to use small, traditional, seasonal home ranges more, for example, like red deer or wild sheep. This atypical behaviour is discussed in relation to the dispersion of reindeers' resources in Svalbard.
3682058|Intraspecific larval competition is commonly believed to be the major component of egg-to-adult mortality in bark beetles. Larval mortality is usually shown to be density dependent. In this study I looked specifically at competition among females in the same gallery system, in a sparse but highly female-biased population of Ips acuminatus breeding in cut pine branches near Kongsberg, southeastern Norway. Supplementary data from a slightly female-biased population in western Norway and a population with intermediate female bias in W. Germany are also provided. Survivorship from egg to adult or pupa was measured in laboratory experiments, for the area in which larvae from different arms potentially competed relative to survivorship in areas away from competition. Survivorship was significantly correlated with both average interarm distance ( r
3682534|Primary productivity of algal epiphytes on the surfaces of Phragmites, Potamogeton, and Nuphar was measured seasonally from June 1978, through June 1979, in the littoral zone of Lake Ohrid, using
3682719|Fifteen species of earthworm were collected from a reclaimed fen peat soil used for rough hay in County Offaly, Ireland. The most common species were Aporrectodea tuberculata, Allolobophora chlorotica, Eisenia rosea and Octolasion tyrtaeum. A. tuberculata, A. chlorotica and E. rosea formed a significant association. The total numbers of earthworms collected by hand-sorting reached a maximum of
3682041|Habitat dependence and foraging for bark of semi-cyclic and cyclic voles were examined on clearcuts in central and northern Sweden. Both populations showed inconsistent and weak relationships to habitat variables. Population dynamics of the northern cyclic population was more clearly related to landscape composition. Snow depth explained a large proportion of the total variation between clearcuts when the populations were pooled. Snow and landscape effects agree with recent hypotheses that 3-4 yr cyclic densities are related to predator impact. The negligible effects of other habitat variables may be due to generalized habitat selection by northern rodents and the historical growth of populations in different macrohabitats since population crashes. The relations between density and bark consumption differed between the two regions, indicating a threshold density for more intense bark use. From an applied point of view, areas with seedling damage can be predicted at regional rather than at local scales.
3682070| Isozyme analyses performed on balsam poplar stands in subarctic northern Qubec indicated polyclonal predominance (76%). This suggests that seed sources were adequate for colonization of new habitats. High variance at the clone and the stand levels did not permit, however, the use of morphological traits for clonal partitioning. A non-random sex distribution related to habitat conditions was found both at the regional and the local scales, although there is an equal male-female ratio in the study area. Female stands predominate in regions subject to a maritime climate (1:5) and in fertile and humid habitats (1:7). 
3682086| Gravid females of Capnia bifrons (Newman) from Windermere (English Lake District) were almost completely ovoviviparous, the eggs hatching within 15 min after oviposition in the water. When kept in the laboratory at constant temperatures between 3.8 and 19.8C, few females survived to lay eggs at temperatures above 12.1C. The relationship between air temperature (TC) and the egg incubation period (Y days between fertilisation and oviposition) was given by the regression equation: ${\rm Y}=316.4\ {\rm T}^{-0.9996}\ ({\rm r}^{2}=0.957,\ {\rm p}<0.001)$. This equation successfully predicted egg incubation periods for gravid females kept in cages in the field. Comparisons with similar studies on four non-ovoviviparous species of Plecoptera showed that egg development was rarely more rapid in C. bifrons. It was also shown that the hypothesis of ovoviviparity being an adaptation to combat low water temperatures could be rejected for C. bifrons from Windermere. 
3682097|Ninety cultures of heterotrophic organisms were isolated from soils of four acid Norwegian forest sites, which were active in nitrifying. The isolates were tested for ability to form nitrite in a glucose-ammonium-inorganic salts medium. Eleven cultures were found capable of oxidizing ammonium to nitrite. The nitrifying organisms consist of 4 bacteria and 7 fungi.
3682126|Larvae of the blackfly Simulium noelleri aggregated at very high population densities (up to
3682734|A multidisciplinary approach combining field surveys, aerial photographic techniques, digital terrain modelling, and GIS technology was used to analyze spatial interrelationships at a study site in the northern foothills of the Brooks Range. The sensitivity of snow drifting to topography at the site is pronounced. The drift patterns indicate winter winds are predominantly from the south with a major secondary component from the southwest. These southwest winds are likely in conjunction with storm events. The deepest snow beds are found on the steeper, north-facing slopes. Snow also has an effect on vegetation that is evident at the scale of mapping (1:6000). Communities dominated by Cassiope tetragona are associated with deeper snow regimes, and may be useful indicators of deeper snow regimes even at much smaller scales because of their unique spectral signatures. The analyses conducted to date demonstrate the power of the GIS for analyzing terrain-geobotanical interrelationships, which will increase as we add new layers for other variables, and are able to correlate these with satellite data.
3682083|To determine some of the influences on nesting densities of bumble bees I examined the dispersion and occupancy of 35 nests in an old field on Amherst Island, Ontario, Canada and 39 nests found by Cumber (1953) in England. Densities up to 1 nest per
3682243|A technique was developed for measuring respiration of virtually undisturbed forest floor samples, and used to follow seasonal changes in two black spruce forest stands in interior Alaska. In the laboratory, soil respiration showed a positive response to increasing temperature; however, respiration measured in the field was negatively correlated with air and soil temperature, but positively correlated with water content of the soil within the range (100-250% of dry weight) normally experienced in the field. Moisture levels above 250% inhibited respiration. Precipitation events usually stimulate forest floor respiration, but prolonged periods of dry and rainy weather lead to limitation of respiration by sub- and supraoptimal moisture, respectively. Long-term confinement of soil has significant effects upon soil arthropod densities, moisture content, temperature, and respiration, and should not be taken to represent the natural conditions of the forest floor.
3682152|Food matter eaten in the first snowless spots early in the spring by capercaillie Tetrao urogallus and willow grouse Lagopus lagopus was studied in Finnish Forest Lapland. When the snow disappears, both species change to feeding mainly on the plants available in the snowless spots, although male capercaillie does not exploit this nutritious diet to the same extent as female capercaillie and willow grouse. Selection in favour of nitrogen and phosphorus-rich food items, i.e. Betula pubescens, male catkins Eriophorum vaginatum, flower buds, and Equisetum spp., stems and tips, seems to be characteristic especially of the female capercaillie, whose winter diet is poor in these elements. Female capercaillie also feeds on more plant species or different parts of plants at one time than willow grouse, while no differences were recorded between male and female willow grouse in the composition of their spring food. The crowberry Empetrum hermaphroditum, almost regularly produces a bountiful berry crop in northern Finland, and since it overwinters well, it represents an easy source of energy and water available almost every spring. The quality and/or the quantity of the green food matter available early in the spring may fluctuate considerably and be of importance for short-term fluctuations in the populations of these tetraonid species.
3682171| In a Swedish moose population containing both migratory and non-migratory individuals, 15 cows, 19 first generation and 2 second generation offspring were radio-collared and monitored during 1980-87 to determine their migratory behavior. The migratory behavior of offspring was evaluated when they were > 1 year old and independent of their dams. All 11 migratory cows produced migratory offspring (10, 3). Two migratory offspring produced female calves (grandchildren to the originally sampled cows) that were also migratory. Four of the originally sampled cows were non-migratory and they produced six non-migratory offspring (3, 3). Distances migrated by independent offspring were related to those of their dam. No moose changed its migrant or non-migrant nature during the study. Results indicate that the proportion of migratory moose in the population is determined by the survival and reproductive success of migratory versus non-migratory cows. Migratory and non-migratory moose may be regarded as two distinct phenotypes in this population. 
3682636| A modified strip census of basking ringed seals in the Bothnian Bay was carried out during the last week of April and the first week of May 1988. Of the total ice covered area,
3682335|A notable omission from wetlands ecology has been the study of the influence of herbivores on vegetation. Reported here are the effects of grazing by snow geese Anser caerulescens altantica on the vegetation of salt marshes along the mid-Atlantic coast of the United States. Exclosures were used to compare total and species percent cover between grazed and ungrazed areas in three marshes (Salt Flats, South Pond, and Bodie Island) with differing vegetation communities from 1978 to 1980. Spartina alterniflora was reduced by 2/3 in grazed versus ungrazed areas of Salt Flats. S. patens was reduced by 1/3 in grazed portions of South Pond but recovered when grazing ceased. In grazed portions of Bodie Island total plant cover was reduced by 16%. Scirpus robustus and S. patens reacted in opposite ways to grazing pressure with S. robustus increasing and S. patens decreasing. Elocharis was found only in grazed areas of Bodie Island. Echinochloa crusgali appeared in grazed portions of this marsh in 1978 but decreased in abundance during subsequent years. Scirpus americanus was unaffected by grazing, maintaining a nearly constant percent cover in grazed and ungrazed areas at Bodie Island. Differences in responses to grazing are discussed in terms of each species' growth and reproductive strategies as tempered by the physical and biological environment within each marsh.
3682703|The perennial herbaceous mire plant Saxifraga hirculus was studied in different population densities along an environmental gradient on a mire in central Sweden. Tests were made whether the habitat conditions influenced the balance between vegetative growth of runners and seed production. Along a 30 m long transect the gradient was analysed for vegetation, hydrology, temperature and contents of ions in groundwater and surface peat. Three main zones were distinguished, a spring area, a rich fen area and an intermediate fen area. Range in concentration of ions in groundwater along the transect ( mg l
3682149|We present the results from a radiotelemetric study on space use and activity in a natural population of the wood lemming Myopus schisticolor. Male home ranges were larger than females, and the ratio female home range to male home range was smaller than expected compared to other small rodents. Males moved distances 4-12 times longer than females. We argue that this difference in mobility gives a higher probability of capturing males than females in snap trap studies. If there is a sex biased trappability, this might explain the increasing female biased sex ratio during the snow free season (1:1 in spring, 3:1 [female:male] in autumn), as a higher mortality of males during the reproductive season.
3682249|The limnetic copepod Cyclops scutifer Sars shows an extraordinarily prolonged life cycle in a temperate lake near Oslo, Norway. Developmental sequences become one, two, and three years old, and there are circumstantial evidence of a four year old fraction. Prolongation of the cycle is mainly caused by two consecutive periods of diapause, the first as small copepodids during the second winter, the other as large copepodids during the third winter. There is a marked concentration of diapausing individuals in a small area of the bottom at the deepest part of the lake. There is evidence that this concentration is caused by a horizontal migration to areas with optimal oxygen conditions. The adaptive value of a prolongation of the life cycle is assumed to be an increase in the reproductive potential caused by a spreading out of the reproductive period by three year classes succeeding each other throughout the summer.
3682460|Previous workers have suggested that reproduction by seedling establishment is less important in the maintenance of tundra vegetation than in temperate areas, but few quantitative data are available. Seedling densities were studied at 11 tundra sites in or near disturbed and undisturbed cotton grass tussock tundra in Alaska, and numerous seedlings were found. Examination of seedling age structures suggests that at least Ledum palustre and probably also Empetrum nigrum do replace themselves by seed in undisturbed tundra. Seedling densities vary greatly depending on the substrate available for establishment.
3682272| Radiotelemetry provided data on the activity periods of brown lemmings Lemmus sibiricus in northern Alaska. Activity inside the burrow and inactivity outside the burrow usually occurred in short episodes (<3 min), whereas periods of activity outside the burrow and inactivity inside the burrow were more prolonged and appeared to be associated with foraging (outside) and sleeping (inside). Energetic reserves for lemmings entering a burrow consisted of body fat and undigested gut contents, which allowed minimal survival times of 8.6  2.3 h (mean  1 S.E.). Nevertheless, lemmings usually left their burrows within 40 min of entering, at which time their stomachs would be at least two-thirds empty. Activity patterns of lemmings appear to change in response to predators, weather and nutritional requirements. We argue that lemmings seek to minimize the time spent foraging rather than to maximize the net energy gain while foraging. 
3682146|Investigation of the seasonal changes in composition of an immature Antarctic fellfield cyanobacterial/microalgal community has demonstrated a repeated periodicity. The community consisted of only 14 species. Early spring growth of filamentous chlorophytes under snow and ice was followed by summer dominance of the community by cyanobacteria, particularly Phormidium autumnale. Limitation of the chlorophyte populations appeared to be a result of either dehydration of the soil or increased irradiance. The population maximum of the cyanobacteria occurred in mid-summer, although there were no obvious reasons for the cessation of growth at this time, and declined rapidly in late summer. Regrowth of the community occurred from very small inocula each spring, most of the biomass having been lost during late summer or during the washout associated with the spring thaw. This regrowth demonstrates the potential for the population to establish an immature fellfield community very rapidly following exposure by glacial retreat or physical disturbance.
3682264| Carbon dioxide production by the Bombus terrestris queen was measured at different temperatures (10-30C) and during different activities of the bumblebee. During flight the CO
3682052| Temperatures in the forest litter of Norway spruce Picea abies were recorded throughout the day to obtain environmental parameters that could be used to design realistic flight-activity experiments in the laboratory. Flight activity and survival were monitored electronically in plastic chambers where the conditions were controlled by an environmental chamber. Flight attempts of the bark beetle Ips typographus were initially lower in chambers with forest duff but were prolonged compared with those of beetles in chambers with a metal screen substrate. Small bark slabs and spruce twigs in the duff were utilized as food and extended the period of flight and survival. A thermal gradient in duff from 25 at the surface down to 13.8C at a depth of 4 cm also slightly increased the survival of beetles compared with a constant 25. A daily ambient temperature cycle as well as the duff thermal gradient increased the survival from about 3 d to more than 8 d. The latter length in the laboratory agreed with survival rates of caged beetles in a clearcut forest area, while beetles caged in the forest survival for more than 14 d. Temperatures were monitored at the duff surface of the caged beetles and compared with the catches of beetles that were attracted to a pheromone trap and collected with an electronic fraction collector. Information on flight and survival during the dispersal period is necessary to the design of ecologically sound management programs for control of bark beetles. 
3682123|The diel rhythm of juvenile (0+) Astacus astacus was studied experimentally with constant and dielly fluctuating water levels. In the first case the diel rhythm was mainly crepescular, but with tendencies of a phase shift towards diurnal rhythm during low light conditions. The locomotor activity increased with temperature and with the length of the dark period. In presence of a crepescular predator the crayfish decreased their light period activity. With fluctuating water levels the activity increased especially when the water level changes occurred during normal resting periods. Crayfish did not show any adaptation to fluctuating water levels by preferring covers constantly situated beneath the surface. The relative effect of the water level fluctuations increased with temperature. As the main part of the juvenile crayfish population is concentrated to the litoral zone, diel water level regulations are thought to be detrimental to crayfish populations even if the regulation amplitude is small.
3682232|Beetles were collected by pitfall trapping for a two-year period in seven adjacent habitats in an upland site in North Wales. Positive correlations were demonstrated between number of beetle species and number and diversity of plant species. Similar correlations were shown between beetle numbers and plant species. However, only 15% of the beetle species were herbivores requiring host plants. The degree of habitat selection by individual beetle species was demonstrated, ranging from habitat specialist, being found in one habitat, to habitat generalist, being found in most habitats. Herbivores were significantly more habitat specialist than predators or scavengers. The grouping of beetles, demonstrated by ordination analysis, was similar to, but less precise than, the grouping of plant species. The beetle groups reflect habitat selection preferences by individual species rather than a functional relationship between beetle species. They provide an example of the centrifugal structure of habitat selection theory.
3682525| The changes effected by air-borne pollutants in the wintertime water economy of the Scots pine were investigated in industrial and urban environments in Oulu (65N). Pine needles were found to undergo a wintertime water stress, which was more intense in the polluted area than in the less polluted environment. The water stress of the needles was found to be the more severe, the more pollutants had accumulated in the needles. In the needles of the trees growing in the polluted area, transpiration started shortly after they had been brought into laboratory even at midwinter, but the healthy trees were not equally sensitive in their response. When the weight loss of branches was observed in outdoor conditions, it was noted that the branches brought from the polluted area lost weight more rapidly than the branches of the healthy area. Air-borne pollutants hence constitute an obvious additional risk to the wintering of plants, particularly their water economy. 
3682464|Respiratory loss and bulk transport of organic matter from dung pats in a Danish pasture were measured by a chromic oxide marker technique. Measurements covered the period until a dung age of 7-8 weeks. On average, respiration and transport contributed 46% and 54% of organic matter disappearance in three spring experiments; in three autumn experiments the corresponding values were 25% and 75%. Thus, both processes are important. The rate of transport was highest at the bottom of the pat, whereas the highest respiratory rate occurred in the top and periphery. During the first 10-14 days transport predominated, probably owing to the activity of dung insects, whereas respiration was remarkably low. During the remaining period, transport was probably affected mainly by earthworms. Respiration seemed to be mostly microbial and to proceed during dung pat decay in essentially the same way as did cellulolytic activity. Earthworms did not significantly affect the respiration of pats.
3682580|The objectives of this study were to assess the roles of plant species, time, and site on competition for tracer
3682576|The relative success of a sample of 99 immigrant dispersers was studied in a population of Peromyscus leucopus in deciduous forest from 1980 to 1985. Dispersers were identified in two ways: (1) as immigrants to a natural dispersal sink and (2) as individuals that relocated their center of activity more than one home range diameter within a large live-trapping system. Female immigrants were significantly less likely to be pregnant or lactating than philopatric residents; males showed no significant difference. Reproductive immigrants were more likely than non-reproductive immigrants to establish residency after dispersal. There was no difference in survivorship of philopatric residents and those dispersers that successfully immigrated.
3682155|The numbers, densities and mean heights of the above-ground shoots of Vaccinium myrtillus growing in the geolittoral on a bank of the Muddusjokk river, N Sweden, were studied in relation to the position of the seasonal high-water level. V. myrtillus was constantly present in the upper half of the geolittoral belt, with its lower limit about 50 cm below the drift-line and its lowermost occurrence of all at 82 cm below. The vertical extent of the whole transect was 1.3 m. The vertical extent of the entire geolittoral was assessed by studying the distributions of a range of vascular plants and bryophytes. The upper geolittoral subdivision had a greater vertical extent (0.68 m) than the middle and lower ones (together 0.60 m). V. myrtillus does not appear to be a suitable indicator species for determining the local high-water levels along watercourses in N Sweden.
3682625| During the growing season of 1981, we studied phenological patterns of development of vegetative shoots and sexual organs, partitioning of biomass and productivity, and partitioning and concentrations of N, P, K, Ca, and Mg for the evergreen dwarf shrub Cassiope tetragona (Ericaceae) at a high arctic lowland oasis at 79N on Ellesmere Island, Canada. Short elongation
3682088| In this study two questions concerning the structure and organisation of shallow brackish and estuarine fish assemblages are: (1) Does the species number decline with lower salinity as found for the macrofauna invertebrates? (2) Does the water temperature during the year influence the abundance of fishes along the Swedish coast? In a west coast estuary salinities were higher but fluctuated more than in the Bothnian Sea. Days with temperatures exceeding 15C were up to twice as many in the west coast estuary as in the Bothnian Sea. In spring the species number increased, but later on in summer it declined to increase again in autumn, but declined once again as winter approached. Fish density in the west coast estuary increased gradually to a maximum in late summer and then declined, while in the Bothnian Sea there was often a decline during summer. Positive correlations were found between observed minimum salinities and average species number, and between number of days with temperatures exceeding +15C and both yearly average and maximum fish densities. Juveniles (0+) were present for longer periods in the west coast estuary than in the Bothnian Sea and reproduction of the common species started earlier in the former area. In winter the shallow areas are devoid of fish because of ice and so are re-colonised each spring. The study demonstrates that water salinity limited the species number, and water temperature the abundance of fish. 
3682324|Several of the most important reindeer forage plants in Svalbard were analysed for content of minerals (Na, K, P, Ca, Mg, S, Cl, Fe, Cu, Mn, Zn, Mo and Co) and for content of ash, crude protein, crude fiber, ether extracts and nitrogen free extracts. Some forage plants were also examined in in vitro digestibility trials. The results were compared with results from similar analyses of alpine mountain plants from southern Norway. Also freshly voided fecal samples were analysed for the same components as the forage plants. The Svalbard vegetation had a higher content of Na, Ca, Mg, Cl, Fe and Co, than similar plants from Southern Norway. The content of other elements examined seemed to be more equal in Norway and on Svalbard. Within the Svalbard area plants growing in limestone areas had the highest content of calcium and magnesium. Also plants growing on manured soil below bird cliffs appeared to have high nutritional value. It is furthermore concluded that the closeness to the sea as well as the occurrence of several plants with high mineral content, gave the Svalbard reindeer the possibility to further improve their mineral balance compared with continental reindeer. Also the dietary shift from lichens as a major dietary component in Norway, to mosses on Svalbard, may increase mineral intake, but may also have an inferior effect on digestibility. Although balance experiments and carcass analyses of minerals in Svalbard reindeer are missing, it is concluded that Svalbard reindeer apparently had adequate intake of most mineral elements. In spite of low standing biomass of reindeer forage plants, the quality of the vegetation seemed to compare favourably with continental reindeer pasture.
3682491|Ecotypic differentiation of Cochlearia officinalis L. was studied in four populations, roughly described as "beach", "bird cliff", "spring" and "estuary", which occupy different habitats in the northern part of Norway. The plants were cultivated under controlled conditions on soil to which nitrogen was applied at various amounts (0, 0.2 and
3682179|Three populations of Tayloria tenuis (Splachnaceae) growing on three isolated cattle droppings in coniferous forests of the Eastern Pyrenees were sampled by permanent grids through three years. Each population was initially in a different stage of the dung colonization process. At first, T. tenuis developed a conspicuous protonema on the dropping surface. After one or two years, the moss completed development and fruited abundantly. Eventually, the populations were covered by larger pleurocarpous mosses, which were common on the forest soil. There were important differences between the two stages of development of the T. tenuis gametophyte: the protonema stage exhibited high mortality but rapidly covered nearly all the free surface of the dropping. Afterwards, the gametophore stage established more permanently. Pleurocarpous mosses growing over Tayloria tenuis gametophores produced changes in the vegetative and reproductive pattern of this species. Tayloria tenuis disappeared gradually from the places covered by pleurocarps, although these larger species exhibited high rates of mortality at a micro-scale level.
3682631|Both age and size may influence female reproductive performance in mammals, and successful early reproduction may lead to reduced success at later attempts. The effects of age, size and early reproduction on distribution of reproductive effort throughout a single breeding season was examined in female mountains hares Lepus timidus L. Hind foot length was used as an index of body size, because, unlike body weight, it did not fluctuate with reproductive status. Fifty-six female carcasses were collected from March to October 1984, and their litters were assigned to one of three chronologically equal 'litter periods' (1-3) of equal length. Whereas number of ova shed was always independent of age, large females shed more ova than did smaller females in litter periods 1 and 2. Prenatal mortality of ova and embryos was highest during litter period 1, when it was independent of age and size. Although prenatal mortality remained high in first year females in litter period 2, there was an overall decline through to the final litter period when it was negligible. Total number of young produced through the season increased with skeletal size in old females (age > 1), but not significantly in first year females. It is concluded that large size, rather than age, favours early reproduction in mountain hares. Every additional offspring produced in litter periods 1 and 2 reduced that female's production in period 3. After correcting for this cost of early reproduction the number of young produced in the final litter period also increased with maternal size.
3682246| Arctopsyche grandis was studied for two years in a cold stream in central Idaho. Larvae have a one year life cycle consisting of five instars. Three to four instars are present in most months. Growth is rapid in summer with instar I and II passing to IV and V in 30 d or less. Little or no growth occurs during winter. Maximum larval densities were 547 (1977) and
3682254| Soil/litter inhabiting annelids and arthropods were studied for one year in a mesic deciduous woodland, Andersby ngsbackar, one of the most northerly areas in Sweden to possess unbroken oak/hazel vegetation. Lumbricidae, Enchytraeidae, Collembola, Acari, Coleoptera, Diptera and Araneae were important faunal groups with regard to abundance, biomass and respiratory metabolism. Annual mean biomass (
3682054|Population dynamics of the southern pine beetle Dendroctonus frontalis has been the subject of intensive research in the USA for more than a decade. TAMBEETLE, an acronym for the mechanistic model of population dynamics of D. frontalis, was developed to abstract contemporary knowledge on the insect. This model was developed as a joint venture between the Biosystems Research Group of Industrial Engineering and the Department of Entomology at Texas A&M University. The approach used to develop the model and the structure of component submodels is described. Research leading to the development of the model involved a series of field and laboratory studies aimed at various aspects of the population system of the insect. This research is reviewed. Important areas needing further research are identified. Studies dealing with factors involved in initiation of infestions, biome-level epidemiology, host susceptibility, stand modeling, and dynamics of within-tree mortality were emphasized as important topics for further research.
3682297| The limnology of Langvatn situated in Trndelag county in Central Norway, has been studied for five years (1974-1978). In two years, 1975 and 1976, the lake was fertilized with a general fertilizer to change feeding conditions for the fish food organisms. Reasons for the choice of the lake are described together with a brief description of the lake itself, its catchment area, location, geological origin and the effect of human influence. 
3682092|The life-history patterns of four Hydropsyche species (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae) found in the Credit and Humber Rivers of southern Ontario were investigated through rearing studies, larval and adult collections, and analyses of densities and mortality of field populations of pupae. Hydropsyche slossonae was univoltine but was probably capable of producing a second generation under favourable conditions at the warmest station at which it occurred. Hydropsyche sparna was partially bivoltine at upstream stations and bivoltine at downstream stations. At downstream stations, the common species were Hydropsyche bronta, which was trivoltine, and Hydropsyche morosa, which was bivoltine. Hydropsyche sparna, H. bronta and H. morosa all exhibited a split-cohort development, in which not all of the summer-produced larvae completed development, pupated and emerged before the end of the growing season. Overwintering populations consisted of young larvae that had hatched from eggs laid by adults of the previous generation. Analysis of the temporal changes in the densities of living and dead pupae provided a reliable way to separate overwintering and spring- and summer-produced generations.
3682450| Evapotranspiration was measured periodically from late June through mid-August 1978 in Eriophorum vaginatum tussock tundra near Eagle Creek, Alaska. The average evapotranspiration rates from tussock and intertussock areas were
3682739|Light-saturated
3682653| Bacterial utilization of photosynthetically fixed dissolved organic carbon (PDOC) released from natural phytoplankton assemblages was studied in two small, extremely humic, forest lakes in southern Finland. Bacterial activity (measured as uptake of
3682425|The Abisko Scientific Research Station is situated near the altitudinal tree-line in the North Swedish mountains. Research is going on in the area since more than 70 years promoted by its untouchedness, accessibility, variety, facilities and traditions of research. The research initiated at the station and now in progress is referred to three main headings: 1. Ecology of the tree-line; 2. Growth strategies of plants along the chionophilous-chionophobous gradient; and 3. Man's influence on the ecosystems.
3682663| In the summer of 1977 we studied the reindeer population on the islands Barentsya and Edgeya in the eastern part of the Svalbard archipelago. A total of 1374 reindeer were observed: 326 animals in the western parts of Barentsya and 1048 animals on Edgeya. Considering those parts of Edgeya which were not visited, the total number of reindeer on Edgeya was estimated at 1300 animals. The total number of reindeer was lower than in previous years. The decline probably was due to severe winter conditions in 1975/1976 and 1976/1977 confirmed by the fact that many carcasses and few yearlings were observed. Nearly all reindeer occurred on the coastal plains and in the valleys. These areas have the relatively richest vegetation. The average recruitment of the total population (counted) was 15.9%. The adult sex ratio was in favour of females: 59% females versus 41% males. There were differences both in the recruitment and in the adult sex ratio between three distinct areas on Edgeya and between two on Barentsya. These differences may be due to dissimilarities in food quality and feeding conditions caused by climate, and by small exchange of reindeer between the areas. The high frequency of shed male antlers on Frankenhalvya and Talaveraflya, north and south coast of Barentsya respectively, indicates that these areas belong to the wintering grounds of reindeer on this island. Concentrations of shed female antlers on Barentsya were less pronounced. The highest frequency was in the areas Sjodalen and Kvistdalen-Talaveraflya in the northwest and south respectively. Females may use these areas as late wintering grounds and possibly as calving areas. The average group size was 2.2 and the aggregation index 3.1. Seventytwo per cent of all groups, containing 48% of all reindeer, fell into group size 1 and 2. Males mostly were observed alone or together with one other animal. Females with calves most frequently occurred in groups of 2 and 4 animals. 
3682683| The zooplankton in vre Heimdalsvatn was studied from May 1969 to Aug 1973 in order to obtain knowledge about their functioning and role in the lake ecosystem. The paper concentrates on the main species: Holopedium gibberum, Bosmina longispina, Cyclops scutifer, Heterocope saliens, Conochilus unicornis, Polyarthra vulgaris and Kellicottia longispina but Megacyclops gigas, Daphnia longispina and ciliated cells are also considered. The development of the populations was fairly synchronized and made it possible to determine life cycles, development times, growth, reproduction and production from field data. The total production of the multicellular zooplankton was 2-3 mg dry wt m
3682354| The age structure of alnus glutinosa (L.) Gaertn. populations was studied in two areas on the coast of the Baltic Sea. One area, situated in Uppland, eastern central Sweden, at 6007N, has a relative land uplift of 5.3 mm yr
3682540|The algal epiphytes of three species of Sphagnum from the mat edge of an acid bog were quantitatively sampled over three months. On the basis of differences in total algal abundance, algal diversity, and the growth of certain algal species and species groups, two significantly different algal communities were recognized. While these communities were only centimeters apart, they differed in physical, biological and nutrient parameters, with lower, moister plots having more algae, higher algal diversity, and lower concentrations of phosphate, ammonium, and silicate ions.
3682741|Changes in water and nutrient movement are common disturbances resulting from human activities in arctic regions. To assess the influence of water and nutrient movement on different plant growth forms, we added water and NPK fertilizer along 10 to 20 m linear transects across small natural drainages on an Alaskan tundra slope. Water was added by continuous-flow emitters from a drip irrigation system at a rate of
3682339|I investigated within- and between-year patterns of flowering phenology of entomophilous plants in an isolated old field in northern Michigan, USA. The number of open flowers was censused at 5-d intervals from June-September of 1984-1986, and the data analyzed by detrended correspondence analysis. DCA axis 1 reflected within-year phenology, was highly correlated with date of censusing, and implied substantial constancy in flowering sequences. However, DCA axis 2 revealed significant between-year variation in abundances of flowers; years differed significantly in their scores on axis 2, and these differences were driven by variable plant species abundances during late summer. Within-year patterns showed that the floral community consisted of three more-or-less distinct temporal "guilds" of plants, and that the rate of turnover in community composition throughout the season was not uniform. The appearance of these guilds was not synchronous across years. Insects foraging on these species throughout the floral season can expect constancy in the relative timing of blooming, but are exposed to considerable temporal heterogeneity in flower resource abundance both between- and within-years. Opportunities for coevolutionary specialization are therefore likely to be constrained.
3682642|Relationships between female size and fecundity, egg viability and embryonal development were studied in Neoriprion sertifer. Sawfly females, reared from the 1st instar larvae on Scots pine needles heavily affected by industrial pollutants or on relatively unpolluted needles, were induced to lay eggs parthenogenetically in the field in Finland. Females reared on polluted needles were smaller and oviposited an average of 68.8 eggs, and those reared on unpolluted needles 79.4 eggs per female. However, the higher egg viability in the former group masked the effect of reduced female size. This compensation was primarily related to the size of the females, larger individuals producing relatively fewer viable eggs in both groups.
3682547|Food composition, prey size utilization and foraging behaviour of three sympatric woodpecker species (Dendrocopos major, D. medius, D. minor) were studied in an oak forest near Budapest during the breeding season in 1983 and 1984. Considering these three aspects of feeding, the great spotted woodpecker is a generalist species. Food composition of this species resembled the arthropod supply on the bark of trees more than those of the other two species. The bark of the trees seems to be a relatively unproductive microhabitat in the breeding season, so woodpecker species use, to different degrees, the food supply of the foliage as well. The food and the foraging behaviour of the middle spotted woodpecker show that this species feeds on prey living both on barks and in the foliage; it occupies an intermediate position between the great and the lesser spotted woodpeckers. Prey size did not correlate with predator size suggesting that woodpeckers adapted not to the summer resources but rather the winter ones.
3682245|It has been a widely held opinion that several fin whale populations inhabit the NE Atlantic. In the present communication the existence of one versus several fin whale populations in this area was considered. A survey of catch figures indicated considerable similarities among the various whaling grounds. Thus the figures did not support the belief that the various grounds were inhabited by different populations. The low productivity of the whales and their good mobility in an environment where the effects of physical barriers are limited were among the factors discussed as acting against the origination of separate populations. A model, ("the funnel analogy"), was presented according to which decrease in density would first be expected at the periphery of distribution. The area W of Iceland was suggested to constitute the present distributional core of the fin whale in the NE Atlantic. An account was given of the catch of fin whales in Iceland during the past 32 yr. Catch figures calibrated for increased catcher efficiencies showed a falling tendency.
3682541| The studies concern the changes in communities of rotifers in a model system of 4 through-flow ponds linked in a row and constantly supplied with waste-water after mechanical-biological treatment. Studies were carried out from the spring of 1977 to the spring of 1978 - i.e. during the first year the ponds were used. Twenty-four species of rotifers, forming three cenotic communities differing in number of species, dominance structure and abundance, were found. Gradually increasing similarity of communities with the distance from the source of post-waste water reflects the increasing stability of physico-chemical and biological conditions in the examined model ecosystem. Maximum biocenotic stability was observed in the last pond with the highest specific differentiation, and also considerable share of oligo- and -mesosaprobionts, the highest frequency of species and slight differences in abundance between the dominant and accompanying species. The role of trophic factor in formation of rotifer communities in the successive links of the presented model pond system is pointed out. 
3682668|Quantitative data describing drift rates and benthic density of macroinvertebrates are utilised to estimate the rates of downstream displacement of invertebrate populations in the Wye, Wales. Calculations are based upon two models, one a classical exponential relationship between drift catch and distance travelled and the other derived from a solute balance equation. Results from the two models were significantly correlated. Estimates of the rate of benthic community displacement ranged from 2.8 to
3682158| A sequence of laminated sediment, 30 cm long, deposited in the deepest part of an eutrophic lake, Lovojrvi, in southern Finland, was analyzed microscopically. Seasonal changes in sedimentation were found to be well retained, due to the absence of bottom animals and the rather high sedimentation rate. Delimitation of the annual layers was based primarily on the repeated cyclic pattern observed in the stratigraphy of the planktonic diatoms. The annual character of these diatom cycles was established through their agreement with information obtained during three earlier one-year studies on the plaktonic diatom community. In the lower part of the sequence studied the laminated structure appeared quite regular, the annual layers being composed of pairs of a whitish, diatom-rich "summer" layer, and a dark brown, more organic "cold season" layer, but in the upper part the laminations were more variable, due to allochthonous inputs caused by human activity in the drainage area. Several thick clay layers which could be dated back to known constructional events on the lake shore aided the interpretation of this sequence, within which prominent alterations in the planktonic diatom flora were also observed. The gradual increase in the proportions of acidophilous diatoms during the past decades was interpreted as indicating a slight lowering in the trophic status of the lake, primarily due to the termination of flax soaking, which had been going on by the lake shore for centuries. 
3682109|Seasonal changes in spatial distribution of search effort of birds that prey on small mammals were studied in two structurally different coniferous forest habitats in the northern boreal zone in SE Norway. During the season with snow cover both the proportion of Microtus relative to that of Clethrionomys in the predators' diet, and their use of a clear-cut relative to that of older forest were lower than during the snow-free season. This was related to a lower relative availability of prey (Microtus agrestis and M. oeconomus) in the clear-cut when the ground was snow-covered than when it was snow-free. Based on this local pattern I suggest the following explanation for differences in migratory strategy between raptors that prey on small mammals in Fennoscandian boreal zones: species that migrate to snow-free areas in winter are either adapted to hunt by the energetically expensive method of quartering in open grassland habitats, where prey (Microtus) availability is relatively low during periods with snow cover (hen harrier Circus cyaneus, short-eared owl Asio flammeus, and long-eared owl A.otus), or by sit-and-wait in open grassland and forest habitats, the latter with relatively high prey availability during periods with snow cover, but unable to locate concealed prey (kestrel Falco tinnuculus, common buzzard Buteo buteo, and rough-legged buzzard B. lagopus). In contrast, species that remain in areas with permanent snow cover during winter use the energetically cheap sit-and-wait tactic, and are able to hunt in closed forest habitat and localize concealed prey (the remaining owl species). Interspecific differences in prey availability as determined by hunting habitat and hunting mode is probably more important in shaping the migration patterns of Fennoscandian owls than is nest site availability.
3682446|The amount and distribution of organic matter was measured in different categories in six montane tundra vegetation types in a snow accumulation area and in tussock and intertussock areas in Eriophorum vaginatum tussock tundra in central Alaska. In root properties, the tussock and intertussock areas were more similar to the fellfield zone than to the vegetation zones below the snow accumulation area. Root density apparently increased as soil nutrients decreased, but this increase may be caused by higher soil moisture and higher root relative water content. The tussock tundra has accumulated more dead soil organic matter than any of the montane zones.
3682685|Twenty stations were sampled monthly during the ice free period (June-September) in 1972. Emergence traps, emptied daily, were also employed. The major macroinvertebrates in the exposed zone were Ephemeroptera, Gammarus lacustris, Trichoptera, Chironomidae, Plecoptera and Coleoptera, and these constituted over 90% of total numbers. Densities of G. lacustris, Ephemeroptera, Tipulidae and Plecoptera showed a positive correlation with detritus. No significant relationship was found for the other taxa. Nearly 70% of the fauna emerged, and did so during the period from June to September. Chironomidae, Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera and Tipulidae accounted for nearly all emergence and their total average annual emergence was
3682643|Pup counts of grey seals at Froan, Norway, during the period 1974 to 1987 are given. The counts indicate an increase in pup production from 1974 to 1983. The counts from 1985 to 1987 indicate a stagnation and possibly a decrease in production. This is probably due to culls at the breeding ground, particularly during the 1984 breeding season.
3682184|The purpose of the experiment was to see whether a change in nutrient availability resulting from perturbations might alter rates of development of the major plant growth forms of an arctic tussock tundra slope. Slow release fertilizer pellets (NPK) were spread in June and July 1985 on the frost surface under an 8-20 cm thick layer of thawed tundra in the northern foothills of the Brooks Range, Alaska. Initiation day of main phenological events, their duration and their intensity (% plants reaching a phenophase in a plot) were recorded during the 1985, 1986 and 1987 growing season. Variations in initiation day of phenophases were mainly due to environmental variations among years and to a lesser degree to fertilization; only timing of vegetative bud break of evergreen shrubs was significantly affected by fertilization, and occurred earlier than in the control. Flowering intensity varied significantly from one year to an other but was not significantly stimulated by fertilization.
3682610| The soft-sediment littoral zone of arctic Toolik Lake (68N) is composed of patches of macrophytes and bare sediments, which support distinct communities of chironomid larvae. Macrophytes were typically dominated by Stictochironomus rosenschoeldi (Zett.) but also had persistent populations of Heterotrissocladius maeaeri Brund., Paratanytarsus spp., Ablabesmyia sp., as well as several other less common taxa. Bare sediments were dominated by H. maeaeri, Parakiefferiella sp., and Zalutschia zalutschicola Lip. S. rosenschoeldi was common in bare sediments but far less so than in macrophytes. Few taxa were restricted to either habitat. Life cycle lengths, estimated for some species, ranged from 1 to 4 yr. Analysis of indicator species suggested that Toolik is oligotrophic to ultra-oligotrophic, which is consistent with the available primary production estimate for Toolik Lake. Littoral chironomid communities, in addition to profundal communities, may be useful in lake typology. 
3682405| About 300 km line transect censuses of breeding land birds were made in northern Norway in 1974-76. The data (1020 pairs in 26 samples) were grouped into seven major habitats: stony ground and oceanic heath (C1), continental dry heath (C2), "2Calcarius heath", dry peatland, wet peatland (C5), meagre and average birch forest, and rich birch forest (C7). Bird density ranged from
3682194|The immigration and colonization of small mammals into a small depopulated wooded area surrounded by meadows was monitored by live-trapping and then compared with the same processes in an open forest following removal trapping. Rate of recolonization was lower in the depopulated woods than in the continuous forest. Bank voles, Clethrionomys glareolus, predominated the small mammal communities before removal; however, after removal the percentage of bank voles decreased and species diversity increased. When comparing the bank voles from the wooded area with the continuous forest, we found a higher percentage of sexually active animals, the lack of reproducing females and slightly lower body weights. Based on these characteristics the bank voles that recolonized the small woods were regarded as dispersers. The meadow belt surrounding the depopulated wood acted as a "filter" which stopped some bank voles and allowed others to pass through, and also "selected" different species crossing it according to their mobility. Some effects of such habitat barriers on the functioning of metapopulations are discussed.
3682418|The characteristics of the present tree-line in continental Northern Quebec appear to be related to modern and past ecological conditions.
3682358|The growth of Atlantic salmon parr was investigated at three different sections of the small stream Levangerelva and its tributary during the period October 1978 to October 1979. Mean growth varied significantly between the sampling sites studied. The growth was found to be density dependent at all the sampling stations. Faster growth in the tributary was considered to be related to warm water draining from the epilimnion of a lake situated 2 km above the sampling site and a greater supply of alloctonous food from the alder wood covering parts of the stream banks. Differences in nitrogen and phosphorus content, conductivity, pH, total hardness and humus content of the stream water did not show any relation to growth variations in the different parts of the stream.
3682258|Fish production was estimated at three sites on the Jarama River, a small, typical upland river in Central Spain. Population estimates were made by the successive removal method of electrofishing. The same six species were recorded at each of the sites: Chondrostoma polylepis, Barbus barbus bocagei, Leuciscus cephalus pyraenaicus, Salmo trutta m. fario, Gobio gobio and Cobitis paludicola, with the first three species always dominant. Density, biomass, production (assuming that
3682209|The age, density, distribution and reproductive capacity of Scots pine Pinus sylvestris L. were investigated along an altitudinal gradient through the only undisturbed tree-line remaining in the Cairngorm Mountains. Saplings at 300-410 m a.s.l. were unlikely to develop to reproductive maturity because of repeated browsing by red deer Cervus elaphus L. By contrast, pines were regenerating successfully in scrub at 531-590 m, where the population included individuals of all ages up to 300 yr. Above 590 m, there grew only saplings aged less than 30 yr and these declined in density with increasing altitude up to 730 m. The climate at 531-590 m was not so severe as to prevent pines from growing to reproductive maturity. However, it may have been severe enough to restrict the activities of large herbivores and so the pine saplings there escaped the heavy browsing suffered by plants at lower altitude. Presumably zones of successfully regenerating pine scrub might occur more widely in the Cairngorms but for a shortage of seed-bearing trees.
3682516|An investigation of the relationship between the onset of sexual maturity, age and body size in common toads Bufo bufo was started in 1984 at a pond in southern England. During the toad breeding seasons of 1984 and 1985, 7259 common toad 'metamorphs' were captured and permanently marked so that if captured as adults their true age would be known. Although a very small proportion of males and females reached sexual maturity at ages of two and four years respectively, most did so much later and asynchronously. The body size of toads breeding for the first time was relatively constant for each sex and not correlated with age. The rational behind our understanding of the mechanism of female choice is discussed in the light of these results.
3682596| Part 1: Diet selection was studied on free-ranging reindeer fitted with an esophageal fistula (EF) and by analysis of rumen samples from reindeer shot in the field. Plant density was assessed from quadrats on field plots. Three measures of palatability were used, the nitrogen, fiber, and total non structural carbohydrate (TNC) contents of samples from clipped vegetation. As lichen density decreased the EF reindeer included progressively more vascular litter and pieces of winter dormant species in their diet. Diets with highest TNC and N/F and the lowest fiber, providing the most readily digestible diets, were selected. The combined density-quality criterion gave the best prediction of their diets. In summer, forbs, and to some extent grasses and dwarf shrubs, were selected. Plants of highest density and in an early growth phase gave the best prediction of summer diets. In winter the variety of vascular plants utilized increased with increasing herd size and decreasing density of lichens in the vegetation. The width of diets was a function of diversity of available plants. It is suggested that dietary selection by reindeer has been a three stage process: evolution of a gastro-intestinal system capable of digesting lichens containing secondary compounds, behavioural tracking of the plant production pulse, and diet width scaling according to density-quality of all potential foods. Part. 2: Wild reindeer closely followed the wave of vascular plant production in spring and summer with a significant correlation being found between the daily foraging time per habitat type and the highest concentration of green phytomass. Snow-bed meadows were the most consistently selected vegetation type by the four herds studied, viz. Hardangervidda, Snhetta, Prudhoe Bay, and Svalbard, during the summer. Habitat niche-breadths were narrow during the winter, largely due to the limitation of access to the food supply by the snow-cover, broadened as the landscape became clear of snow, narrowed again with the initiation of plant growth and broadened once more as the wave of plant production reached all habitat types. At high levels of food resources the alpine herd (Hardangervidda) narrowed the feeding niche breadth (or adopted a selective feeding strategy) as the habitat niche breadth increased. The high arctic herd (Svalbard) living in the least productive environment, at the same time of year adopted a generalist feeding strategy as their habitat niche breadth expanded. Part 3: In this part the temporal organization of a low-alpine herd of reindeer (Hardangervidda) is described, and subsequently compared with those of two arctic herds. Their foraging efficiencies under different degrees of food availability were analysed, in order to test the hypothesis that food intake changes in response to the prevailing state of the food resources. The number of daily feeding bouts increased from 2 to 6 as the diet changed from the winter to the summer pasturage. Strong winds in winter and insect harassment in summer severely depressed the daily time spent foraging. When these environmental factors were accounted for no significant inter-seasonal differences in daily foraging time of the low alpine herd were found; on average 50% of each day was spent grazing, of which 78% of the time was spent on actual ingestion (feeding rate). The feeding rate within the active periods varied with the snow-depth, due to the need to dig a food crater in the snow and due to the particular selective feeding strategy adopted. The data from the present and from other studies suggest that the foraging efficiency of wild reindeer, expressed as their daily food intake follows a Holling type II functional response as food availability changes. Part 4: Sheep is the only sympatric ruminant which grazes with the reindeer on alpine pastures in Norway. The inter-specific niche relationships of the wild reindeer and the domestic sheep in summer were studied on part of the western Hardangervidda, to test the hypothesis of inter-specific competition. Three niche dimensions were measured, diet, habitat utilization, and spatial distribution. The estimates of the degree of overlap obtained suggest that this is relatively high for diet and habitat utilization but low for spatial distribution, which leads to a low degree of foraging interference. Since the intensity of both interspecific and intra-specific competition depends on the ratio of the herbivore densities to the food resource density, the degree of overlap in utilization by the two species tell us nothing about the degree of competition. Present numbers of both species on Hardangervidda have a beneficial influence on the vegetation, by opening-up the shrub-layer canopy and thus facilitating the maintenance of grasses and forbs in the field layer, which has a higher carrying capacity for ruminants. The balance between the beneficial effects and inter-generic competition (if any) deriving from the present-day stocking rates is so far unknown. Only longterm monitoring of the performance of both populations will shed light on this competitive aspect. 
3682196|Significant variation in the number of stamens and ovules per flower, the stamen/ovule ratio, and the number of seeds per berry was found among seven blackberry species, each represented by one clone, and to a much lesser extent among inflorescences within species. Inflorescence size and architecture were found to have no major influence on these reproductive parameters. The position of a flower within the inflorescence strongly influences its onset of anthesis, which in turn is closely correlated with these reproductive parameters. Ovule number decreases with time, although in some species it increases again at the end of the flowering season. Number of seeds decreases more or less linearly with time, although there is an unexpectedly high number of the earliest berries of the triploid species, which is probably the result of interspecific pollination. Pollen production estimated in one species decreases with time, per theca, per flower and per ovule, whereas the percentage of good pollen grains remains unaltered.
3682060|The knowledge about reemergence of parent spruce bark beetles Ips typographus, their dispersal, and production of a second brood is reviewed. A majority of the beetles reemerge after their first brood. The process is mainly determined by temperature but high breeding density decreases the average time spent in the tree. The difference between males and females in reemergence seems to be small. In the field, a positive relationship between residence time and fat content at reemergence seems to exist, whereas the opposite tendency is found under laboratory conditions. In the laboratory, the survival of beetles reemerging late is on the average lower than that for early reemerging beetles. The time of reemergence and size of the first brood do not, however, seem to influence the production of a second brood. A large proportion of the reemerging beetles are able to establish a new brood in the laboratory, but calculations based on the number of attacked trees and estimated reemergence in forests in South Norway suggest that only about one third of the beetles actually produce a second brood. In northern Europe, successful colonization of new trees by the reemerging beetles seems to require a period of several warm days during the main reemergence period.
3682384|Forbs and leaves of deciduous shrubs had high concentrations of Ca, Mg, K, P, and N. Deciduous dwarf shrubs had intermediate concentrations but higher than evergreen dwarf shrubs. Monocots, cryptogams, woody and belowground tissues had low concentrations. Plant nutrient concentrations and nutrient content in soil organic matter increased from dry towards moist tundra areas. The residence time of nutrients was considerably less than ten years in surface litter, but several decades or centuries in total organic matter. The longest residence time was found in the moist part of the tundra. N, K, and P in Betula nana leaves were translocated to a great extent prior to leaf fall, whereas Mg and particularly Ca were only slightly translocated. As on other tundra areas shortage of nutrients probably limits plant growth. In that case short supply of N and P seems most probable due to retention in litter and soil organic matter.
3682711|Chestnut oak Quercus prinus L. litter in the southern Appalachian Mountains of the United States decomposes slowly during winter and more rapidly in other seasons. This pattern differed from other studies of litter decomposition in more northern environments where decomposition rates were relatively constant throughout the year or more rapid beneath a winter snow cover. The pattern observed can be approximated by using monthly actual evapotranspiration estimates as a correction factor for the decomposition constant, k, in the commonly-used negative exponential decomposition model. Mean microarthropod densities increased from a seasonally weighted estimate of
3682622| Fertilization of 1  4 m plots of old-field vegetation in Minnesota, USA, with various compounds resulted in increased plant tissue concentrations of N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Na, and Mn. Microtrus pennsylvanicus showed significantly greater activity, estimated by scat counts, on plots fertilized with sodium sulphate. Data also suggested that increased Microtus activity in response to elevated plant tissue sodium concentration resulted in greater soil nitrogen availability and higher levels of nitrogen in plant tissues. 
3682584|The impact of inundation was studied on two marine littoral collembolan species: Isotoma viridis and Hypogastrura viatica. The unwettable integument causes the collembolans to drift on the water surface during inundation. When trapped under water they try to climb up from below the water level. Their survival on the water surface is higher than under water. H. viatica, occurring in a habitat that is inundated relatively frequently and over a long time, had a greater ability to survive on the water surface than I. viridis. The mortality on the water surface was caused by starvation. A strong correlation between the mortality and the metabolic rate was shown. The highest mortality was found at lower salinities, where oxygen consumption of the animals is highest. The metabolic rate and mortality was lower at salinities up to 75% S.W. At 100% S.W. there was again a rise in metabolic rate and mortality. This is probably due to energy-demanding processes concerning internal osmotic and ionic regulation. After flooding, transport by sea currents can play a role in the distribution of the species. Reproductive synchronization after inundation is considered to be a mechanism for restoring a disturbed population.
3682445|The development stages of several tundra plant species were observed during the summers of 1977 and 1978 in different vegetation zones in a snow accumulation area and in tussock tundra. Leaf maturation and senescence tend towards synchrony regardless of the time of emergence from under the snow. Flowering stages are less synchronous and general than are the vegetation stages within a growth form.
3682702|Three large (4 to 8 ha) and 14 small islands (0.3 to 2 ha) in a lake in eastern Finland, all situated less than 0.5 km from the mainland, were surveyed for small mammals. Three species of shrew and two species of vole were resident in July 1982: Sorex araneus on 10, S. caecutiens on 2, S. minutus on 5, Microtus agrestis on 12 and Clethrionomys glareolus on 4 islands. Immigrants were trapped from tiny islets, and the data indicate that S. caecutiens and M. agrestis are better dispersers than S. minutus and C. glareolus, respectively. Microtus agrestis, S. araneus and C. glareolus occurred nonrandomly, on subsets of the larger islands, while the two small Sorex species occurred more erratically, possibly because of competition with S. araneus. Juvenile sex ratio was male-biased on the mainland but female-biased on large islands, possibly because juvenile males move more and are more likely to emigrate from an island than juvenile females. Metrical and non-metrical (epigenetic) cranial traits gave similar patterns of population differentiation in S. araneus. Two of the three large-island populations have differentiated from the mainland populations and from each other, suggesting that the populations are relatively stable. Small-island populations, which are often less than 10 individuals in size, showed little differentiation but had more epigenetic traits fixed than large-island and mainland populations (founder effect). This suggests that the small-island populations are unstable, have a high extinction rate.
3682288|Populations of four species of Gammaridae (Crustacea, Amphipoda) were sampled over 15 months in the south-western Kattegat at Sangstrup Klint (Denmark). Chaetogammarus marinus, C. stoerensis and Gammarus oceanicus had annual life-cycles, while G. salinus most likely had two generations per year. Mature C. marinus females were found from March to July, mature C. stoerensis females from March to June, mature G. oceanicus females from December to early June and mature G. salinus females from late November to late July. The theoretical maximum number of clutches were estimated at five for C. marinus, five plus for C. stoerensis, and six for G. oceanicus and both winter and summer reproducing G. salinus. Spring was the period of main recruitment in all populations, with additional recruitment during summer in G. salinus. The geographical patterns of the reproductive strategies are discussed in relation to environmental factors and interspecific competition.
3682346| A comparative study of the Red Kite and Black Kite was conducted in the Doana National Park in southwestern Spain. Although the diets of both kites were similar, the Red Kite captured significantly more prey items from scrub habitats close to nesting areas than from marsh habitats, which were further away. Habitat differences in prey abundance and distance from breeding areas suggest that the Red Kite depended on a less abundant but more stable food supply. Nestling mortality from starvation was highest for the last hatched nestlings in both species. The growth rate of Black Kite nestlings was markedly higher than that of Red Kite nestlings. Moreover, growth rates increased with clutch size in the Red Kite, whereas they were constant in the Black Kite. Differences between species in reproductive traits are discussed mainly with regard to their feeding ecology. The slower growth and greater effect of sibling asymmetry on mortality of the Red Kite are consistent with our interpretation that the Red Kite's food supply is less abundant than the Black Kite's. 
3682127| The distribution pattern of Calluna vulgaris on the ombrotrophic peat bog khultmyren, S. Sweden, was investigated. Calluna occurs primarily on hummocks, with its maximum biomass (ca
3682147|A comparative study was made of one managed forest and one natural forest regarding the supply of decaying wood on the ground and the occurrence of bryophytes on the wood, especially epixylic specialists. The total substrate surface of wood is larger in the primeval forest. The larger quantity of decaying wood increases the probability of wood occurring in all decay stages. Logs of Populus tremula occurred only in the natural forest. An important proportion of the wood substrate in the natural forest consisted of logs of large diameter class; these logs were missing in the managed forest. Fiftyfour bryophyte species were found on decaying wood. They were separated into four different groups. Facultative epiphytes first colonized decaying wood, followed by epixylic specialists and finally by competitive epigeics. Opportunistic generalists showed a more irregular pattern of occurrence. The bryophyte flora on decaying wood was most species rich in the natural forest. Sixteen epixylic specialists occurred here, several considered to be threatened by forest management, while only 5 of these species occurred in the managed forest. The higher frequency of epixylic specialists in the natural forest is related to the greater frequency of favourable habitats, specifically: logs of large diameter, decayed wood, Populus tremula and (to a lesser extent) Picea abies.
3682289| Clutch size and breeding success was related to nest-box size in 215 nests of Tengmalm's owl in the Kauhava region, western Finland in 1966-82. In vole peak years, but not in other years, mean clutch size was positively correlated with the bottom area of the nest-box, increasing on average by 0.005 eggs cm
3682619|For 9 years, three breeding populations of the common toad Bufo bufo were censused during the breeding season. The hypothesis that catchability is equal for breeding males in each population and breeding period was tested. By comparing the lengths of all males captured with those recaptured in the same breeding period, it was shown that large males had a higher catchability than small ones. The ultimate cause of this unequal catchability remains unclear, but several causes can be rejected. Population parameters based on capture and capture - recapture data are highly influenced by this unequal catchability.
3682727|Reproduction and survival of four carabid species commonly occurring in cereal fields in central Sweden were investigated. The adult-overwintering Pterostichus cupreus L. bred in early summer (June), and the largest proportion of sexually active beetles were found to be in their first breeding year; only a minority were 2 (or more) years old. In contrast, the larval-overwintering P. melanarius Illiger, P. niger Schaller and Harpalus rufipes De Geer had a biennal life cycle, and mainly old beetles (2 years or older) contributed to the population's reproductive effort each year. The long prereproductive adult phase in the larval-overwintering species and the relatively short summer in central Sweden prevented many new-generation adults from breeding in their first year. Several overlapping breeding cohorts are therefore present each year, and overwintered beetles bred throughout summer and during part of the autumn. Mandible wear (combined with other characters) was used to determine the age of beetles. However, the rate of mandible wear also was found to vary, depending upon the extent to which each species burrowed in the ground. The ecological significance of (a) a long adult life and (b) the existence of several overlapping breeding cohorts for reproduction and survival of populations in cereal fields is discussed.
3682429| Seasonal variations in the lateral distribution of mayfly nymphs were investigated in the North Swedish river Vindellven; a river with large seasonal differences in water level, current velocity and ice conditions. A total of 22 mayfly species about equally divided between summer and winter species were found along a single transect. At low water level in late summer and autumn most species were distributed over the whole transect. In winter the populations occupying the littoral moved into deeper water, so avoiding the ice. Only very small mortalities were detected in the ice. Prior to the spring flood most characteristically still water species moved to the shallow uppermost littoral while lotic species and the burrowing Ephemera vulgata L. did not show the same aggregation near the shore. It is suggested that these lateral movements allow the nymphs to avoid adverse environmental conditions and to exploit food resources over the whole transect. 
3682680| A phytoplankton investigation was carried out in the subalpine, low-productive Norwegian lake vre Heimdalsvatn in 1969-70 and 1972. This paper describes the temporal and spatial distribution of the standing stock of phytoplankton, and phytoplankton primary productivity. The annual average primary productivity in 1972 was
3682626|Space use patterns of California voles are described from intensive live-trapping data obtained during the late breeding season in a peak density year. Operational sex rations were strongly female biased. Breeding males had mutually exclusive home ranges that overlapped the home ranges of one to several females. The average male home range was larger than the average female home range and tended to encompass female home ranges in their entirety. Breeding females had home ranges that often overlapped extensively with the home ranges of other breeding females. The degree of overlap, however, tended to be either very high or very low, indicating that groups of females may act territorially among themselves. Family groups that may include members of sequential litters formed at high density. Males on experimental removal grids had larger home ranges than males on the high density grids and some became wanderers while most females had home ranges comparable to those on the high density grids. Dispersers onto low density grids were not a random sample of the high density population; large breeding adults and small juveniles were under-represented. No sex differences in dispersal were noted. Immigration into the high density populations was probably negligible.
3682151| Microhistological analysis of fecal droppings indicates that graminoids (sedges, grasses, and rushes) and the only willow present, Salix arctica, are primary food items of the muskox Ovibos moschatus, arctic hare Lepus arcticus, and collared lemming Dicrostonyx groenlandicus in northern Greenland (79-83N). Plant biomass available during the peak growing season varied with vegetation types from $<2\ {\rm g}\ {\rm m}^{-2}$ in polar barrens to
3682718|Glyphopsyche irrorata has adapted to live in ponds with fluctuating water levels and ponds exhibiting winter drought by passing the winter as an adult in the terrestrial environment. Larvae, which hatch in May and pupate in late August, are detritivorous shredders. Males and females emerge in September, with a sex ratio of one and commence mating in the autumn. The entire population has mated by May at which time females oviposit in the water. Adult males and females are present in equal numbers in the spring and have similar longevities approaching a maximum of 8 to 9 months.
3682073|Northern bats foraged predominantly in small individual and transient feeding sites usually in open places near trees and over water. Lakes were preferred as foraging habitat as compared to woodlands and farmlands. The pattern of habitat selection did not change drastically during the period of reproduction. The diet was probably unselective, consisting mainly of small dipterans and moths and also caddis flies, lacewings and mayflies (lake area) and dung beetles (farmland). Northern bats consumed insects of 3-30 mm body length, thus taking prey items of a broader size range than other bat species studied.
3682517|Clethrionomys rutilus and Peromyscus maniculatus occur together in the boreal forest of southwestern Yukon and we studied their population dynamics on unmanipulated live-trapping grids for 17 yr. Peromyscus showed a regular seasonal change in numbers each year with little interannual variation. Clethrionomys by comparison, showed low density fluctuations during one period (1976-1982) followed by changes in number in the next period that are consistent with a typical 3-4 yr microtine cycle. During one of two years of peak numbers adult males had unusually heavy body weights. The sexual maturation of juvenile Clethrionomys varied inversely with density. In most years Clethrionomys showed higher rates of population increase from spring to late summer than Peromyscus and this may be partly attributed to the vole's longer breeding season. Juvenile female Clethrionomys often reached sexual maturity during their first summer when population density was low but Peromyscus never matured during their first summer. Finally, there was no correlation between the two species in year to year changes in overwinter survival rates. This is the first report of a cyclic North American population of Clethrionomys and it underlines the need to search for hypotheses of population regulation that explain both annual and multi-annual cycles within the same population.
3682076| Combined field and laboratory investigations showed that C. villosa was univoltine in the Breitenbach, Germany. Speed and duration of embryogenesis were determined by temperature. Lowest values of accumulated temperature occurred at 6 and 8C, when the duration of embryogenesis was shortest, and egg mortality was low. Egg masses exposed at upstream field sites needed similar time and accumulated temperatures for embryogenesis to those expected from laboratory experiments. At a downstream site embryogenesis was accelerated, possibly depending on increased daily temperature fluctuations in spring. At all field sites the emergence period of adults lasted from September until December. Size and weight of both sexes were significantly lower at the upstream site, not necessarily as a result of temperature, but possibly caused by differences in nutrition. 
3682317| Stomach contents from 15 minke whales Balaenoptera acutorostrata collected in the Lofoten and Vesterlen areas of Norway, August 1988, were analysed. All stomachs contained identifiable remains and constituted of fish only. Herring Clupea harengus was the dominant prey species found in all whale stomachs and constituted 92% of the total prey volume. Cod Gadus morhua was the second most abundant prey. In addition pollock Pollachius virens, haddock Melanogrammus aeglefinus, and great silver smelt Argentina silus were found in single whale stomachs. All fish species found in the whale stomachs in our investigations are of commercial importance, and the sizes of the herrings and cods in minke whale stomachs are of interest for commercial exploitation. 
3682676| The small mammals of the vre Heimdalen valley were assessed by snap-trapping. Birds were surveyed in the shore zone of the lake. Numbers of domestic animals were collected from existing sources. These data are used in a discussion of the influence of the terrestrial fauna on the lake ecosystem. Aquatic production of food for terrestrial vertebrates, and the fertilizing effect of the terrestrial fauna are the main influences on the lake. 
3682049|A model for the interaction between attacking bark beetles and a tree is developed and discussed. It is shown that in addition to the more intuitive outcomes where the tree wins or the beetles win, it is also deduced that under certain conditions there may exist a stable coexistence (at least for some period of time) between the beetles and a living tree. Finally, it is demonstrated that the outcome of the tree-beetle interaction often depends on initial conditions such as the number of colonizing beetles. These results are discussed with reference to empirical findings, as well as to the development of proper population dynamics models for bark beetles in a forest stand, and models developed for assisting forest managers in avoiding bark beetle outbreaks and for minimizing the damage caused by a bark beetle outbreak.
3682436| The significance of variations in soil moisture for the distribution and abundance of the four collembolan species Tomocerus minor, Orchesella cincta, Lepidocyrtus lignorum and Entomobrya nivalis has been studied in a pine forest. During a relatively dry summer, the distribution and abundance of these species were examined on two sites with an initially different soil water content and depth of the litter/humus layer. The distribution of the species investigated could be described with the negative binomial distribution. During the sampling period, Lloyd's "index of patchiness", X/X for T. minor and E. nivalis was subject to changes. For T. minor this was probably related to soil water content. The densities of T. minor and O. cincta were higher in the wet site than in the drier site. At the beginning and at the end of the sampling period the drought tolerant E. nivalis reached equal densities in both sites. The density fluctuations of the four species appeared to be totally different during the sampling period: the drought sensitive species T. minor decreased strongly, L. lignorum remained constant and the drought tolerant species O. cincta and E. nivalis increased strongly. These latter two species were able to survive the dry periods and to attain high densities by reproduction. The results agree with laboratory data on distribution and survival in relation to humidity. 
3682392|The breeding biology of the bank vole was studied in northern and southern populations in Sweden in the years 1973-76. Trapped specimens supplied organ weights and histological data, which were utilized to describe the breeding season, number and size of litters, reproductive losses, spermatogenesis, and sexual maturation. In the north the populations are cyclic. During the increase phase of the cycle the breeding season was long, litter sizes and gonad weights were large, and there was maturation of yearlings in the summer. During the peak phase reproduction was impaired in all these respects. In southern Sweden there was no cyclicity, and the reproductive events varied less, but in 1976 the litters were larger than usual and the season was much extended. In the south the voles born during the early part of the season regularly became sexually mature during their first summer. The differences in reproductive biology are related to population dynamics and discussed in terms of different hypotheses concerning vole population cyclicity.
3682473|When surrounded by growing Sphagnum the rhizomes of Scirpus cespitosus grow vertically upwards in pace with the Sphagnum. It was found that there is a considerable variation in rhizome growth between years and it is assumed that this variation is determined by variation in Sphagnum growth. The latter variation is assumed to be dependent on the weather. Simple and multiple regression analysis of rhizome growth on various weather variables gave the following results: (1) Moisture conditions are decisive for the growth. (2) The distribution in time of the moisture is more important than mean values from a certain period. (3) Although moisture in June and August of the current year was important, the moisture conditions of August of the previous year explained ca 60% of the variation. (4) A combination of the two variables Birot's wetness index in August of the previous year and the same index in current June gave r
3682142|The environment of three Quercus petraea-dominated woodlands differing in species richness of the epiphytic Lobarion pulmonariae alliance was surveyed. Data on occurrence of epiphytes, air pollution and bark- and soil-chemistry are presented. Within a given wood, individuals (of Q. petraea or Fraxinus excelsior) that support the growth of Lobaria spp. were found to have higher bark pH and higher bark Ca, K and Mg contents than individuals lacking these lichens. The most acidic bark was found at Seatoller Wood (Cumbria), a site which experiences strongly acidic rainfall. However, Old Garrock Wood (SW Scotland), although receiving acidic precipitation, had high bark pH and cation contents possibly due to the high levels of exchangeable cations in the soil. The results suggest that while bark pH is important in determining the occurrence of Lobaria spp., bark chemistry is determined by a combination of factors including tree species, atmospheric chemistry and soil nutrient status.
3682090|Seasonal patterns of biomass and standing stock ( g m
3682096|In northern Sweden two field experiments with the reforestation techniques soil scarification, ploughing, burning and grass herbicidal treatment were performed. Small rodents were trapped regularly on the managed plots and their stomachs were examined microscopically for diet composition. Both bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus and field voles Microtus agrestis were common on the reforestation areas while only a small number of grey-sided voles Clethrionomys rufocanus were taken. All three species underwent a population cycle during the studies. The management techniques generally resulted in small and irregular effects on the food selection. The most pronounced changes were lower intake of grasses by M. agrestis after herbicidal treatment and of filamentous tree lichens by C. glareolus after most treatments. Both bank voles and field voles ate predominantly forbs in the summer half of the year, whereas the field voles took also a considerable amount of grass. As a complement to green vegetable-matter bank voles ate berries and fungi in summer-autumn and tree lichens at other times of the year, but seeds and animals food only in very small amounts. All three species consumed large quantities of dwarf-shrubs in autumn and especially in winter. Considerable amounts of bark were eaten by field voles and a smaller proportion by bank voles in autumn-winter. Both for bank and field voles there were indications of worsening food conditions as the population cycle went on. There were, for example, an increase in grass and bark intake in field voles and a decrease in seeds and berries for the bank vole.
3682095| Biomass and nutrient transfer (N, P, K, Ca, Mg) of overstory (branches and leaves) and understory litter fall were examined over a two year period in four jack pine stands aged 16, 29, 49 and 57 years and four mixed hardwood stands aged 7, 17, 20 and 29 years. Relative amounts of the five nutrients in litter fall for both series of stands were N > K  Ca > P = Mg. Return of mineral elements to the forest floor was generally twice as high on the hardwood stands as for similarly aged pine stands. Overall return of nutrients plotted versus stand age generally exhibited a plateau relationship, with relatively little difference among stands; however, some exceptions occurred. Understory contribution to litter fall was very important on these stands, since in most cases the nutrient mass in understory litter was usually similar to or higher than that from the tree layer. Data on forest floor biomass, nutrient distribution and turnover rates of these stands were also presented; mobility of nutrients in the forest floor was in the order K > Mg  P  Ca  N. 
3682474|Larvae of the muscid fly Limnophora riparia live in lake outlets and prey on other invertebrates living there. In experiments, we demonstrated that larvae prefer moss as a substratum, though they will bury themselves in any suitable material to avoid light. The substratum is used to anchor Limnophora larvae as they attack their prey. When given a choice of prey they preferred chironomid and black fly larvae to oligochaetes and psychodid larvae. Larvae of the black fly Simulium noelleri were used in laboratory experiments to test the interaction of predator and prey. Limnophora larvae attacked black fly larvae of all sizes, but preferred small larvae, the body contents of which were often removed completely. Increasing prey or predator density did not affect this latter preference, though an increase in predator density, or a decrease in prey density, did cause the predator to take prey of medium size as well as small prey. Limnophora larvae showed the same size preference when attacking dead (freshly-killed) prey and they preferred to attack larvae rather than pupae when both were available. They did not attack black fly eggs.
3682228| Phytoplankton production and physico-chemical parameters were measured during the summers of 1976 and 1977 in Lake 95 at 6052N, 4601W (area 8 ha, z 6.9 m). The duration of lake stratification during summer was weather dependent. Concentrations of
3682077| First-stage larvae of E. rangiferi kept in water at 50C died within 80 minutes, while at 6 the last larvae died between day 180 and 210. The time it took to reach
3682226|The grazing areas of cattle in a Baltic sea-shore meadow changed during the summer. The effects of this on the demography of Plantago maritima was studied. This species is distributed over most parts of the area and suffers differently from grazing in different areas. It was found that the losses of flowers due to grazing, was severe and that the density peak of Plantago maritima coincides with the least grazing intensity. Flower-spikes established in different time-periods are disproportionally represented as seed-dispersers and this may be of importance in regeneration since early and late flowers bear seeds of different size.
3682315| Foraging northern bats Eptesicus nilssoni were monitored from a car along a 27 km line transect in southern Sweden every week during a 14 month period by means of a bat detector. The number of bats observed along the transect was highly correlated with air temperature, and no bats were observed at temperatures < 6C. Hence, feeding was infrequent in April and May as well as in September and October and did not occur at all from November to March. In summer, the bats were observed in forest and farmland, but in spring and autumn most bats were detected along rows of street-lights. By attracting insects, artificial lights apparently provide local patches of food for some species of bats during periods which may be critical for their survival and reproduction. 
3682176| Xestia moths (Lepidoptera, Noctuidae, subgenera Anomogyna and Pachnobia) were collected with eleven light traps installed in various virgin habitats in the Vrritunturi fell area, E Finnish Forest Lapland (67 44N, 29 37E). Seven Xestia species were caught during the years 1978-84. The most abundant species, X. tecta and X. alpicola inhabited the widest range of habitats, from spruce-covered ravines up to the treeless summit. The other species were almost entirely caught in the sprucecovered ravine. The largest catches were obtained in odd years, although some moths were also caught in the even years. There was a striking male dominance. The trap catches were separated into three groups, corresponding to the original classification of the trap habitats. Of the habitats, the open pine forest was nearest to the summit and the spruce forest farthest away. X. alpicola and X. tecta appear to be ecologically related species, while X. gelida and X. laetabilis are located at the other end of this ecological scale. 
3682666| Constempellina brevicosta Edw. made up about 50% of the chironomids emerging from the littoral of Lake Blsjn. The lake is impounded for hydroelectrical purposes. Constempellina was less abundant at an earlier, smaller amplitude of water level fluctuations in the same lake and much less abundant in a nearby natural lake. The species is able to survive in a frozen substratum on ice-covered bottoms. Records of early life stages and emergence data indicated a one-year life cycle with peak emergence from the littoral zone occurring in mid July. Statistical comparisons were made of size characteristics with respect to time and site of emergence and swarming. Swarming individuals were found to be significantly larger than emerging ones as measured in length of body, wing, tibia, and tarsi. Individuals swarming from mid July to August were successively smaller in all characters except basal antennal segments. Individuals swarming in June were smaller than those occurring somewhat later. The changes in size seem to reflect differences in larval habitat, with early summer material emanating from areas exposed to winter freezing. Males swarming at different sites at the same date were similar in all respects except for body size. Individuals emerging from different depths within the littoral zone at a single date were different in most respects, those from more shallow areas being smaller. Linear regression of swarm material from different dates showed a positive correlation for most characters. The correlations were particularly strong, and applied to all characters, when the early summer material was excluded. Mean AR values were successively lower throughout the season and positively correlated with size. Mean LR values were slightly higher in early summer than later. The LR values varied independantly of size. AR and LR values in swarm material varied between extremes for single individuals which were usually within 20% of the arithmetic mean, or 0.92-1.36 for AR and 0.78-1.06 for LR. Confidence limits for population estimates were within 0.04 units of the means. 
3682591|The distribution pattern of Sphagnum species on bogs follows a hummock-hollow gradient. S. Sect. Acutifolia (that is in this study S. fuscum and S. rubellum combined) dominates hummock tops, ca 20 cm above the maximum water level with a green biomass of 50 g m
3682615|Thirty-three sampling sites representing 11 lichen dominated plant communities on maritime rocks on Bornholm were analysed with respect to composition of the vegetation, number of animals present and gross taxonomic composition of the fauna. The specific fauna of one moss and seven lichen species was examined. The lichen communities studied were largely the same as those found in similar studies in NW Europe, except for the recognition of a distinct Ramalina cuspidata community. The highest average number of animals per area was found in the Schistidium maritimum and the Ramalina siliquosa communities, whereas the highest average number of animals g
3682197|Production patterns of tallgrass prairie and adjacent eastern deciduous forest were summarized for a five to seven year period. Each system responded differentially to annual or growing season rainfall and solar energy (measured by pan water evaporation). Overall, forest productivity was negatively correlated with annual precipitation; the prairie exhibited no relationship with precipitation. These differences probably reflect the lack of water limitation of the forest and the "downstream" position of the forest. Wood and seed production in the forest were the most variable components measured in our study. Neither variable was related to forest foliage production. Seed production in the prairie was also variable within and between years but was related to prairie foliage production. Prairie seed production was not correlated with seed production of the forest. The two ecosystems respond differentially and independently of each other within the range of climatic variation observed here. Such differences have potential significance to consumers who use both systems for habitat or resources.
3682270|The rate of litter decomposition is often expressed as a constant decay rate
3682682|About one hundred genera with more than 300 species have been identified in water samples, net haul material, periphyton samples from artificial substrate, and benthos and sediment samples collected during 1969-1972. More than 40 taxa of lower rank (subspecies, varieties, forms) were recorded. The most prominent algal groups were diatoms with 138 taxa, and green algae with 122 taxa of which the majority was desmids. The material from the epipelic and epilithic communities in the lake is very scarce, while the list of plankton species is relatively complete, with the exception that a large number of small flagellates could not be identified to species level. The taxa which were identified, are presented in a list with additional notes on occurrence.
3682342|Free amino acids and related compounds together with total nitrogen, total protein and soluble small-molecular nitrogen were analyzed quantitatively in monthly tissue samples from bilberry, Vaccinium myrtillus, from 15 May to 24 September 1985, in Oulu, northern Finland. Pronounced accumulation (at the millimolar level) of soluble low-molecular-weight nitrogen in the form of free amino acids was observed at the end of September. Arginine in particular accumulated in the rhizomes and older branches. Protein levels remained relatively constant. Mobilization of amino acids from winter storage into the growing tissues (buds) was evident in May.
3682210|Differences in the altitudinal composition of ground-living spider communities were studied by pitfall trapping in western Norway. These data plus compilations of information from the literature were used to investigate features in the size composition, temporal appearance and spatial distribution of species. Spiders at the highest altitude had the widest distribution both in terms of geographical and altitudinal range. At the lowest altitude species were more often stenochronous than at higher altitudes. The size composition, reflecting food choice of the spiders, tended to be bimodal with increasing altitude. It is argued that small spiders are segregated mainly along the habitat dimension (searchers), while the larger ones are segregated with respect to diel activity patterns and food choice (pursuers). We suggest that mountain spider faunas in temperate regions at high latitudes mainly consist of widely distributed and easily dispersed species.
3682261|Treefall gaps sampled for size, age, and woody vegetation in 1977 were resampled in 1981. Large gaps had more and larger stems than did small gaps; however, basal area and number of stems per unit area remained fairly constant over the range of gap sizes encountered. Overall, most species showed little change in their relative importance values in gaps of different sizes or ages. However, the four main canopy species differed in their responses. Acer saccharum Marsh. reached maximum importance in small gaps, Liriodendron tulipifera L. and Fraxinus americana L. in large ones. As gaps aged, Fraxinus decreased in importance while Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. gained in importance for all gap sizes. For about half the gaps studied, some new adjacent disturbance had occurred between 1977 and 1981.
3682509| Chaetopteryx villosa Fabr. is uni- or semivoltine. The species was reared at 6C and 10C (8 h light, 16 h dark = LD 8/16) and at 10C and 14C (LD 14/10). Larval instar duration and pupal period decreased with increasing temperature. Instars II-IV were completed within 2-5 wk. Vth instar larvae pupated after two to twelve months. Pupal development required between one and three months. At 6C no specimens pupated. At 10C, LD 14/10 accelerated the development of instars II, IV, V and pupae. Head capsule widths were different between laboratory and field specimens. Relative consumption rate (RCR) ranged between 3.07  1.12 (instar II, 14C) and
3682363|An investigation on biological nitrogen fixation in the forest floor was carried out in five watershed areas in Central Sweden during the summers 1978 and 1979. Five different types of bottom layers with underlying soil horizons were investigated for nitrogen fixation. An inventory on the occurrence of potential nitrogen fixing lichens and alder trees was also carried out. Low fixation rates were determined in mesic-soil mosses, F/H,layers and mineral soil. Though two orders of magnitude higher than in mesic-soil mosses, the nitrogen fixation in the investigated Sphagnum mosses must be considered as low, probably due to absence of blue-green algal associations. The contribution to total nitrogen fixation by lichens is low, but Alnus incana may play an important role. The estimated biological nitrogen fixation calculated as a weighted mean over the five watersheds is in the order of 0.5 kg
3682558| The effects of temperature, oxygen and substrate on growth rates of three tubificid oligochaetes were examined in the laboratory. Two species Tubifex tubifex and Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri (Tubificidae, Oligochaeta) had similar narrow temperature ranges over which growth occurred, from 10-13C and both showed a considerable tolerance to extended periods of anoxia, of at least 16 and 10 weeks respectively. However no growth was observed under anoxic conditions. A third common species Ilyodrilus templetoni was sensitive to anoxia and could not survive more than four weeks. There was no evidence of differences in substrate quality affecting growth rates of either T. tubifex or L. hoffmeisteri. The temperature and oxygen responses of these three species may explain their distribution in some lakes of the English Lake District. 
3682537| The distribution of wintering land birds was examined in the archipelago of land (60N, 20E) along two ecological dimensions: (1) the island continuum from small skerries (0.5 ha) to the mainland of land (97000 ha), and (2) the habitat range of the mainland of land. In the species-area relationship, both the exponential and power function models fitted well. The increase of the number of species with island size was interpreted as a consequence of increasing habitat diversity on larger islands. The smallest islands supported only few seed-eating species utilizing the islands in a fine-grained fashion; none of these birds belonged to the breeding fauna of the islands. With increasing island size and habitat diversity, insectivores and species tied to the human culture were added. On the mainland of land, more than half of the birds were observed near human habitations; bird communities wintering in pine forests were richer than in deciduous forests. Proportion of wintering species was greatest in the breeding communities of pine forests. The proportion of wintering species was presumably regulated by the degree of structural change in the habitat between summer and winter, this change being most drastic in deciduous habitats. The species observed could be broadly classified into three feeding categories: opportunists,, omnivores and scavengers, dependent on the diverse food items provided by man; food specialists, species ating seeds and berries, ranging widely in the islands and habitats; and insectivorous habitat specialists, inhabiting coniferous habitats and islands with coniferous (pine) forests. Opportunists, in particular, get increasing wintering opportunities by the impact of man. 
3682433| The growth and size of the newts, Triturus vulgaris (L.) and T. cristatus (Laurenti) in different parts of Norway (+ Jmtland, Sweden) were studied. Age was estimated from skeletal growth marks, size-frequency histograms and, for the males, from the number of testis lobes. On average, the T. vulgaris larvae in central Norway and Jmtland are smaller than those in southeastern Norway, although in good localities, at the same altitude, they are of approximately the same size and complete their development already within 2 1/2-3 months. Larvae living in eutrophic habitats are larger than those in oligotrophic-dystrophic habitats. In bog habitats at similar times of year the T. cristatus larvae from central Norway are about the same size as those from similar habitats in southwestern and southeastern Norway, but somewhat smaller than those from eutrophic ponds in the Oslofjord area. No significant differences in the mean size of adult T. vulgaris from southeastern Norway and from central Norway were found. The maximum lengths attained were recorded from central Norway, however. In eutrophic habitats T. vulgaris adults are usually larger than those in oligotrophic/dystrophic habitats. In southeastern Norway, where growth is rapid, T. vulgaris may become sexually mature when 2+ yr-old, in central Norway usually a year later, in Jmtland, on average, still later, and in their northernmost locality (Vefsn) they probably do not breed until 5+ or 6+ yr-old. On average, T. cristatus adults from southeastern Norway are slightly larger than those from central Norway, and may become mature at 2+ yr-old, compared with 4+ yr-old, at the earliest, in the latter area. The differences in the growth rates of both larvae and metamorphosed stages, of both species, most probably represent a response to climatic differences, although biotope quality is also an important factor. 
3682141|The pre-nesting feeding behaviour of pink-footed geese was studied in hayfields in southern Iceland during the late spring of 1989. Persistent snow-patches protected underlying grass from the effects of severe night-time frost. Areas within 1 m of snow-patches had significantly greater amounts of green material than those further away; green material contained more than double the protein of brown, dead material, which predominated in open fields. Geese spent nearly 60 times more time feeding within 1 m of snow patches than expected by chance, and 20 times more time within 2-5 m. Their feeding rates here were faster and their step rate slower than further away. In this way, the geese selected the prime forage as soon as it became available.
3682174|Patterns of seed and vegetative reproduction were investigated for three floodplain species, balsam poplar Populus balsamifera L., feltleaf willow Salix alaxensis (Anderss.) Cov. and sandbar willow Salix interior Rowlee, and one upland species, trembling aspen Populus tremuloides Michx., in interior Alaska. All four species have similar patterns of seed germination in response to moisture stress and high salt concentrations when tested under laboratory conditions. In field experiments, percent germination of all four species was also very similar, ranging from 0% on dry sandy sites, to greater than 60% on mesic silty sites. Germination on salt crusts ranged from 0-40% for all species, depending on the physical characteristics of the soil surface. Colonization of mesic silty sites was almost exclusively by seed, whereas colonization of dry sandy sites was limited to those species which were able to root sucker under floodplain conditions. Root suckering was also an important means of establishment on frequently inundated sites where establishment by seed was limited by flooding. Differences between the species in their distribution on the floodplain were related to differences in patterns of vegetative reproduction, but not seed germination.
3682185|Pollination and seed predation were studied in Silene vulgaris populations during two seasons, one with much lower pollinator abundance than the other. Among the pollinators, noctuid moths of the genus Hadena also acted as seed predators. Nectarforaging female moths oviposited in flowers, and their larvae consumed flowers and seed capsules. Despite a lower percentage of pollinated flowers in the year of low pollinator abundance, similar numbers of flowers set fruit in both years, because fewer flower buds and flowers were eaten by Hadena larvae during the year of low pollinator visitation. The number of seed capsules preyed upon was also lower in the year with low pollinator abundance, resulting in a higher seed set. The positive correlation between the percentage of pollinated flowers and the percentage of seed capsules destroyed was also observed when comparing flowers opening in different parts of the season. Early flowering plant individuals had the same pollination success but suffered higher seed predation than late flowering ones. Selection for maximized pollination success through synchronous flowering, is probably the main reason for the compressed flowering period in S. vulgaris, but the high level of predation early in the season may further increase the reproductive success of synchronous flowering individuals.
3682330| During a two year period 13498 individuals of 66 species of carabids were taken from 44 sites on peat and upland grasslands over an altitude range of 11-847 m in the north of England. The similarities between the carabid faunas of each site have been assessed using a modified form of the Srensen's Index and the sites clustered according to their similarities. Five carabid communities on peat and three on mineral soils have been identified and the more abundant species have been used to characterise them. Peat Community I occurs on dry heath and is characterised by peat associated species such as Trichocellus cognatus and Bradycellus ruficollis together with widespread open habitat species such as Pterostichus madidus, Notiophilus aquaticus, Calathus melanocephalus and Nebria salina. Peat Community II is found on areas where dry heath and deep wet peat are adjacent and is characterised by the species already mentioned together with typical wet habitat species such as Pterostichus diligens, P. nigrita, Patrobus assimilis, Agonum fuliginosum. Peat Community III is found on blanket bog and is characterised by the wet habitat species in the absence of the species present on the dry heath. Peat Community IV found on the lowland oligotrophic mires is characterised by the small number of species present and the addition of Pterostichus niger and Agonum ericeti to the few wet habitat species present. Peat Community V, on the scarp slope of Dun Fell, consists of the wet habitat species of Peat Community III together with Pterostichus madidus, Nebria salina, Notiophilus aquaticus and Calathus melanocephalus. Grassland Community I, on the fell tops, is characterised by the presence of Nebria gyllenhali, Notiophilus germinyi and Patrobus assimilis. Grassland Community II and III are less clearly defined but Grassland Community II may be present on wetter sites than III and is characterised by the presence of Pterostichus nigrita, P. diligens and P. strenuus together with Notiophilus biguttatus, N. aquaticus, Pterostichus madidus and Patrobus atrorufus. Grassland Community III consists of the latter group of species together with Nebria salina, Calathus melanocephalus and Notiophilus aestuans. The number of grassland sites studied was small and there may be further communities on the upland grasslands. 
3682267|A field incubator based on a closed flow system was applied for primary productivity measurements in situ. The seasonal development of epiphytes showed a pronounced productivity maximum in May (
3682329|Gravimetric feeding studies were used to examine the feeding strategy of Pteronarcys proteus (Plecoptera) using unconditioned, 1 month conditioned, and 2 month conditioned deciduous leaves of four species (white oak, red maple, black locust, dogwood). Assimilation efficiencies of Pteronarcys nymphs feeding on unconditioned and conditioned leaf material ranged from 13.4 to 21.9% AFDW of leaf material indicating that Pteronarcys was able to digest and assimilate leaf material. Assimilation efficiencies did not change as leaf material conditioned which suggests that assimilation efficiency does not accurately reflect changes in detrital food quality. However, as leaves conditioned, the ingestion rate of Pteronarcys nymphs accelerated. Rates at which dogwood and locust leaves were ingested peaked after 1 month, then declined with a second month of conditioning. Rates at which maple and oak leaves were ingested increased significantly with 2 months of conditioning. Assimilation rates of Pteronarcys nymphs varied in a pattern similar to ingestion rates. This reflects the importance of ingestion rate in the feeding response of Pteronarcys.
3682183| Ant assemblages of a successional dune area (Tvrminne, south Finland) were analysed at three levels: the distribution of species among habitats, the distribution of colonies within habitats and the spatio-temporal distribution of individuals. The distribution of ant species among habitat patches representing different stages of succession is correlated with the composition of the epigeic fauna, the number and condition of dead twigs on the ground and the vegetation architecture. The composition of ant assemblages seems relatively independent of the plant species composition, and there are uncoordinated successional steps between the vegetation and ant communities. In the early successional stages interference competition is weak and insignificant, as indicated by the random spatial arrangement of colonies, the absence of postcompetitive niche segregation and the low encounter rates of ant workers on the ground and at baits. In the aggressive behavioural hierarchy, Formica cinerea is a submissive species as compared with either Formica sanguinea or Lasius alienus. 
3682749|The dynamics of a Plantago maritima population was studied along a distributional gradient on a sea shore meadow during four years. The dynamics of the population varied along the gradient. In the lower parts there was a high flux with high mortality due to flooding but also a higher reproductive effort and good establishment. In the upper parts the flux was slower with lower reproductive effort and lower seedling success but instead longer lifespans. Population growth in these upper areas was primarily restricted by competition for light which prevented flowering and lowered the seedling success. Both cover values and the number of species decreased seawards and consequently the strength of competition. Simultaneously the risk of flooding increased. Thus the density peak was found at the intersect of these two variables. The plants showed differences in behaviour along the gradient in reproductive effort, growth rate, phenology etc. Whether this variation was phenotypical or genotypical is not known.
3682207|Inputs and outputs of allochthonous particulate organic matter were measured during 15 months in the upper part of a beech forest headwater stream. Inputs were estimated to
3682136| The life cycle, reproductive biology and growth rates of Hypogastrura tullbergi (Schffer), one of the most abundant and widespread Collembola on Devon Island, N.W.T., were investigated. Reproductive activity was confined to a period of 2-4 wk every season, starting approximately 2 wk after snow-melt. Individuals of H. tullbergi had the potential of breeding in at least 2 successive summers. This species had an extended, flexible life cycle with a total life span of approximately 3 yr. Growth rates of individuals of H. tullbergi maintained at field temperatures with an excess of fungal material greatly exceeded growth rates of individuals in the field population. It is suggested that in the field, growth rates are limited by food rather than directly by low temperatures. H. tullbergi was not able to grow on a diet of decomposing Dryas integrifolia leaves. Growth rates of fungal substrates were found to depend on temperature, species of fungus, and age. Maximum growth rates for adults occurred at 10C, but juveniles showed a maximum growth rate at 15C. The adaptive significance of aspects of the biology of H. tullbergi for long-term survival in tundra environments is discussed. 
3682602|Winter breeding, as judged from heavy reproductive organs in both males and females, was observed in bank voles, yellow-necked mice and wood mice in south Sweden during the winter of 1976-1977. The breeding was probably a result of unusually favourable feeding conditions created by an extremely rich beech mast crop.
3682430| Monument Creek, a second-order Alaskan subarctic stream, experiences a severe thermal regime, with water temperatures of 0C for six months. Leaching, long-term decomposition and macroinvertebrate colonization of 5 g leaf packs were studied using leaves of the major riparian tree species, alder Alnus tenuifolia Nutt., birch Betula papyrifera Marsh. and willow Salix alaxensis (Anderss.) Cov. subsp. alaxensis and Salix arbucolides Anders. var. glabra Anderss. The processing rates of birch (k = 0.0080) and willow (k = 0.0063) were moderate while alder was processed very rapidly (k = 0.0513). Leaching rates did not differ significantly among the three leaf species, and accounted for 10-15% of total weight loss. Densities and biovolume of colonizing insects increased from fall to winter. Shredders dominated insect biovolume by midwinter, but were a small fraction of total biovolume in leaf packs that had frozen over winter and were sampled following spring thaw. This may be a function of low food quality in spring and/or the timing of shredder life histories. Limited allochthonous input and constriction of the stream channel due to freezing, with resultant high shredder densities, may explain the relatively rapid detritus processing rates in Monument Creek, despite cold stream temperatures. 
3682459|The dynamics of seedling establishment, and growth of native cotton grass-tussock tundra species were studied during the natural revegetation of small bare areas excavated in tussock tundra. The seedlings of Eriophorum vaginatum spp. spissum and Carex bigelowii, two sedge species, established most successfully. Few seedlings of nonsedge species emerged with the small disturbances. Most seedling emergence occurred early in the first growing season following the excavation of the bare areas. The density of emerged seedlings was higher in bare areas excavated in the autumn preceding the observations, rather than in bare areas excavated at the start of the first season of observation. After two growing seasons, survival of seedlings was not affected by the time the seedling emerged within the growing season. Eriophorum vaginatum was the most abundant species because it: (1) had the highest seedling emergence rates, particularly early in the growing season; (2) produced more tillers per seedlings; and (3) had a higher growth rate per seedling than C. bigelowii.
3682314|The importance of seasonality in shaping latitudinal size patterns was investigated in 16 species of lycaenine and satyrine butterflies with distributions in Sweden and continental Europe. Species without shifts in voltinism within the study area generally displayed clear size clines, increasing in size from north to south within Sweden. These species were also larger in continental Europe than in Sweden. In northern temperate areas a linear model for mean size at different latitudes seems to be a reasonable approximation for most species in this category. The size patterns for three species with shifts from univoltinism to bivoltinism at latitudes within Sweden were more reminiscent of the "saw-tooth"-pattern predicted by theory for such cases. The results suggest that size patterns in European butterflies to a large extent is governed by the length of the favorable season at different latitudes, affecting selection for development time and size. Altitude and drought also affect the effective season length and may amplify or complicate latitudinal patterns.
3682163|An examination has been made of the changes in bacterial and fungal populations during the decomposition of oil in contaminated soil. The number of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria and the length of mycelium increased in the oily soil whereas the number of CFU (= colony forming units) of fungi was highest in a control soil. The percentage of oil-utilizing fungi increased from 60% to 82%, while the bacterial utilization figure increased from 3% to 50%. The important oil-utilizing fungus Scolecobasidium appeared only in the oily soil, but otherwise the composition of the fungal flora changed only little after addition of oil. In laboratory experiments the chemical Pajab FI was shown to increase microbial activity.
3682623|The relationship between micro-site nitrogen status (total soil N conc., total vegetation N, and leaf N conc.) and performance (biomass) for two evergreen and two deciduous dwarf shrubs was studied in a subarctic heath. One deciduous species, Vaccinium uliginosum, dominated on sites having the highest vegetation nitrogen content and highest leaf nitrogen concentrations. The evergreen Empetrum hermaphroditum dominated on sites with a low total vegetation nitrogen content and low leaf nitrogen concentrations. Two other species, V. myrtillus (deciduous) and V. vitis-idaea (evergreen), showed intermediate patterns that were not clearly separated from either V. uliginosum or Empetrum. Soil nitrogen content showed no significant differences between micro-sites. Possible physiological reasons for the observed patterns are discussed.
3682735|The snow melt food at Imnavait Creek takes place sometime between 12 May and 2 June and constitutes the single most important hydrological and geochemical event. Three years of study indicate this event spans 7 to 10 days and that peak discharge can be expected to be between 0.6 and 0.9 cu. mes. Ion concentrations peak during the first 15% of the event while pH is at a minimum. In all cases, ion concentrations in the spring runoff are 4 to 9 times those of the snow pack. Precipitation, including dryfall, contributes significant amounts of Ca, Mg, K, Na, Cl and SO
3682453| Rate of phosphate absorption measured on field-collected, excised roots of eight species from a tundra site and a taiga forest was more strongly correlated with growth form traits than with type of community. In the taiga forest phosphate absorption rate ranged tenfold among species and was higher in graminoids than in shrubs. In both sites deciduous shrubs tended to have higher rates than evergreens. Phosphate absorption rate was not strongly reduced at low temperature in any species examined and there was a temperature optimum of about 20C in Eriophorum vaginatum. Phosphate absorption rates were higher in lateral than primary roots, although both root types had substantial respiration rates. At one tundra site, calculation suggest that roots of E. vaginatum require 30-40 d to absorb a quantity of phosphorus equivalent to that required to synthesize the root and another 5-6 d to provide the net phosphorus requirements for the remainder of the plant. 
3682518|Dichogamy in five taxa of Pulsatilla (P. patens, P. pratensis, P. vernalis, P. vulgaris ssp. gotlandica and P. vulgaris ssp. vulgaris) is incomplete with overlap between the female and male phases of a flower. The species are protogynous with the duration of the obligate female phase lasting 0 to 10 d and the duration of stigma receptivity of unpollinated flowers lasting 3.5 to 32 d in the greenhouse. The pollen presentation time varied between 1.5 and 10 d. There were significant differences among species in duration of both female and male phases. Hand pollination decreased the duration of stigmatic receptivity and pollen presentation significantly. The spatial separation of pollen presentation and receptive surfaces in a flower changed with time due to the continuing growth of the androecium and the gynoecium, and due to the temporal pattern of pollen presentation within the androecium. Hand pollination experiments indicate that seed set may be partly pollen-limited in a natural population of P. vulgaris ssp. vulgaris. The level of cross-pollination was high in this population as shown by high levels of pollen deposition on the stigmas during the obligate female phase.
3682661| The breeding biology of the starling Sturnus vulgaris was studied in three populations in northern Finland, with additional reference localities in nearby areas. Results from a total of 329 nests are presented from years 1962-1976. The onset of laying in the Oulu area took place on 5 May, the median date being 10 May, about one week later than in southern Finland and 2-3 weeks later than in central Europe. The clutch-size was 5.29  0.05 in the first nests and 5.06  0.26 in later ones. Incubation time was 12.1  0.6 d. An average of 3.31  0.10 fledglings was produced per pair, 3.69  0.08 in succesful clutches, which is significantly less than usually reported from central Europe. Most of the losses were due to starvation of the young. No second broods were observed in the Oulu area, and repeated nesting was not common, probably because of the general late start of laying. The reasons for the recent decline in several Finnish starling populations do not lie in the production capacity but must be sought for elsewhere. 
3682638|The microhabitat relationships of five mosses, which co-occur on cliffs and screeslopes in eastern Newfoundland, were evaluated by discriminant functions (DFA) and multiple regression analysis (MRA). The first three discriminant functions account for 91.3% of the among-species variation in microhabitat characteristics, and are interpreted as representing species separation along 1) water deficit, 2) pH, and 3) temperature gradients. Multiple regression of individual species' abundances on measured microhabitat variables was successful, and highly significant regression equations accounting for 78% to 91% of variation in abundance were developed for all but one of the species studied. The combined DFA and MRA results show that the five moss species have distinct and different microhabitats within the cliff/scree-slope habitat. Microdistribution of Grimmia torquata, an arctic-montane moss at its southern limit, appears to be determined by sensitivity to high summer temperatures. Two southern mosses at their northern limit (Aulacomnium androgynum, Isothecium myosuroides) appear to be limited by water availability and, possibly, by low winter temperatures. The abundance of two species whose distributions extend both north and south of the study area (Encalypta procera, Eurhynchium pulchellum) shows no clear relationship with microclimate, though the microdistribution of the former species appears to be highly dependant on pH.
3682523| Diatoms in a series of old plankton samples collected from Vxjsjn, southern Sweden, between 1912 and 1971 were compared to the planktonic diatom record of the sediment accumulated during the same period. Contemporary descriptions of the floristic composition of the various samples were found to be unreliable. Clear taxonomic discrepancies between the written records and the sediment record necessitated the re-examination of all old samples and the adoption of a standardised taxonomy. When compared on this basis changes through time in the composition of the diatoms in the old samples were found to be in close agreement with changes recorded in the sediment. The re-emergence of Melosira italica subsp. subarctica in the mid 1940's, probably as a result of the partial improvement in the lake following sewage diversion, is seen clearly in both sets of data. The importance of storing algal samples for use in future palaeoecological research is stressed. 
3682303|Langvatn lake is a large waterfilled kettle hole in glaciofluvial deposits developed during the last deglaciation. The main outflow from the lake occurs by percolation through the permeable sediments at the shoreline. The sedimentary rocks and sediments (calcite bearing) within the watershed influence the quality of the lake waters.
3682606|The effects of irrigation and fertilization on nutrient content, shoot growth and photosynthetic rate of the deciduous Vaccinium uliginosum L. and the evergreen V. vitis-idaea L. were studied in a field experiment at Abisko, Swedish Lapland. V. vitis-idaea responded to fertilization with a greater increase in leaf nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium concentrations, as well as with a relatively greater change in shoot growth than V. uliginosum. Also to irrigation did V. vitis-idaea respond more strongly. Decreased leaf longevity was indicated in both irrigated and fertilized plants of V. vitis-idaea. It is concluded that no general response pattern for evergreen and deciduous plants can be expected to emerge unless one also takes other plant characteristics, and also site characteristics, into consideration.
3682370|Chironomus anthracinus generally had a one year life cycle at 8 m depth in Lough Neagh, during the study period. In spring 1975 however only a proportion of the population emerged as usual, the rest remaining a second year in the benthos to emerge in 1976. The mean dry weight of larvae just before emergence was 2.8 mg in 1971 and 2.6 mg in 1974 but only 1.6 mg in 1975, and it seems that larvae must reach a weight of at least 1.0 mg in the early spring to emerge that year. Considering temperature, oxygen saturation and standing crop of phytoplankton as factors influencing the life cycle, mean monthly chlorophyll a (phytoplankton) was weakly correlated with mean monthly increase in weight and % monthly weight increase could be related to temperature.
3682574|Seasonal changes of bird communities and use of foraging substrates by the birds were studied in two forests with contrasting vegetation structure in montane and subalpine levels of central Spanish mountains throughout complete annual cycles. Common factors contributing most to foraging segregation among species were found to be the foraging on the ground vs that on vegetation and use of proximal vs distal tree parts. A complete dissimilarity exists between the composition of the respective foliage-gleaning guilds, the converse being true for the trunk-searchers. Temporal distribution of bird species is to a great extent determined by their use of space, thus existing a gradient of seasonality with maxima for ground-searchers, minima for trunk-gleaners and intermediate positions for foliage-gleaners. A close relationship among temporal variability, mean annual density and niche breadth is found for the subalpine pinewood community, but not for that from the montane oakwood, this being related with their contrasting migratory patterns and the structural stability of vegetation in each wood. The pattern of covariation in community parameters mirrors the summed response of individual bird species to the changing environmental conditions. Increases in community richness, density and diversity are related to temporal invasion by ground and foliage-gleaners of these highly seasonal Mediterranean habitats.
3682585|Microcrustacean community and biomass dynamics were studied for two years in a Nymphaea-Eriocaulon macrophyte marsh and a nearby shallow lake which lacked macrophytes in the Okefenokee Swamp. In this blackwater, acidic wetland, micro-crustacean diversity and biomass were similar to other circumneutral lakes and littoral areas, contributing to a productive fish assemblage. In the lake, the annual biomass pattern (
3682292|In the High Arctic, leaf angles of graminoids are lower than would be expected to optimize absorption of incident solar radiation. Inflorescence, leaf, and culm angle of two prostrate grasses, Phippsia algida and Puccinellia vaginata, were measured in a variety of plant communities with differing microtopographic and microenvironmental conditions (surface relief, soil stability, soil moisture, and soil and air temperature). Growth form was found to be controlled primarily by environmental factors. Both species exhibited a plastic response to an amelioration of physical factors in situ. Leaf angles of both species were higher under conditions of increased soil moisture and temperature, and decreased vapor pressure deficit and windspeed. Adaptation to reduce the severity of the environment apparently holds a greater selective advantage than adaptation to maximize leaf orientation to a low sun angle.
3682222|The use of loss-on-ignition (LOI) and carbon content (C-content) in estimating soil organic matter is examined. To evaluate the assumptions behind the use of these methods, the conversion factor (LOI/C-content) is examined as a function of depth and spatial variability. Due to increasing variability with depth no general relationship between LOI and C-content can be established for horizons below 60 cm. For horizons above 60 cm it is demonstrated, that more than one conversion factor is needed. The application of a regression equation to correct for inorganic losses is shown to be problematical. This is due to the variability in inorganic losses and the varying C-content of the organic matter.
3682132|A 4-yr field study was carried out on selected species of myxomycetes. Reticularia jurana, Symphytocarpus flaccidus, Amaurochaete atra, and A. tubulina occur predominantly in May-June, Ceratiomyxa fruticulosa, Stemonitis axifera, S. fusca, S. hyperopta, and Fuligo septica in June-August, and Colloderma oculatum, Trichia botrytis, T. decipiens, and Fuligo muscorum in September-October. Lycogala epidendrum may occur from May to October. Whereas several species seem to be restricted to late autumn, those appearing in spring and early summer are occasionally found also later in the season. Many species with large plasmodia are rare under arid conditions. Complex factors probably influence spore germination, and it is often impossible to explain a sudden abundance of a species merely from temperature and precipitation. Several species show clear substrate preferences. Plasmodia may develop in cavities in wood and then move out to the surface to fructify. Insects are probably important for the dispersal of several species. Invertebrates, among them snails, are predators on plasmodia as well as on fructifications.
3682402| The sediments and various organisms in Lake Pijnne were examined for contaminants. The average mercury content of water plants was 9, of plankton 14, of sediment 114, of zoobenthic predators 83, of fish 332-1510 and of birds
3682543|28924 hoverflies of 85 species were caught in a Malaise trap in an English suburban garden during the eight-year period 1972-79, and three additional species were hand-netted. Hoverfly larvae fall into five trophic categories all of which were represented by adults in the trap sample. 82.71% of the hoverflies trapped have larvae that feed on aphids, 12.04% feed on decaying organic material, 5.14% eat living plants, 0.09% scavenge in Hymenoptera nests, and 0.02% are associated with tree sap or rotting wood. The relative frequency of the different trophic groups varied annually and seasonally although the aphid-feeders were nearly always the most abundant. 22 species are believed to breed in the garden, and a further 29 in the surrounding area; 15 species are regarded as casual and 22 as chance visitors. It is suggested that the high plant diversity and spatial heterogeneity of gardens result in them supporting more species than would be found in a natural area.
3682579|Habitat composition of 39 capercaillie Tetrao urogallus display grounds was compared with available and unused habitats in two coniferous forest areas in southeastern Norway. Macro-habitat was described with respect to forest successional stage and topography. Micro-habitat was described with respect to microtopography, plant association, and forest stand structure. Totally, 28 variables were measured. A pronounced macro-habitat preference was found for elevated areas with forests older than 60-70 years. Micro-habitat composition varied considerably. However, a slight but significant preference was found for heterogeneous, open-spaced understory, and for visibility of more than 30 m. Suitable micro-habitats were abundant, and distribution of display grounds were mainly limited by macro-habitat characteristics, i.e. elevated, old forest areas.
3682186| Allopatric Atlantic salmon parr occupied a wider and lower range of mean water velocities than have been previously reported for parr in sympatry. With regard to depth, substrate and cover no substantial differences were found. Different fish sizes did not affect habitat use by parr significantly, neither did habitat use change during the season. Habitat availability strongly influenced observed habitat use thus, invalidating use of habitat suitability curves based on observations of habitat occupancy by fish only. The allopatric parr consistently selected habitats different from the available habitat, i.e. had preferences also in the absence of intraspecific interactions between age classes. Habitat conditions not used by the fish were more readily identifiable than habitats used. The parr rarely used shallow ( 10 cm) and deep (> 60 cm) stream areas, low mean water velocities ($<10{\rm cm}\ {\rm s}^{-1}$), fine substrate (sand and finer) and stream areas without cover. However, the calculated habitat preferences were also affected by habitat availability. Multivariate analysis did not identify any of the habitat variables as substantially more important than the others, but suggested that the importance of variables may vary with type of habitat studied. 
3682467|During April-December in 1980 and 1981 larvae and pupae of Chironomus plumosus from Lake Tystrup-Bavelse, Denmark, were sampled with short intervals. On the basis of morphometric data of the larvae, counts of larvae and pupae, and measurements of the oxygen conditions in the lake it was concluded that adults emerge at different times depending on e.g. depth-conditions. Adults originating from the deep Lake Tystrup appear over two periods yearly (April-June) and (September-October). In the intervening period which is characterized by stagnation and shortage of oxygen there is no emergence of adults. Adults from the shallow Lake Bavelse appear mainly during June-August. This shallow lake-part has no, or at the most very short, periods with stagnation and lack of oxygen. The observed temporal difference in the emergence of adults in the two lake-parts is proposed to be the main reason for the maintenance of two different Mendelian populations of Chironomus plumosus in Lake Tystrup-Bavelse.
3682733|An ecological study is presently being carried out at the headwaters of Imnavait Creek to develop a better understanding of the dynamics of an arctic ecosystem. While all ecosystems are driven by both energy and mass inputs, in an arctic setting this is much more evident. Therefore it is critical that we have a detailed understanding of the hydrology of the basin. In the United States, no hydrological studies of an arctic watershed have been made where measurements are continued throughout the winter season. While most biological processes are dormant throughout the winter, this is not true of physical processes such as active layer freezing and thawing and snow accumulation and redistribution by wind. This paper summarizes what we have learned hydrologically from three years of study at an arctic watershed, Imnavait Creek.
3682420|In Picea abies seedlings the critical night length for bud-set was determined for provenances from different latitudes, longitudes and altitudes within the natural range of the species. The clinal variation of this character was demonstrated. Inheritance studies indicated that this character is controlled by many genes with predominantly additive effects. In seedlings of Pinus sylvestris and Pinus contorta, growth cessation and bud-set took place in all light regimes, thus, even under continuous illumination. A photoperiodic optimum for height growth was determined. The photoperiodic influence on such characters as recurrent flushing of shoots, needle growth, dry matter production and frost resistance was demonstrated for northern and southern populations of the two Pinus species. Shorter nights were needed to induce a particular photoperiodic response in the northern populations as compared with those from the south. The importance of reliable phenological characters for assessing frost hardiness in provenance and progeny trials by means of early tests, is discussed.
3682738|In the foothills of the Philip Smith Mountains, Brooks Range, Alaska, tussock tundra is the most widely distributed vegetation, and it occurs on rolling hills and in valleys that were shaped by a sequence of Pleistocene glaciations. In this study, aboveground standing biomass and production were compared in "intertrack tundra" areas that were relatively homogenous with respect to downslope drainage and adjacent "water tracks" that acted to channel water flow to the valley bottom stream. Comparisons of biomass, leaf area index, and specific leaf weight were also made between upper and lower slope positions. Similarities and differences of vegetation structure are examined with respect to graminoid, deciduous shrub, evergreen shrub, herbaceous, and bryophyte components. Water tracks were found to have 1.5-1.7 times the biomass of intertrack tundra, and production (excluding secondary growth) in water tracks was 40% greater than in intertrack tundra. The aboveground biomass for all areas studied and the annual production values were similar to those found in other studies of tussock tundra. While only slight differences in depth of thaw occurred in water tracks and intertrack tundra during June and early July, water tracks thawed more deeply with the onset of summer rains. Warmer temperatures at 40 cm depth in July and August may have increased nutrient availability, whereas greater rooting depth and movement of water may have increased nutrient capture in water tracks as compared with the intertrack areas. Greater biomass and a deeper thaw depth occurred at upper slope locations.
3682057|Bark beetles feed and reproduce in the phloem/cambium tissue of trees where severe competition between individuals of the same and different species significantly reduces their reproductive success. In this coevolutionary setting, individuals that can avoid competition whenever possible by means of genetically controlled behavioral mechanisms are naturally selected. Avoidance of intraspecific and interspecific competition is accomplished in part even before landing by olfactory perception of specific pheromones and allomones. These olfactory systems may function at least as well after landing. In several species the uniform distribution of attacks on host trees indicates that individuals avoid competition by only attacking if they are at least a minimum distance from other established attacks. Once beetles are under the bark their tunneling patterns indicate that a behavioral mechanism exists to avoid intersecting nearby galleries of competing individuals. Finally, beetles may choose to re-emerge if the expected chances of successful reproduction by continuing their stay become less than the probabilities of finding another host and successfully reproducing.
3682275| Two populations of Sericostoma personatum Spence were studied during one year in two first order woodland streams, varying in water flow and temperature regime. The life cycles took two and three years, respectively. Numbers in drift varied with water flow, and daily elimination rates of about 1% due to catastrophic drift were found in one of the streams. Differences in elimination rates between the two populations are discussed in relation to predation, catastrophic drift, and quantity of food present during the year. The production was about 0.9 g
3682078| From the end of August to early May on average 506400 goose days were spent on the farmland of Fils, 92% by pink-footed geese, 7% by greylag geese and 1% by bean geese. 36% of the goose days were spent on stubbles (autumn), 38% on stubbles with undersown seed grass (autumn-spring), and 21% on new-sown barley fields (spring). Geese feeding on spring barley consume kernels left on the surface or in the upper surface layers. In 1982 and 1983 trials were set up to quantify the effect of grazing. The effect on yield and plant structure was measured by comparing ungrazed (exclosures) and grazed plots. Grazing by geese significantly reduced the grain yield (7-20%), but the reduction was not proportional to goose usage. The maximum reduction in sprout density was observed in 1982 in an area with heavy goose usage; sprout density was reduced by 72%, but the subsequent yield in the same area was only reduced by 8%. Plants on grazed plots compensated for the reduced sprout density by having more tillers with ears and grains of higher weight. The effect of grazing on stubble, seed grass, and winter cereals on Fils is discussed. 
3682693|The very dense trout population in the lake was substantially reduced by heavy fishing. The resulting changes in growth, age distribution and population density were examined. Fishing efforts with 32 mm nets gave the highest sustainable yield. With a yearly effort of 1600 nights with these nets the predicted sustained yield would be
3682732|Maps of the vegetation and terrain of a
3682465|The relationships of faunal diversity and vegetation structure were studied in twenty deciduous forest plots in South Sweden, all of them managed. Following animal groups were censused: shrews (Soricidae), bats (Chiroptera), voles (Cricetidae), fieldmice (Muridae), birds (Aves), groundliving beetles (Coleoptera), spiders (Araneida), and harvestmen (Opilionidae). The analysis of the 22 vegetation variables was made by means of repeated and rotated PCA. Rarefaction was used to ordinate the bird species richness of the different forest plots. The multivariate vegetational analysis resulted in three distinct and readily interpretable components: horizontal and vertical spatial heterogeneity, and mean basal area. The number of small mammal species (except bats) was greatest in forests with great amount of understory while the number of bat species increased with increasing mean basal area. The number of bird species in a fixed number of territories was also highly correlated with the mean basal area. Hence, maximum bird species richness was obtained in mature forests but not in those with greatest vertical heterogeneity. The invertebrate communities showed very few distinct relationships to the vegetation structure. Dominance decreased as vegetation complexity increased. Dominance also decreased with increasing species richness in all faunal communities studied.
3682567| Slow release fertilizer pellets (NPK) were spread in June and July 1985, on the frost surface under an 8-20 cm thick layer of thawed tundra in the northern foothills of the Brooks Range, Alaska. The fertilizer was applied at a rate of 3.8 kg N,
3682667|In two mature Danish beech forests, one growing on fertile mull, the other on acid mor, cycles through vegetation of Ca, Mg, K, Na, Mn and P are followed. Nutrient content is measured in precipitation, throughfall, stem flow, litter and herbage as well as in soil pool (0-10 cm). In both forests, Na is found to pass vegetation in highest rate compared to soil pool. On acid mor, trees accumulate amounts of nutrients comparable to the amounts falling in precipitation, but on fertile mull trees accumulate more of all nutrients than that which falls in precipitation, with the exception of Mn. P seems to be the limiting growth factors for trees on acid mor, and none of the nutrients investigated seems to limit growth on fertile mull.
3682673| vre Heimdalsvatn is clearly influenced by the geological conditions, and the lake basin and catchment area are determined by the bedrock and the mountain structures. The distribution and characteristics of the loose deposits are decisive for the lake's water budget. The groundwater in the catchment area and the Quaternary deposits near the lake influence the amount and quality of the lake waters. 
3682468|Forages used by moose, Alces alces, in the aspen-dominated boreal forest were studied to determine seasonal changes in digestibility (nylon bag technique) and chemical composition. Digestibility of all forage classes increased to 70% during spring and summer with the presence of new growth and declined to a low of 30% with plant maturation and dormancy. Mean protein contents during these periods were >20% and <7%, respectively. Nutritional quality of herbaceous forages peaked earlier and higher than that of woody plants in spring but quality declined earlier and reached slightly lower levels in late winter. Cell wall composition of grasses, sedge, and foliage varied seasonally and was correlated with forage digestibility. In multiple linear regression models, hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin content of browse, grass, and sedge provided significant predictions of digestibility.
3682435|We studied the relationships between litter size, litter weight, newborn weight, relative clutch mass and the female snout-vent length in some Lacerta vivipara populations over a period of three years. Litter size and litter weight were positively correlated with female snout-vent length in all the populations for all the years, as in most other lizard species. Relative clutch mass generally increased with female size, though correlations appear not to be very tight. Considering the two best studied populations suggests that montane females invest less in reproduction than lowland ones. The main reproductive traits of the species appeared highly variable between as well as within the different populations hitherto studied. We argue that current theory about lizard reproductive strategy requires, first to work out a good estimate of reproductive effort, and second to get more information about the relations between the species and their environmental, biotic and abiotic conditions.
3682627|Inter- and intra-specific differences in survivorship of Nephelopsis obscura and Erpobdella punctata under anoxic conditions were examined. Two types of experiments were used. In the closed (static) experiments the leeches faced three stresses - anoxia, build-up of metabolites and starvation, while in the flow-through experiments only anoxia was experienced. The results obtained from the two types of experiments indicate that survival times are longer in the flow-through experiments. Inter- and intra-specific differences in survivorship under anoxic conditions correlate well with the patterns of reproduction observed for field populations of N. obscura and E. punctata.
3682380|Brown lemmings reach much higher densities than collared lemmings near Barrow, Alaska, and captures from 19 summers of snap trapping confirm previous reports that brown lemmings prefer lower, wetter habitats than do collared lemmings. Data also support the hypothesis that brown lemmings concentrate in higher habitats during early summer when melt water floods lower habitats, then shift to lower habitats where preferred food is more available as the waters recede. This pattern appears similar to seasonal shifts in habitat use reported for Norwegian lemmings. Two hypotheses were not supported by our data: (1) Unlike Norwegian lemmings, brown lemmings did not expand their use of suboptimal habitats at higher population densities. Rather, absolute densities changed in concert so that the relative densities among habitats remained unchanged. (2) Preferential use of polygon troughs during winter, as indicated by patterns of winter grazing, was not simply a function of snow depth. Instead it appeared to be related to shoot density of preferred foods. Nearly all patterns of habitat use seemed to be linked to food availability. Other factors, such as protection from predators by vegetative cover in summer and increased insulation from deeper snow in winter, did not appear to influence the distribution of lemmings as strongly.
3682262|Nitrogen fixation activity was determined for Lotus tenuis, Medicago lupulina and Trifolium pratense. The three species grew in clones in grassland in an area reclaimed from brackish water in the 1940s. The
3682293|Sixty-eight white-tailed sea eagle territories were studied on the Swedish Baltic coast in 1964-1982 and 22 territories in Swedish Lapland in 1976-1982. Older data were assembled for comparison. The breeding frequency of adult pairs was high in both study areas (ca. 90%). Median egg-laying dates were 17 March (Baltic) and 7 April (Lapland). Average clutch size and egg volume did not differ between samples from the Baltic taken between 1856 and 1982. Average clutch size was significantly smaller in Lapland (1.6 eggs) than on the Baltic coast (2.1 eggs). Clutch size in Lapland was positively related to carrion availability during March. Nestling survival was significantly lower in Lapland, due to starvation in broods of more than one young. Brood loss was significantly more frequent in Lapland. At the Baltic, nest success decreased from 75 to 22%, and brood size from 1.8 to 1.2, from the early 1950's to the mid 1960's. Nest success in 1976-1982 was significantly lower at the Baltic (26%) than in Lapland (45%), with a much larger proportion of consistently failing pairs. The proportion of eggs laid that resulted in fledged young was estimated at 16% at the Baltic and 39% in Lapland. It is concluded that egg production and nestling survival were suppressed by limited food supply and nest success by human interference in Lapland, and that the reproductive impairment of the Baltic population was due primarily to contamination with toxic substances, mainly DDE.
3682259| The seasonal on- and offshore migrations of the epibenthic community on a marine shallow soft bottom in Gullmar Fjord (Sweden) was recorded for a period of three years. Quantitative sampling was carried out in shallow water ( 1 m depth) using drop-nets. A new sampling device was also introduced which allowed quantitative sampling in deeper water. The brown shrimp Crangon crangon L., juvenile plaice Pleuronectes platessa L. and the gobiid fish species Pomatoschistus minutus (Pallas) and P. microps (Kryer) constituted the dominant inhabitants of shallow water, contributing >90% of the total number. The annual production was
3682367|The censuses are based on six surveys (1590 km total) carried out between 13 April and 17 May 1975 and two surveys (560 km) on 13 and 15 May 1978. The material consists of 716 observations in 1975 and 214 observations in 1978, involving 1960 and 572 ringed seal specimens respectively. The transect width was determined in retrospect on the basis of the sighting angle and sighting distance, the latter being estimated and corrected by a factor typical for each separate flight. The mean sighting distances varied from 720 to 1140 m with a range from 160 to 2450 m. On average over 3000 ringed seals were basking on the ice of the Bothnian Bay in 1975 and 1978, promising at least 4000 specimens living in the area in total. Sources of methodological bias, factors affecting the observability of the seals, and the estimation of the total population based on the numbers of basking seals are discussed.
3682728|Laboratory and field experiments were conducted to investigate bioenergetics of winter dispersal and to compare winter (cross-ice) dispersal abilities of three small mammals: Microtus pennsylvanicus, Peromyscus leucopus and Blarina brevicauda. Total metabolic rates increased with running activity and decreased as ambient temperatures increased for all species. Thermal conductance was significantly higher for running than for resting Microtus and Peromyscus, but decreased significantly with activity for Blarina. Winter dispersal abilities, calculated from treadmill experiments, increased with ambient temperature and with body size of the species. The superior dispersal ability of Microtus in comparison with Peromyscus results from the former's ability to utilize more energy reserves during running. The comparatively low winter dispersal ability of Blarina, which was less than a third of the two rodent species, resulted from its high weight specific cost of transport at winter temperatures and its relatively low energy stores and/or energy utilization during running.
3682301|The interaction between the phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish populations and certain abiotic environmental factors, was investigated in an oligotrophic Norwegian lake during a 5-yr period (1974-1978). The effects of adding artificial fertilizer in 1975 and 1976 were also studied. When cladoceran dominated, the zooplankton community was able to maintain a more or less constant phytoplankton biomass and a rather low phytoplankton production even when nutrient levels were raised. In years when rotifers were dominant, algal biomass and productivity increased, despite the amount of added nutrients being lower. The regression for the relationship between daily phytoplankton P/B and daily herbivore zooplankton P/B indicated that these trophic levels were highly interdependent. A change, from large-sized to smaller herbivorous zooplankton, due to fish predation, also led to an increase in phytoplankton turnover. The investigations show that planktivorous fish may be the key factor which determines the stability of limnetic systems and controls the material transfer from the algae to the higher trophic level.
3682550|We observed forage and habitat selection in radio-collared moose at feeding sites in southeast Norway. Use of older forest increased from spring to autumn. Birch Betula spp. and bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus accounted for c. 75% of the diet. Occurrence of important forage plants, height of browse, and difference in phenology between plant species all appeared to play a role in moose selection of feeding sites. Shading influences moose forage by delaying plant phenology and possibly through its effect on leaf content of water and secondary compounds. On single birch trees, feeding was concentrated to the top branches at midsummer; during spring and autumn more leaves from side branches were eaten. Greater discrimination as vegetation matured was also evident from the wider variety of forage species used at midsummer. Selection of feeding sites was not related to density of important browse species. We propose that variations in light/shade conditions may play a role in moose choice of feeding sites and that moose on summer range will benefit from a heterogeneous mixture of plantations and older forest stands.
3682471|The attack by the bud-galling sawfly, Euura mucronata, on its willow host was simulated by removing every other living bud from previous year's shoots in a natural stand of Salix cinerea. The impact of simulated attack on the growth of the willow and the subsequent attack by E. mucronata was estimated after one growing season. Experimental bud-killing resulted in a growth reaction in S. cinerea characterized by significant increase in the length of new shoots produced by the remaining buds. Also the number of buds and E. mucronata galls per shoot were significantly higher on bud-removal branches as compared with control branches. The overall survival of E. mucronata larvae was better on long shoots than on short shoots. The result shows that sawfly attack increases the amount of high quality resources for the subsequent generation of the same sawfly as predicted by "resource regulation hypothesis". We conclude that these highly specialized insect herbivores have adapted to utilize and to maintain the willow's juvenile traits. Rapid regrowth of willows after damage may have originally arisen as an adaptation in response to other, less specific pressures such as mammal browsing or snow and ice damage.
3682396| Carbon dioxide production and oxygen uptake were measured in undisturbed sediment cores taken during winter from four lakes of different trophic state. Respiration was measured at 5, 10, 15 and 20C at high oxygen saturation (75-100%). The respiratory quotient, calculated from the mean values of carbon dioxide production and oxygen uptake at each temperature for each lake, was 0.83-0.96 with a mean value for the four lakes of 0.90. At very low oxygen saturations (<10%) carbon dioxide production was 21-42% of the production at 20C and high oxygen saturations. The results indicate that under aerobic conditions, oxygen uptake and carbon dioxide production are closely-coupled processes in these lake sediments. 
3682401|The size and appearance of the preputial glands of Clethrionomys glareolus showed variations which were associated with season, sex and maturation. The glands were by far largest in mature males followed by mature females, and subadult males and females, in that order. There was a positive relationship between the length, fresh weight and dry weight of the glands. The possible role of the preputial glands in relation to territoriality, social status and sexual attraction is discussed.
3682187| The disappearance of arthropod corpses in a temperate grassland of the Mediterranean coast (Barcelona, Spain) has been analyzed in this study. The mean time in which the corpses stayed out in the field is less than five minutes (x = 285  282 s), in a range of 2-2228 s. This holds true in cleared areas as well as in high vegetation areas. Ants are the principal scavengers of this type of remains, although the species that collect them vary according to the time of day and season of year, with the corpses' disappearance being the most rapid during the middle hours of the day, precisely when ants' density on the ground is less. The reason for this was the peak daytime abundance of insectivore, opportunistics ants. Anyway, the short time lapse that the prey stay in the field - at any time of the day - can be considered as an indirect estimate of the scarcity of these resources. 
3682519|Two tundra Polytrichum moss species were sampled in the field near Barrow, Alaska, three times during the growing season. Lipid, sugar, and starch concentrations of the green above ground shoots and below ground rhizomes were analyzed. Lipid and TNC (sugar + starch) concentrations were higher in Polytrichum commune growing on raised polygon rims than in Polytrichum alpinum. There were no significant differences between the two populations of P. alpinum. Green parts had significantly higher lipid concentrations than rhizomes in P. commune but not in P. alpinum. Both species had significantly higher sugar concentration in green shoots and higher starch concentrations in the rhizome and sugar concentration varied significantly in both species. Seasonal variation of TNC concentration levels were significant only in P. commune. A statistically significant positive relationship was found between lipid and TNC concentration while a stronger statistically significant negative relationship was found between sugar and starch concentration. The first is interpreted as an adaptation to drought in surface waxes and osmoticum while the second is interpreted as conversion indicator depending on tissue and use. Polytrichum mosses resemble evergreen vascular plants in their seasonal stability of these compound groups.
3682098|Catches of Trichoptera from 67 light traps in Great Britain are studied. Two families are excluded: the Limnephilidae because they have been considered in an earlier publication, and the Hydroptilidae. Catches from 148 complete year records, from 1965 to 1971, are grouped in three areas: A. Scotland, 15 sites; B. Wales and Northern England, 18 sites; C. Southern England, 34 sites. The total of over 146000 caddis flies includes 60 of the 109 British species from 14 families. Small or nil catches are explained by limited distribution or dispersal, short adult lives and day-flying habits. The flight periods are related to published information on life cycles. Most species are univoltine, but some small species are bivoltine. In contrast to Limnephilidae, there is no evidence of a summer adult diapause, median weeks for flight periods tend to be earlier in the south, and few species are autumnal fliers. Density distribution maps, produced by computer, are given for six species.
3682423|Birch forest on the slope of the Jesnalvaara fell forms a gradient ranging from 7-8 m high trees (at 75 m a.s.l.) to birch shrubs less than 1 m high at the top of the fell (330 m a.s.l.). Upper parts of the forest (above 220 m) were defoliated by Oporinia autumnata (Lep., Geometridae) about ten years ago and, with the exception of the top, only a fraction of birches have recovered. Climatic conditions explain the limitation of the damaged area - Oporinia eggs were killed during cold winters. Predators may also limit the damage. Detensive mechanisms in the birch leaves - especially a low nitrogen content and high concentrations of phenols inhibiting trypsin - can slow down an increase in herbivore density by reducing their reproductive capacity. Birch leaves from the lower limit of the damaged area are least suitable for the growth of herbivores. They have the highest concentration of phenols, too. Birches at the foot of Jesnalvaara are able to increase leaf phenols after mechanical damage of nearby leaves. This is enough to retard the growth of several herbivore species. Ability to recover after defoliation is an important part of the anti-herbivore strategy of the birch. This ability is higher in shrub birches than in tall trees and better after a warm than a cold summer. Birch leaves in the year following defoliation are less usable for herbivores and cause increased mortality and lowered reproduction. These properties are the weakest in birches at the foot of Jesnalvaara where the probability of being defoliated is also lowest.
3682524|Insects and spiders were sampled on branches of spruce in a
3682106|In order to explain, in terms of a morphologically based plastic response, the absence of density-dependent mortality, and the regulation of reproduction in the halophilous annual Spergularia marina, leaf demography and the use of meristems were studied in populations of three different densities. Leaf birth and death rates were almost constant at the higher densities, whereas at the lowest density both increased throughout most of the observation period. This increase was caused by the addition of new vegetative shoots, each one resembling the individuals growing at higher densities in having an almost constant leaf birth and death rate. The capacity to adjust leaf death rate to birth rate with density was high. There was no difference in the proportions of meristems used for flowering as the density increased. After the first flower had been produced, each following node produced a flower. The proportions of meristems used for vegetative shoots were strongly density-dependent; more shoots were produced at lower densities. The regulation of flower production was almost entirely caused by the addition of vegetative shoots.
3682504|The number of litters, litter size and survival of Clethrionomys gapperi and Microtus pennsylvanicus were documented at two elevations (1450 m; 2240 m) in the Canadian Rocky Mountains to determine if those life history traits changed with the length of the breeding season. The high elevation was colder, had fewer frost-free days, and more precipitation than the low elevation. The length of the breeding season of C. gapperi and M. pennsylvanicus averaged 8 d and 34 d longer, respectively, at the low elevation than at the high elevation. In both species and at both elevations, most females survived only long enough to produce one or two litters. Litter size was significantly greater at the high elevation than at the low elevation in M. pennsylvanicus, but not different in C. gapperi. Overall, nestling survival was greater at the low elevation than at the high elevation in M. pennsylvanicus, but not different in C. gapperi. Summer and winter survival rates were not different between elevations in either species. Differences in litter size and nestling survival between elevations in M. pennsylvanicus may be related to differences in habitat quality.
3682150| I studied the seed rain, seedling bank, newly emerged seedlings, and seed bank of tree species in a deciduous forest of northeastern North America (Qubec, Canada). The main objective was to determine to what extent the tree species present on the site differed in some of their regenerative traits. All the species present on the quadrats as mature trees contributed to the annual seed rain, although seed rain was strongly dominated by yellow birch and sugar maple. The seedling bank was mostly composed of red maple and sugar maple, but inputs from the 1988 cohort were mostly red maple and yellow birch seedlings. Seedling mortality was high in general (from 60% to 100%), but sugar maple had the lowest mortality of the tree species present. Two species maintained a seed bank on the study site: yellow birch and american basswood. Some species not present on the quadrats, but having populations nearby, disseminated seeds onto the quadrats (i.e. white ash and grey birch). Other species, not present on the quadrats as mature individuals, had seeds in the seed bank although they did not participate in the seed rain, did not maintain a seedling bank, and did not establish seedlings in 1988 (i.e. pin-cherry and Rubus spp.). Red maple, sugar maple, and yellow birch showed contagion in the dispersion pattern of their seeds in the seed rain (and the seed bank for yellow birch), and of their seedlings in the seedling bank and the 1988 cohort. Seedlings of american beech and american basswood of the seedling bank and the 1988 cohort were randomly dispersed over the quadrats, although their seeds in the seed rain had a contagious dispersion pattern. It has often been proposed in the literature that regenerative traits come only in "compatible assemblages" and that, consequently, species may be grouped according to their strategy of regeneration: e.g. species that maintain a seed bank vs those with a seedling bank; species with either a seed or a seedling bank vs those with the ability to sprout. In the community studied, it appears that regenerative traits do not come in neatly packaged exclusive assemblages, although the species do seem to possess different combinations of regenerative traits. However, yearly variations in seed production, seed germination, and seedling survival may render difficult the identification of strategies of regeneration. 
3682277|Body weight and growth of European hares Lepus europaeus Pallas in relation to environmental conditions, population density, age, sex, and reproduction were studied in three populations in southern Sweden on the basis of hares shot during October-December. There were no significant differences in mean body weight of juveniles in the three areas. Differences in juvenile growth, as indicated by the correlation between eye lens weight (age indicator) and body weight, between areas and years were related to variations in nutrient conditions, in an island population it was probably also related to population density. Adult body weights did not differ between two mainland areas despite differences in food supply and population density, whereas island adult hares were, on average, significantly lighter than mainland hares. Also this difference was ascribed to nutrient conditions and/or population density. There were no significant differences in body weight between adult hares of different age classes. But reproductive females showed a significant positive correlation between number of litters produced annually and body weight. This relation indicates that reproduction is favoured by large body size and body weight, which also might explain the average higher mean body weight in females than in males. Juvenile hares showed no clear tendency in sex dimorphism of body weight.
3682201|The moss species Orthodontium lineare, originally from the southern hemisphere, has been spreading in Europe during this century. We have monitored the distribution patterns of the species in Sweden. The age distribution differed between localities due to variation in the proportion of colonies in old age classes. We attributed this to differences in colony mortality. Although O. lineare had a high spore output in most localities, the colonies showed a clumped pattern, indicating strong neighbourhood effects in the colonization of new spots within the locality. The regional distribution was uneven and markedly southwestern. The distribution was related to regional and local availability of suitable habitats (decaying wood in not-too-dense forests), and to a lesser extent to climatic variables. Spore transport and establishment are suggested to be the limiting factors for colonization of suitable habitats of O. lineare.
3682345| Studies in the field and in a greenhouse were conducted to examine the effects of sand burial on seed germination, seedling emergence and establishment of Panicum virgatum L. on the foredunes of Lake Erie. Under natural conditions, the seedlings emerged from sand burial depths ranging from 0 to 11 cm, with a mean  SD of 4.73  1.82 cm. The frequency distribution of the depth of emergence of seedlings in the field was significantly skewed to the right and platykurtic. In the greenhouse, some seedlings emerged from a burial depth of as much as 16 cm. Although percent germination of seeds was not affected by sand burial, the percent emergence and the rate of emergence of seedlings were significantly reduced by excessive sand burial. Seedling mortality was found only among seedlings that emerged from sand burial depths of 10 cm or more. In the field, all the seedlings established in one growing season had originally emerged from sand burial depths of less than 12 cm. Within this burial range, seedlings from shallower burial depths had lower chances of establishment than expected, whereas those from deeper burial depths had higher probabilities of establishment than expected. 
3682503|Eggs and three different stages of premetamorphic tadpoles of moor frog Rana arvalis and common toad Bufo bufo were offered to the following potential predators in acidified lakes: newt Triturus vulgaris, water beetles Rhantus exoletus and Dytiscus lapponicus, dragonfly larvae Leucorrhinia dubia and Aeshna spp., water boatman Notonecta glauca and water bugs, Cymatia bonsdorffi, Glaenocorisa p. propinqua, and Corixa dentipes. The predation pressure on eggs of R. arvalis was low due to thick jelly. The eggs of B. bufo were not attractive to predators with chewing mouth parts due to unpalatability but predators with sucking mouth parts were not repulsed. Tadpoles of R. arvalis were eaten by all predators but tadpoles of B. bufo were unpalatable to most predators. The predators used in the experiments are the new top predators in acidified fishless lakes. They may contribute to the reduction of populations of R. arvalis in acidified areas.
3682707|The life cycle of Mesidotea entomon sampled near the shore of Norrbyn in the northern Bothnian Sea, has been investigated. The species, a predacious brackish water isopod, had a three year life cycle. In May - June the juveniles were released from the female marsupium at a size of 3 mm. During the second summer size dimorphism became apparent, where the males were larger than the females. During the third summer and autumn the development of ova started in females. Maturation mostly occurred during late winter. Males matured before, and at larger sizes, than the females, 36.0 and 29.1 mm, respectively. The average fecundity was 153.2 and the females carried the eggs and embryos for several months before the release. Calculation of the survival rate for each year during the life-span revealed 0.05, 0.66 and 0.43, respectively.
3682311|Age, sex and legbone marrow fat content of 90 red deer Cervus elaphus killed by wolves Canis lupus in winter in southeastern Poland were examined 1984-1988. The majority of kills were calves (44%) and hinds (40%); stags formed only 16%. The average age of hinds was 7.2 yr compared to 5.3 yr in stags. Animals older than 10 yr comprised only 13% of prey. Adults showed high femoral fat content (> 80%) throughout the winter (76% in early winter and 52% in late winter). Among calves femur marrow fat varied through the winter. In early winter 70% of calves had a high fat content (> 80%), though by late winter only 20% had such a high fat content, whilst 43% had low fat content (< 20%).
3682102|Auchenorrhyncha of a new polder were sampled by different kinds of traps in four stations in new habitats, one station on the salt marsh and one just outside the polder. In the latter stations 20 species of Auchenorrhyncha were caught in numbers that declined during the four year study. The proportion of macropters of the common Streptanus sordidus was highest in the largest catches. In the polder proper 392 specimens of 13 species were caught, all had moved at least 1500 m, but some could be traced to origins at greater distances. The number of immigrants also declined during the study. The distribution of the leafhoppers over the trapping stations suggests that leafhoppers, although sometimes transported over great distances, as a rule quickly fall out once they are airborne. Probably only one species had founded a resident population in the new polder at the end of the study.
3682365|The mean year-class ratio in 6 samples of weasels (total n = 477) ranged from 59% to 84% young, and mean age from 0.79 to 1.16 yr. There was no difference in age structure between samples from 5 game estates and 1 reserve. Mean annual mortality of weasels of both sexes and all ages was 75-90%. In 12 pregnant weasels the mean number of embryos, observed from April to June, was 5.6. There was a definite anoestrous season in winter. Records of the number of weasels killed on game estates show that weasels and stoats reacted differently to the first outbreak of myxomatosis in England in 1954; and that weasel populations are capable of enormous sudden increases (usually associated with "mouse years"). These increases are probably due largely to summer litters produced by precocious juveniles, and also to some adults breeding a second time (both possibilities confirmed from ovarian histology on this material). Traditional gamekeeping practice may influence the seasonal pattern of mortality of weasels (highest in spring) but its effects are probably short-lived.
3682651|The discontinuous bark cover formed by epiphytic lichens and algae provides a mosaic of microhabitats for the fauna. Multivariate analyses applied to 1800 samples collected in Belgian Lorraine (southern Belgium) during each of the four seasons has made it possible to distinguish five major classes of arthropod microcommunities. Two of them are confined to special habitats or places at certain seasons, viz. - a Pseudochermes fraxini (Homoptera) community found on Fraxinus during the summer, and "trophically" different from others; - a Vertagopus arborea (Collembola) community observed in foliose lichens in St. Mard mainly in winter. The three other classes are directly related to the epiphytic cover, viz. - a Dometorina plantivaga (Oribatida) community found in crustose epiphytes; - an Eueremaeus oblongus/Trichoribates trimaculatus (Oribatida) community sheltered by foliose lichens; - an Entomobrya nivalis (Collembola)/Cerobasis guestfalicus (Psocoptera) community observed in fruticose lichens. The ecological meaning of those microcommunities (mosaic and stratification patterns, seasonal variation, succession) is discussed. The results support the hypothesis that corticolous microcoenoses are associated with the epiphyte type and that their composition is greatly affected by the vegetation stratification pattern on bark.
3682572|In this study the number and species composition of diaspores dispersing into two newly abandoned peat harvesting areas in Finland were investigated. In an area abandoned six years earlier a total of 2978 living seeds m
3682353|This study examined the basis of diet preference in a mammalian hibernator, the yellow-bellied marmot Marmota flaviventris, in the White Mountains of California. Preference indices calculated from dietary data and food plant availability in the habitat indicated that forb species were preferred over graminoids, particularly in the spring and early summer. Chemical analysis of food plant species suggested that marmots preferred forbs over graminoids because of their lower fiber (cellulose) content and higher concentrations of phosphorus, sodium and possibly protein. Inclusion of graminoids in the diets was probably due to their greater availability in the habitat coupled with the need to maximize the rate of nutrient intake during the short (4-5 month) active season. Seasonal changes in diet composition were noted which may reflect, in part, temporal changes in nutrient demands.
3682341|Bilberry tissues accumulated nitrogen for the winter in the form of reduced low-molecular weight amino compounds. The storage organ was principally the underground stem and the oldest parts of the aerial shoot. Most of the nitrogen was stored in arginine and ammonium compounds, and less in glutamine and other amino acids. Proteins did not accumulate during the winter. The soluble nitrogenous compounds were discharged from storage in May, when nitrogen was translocated from the lower parts of the stem to the growing leaves and buds. Amino acid compositions and concentrations in winter were almost identical under the snow and in snowless areas, only the concentration of glutamine being lower and that of glutathione higher in the snowless area. The level of total protein, particularly in the leaves and buds was much higher in a nitrogen-polluted industrial area than in unpolluted urban forests. The same difference was observed in total amino compounds, but among individual substances it only appeared in ammonium compounds. Certain species differences in the amino acid pool were recorded between V. myrtillus and V. vitis-idaea.
3682266|The species composition, biomass (measured as algal volumes) and chlorophyll concentration of epipelic algae was studies before (1977) and during (1978-1979) fertilization with phosphorus and nitrogen of Lake Gunillajaure, a small subarctic lake in northern Sweden. The epipelic biomass, dominated by Cyanophyceae and Bacillariophyceae, was high
3682048|Pest control programs are usually evaluated without considering the population dynamics effects of the particular manipulation being recommended. A simple mathematical model is analysed which demonstrates that neglecting population dynamics may be disastrous. Emphasis is placed on the kinds of questions that must be asked before a pest control strategy can be fully evaluated. The discussion must necessarily be speculative since we lack the essential empirical basis for evaluating the effects of suggested pest control treatments. In itself, it is indeed alarming that this discussion must be speculative.
3682144|The influence of week of season, leaf position on plants, population size and population growth rate on twospotted spider mite adult and functional sex ratio was determined for wild populations found on field corn. Adult sex ratio became less female biased as the mite population per plant increased. Adult sex ratio became increasingly female biased at higher leaf positions on the plant. Population growth rate (measured as proportion eggs in the population) was positively correlated with the proportion females in the adult population. Functional sex ratio (ratio of sexually available females to males) was positively influenced by population growth rate. The other factors studied only slightly influenced this parameter. Ecological implications of these findings are briefly discussed.
3682466|Emergence of peatland insects was studied in Central Finland by sampling insects on a raised bog with tent traps from five different surfaces: muddy hollow without vegetation; hollow covered with Sphagnum; deep (0.7-0.9 m) open-water pool; shallow (about 0.3 m) pool with bottom covered by Carex vegetation; shallow (about 0.3 m) pool with bare muddy bottom. The material was collected at two-days intervals from 13 May until 31 August in 1981. Biomass emerging from the sites varied considerably. In general, aquatic sites were clearly more productive than semi-terrestrial sites. Corrected total biomass values for deep pools, shallow Carex pools, and shallow mud pools were 2.471, 1.066, and
3682212|Sixteen fens and marshes with areas between 10 and 285 ha was censused at least six times in the period 11 April to 10 June. The proportion of the number of resident species observed on a visit increased from the beginning of the census period up to the end of May. Thereafter it decreased. Variability in the census of the number of species was lowest in the end of May and the beginning of June. Throughout the seasons studied there were frequent visits of non-resident species. The proportion of non-resident, but not the proportion of resident species, observed on a visit, increased as the number of resident species at a locality increased. Census efficiencies per ten-day periods are given for 14 species. Census efficiency of a species correlated positively with the body weight of the species. The highest census efficiency for most species occurred in the period 21 April to 31 May. It is suggested that if two visits are made in that period about 80% (S.D. = 9.8) of the resident species will be observed.
3682299| The limnology of an oligotrophic lake, angvatn, situated in Trndelag county in Central Norway, has been studied for five years (1974-1978). In two years, 1975 and 1976, the lake was fertilized with a general fertilizer to change feeding conditions for the zooplankton. Mean phytoplankton biomass in the epilimnion and primary production for the years (1974-1978) were 417, 618, 1370, 607 and
3682247|The hoarding behaviour of one pair of nuthatches Sitta europaea L. and of four individual marsh tits Parus palustris L. was studied during autumn and winter in a deciduous grove in central Sweden. Sunflower seeds were offered at a feeding table. All individuals studied stored seeds intensively throughout the whole study period. The two species showed very different hoarding patterns. The nuthatch pair aggressively defended the area around the feeding table, which was within their territory, from other nuthatches and also seemed to affect the hoarding behaviour of the coexisting marsh tits. Some significant differences were found also between conspecifics in some aspects of hoarding behaviour, which could in some cases be related to sex or dominance. These differences may make hoarding profitable for the individual birds if they also differ in their foraging patterns individually, and so will have a greater probability of finding their own stored items than other individuals. However, the evidence for individual segregation of hoarding patterns is not conclusive.
3682385| Thirty forest bird communities were studied with regard to the changes in structural indices (number of species, density, biomass, species diversity H) and in energetics (energy flow A, production P, ecological efficiency P/A) in temporal and spatial gradients. All these characteristics increase during temporal succession; in natural deciduous forest there is a two-peak pattern of the increase, with the maximum in 15-20 yr old forest ("time ecotone";
3682137|The digestive capacity of free-living moose Alces alces (L.) and roe deer Capreolus capreolus (L.) for four plant species was studied with in vitro technique. Moose were found to digest all species better than roe deer. Individual variations were also smaller for moose. In moose the level of digestibility was the same both summer and winter, while roe deer shot in winter digested winter samples of bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus L. and to some extent Scots pine Pinus silvestris L. better than did summer roe deer. This was taken as evidence for a seasonal adaptation in the roe deer rumen. Digestibility of the plant material studied showed a strong negative correlation to the fiber content. The results are discussed in relation to winter problems for roe deer and possible food competition between moose and roe deer.
3682505|Initial stages of plant succession (from 0 to 8 or 9 yr) were studied on abandoned peat harvest sites of two adjacent areas in Finland. At the Mustasuo area only 13 field layer species, all perennials, and 3 ground layer species became established during that period and species composition stayed relatively constant. All species occurred sparsely with low biomass. The Riitasuo area was colonized by 43 field layer and 19 ground layer species during the first 8 yr of succession. In that area the originally plantless sites were totally covered by plants within a few years. Many of the first species to arrive were annuals, most of which were soon replaced by perennial species. The great differences between the two areas in the rate and pattern of early succession are suggested to arise from differences in the seed sources and in the physical and chemical characteristics of the soil. The areas were found to differ especially by the thickness of the remaining peat layer, by the particle size distribution of the peat soil and by the contents of nitrate and ammonium nitrogen of the soil.
3682554|Ther hypothesis of the exploitation of ecosystems predicts that plant communities in productive habitats should experience a low grazing pressure, while communities in less productive habitats should be structured by intense grazing. Thus, if a high population density of rodents was to be established in these communities and they could graze without predation, the plant community in the productive habitat should be more affected than the community in the less productive habitat. This was tested by building enclosures for grey-sided voles Clethrionomys rufocanus and lemmings Lemmus lemmus in a productive tall herb meadow and a less productive snow-bed on Finnmarksvidda, northern Norway. The simulated rodent population densities varied from 150 to
3682055| Analyses of volatiles in hindguts of Ips typgraphus males from different spruce trees and attack phases are reviewed. The composition of monoterpenes, and the chirality of -pinene, have been determined in phloem samples. Relationships between compounds emanating from spruce trees and bark beetles, respectively, have been studied. Male beetles depend on their host tree for the production of pinene alcohols. The ratio between the pinene alcohols is almost constant in males boring in the same tree but can vary widely between males from different spruce trees. Very good correlations were found between some host tree monoterpene hydrocarbons and bark beetle produced pinene alcohols. The production of the essential pheromone component 2-methyl-3-buten-2-ol, was not correlated with the monoterpene content in the host trees, while the production of the other essential pheromone component, cis-verbenol, depends on the amount of the precursor, (-)--pinene in the phloem. Male beetles boring in a resistant spruce tree will continue to produce the pinene alcohols, including cis-verbenol, as long as the tree defends itself with resin. 
3682281| The foraging activity of bumblebees in a subalpine/alpine area in northern Sweden was related to weather factors (temperature, light, wind and rain) by counting the number of specimens visiting a square (5  5 m) with a high density of forage plants. The combined effect of light and temperature was the most important factor regulating the flight activity. The condition of the arctic light-climate allows bumblebees to fly even at the less light hours of the day. No clear differences according to flight activity were observed between the subalpine/alpine species Bombus balteatus Dahlbom, B. lapponicus (Fabricius) and the species B. jonellus (Kirby), B. pascuorum (Scopoli), B. pratorum (L.), observed in the subalpine habitats. A comparison between the flight activity of queens, workers and males shows that queens are able to fly at the lowest temperatures followed by males and workers at slightly higher temperatures. The relevance of the overlap of the body sizes between the casts is discussed. 
3682648|Eriksson et al. (1980) hypothesized that the abundance of certain macroinvertebrate predators, such as larvae of the phantom midge Chaoborus, should increase in acidified lakes because of the elimination of fish. To examine the influence of pH and presence of fish on Chaoborus abundance, we surveyed Chaoborus populations in 33 lakes in Ontario, Canada which ranged in pH from 4.5 to 7.4. Chaoborus larvae were not more abundant in the acidified lakes that were devoid of fish than in the remaining lakes. Therefore, we concluded that pH and presence of fish are not prime determinants of total Chaoborus abundance in Canadian Shield lakes. We hypothesized that significant increases in Chaoborus abundance should only be anticipated when fish populations are eliminated by acidification of relatively nutrient rich lakes.
3682112|Utilisation of heather at three Scottish moors, by red grouse, mountain hares, sheep and red deer, was measured by collecting their faecal droppings regularly from plots on heather patches of different ages. Rates of heather growth differed between moors, and preferences of the four species, all grazers of heather, were related more closely to its height than to its age. Thus hares spent most time on ground with heather less than 15 cm high, sheep less than 20 cm, grouse preferred heather 10-30 cm high and deer spent most time on heather over 25 cm high. Differences between outer, middle and inner plots on patches at one of the moors indicated that grouse are reluctant to move far from cover into areas of newly burned ground, and reluctant to move far into patches of tall, dense heather, when these are next to shorter material. Hares preferred the middle of patches on newly burned ground and very young heather. At two of the moors, but not the third, there was evidence that heavy grazing by hares in winter reduced the amount of young heather available to hares and grouse in spring. This potential reduction in the quality of the spring diet of grouse is discussed in relation to previously reported associations between numbers of hares and grouse at those two moors.
3682492|The activity patterns of a coarse browser, the moose, Alces alces, and a selective browser, the roe deer, Capreolus capreolus, in a north boreal forest, central Sweden, were compared with respect to time allocated for foraging and processing (ruminating) in different seasons. Data were quantified by measuring 24 h activity patterns which included both the duration and frequency of active and inactive periods. Activity patterns were measured from 9 female moose and 9 roe deer that were radiomarked during April 1974-May 1978 (roe deer) and February 1982-December 1984 (moose). In total, data were available from 4345 h for roe deer and 14745 h for moose. Roe deer differed from moose in having active bouts more evenly distributed over the day. Generally, both species were most active during sunrise and sunset. Total daily active time varied with season, reaching the highest value in late May - early June among roe deer (56.7% of the day) and a month later among moose (51.9%). Both species were least active in February (30-40%). Average length of active bouts did not differ significantly between the species but changed with season (roe deer 48.6-99.2 min, moose 61.6-88.7 min). Average length of inactive bouts varied significantly with season, with moose having consistently longer bouts (89.3-156.3 min) than roe deer (55.8-107.0 min). The number of activity bouts per day were also higher among roe deer. During midsummer, they changed activity nearly twice as many times as moose (
3682634|We examined the relationships between morphology and foraging behaviour in a group of insectivorous birds wintering in temperate mixed forests in northern Iberia. Using principal components analysis we reduced 11 biometric variables to three major morphological components and 20 foraging categories to four major ecological factors. The relative length of the tarsometatarsus and bill morphology were the most important morphological variables predicting foraging ecology. Birds exploiting distal parts of trees and foliage were generally smaller and had relatively longer tarsometatarsi than those foraging on trunks. Foraging on the ground and branches of medium diameter was associated with bill thickness. Ecomorphological patterns were discernible at the level of substrate use and foraging methods, but bear no relation to selection of tree species or foraging height. Morphology correctly predicted niche breadth and interspecific overlap. In Parus spp. interspecific differences in bill shape could explain 63% of the interspecific segregation according to substrate use ( R
3682233|White spruce forests on the most elevated surfaces of the Mackenzie Delta are dying out and are being replaced by open spruce/lichen-heath or spruce/bog woodlands. Soil profiles indicate that these woodlands have not received flood-deposited sediments for many years. The active layer is only 20 to 50 cm deep by mid-summer, and the organic soils are colder and more acidic than soils under white spruce forests flooded during spring ice breakup in 1961, 1972, and 1982. Spruce regeneration is limited to those stands that are flooded periodically, have moderately-closed canopies, and have a ground cover of herbs rather than feathermosses and lichens. It is proposed that a decrease in flood frequency is primarily responsible for the poor regeneration of white spruce on the most elevated delta surfaces. Spruce woodlands on the delta could succeed to tundra vegetation if present fluvial regimes continue.
3682660|Birds are a powerful tool of environmental monitoring, on account of their ecological diversity. Because of this, bird populations seem best suited for monitoring biological, possibly non-linear effects of specified environmental changes, such as habitat modification, and for "general monitoring" aimed at detecting unexpected environmental changes as they occur. Because many population changes have multiple causes, monitoring specific environmental changes is most rewarding if birds are grouped by e.g. habitat, major strategy (e.g. resident vs. migrant species), or feeding guild. A blueprint for a Nordic monitoring system based on breeding land birds is presented. Local trends may be atypical, and representative coverage of the major habitats in large areas should thus be ensured. As annual population fluctuations usually give little information in environmental monitoring, long-term projects are necessary. The line transect method seems applicable to many monitoring purposes, as it is rapid, inexpensive, relatively accurate, and suitable for sampling the northern terrestrial biota of the Holarctic region, probably including the temperate deciduous forests.
3682071|Succession of forest floor vegetation (cryptogam and understorey vascular plant synusiae) is studied. Diversity patterns in northern boreal and hemiboreal to middle boreal lichen-rich forests are different. Even when the lichen volume, which describes the successional status, is taken into account, the diversity in southern forests is lower. The descriptors of diversity are rather independent of lichen volume in southern forests. When the Stereocaulon-rich forests are excluded, stronger correlations are observed in the northern forests, but the species number decreases only slightly as the lichen volume increases. Evidently this is due to relatively large sample plots, where suitable patches for minor species are usually available. The decrease is much stronger in Shannon's and Simpson's indices. This is mainly due to a decrease in evenness since, as the lichen volume increases, the dominance of some Cladina species increases. Therefore, these indices are not particularly efficient in describing the richness of the community. Stereocaulon-rich stands have diversity values which correspond to Cladina-rich stands with a considerably higher lichen volume, which gives additional evidence for their status as successionally rather mature communities.
3682105|The chironomid communities of fifty lakes in northern Norway are presented and briefly described. A limnological classification of the communities is given, together with remarks on the methods used. The interrelationships are given of the chironomid communities and such lake-water parameters as the minimum oxygen content, Secchi disc values, conductivity, total hardness and calcium content, total nitrogen, total phosphorus, chlorophyll a, and estimated fish yield. The best predictive and monitoring value of the chironomid communities, as classified by the above system, was obtained for the organic parameters. Compared with other indices used for estimating fish yields, the present method is as reliable as the better ones.
3682213| The effects of freshwater outflows were evaluated in three ways: (1) microbial populations in the outflow area (mainly Tvrminne Storfjrd) were compared with populations outside the area, (2) direct counts were made at three sites to monitor the abundance of bacteria along the seaward course of the outflows, and (3) a survey was made of the distribution of microorganisms in the archipelago. The indices used for the presence of freshwater outflows in the archipelago were low salinity, increased amounts of humic matter, and increased temperatures in the winter. In the outer archipelago, the effects of the outflows were most evident in the low-salinity surface layer below the ice and were also distinguishable in spring and late autumn, but were noted only sporadically in the summer. The outflows were traced as far seaward as the border of the sea zone. The outflows transported various types of bacteria, bacterial spores and yeasts, but did not significantly affect the community respiration. Many of the microorganisms flowing with the fresh water in the winter evidently originated from sewage. During the other seasons, the roles of outflows from the firth of Pojoviken and runoff from the land became evident, but their contributions could not be estimated because fresh water and sewage move together. However, most of the bacterial spores seemed to originate from the land. The archipelago east of Tvrminne Storfjrd proved to be appropriate for inshore brackish-water investigations being undisturbed by freshwater outflows. 
3682111|Age and size distributions and growth rates of individual trees were examined in a black spruce stand growing on a peatland in Alberta, Canada, 38 years after fire. Both height and basal girth frequency distributions were positively-skewed, with many small and few large individuals. Age distributions were negatively-skewed; most trees were recruited five to seven years after fire and there was little recruitment after 25 years. Stem analysis data indicated that increment in height was nearly constant over the life of the trees but larger trees grew faster than smaller trees. The trees which started growth immediately after the fire maintained faster growth than those recruited some years later. At the time of study, above ground competition and canopy shading were not considered to have a large effect on growth rates of individual trees. Several hypotheses are presented to explain these differences in growth of individual trees.
3682268|The species composition, species richness, and the general characteristics of the Corsican bird fauna are compared to those of similar French mainland areas. Species richness on Corsica is approximately 30% lower than on similar-sized reference areas on the mainland. A comparative study of the species composition indicates that species impoverishment is not evenly distributed among different species groups. These groups were defined on three levels: taxonomical, biogeographical, and ecological. The sea bird fauna appears not to be impoverished. Freshwater and anthropophileous bird species groups show only little impoverishment, which is to be related to their good dispersal ability as a consequence of the discontinuous distribution of their habitats even on the mainland. The mainland forest species group is one of the most impoverished, but mainland forest species having colonised Corsica show important habitat expansion and increased densities on the island. The sedentarity of these species and particular features of the Corsican environment are proposed as explanations.
3682325|We examined biotic and abiotic factors associated with density and diversity of larval midges (Diptera: Chironomidae) in the littoral zone of Par Pond, an 1100 ha cooling reservoir located near Aiken, South Carolina, USA. A total of 144 core samples were removed from 12 areas during each of 3 sample periods. Principal component analysis, Mantel analysis, and various univariate statistical tests were used to detect seasonal differences in (1) associations among areas and genera of Chironomidae, and (2) responses of midges to a multi-faceted environmental gradient. Water temperature, which in this case was a function of both season and thermal effluents, was the factor most strongly associated with relative changes in density and diversity within the chironomid assemblages. Plant biomass and/or plant diversity were significant factors correlated with midge density and diversity. Both particle size and organic content of the substratum, which varied little across stations, were relatively unimportant factors. Despite the presence of a multifaceted environmental gradient, the composition and relationships within the midge assemblages were remarkably similar across areas although total abundance and diversity varied. On the basis of their similarity in structure and function, we classify the midge assemblages within the reservoir as members of the same community. However, in response to dissimilar or unequal selective forces (principally the area-specific effects of thermal effluents), these assemblages appear to behave environmentally as multiple units rather than as a single component of the benthic community in Par Pond.
3682191| The common garter snake, Thamnophis sirtalis, has frequently been studied, but never in the far north where climatic influences on distribution and abundance might be expected to be severe. We examined the structure and dynamics of a communal den population at the northern limit of the species' range. Snakes were sampled at the hibernaculum from spring 1983 to spring 1987. Males were more easily caught than females, and few inferences could be made about the latter. Population estimates, though possessing wide standard errors, seemed to indicate that the denning population of 500-600 snakes, mostly adults, was stable. Annual survivorship of large males (400 mm SVL) was high (0.68-0.98) and was not correlated with body size. Thirty-four snakes that were first marked in 1983 were recaptured in the spring of 1987, indicating that they had survived at least six years, assuming they were a minimum of two years old when first marked. Recruitment to the denning population consisted of an influx of 'new' individuals (450-550 mm SVL) each autumn. It is not known where these snakes spend the first few years of their existence. The relative stability of numbers and high overwinter survivorship observed over the course of this study contrast sharply with the only previous study of T. sirtalis in cold climates. 
3682181| The tree-ring patterns of birch and pine in the Tornetrsk area of Swedish Lapland were compared. In order to dendrochronologically identify years of major insect attacks on birch, pine being unaffected by these outbreaks, served as control. The sharp growth increase in birch following the historically confirmed, heavy outbreak in 1954-55 is discussed and evidence pointing to possible earlier outbreaks is presented. 
3682662| The benthic resting stages of pelagic cyclopoids were studied in the oligotrophic lake Pjrvi (maximum depth 87 m), southern Finland. Stage 5 copepodids of Thermocyclops oithonoides were found in the bottom from September to April, with highest abundances in the littoral at 1-2 m. Dormant Mesocyclops leuckarti (mainly stage 5 copepodids) were found from mid-August to April, with a strong concentration at the depth of 1.5 m, and resting stage 4 copepodids of Cyclops kolensis from mid-summer to late winter at the depths of 1-13 m. Single stage 4 and 5 copepodids of C. strenuus and C. lacustris were also found in the bottom during autumn and winter. Available information on the periodicity of these species conforms well with the hypothesis of a temperature-adjusted photoperiodic control of diapause. In the sediment, the resting stages of pelagic cyclopoids were confined to the uppermost 2-3 cm, C. kolensis penetrating slightly deeper than the smaller Thermocyclops and Mesocyclops species. Losses during the resting period were highest in T. oithonoides, in which the seasonal mortality rates were significantly correlated with temperature. Its overall mortality was slightly lower at 2 m than at 13 or 40 m. C. kolensis had the lowest mortality, with no clear relation to temperature. The mean winter biomass of the benthic resting stages of pelagic cyclopoids exceeded that of the true benthic copepods, and the winter losses of the former were equal to about one fifth of the total annual production of the true benthic copepods. 
3682257|The feces of stream insects may be a major component of fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) available to collector organisms. In Mink Creek, Idaho, winter defecation rates for 9 species ranged from 86 mg dry feces
3682059|A summary of the present knowledge of variation in individual quality within a bark beetle population is given, with emphasis on the spruce bark beetle Ips typographus. A major causal factor is density, mediated by competition during larval development. Density negatively influences individual quality measured as weight, fat content and pheromone production. Together with decreasing mean values at higher densities, the skewness of the frequency distributions goes from negative to positive, while variance changes little. High densities, which often occur in the field, thus result in a large fraction of "low quality beetles". They have lower reproductive capacity and presumably lesser dispersal ability, lower survival, and earlier response to pheromone. This might concentrate the population in the next generation with increased competition as a result. It is suggested that a decrease in beetle "quality" due to increasingly intense intraspecific competition can contribute to the decline of an epidemic population.
3682675| The catchment area of vre Heimdalsvatn reaches from the upper half of the subalpine birch forest zone to the lowermost part of the high-alpine subzone within the alpine zone. The units dominating the area include mountain birch forest, tall herb meadow, mire vegetation, bilberry heath, snowbed communities, chionophobous heath vegetation, and areas without a continuous vegetation layer. It is shown that the potential natural vegetation corresponds closely to the actual vegetation distribution. 
3682378|The distribution and abundance of protozoa in two chalk streams were studied. Particular attention was given to the ciliates and amoebae associated with the dominant submerged macrophyte, Ranunculus penicillatus. Highest numbers of protozoa occurred in habitats in the stream where the current velocity was reduced. Mean standing crops of ciliates, flagellates and amoebae were 32.5, 2.9 and
3682447|The root systems of 16 dominant higher plants in 6 tundra plant communities were examined for the presence of mycorrhizae. Six are ectomycorrhizal, one strictly ectendomycorrhizal, six endomycorrhizal, and three nonmycorrhizal. The higher fungi which fruited among these plants were identified and related to the plants with appropriate ectomycorrhizal associations. Fungal biomass was measured in each community and the mycorrhizal component discussed and estimated. New records of Alaskan species of higher fungi are presented along with new descriptions of mycorrhizae on two subalpine plants.
3682415| Inland areas in SW Greenland south of lat. 67N have thermic conditions which are subarctic or just border on subarctic situations, but natural woodlands of Betula pubescens coll. and Sorbus groenlandica, though not covering vast areas, are confined to favourable places from lat. 6015 to 6115N. Alnus crispa forms thickets in middle fjord - or inland areas between 61 and 67. Apart from those depending on human activities, the factors limiting hardwood tree growth in Greenland are climatic and due either to hyperoceanic conditions in coastal mountains or skerries (too low summer temperatures) or high degree of continentality, resulting in extremely low precipitation (e.g. Sndre Strmfjord inland with subarctic steppes and salt lakes). Boreal (including sylvicolous) species, e.g. Cornus suecica, reach far north of the areas inhabited by low birch woodlands, but boreal species dominate the flora of the treeless skerries in South Greenland as well as areas at the head of the fjords where birch trees locally reach heights of 6-7 m. 
3682555|The two larger newt species in Europe, Triturus cristatus and T. marmoratus, have largely exclusive distributions but live in sympatry in a small area in western France, where they also hybridize. Triturus cristatus is increasing in abundance in the area at the expense of T. marmoratus, although this study shows that T. marmoratus has higher relative lifetime reproductive success. Triturus marmoratus lays more eggs than its relative under controlled conditions, and more T. marmoratus eggs in relation to its relative abundance are found in natural breeding sites. The hybrids are even more fecund, but their eggs and embryos have a lower survival rate. The data are compared for age at maturity and species longevity, and estimates of lifetime reproductive success show that T. marmoratus females are more fecund than T. cristatus females. There are no differences between the species in survival of the embryos. It is therefore not clear why T. cristatus is replacing T. marmoratus, but changes in terrestrial habitats due to human activity might be the explanation.
3682721| Pitfall traps caught large numbers of representatives of 44 families of invertebrates just before snow fall and under the snow. Some groups of ectotherms were most active in late autumn and late winter, the activity of some increased throughout the winter and some showed no major change although subnivean temperatures were usually near 0C. The most commonly trapped groups were: phalangids, collembolans, diplopods, coleopterans, dipterans, arachnids, gastropods and chilopods. 
3682227|The wind profile in the IBP beech stand and the vertical temperature distribution in the same beech stand and in a neighbouring clearing were investigated. In addition the temperature and humidity conditions in the trunk space of the beech stand and in the clearing were compared. The precipitation components were investigated during two periods. Because of the topography and the small extent of the wood the wind profile depends strongly on the wind direction. Maximum temperatures were found to occur in the upper part of the canopy during in-leaf periods. During leafless periods the temperature distribution indicates the presence of two distinct levels of energy exchange. Advection of airmasses from the adjoining bay strongly influences the climate of the wood. Because of the density of trees and the narrow fanshaped canopies, yearly throughfalls amount to 55-60% of the total precipitation, while stemflows amount to as much as 12%.
3682220|Eighty-five unhatched eggs from 68 white-tailed sea eagle clutches were collected during 1965-1978 along the Baltic coast and in Lapland. The eggs were analysed individually for residue levels of DDT and its metabolites, PCB and mercury. Pooled samples were analysed for levels of dieldrin and hexachlorobenzene (HCB). The variations in residue levels within and between clutches were studied before the material was grouped for investigations of relationships between reproduction and contamination. Levels of DDE, PCB and mercury were significantly higher in the Baltic as compared to the Lapland material. In the Baltic, the reproductive success on a clutch basis and on a nest basis was significantly and negatively correlated to the egg residue levels of DDE and PCB; no correlation was found with mercury. Critical ranges were estimated to
3682195|Year class splitting has been observed in a population of the terrestrial isopod Philoscia muscorum (Scopoli) in a fixed dune grassland. In this population, individuals born in one season differentiate into two forms, one of which grows to maturity in one year, the other in two. Laboratory investigations of growth, fecundity and survivorship of individuals showed fundamental positive relationships between rate of growth and the ambient temperature/day light regime, and between parental size and the number of offspring produced. Size also affected survivorship, with adults surviving better than juveniles. A link between survivorship and the temperature/day light regime was only obvious in small juveniles. No direct physiological cause for the year class split could be derived from the laboratory studies, but a trade-off between the need for delayed or early breeding could result in the patterns of growth and reproduction observed in the field population. Delayed breeding allows continued growth of adults and hence larger numbers of offspring. Early breeding allows more growth of juveniles which greatly improves their chances of winter survival.
3682422|The close correlation between climatic fluctuation and forest growth near the tree-line is discussed. Depending on climatic conditions, the opinions of foresters on the yield potential of the northernmost pine forests have varied greatly from time to time. In Finland the Zone of Protection-Forests is defined by law (1922) and the Forest Research Institute has prepared practical instructions for the silvicultural management of the Protection-Forests (1959). These instructions are rather conservative. Thus, radical measures, such as clear-felling and artificial reforestation, are avoided whereas, in the first place, silvicultural thinnings and removal of over-mature standards in younger stands are recommended. This kind of management allows the rational utilization of the yield capacity of the forests, without endangering their future existence. The scenic value and multiple use of these forests also are considered in the management instructions.
3682654|The research area includes subalpine meadows, alder communities, dwarf-shrub heaths, lichen heaths and highalpine meadows (1960 m-3090 m a.s.l.). The material consists of 4419 Julidae (31.6% adult) collected by extraction of litter samples (66.4%), in pitfall traps (26.3%) and by handsampling (7.3%). Cylindroiulus meinerti (Verhoeff) only occurred below 2000 m; Leptoiulus saltuvagus (Verhoeff) was mainly found at Alnus viridis sites; Leptoiulus simplex (Verhoeff) had its main distribution in the lichen heath (2200-2300 m); Ommatoiulus sabulosus (L.) was found most frequently in the subalpine meadow and Leptoiulus alemannicus (Verhoeff) occurred up to 2800 m without any altitudinal concentration. Adults of L. saltuvagus showed only one distinct activity peak in September, those of L. simplex were diplochronous (June/September) and O. sabulosus summer stenochronous (July). L. saltuvagus reached maturity in stage IX (only males), X or XI after four or five years. In their first year of growth the members of a generation reached the third or fourth stage, in the second year the sixth or seventh, in the third year the eighth or ninth. Females could carry full-sized eggs in the autumn of the fourth year in the tenth stage or in the fifth year in stage eleven. Apparently eggs may be laid in spring of the fifth or sixth year. Overwintering density of L. saltuvagus in alder litter was found to be
3682470|The effects of pH and aluminium on embryonic and early larval stages of Swedish brown frogs Rana arvalis, R. temporaria and R. dalmatina were tested in laboratory bioassays. In all three species egg mortality and time needed for embryonic development to hatching increased when pH declined, but no significant effects were found on embryonic development when aluminium level was elevated. In R. arvalis and R. temporaria larval mortality was affected by both pH and aluminium. In both species the frequency of occurrence of larval deformities increased in acid water, and there was a synergistic effect of pH and aluminium. In R. arvalis swimming behaviour was disturbed by high levels of aluminium at pH 5. In all three species the frequency of stressed larvae increased when pH was depressed and aluminium concentration elevated, and there was a synergistic effect when both were combined. The three species differed significantly in egg mortality, time needed for embryonic development, larval mortality, larval deformities and larval stress at low pH and high aluminium levels. R. arvalis showed the highest acid tolerance and R. dalmatina was the most sensitive to low pH.
3682120|At a high arctic lowland on Ellesmere Island, heath communities dominated by Cassiope tetragona were widespread, and occurred in a variety of habitats that differred in time of snowmelt, relative site moisture, soil thaw depth, and air and soil temperature. Cover, standing crop, and production were dominated by woody plants, notably Cassiope tetragona and Dryas integrifolia. The Cassiope-dominated heaths were similar in composition to those at other Canadian high arctic localities, but were less similar to localities in Greenland and Spitzbergen. Compositional relationships among Cassiope-dominated heaths in different habitats at the study site may be largely determined by two interrelated environmental factors, time of snowmelt and site moisture. Aboveground vascular plant biomass was concentrated near the ground surface, resulting in simple vertical structure that takes advantage of relatively warm soil and air temperatures in summer, and a protective snow cover in winter. Aboveground vascular plant standing crop was largely comprised of attached dead tissue, and there were equal proportions of above- and belowground biomass. Low community production was due to dominance by long-lived, slow-growing species, and to short growing seasons and cold temperatures. Overall character of Cassiope-dominated heaths reflects the conservative, stress tolerant growth strategy of the dominant species, Cassiope tetragona.
3682403| Survival of the midge larvae Chironomus plumosus and C. anthracinus in anoxia at 4C was investigated. C. plumosus survived about twice as long as C. anthracinus. The corresponding LT 50 values were ca 205 and 100 d. There was no statistically significant difference between the survival in anoxia and in aerated water, which indicates that the main reason for death in anoxia is not the absence of oxygen. This main reason is presumed to be starvation. The presence of undissociated H
3682279|Climatic fluctuation is a serious problem for forestry in Lapland. Some indications about the nature and causal relationships of such fluctuation have been discussed. Cyclic variation can be explained by a "memory" in the atmosphere, variation in the Moons's gravitation, and solar activity. The index of atmospheric circulation over the northern hemisphere was the most effective climatic parameter in explaining the growth variation of Scots pine.
3682715| In Hastings Lake (longitudes 11315 and 5350N), a shallow eutrophic lake, the spatial and temporal changes in species composition, diversity, standing crops, and primary productivity of the epiphytic algae attached to Phragmues australis and Scirpus validus were investigated in relation to the physico-chemical environment. Of the dominant species, cyanophycean algae (Lyngbya diguetii and Calothrix sp.) developed best in the 25 cm region below the water surface, while the chlorophycean alga, Stigeoclonium nanum and the diatoms (Cocconeis placentula, Gomphonema parvulum and Rhoicosphenia curvata) did so in the 50 cm and 75 cm regions, respectively. Certain dominant species persisted throughout, interrupted by "shock periods" which created spring, summer, and autumn peaks. Species diversity indices increased with depth, and generally decreased spring through winter. Standing crop maxima occurred within the top 25 cm of the host stems, and showed spring and larger autumn peaks before declining to low, yet significant winter levels. Productivity, too, was greatest in the top 25 cm region, and again peaked in the spring and autumn. Cross incubation studies elucidated vertical and seasonal relationships among productivity, photosynthetic index, and efficiency, and productivity efficiency. An interplay of "sun and shade" adapted populations within the community was found. The epiphytic algae displayed but a muted seasonal response to physico-chemical fluctuations; however, there was an association with overall nutrient changes as determined by meq
3682357| We examined population fluctuations of the voles Microtus agrestis L. and Clethrionomys glareolus Schreb. by biannual trapping; black grouse Tetrao tetrix L., mountain here Lepus timidus L., and red fox Vulpes vulpes L. by using bag records from all over Sweden, questionnaires from south-central Sweden, and population indices from Grims Wildlife Research Area in south-central Sweden. Synchronous population fluctuations between voles as a group and the other species conformed to a 3-4 year periodic pattern in both autumn and spring populations only in northern and central Sweden (the boreal forest region). Spring populations of boreal forest grouse, hare, and probably also fox, lagged one year behind the voles. The northerly areas also formed geographical units of co-fluctuation within each game species. Using our own data as well as reviewing previous studies in Fennoscandia, we conclude that synchronized 3-4 year population fluctuations of voles and medium-sized herbivores are confined to the central and northern part of Fennoscandia, although voles may exhibit short-term population fluctuations further south. The synchronizing link between the herbivores could be (1) food plant quality and/or quantity and/or (2) predation. We could not reject either of these two plausible mechanisms as a cause of interspecifically synchronous fluctuations. 
3682736| Imnavait Creek is a tundra stream in the Arctic Foothills of Alaska. The stream is beaded, i.e. consists of pools (up to  2 m deep) connected by narrow channels. Peat dominates pool and channel substrate materials with occasional rock and moss substrates. The watershed is underlain by ice-bonded till and is hydrologically water-tight. Because of low rates of weathering, bedrock and till do not contribute significantly to ionic composition of the stream water. Breakup occurs in late May to early June with surface flow until September. During periods of low rainfall, channel flow is reduced and pools become hydrologically isolated and thermally stratified (with very high surface water temperatures). Streamwater is acidic (pH values 5.3-6.1) with very low alkalinity (
3682347|The hypothesis that bogs are climax (structurally and compositionally stable) communities has been proposed for several large regions including southeast Alaska. A logical consequence of the bog climax is the hypothesis that, where there is infrequent large-scale physical disturbance, landscape-level changes from early successional woodland to late successional peatland should have occurred during the Holocene. This hypothesis is tested in southeast Alaska using analyses of fossil arthropods and site stratigraphy, as well as a review of the ecological literature. Results indicate at least three major landscape types have dominated since deglaciation: deciduous woodland (about 9000 to 6000 yr BP), coniferous woodland (about 6000 to 3000 yr BP), and peatland (about 3000 yr BP to present). Other paleoecological and ecological studies from around the region provide evidence for directional changes, both past and present, from woodland to peatland. Furthermore, there is no clear evidence for peatland to woodland transitions in the absence of large-scale disturbance. These results suggest that the bog climax hypothesis deserves a more careful examination by ecologists studying succession.
3682050|A model of attack dynamics on a single tree under mass attack by the spruce bark beetle Ips typographus is developed from earlier studies of pheromone production and response of the flying population to the pheromone signal. The model is explored for different numbers and sex-ratios of pioneer beetles and responding beetles. Both numbers of pioneers and responders were important for the dynamics, while the sex-ratio of pioneers was less important. A decreased proportion of males among the responding beetles was important for the result of the model. In the early stage of the attack the model predictions of both numbers and sex-ratio of beetles landing were similar to examples from naturally mass-attacked trees, although the attack proceeded more slowly than in the field. Several aspects of the attack dynamics, such as density-regulation of the number of attacks on the tree, as observed in the field, were not predicted by the model. Gaps in the knowledge of the chemical ecology of the tree-insect relation, such as qualitative change in odours from the tree, spacing mechanisms on the bark surface, and mortality due to host resistance, are pointed out with help of the model.
3682082|Intraspecific variation in the maximum shell length of Pisidium is small in comparison with variation in the life span of the clams, from 4 mo to 4 yr. The use of shell length as a measure of size is complicated by large intraspecific variation in the weight-length relationship, a possible reflection of resource availability on the weight of the soft parts. Maximum embryo length is relatively constant (1 mm) in the majority of species but litter size is variable (1 to 40), generally increasing with parent size. The time of egg-laying is determined by the size of the clam, season, and previous episode of reproduction, while the timing of the release of embryos, depending also on embryonic growth rate, is additionally affected by temperature and oxygen conditions. In brief, the maximum adult and embryo lengths are relatively conservative traits while growth rates vary by an order of magnitude. Reproductive effort, when measured by the ratio of litter weight to parent weight, may increase or decrease with parent length and age. Both semelparous and iteroparous populations are known in several species. We suggest that if maximum adult length can be reached by the first reproductive season (in a favourable environment) the population is semelparous, otherwise (in an unfavourable environment) the population is iteroparous. Gravid clams in semelparous populations continue to grow, and thus assimilation cannot be meaningfully partitioned into reproduction, somatic growth and maintenance. Along a depth gradient from 8 to 65 m, maximum and mature shell lengths, embryo length and litter size varies significantly in Pisidium conventus subpopulations not distinguishable electrophoretically. Large clams in deep water produce large embryos but small litters, which is contrary to the general trend of increasing litter size with parent length. Low food availability that decreases juvenile growth rate may restrict litter size in this case.
3682674| Owing to the high altitude of vre Heimdalen and the complex topography within the valley, climatic conditions are complicated. The valley is situated in a mountain region with a subarctic or tundra macroclimate, which exists over the lake itself and on the SSW-valley side. However, the favourable combination of slope angle and exposure of the NNE-valley side gives a radiation or continental type of local climate on this side. The large net input of radiant energy onto the NNE-valley side during the summer results in higher air temperatures, greater precipitation and higher air humidity than elsewhere in the valley. This is clearly reflected in the luxuriant vegetation on this side. Thus, the climate of the vre Heimdalsvatn area is strongly influenced by terrain irregularities and shows how fundamentally different growth possibilities due to local climates may be over short distances in the uppermost valleys on the eastern side of the central mountain chain. 
3682101|Microfungi were isolated with the soil washing technique from five different soil horizons in three podzolic coniferous forests in Sweden. Totally 126 species were identified of which 45 were found at two and 24 were found at three sites. The most common genera were Mortierella and Penicillium. Other genera isolated in high frequences were Oidiodendron, Tolypocladium, Trichoderma and Verticillium. Pronounced differences in species composition were found between the soil layers, while great similarities were shown in identical soil layers at different sites.
3682169| A documented warmth preference in the pool frog Rana lessonae is also expressed in the reproductive behaviour of a northern fringe population (60N). During the breeding period of 31 days, individually marked frogs were observed during chorus. Male choruses were formed in the warmest parts of the pond, but moved between three areas. At night, these areas maintained the highest water temperatures in the pond, especially at low temperatures prevailing in the beginning of the breeding period. Oviposition occurred in the current chorus areas, and 86% took place during the first two weeks of the breeding period. That the choruses and oviposition changed locations within the favourable breeding areas can be explained by a pronounced thermal preference in the frogs, and winds moving the warm surface water in different directions. The water temperature required to initiate oviposition was 16C, which is similar to those reported from related more southern populations. The thermal preference expressed in the breeding behaviour of both sexes and the tendency for early oviposition may be behavioural responses to environmental constraints on reproduction in the short season at 60N. 
3682444|Analysis of bryophyte vegetation along a topographic gradient in Alaskan montane rundra reveals definite species distribution patterns. Because the bryophyte species distributions do not always correspond to boundaries between vascular vegetation zones, tundra vegetation types based mainly on vascular plants may be imperfectly suited to description of bryophyte vegetation.
3682561|The seed banks in the soils of seven mature beech forests in southern Sweden were examined using the seedling-emergence method. Seedling emergence in the field was also studied. In the studied forests, covering a wide range of vegetation and soil types, between 1020 and 4500 germinating seeds m
3682587|Seven bryophyte and three vascular plant community types were described from eight small fens in the Vechtplassen area (prov. of Utrecht, the Netherlands). Clear relationships between the species composition of the bryophyte and vascular plant layer were found. The bryophyte species composition shows a gradual change from quaking fens dominated by Calliergon cordifolium to fens dominated by several species of Sphagnum. Fens dominated by C. cordifolium have relatively high pH and conductivity values and are strongly quaking, whereas fens dominated by Sphagnum have relatively low pH and conductivity values and the peat layer is continuous down to the bottom sediment. A comparison of the present-day vegetation with an earlier successional scheme for this vegetation type (Segal 1966) indicates a raise in nutrient levels and a decrease in the amount of seepage water welling up at the sites, both due to human activities. We suggest that in early successional phases bryophytes react faster to these changes, whereas in later phases vascular plants react faster.
3682283|The development of an invertebrate community in a large scale, experimental stream system is described. Colonisation was chiefly by means of ovipositing adult insects with lesser components introduced with water and stones. A succession of taxa was recorded with large peaks of numbers in the spring and the autumn, comparable to those observed in studies on natural streams. Diversity of the fauna increased quickly at first and then more slowly, possibly because of the reduced availability of ovipositing adults later in the year. Even in the absence of drift and migration, recruitment of insect larvae, which naturally favour gravel substrata in running water, can be rapid and will produce a varied community in which Chironomidae and Ephemeroptera play an important role.
3682099| The vegetation of a snow bed has been described by a pin-point method and a modified Raunkir frequency analysis. The thawing of the snow has been followed and some soil properties have been investigated. It is concluded that the composition of the vegetation in the snow bed is influenced mainly by the duration of the growth period, but locally the density and the species composition are determined by the downward flow of the melt water. 
3682443|Several environmental factors were measured in a transect across a snow accumulation area in order to indicate (1) possible controls of arctic vegetation patterns; (2) water, carbon, and nutrient budgets of different vegetation types; and (3) relationships of Eriophorum vaginatum tussock tundra to other vegetation types. The results indicate that the vegetation zones are largely associated with different levels of nitrogen and phosphorus availability rather than length of the snowfree season, water availability, and soil pH. Nitrogen uptake was highest in the forb-grass and lower deciduous shrub zones and lowest in the lichen-heath. Phosphorus uptake was highest in the lower deciduous shrub zone and lowest in the lichen-heath. On the basis of several floristic and environmental factors tussock tundra has the lowest affinities to the lower deciduous shrub zone.
3682551|Shredding stream invertebrates should have a positive influence on the breakdown rates of leaf litter via direct consumption and particle fragmentation. To determine the effects of shredder density on litter breakdown, breakdown of the emergent stream macrophyte, Nasturtium officinale, was investigated using three litter bag mesh sizes [fine (0.2 mm), medium (1 mm) and coarse (3 mm) mesh] and four stocking densities of the shredder, Gammarus pseudolimnaeus, (0, 4, 8 and 16 per bag). Watercress decayed very rapidly, with breakdown rates (k values) ranging from
3682613|In European floras Cirsium palustre (L.) Scop. usually is classified as a biennial and monocarpic species. The value of this classification was examined in a population growing in a spring area in Jutland, Denmark. It was possible to describe five ontogenetic states, i.e. life-states, in the population, the seed state excluded. Each state normally lasted for one growing season. Therefore the flowering state was generally not reached until in the fifth growing season. Observation on mortality revealed that seedlings were exposed to an extremely high death risk. However, in the other vegetative life states the death risk was rather low and constant.
3682056|The presently published data of variation in pheromone content in bark beetles (Coleoptera: Scolytidae) and moths (Lepidoptera) are reviewed. In both taxa high coefficients of variation, often up to around 100% for amount of pheromone, seem to be the rule. The contribution to the variation from errors in the chemical methods was small in most studies compared with the intrinsic biological variation. Examples are given of variation in both absolute amounts, proportions of geometric isomers and in enantiomeric composition. Ratios of isomers often had lower coefficients of variation (25% or less). A lower average variation among sex pheromone in moths could relate to a mating system involving singly calling females, compared with the aggregation pheromone of bark beetles, which often call in large groups. The origin of a resource-based aggregation pheromone system by evolution working via individual selection is outlined.
3682457|The relationship of growth to plant water potential was studied in several arctic tundra species by experimentally altering the water regimes on excised tussocks, by clipping leaf area, and by clipping roots. Most species, including evergreen shrubs, showed greater growth under waterlogged conditions. The reduction of leaf area did not affect plant water potentials or growth. Root pruning decreased both plant water potentials and growth. Growth was suppressed when plant water potentials were -12 to -15 bars.
3682368|Populations of two Helophorus species from a Swedish lake were sampled during the ice-free periods of two years. Dispersing beetles were trapped in light-reflecting glass traps. Both species are univoltine and breed in the spring. The populations of adult H. brevipalpis are largest during the summer when great numbers emerge and migrate. Very few H. strigifrons adults emerge before spring. Its adult populations are largest in the spring, and small numbers of mature individuals fly with mature H. brevipalpis specimens. This is discussed in relation to their habitat utilization: H. strigifrons inhabits permanent waters only and is dimorphic for flight musculature; H. brevipalpis inhabits both permanent and ephemeral waters and is always equipped with a functioning flight apparatus. H. brevipalpis is an effective colonizer of ephemeral waters due to its large dispersal capacity and to the fact that the habitat of juveniles differs from that of adults. Age, sexual maturation and feeding in flying and non-flying groups are compared. Food is seldom found in the gut of fliers of either species. In the spring flying H. brevipalpis females have larger oocytes than non-flying ones; flying H. strigifrons females have smaller oocytes than non-fliers. It is possible that the summer migrations of H. brevipalpis favour outbreeding since fliers are sexually immature; spring fliers, being sexually mature, are more efficient as colonizers.
3682344| Nitrogen (N) deficiencies in tundra ecosystems could be caused, in part, by the kinetics of root N uptake. The objectives of this study were to quantify NH
3682529|Winter activity of arthropods from the forest floor were studied in snow and the subnivean space. All but one epedaphic (soil surface dwelling) Collembola species moved up into the snow during winter. Three groups of activity patterns were found. (1) Hypogastrura socialis had a complex behaviour, moving up and down in the snow profile depending on the temperature. It was often found in large numbers on the surface. (2) Other species were occasionally observed on the snow surface, but were usually found in the deeper part of the snow profile. (3) Most epedaphic species were only found in the deeper part of the snow profile. Activity in the snow is assumed to be related to microclimatic conditions occurring mainly in late winter. However, the behaviour pattern is also influenced by the summer ecology of the species. Some collembola and most other arthropods found in the snow were only casual visitors from trees and soil. However, one oribatid species and some predaceous Gamasina mites did also show distinct snow behaviour.
3682564|Mountain hares in Scotland live on open tree-less moorland in a harsh winter environment with frequent high winds and drifting snow. By day they rest in forms in tall heather, seats in shorter heather or snow, or scrapes in snow or peat. All these reduce wind speeds by 84-90%, but vary in the degree of shelter and concealment. Forms afford the best concealment and shelter and occur as often on flat ground as elsewhere. Seats and scrapes are commoner on sheltered slopes. They command a wide field of view but offer little concealment. During snow-lie, when forms may be covered, hares move to seats and scrapes, often at the edge of snowfields and gather, sometimes in large groups, on sheltered slopes.
3682609|Earthworm burrows as microhabitats for other soil fauna were studied in a horn-beam-oak mixed forest in Hungary. Comparative chemical analysis and feeding experiments were carried out to find out whether the leaves in the burrows of large-bodied earthworms are more decomposed than those from the surrounding areas. The total organic matter content, the C/N ratio, the stability coefficient and the percentage of tannins and lipids indicate that the chemical breakdown of the litter material is more advanced in the burrows than on the other parts of the forest floor especially in autumn. No consistent differences were observed in the amounts of other organic components. Feeding experiments showed that three species of the fauna preferred the leaves pulled into the burrows to those from the surrounding areas and the preference was greater in autumn than in spring. It is suggested that the high density of some soil animals in the burrows in autumn is due to the more palatable food there; in summer the microclimate of the burrows is favoured, whereas spring can be considered as a transition period.
3682131|During a five-year period, 1975-1979, a total of 2881 prey individuals of 65 prey species were collected at 162 golden eagle nests from northern Sweden and from the island of Gotland. In northern Sweden birds are taken in higher numbers than mammals but calculated as weight the two categories are of equal importance. The main prey during the breeding season are capercaillie, black grouse, willow grouse, ptarmigan, mountain hare and reindeer fawns which together from 91% of the total food biomass. The capercaillie and the black grouse are taken more in the southern part of the coniferous region than in the northern. In contrast, in northern areas, reindeer fawns are more preyed upon than in the South. Ptarmigan and willow grouse are the most commonly captured prey species in mountain areas. The total number of reindeer fawns taken (dead and/or alive) by the Swedish golden eagle population during one summer is estimated at 600 individuals. On Gotland the golden eagles take mammals more often than in its northern distribution area. Rabbit and hedgehog are the most important species.
3682740|The objective was to quantify elemental movement through small tundra watersheds as affected by nutrient and water additions. Nutrient (slow-release NPK fertilizer) and water additions were applied to small tundra watersheds along Imnavait Creek Northern Alaska. Suction lysimeters and weired watersheds were used to monitor elemental mobility. Elemental concentrations in undisturbed watersheds were similar to Hubbard Brook watersheds except for NO
3682514|The morphological development of eggs of the grasshopper Chorthippus brunneus, laid during successive periods through a single season, was closely monitored in the field at a site in NW England. Eggs within the same clutch developed synchronously. However, there were significant differences between clutches laid at the same time, reflecting spatial variation in microclimate (and possibly maternal effects and/or genetic differences). Eggs laid early in the season entered diapause and hatched relatively synchronously in the following spring. Eggs laid later failed to reach the diapause-stage before winter, but hatched, albeit late and with greater variance. Diapause was averted in these eggs. Plasticity in the nature of diapause has been documented from laboratory studies of many insect species (including C. brunneus), but this study directly relates the incidence of such developmental plasticity to oviposition date and seasonal temperature cycles in the field. The adaptive significance of diapause aversion and the evolutionary consequences for female reproductive behaviour are considered.
3682694|Energy pathways of a natural brown trout Salmo trutta population were constructed. The main subjects taken into account were: the biomass, calorific values and production of the population, natural mortality and annual yield, energy intake, calorific values and composition of the food, efficiency of food absorption, spawning and migration of young trout. The specific energy value of trout increased with increasing weight of the fish. An energy decrease of almost 50% was demonstrated for the spawning trout of both sexes, and the calorific values prior to spawning were not reached before the next summer. Energy intake was estimated to 6.87, 10.31, 8.42 and
3682244| Age distributions and fruit production of populations of Oxyria digyna (L) Hill were studied in Norway and Greenland. The observed age distributions were described by the negative exponential function and by the power function. Three kinds of age distributions were observed: steep, flat and bell-shaped with the corresponding fruit production: 33-917, 8-108 and 76-303 fruits per individual. The population with the steep age distributions and high fruit productions were assumed to be increasing. They were found in sites with almost no vegetation (10% cover). The populations with the flat age distributions and the low fruit production were assumed to be stable. They were found in sites with a vegetational cover of 50-75%. The populations with the bell-shaped age distributions and the intermediate fruit productions were assumed to be decreasing. They were found in sites with a closed vegetation (cover 100%). 
3682108|Adult chironomids feed readily on materials containing sucrose and glucose, and the addition of dyes is an easy way of demonstrating that food passes through the gut. Male and female flies are shown to make very different use of the food they take in. Males show no change in longevity but extend their flight time for an average of 160% over unfed males. Females, by contrast, show no detectable increase in flight time, but increase longevity by about 40%. Sexual dimorphism in the use of food seems appropriate to the roles of the sexes. We infer that males improve their swarming performance while females may benefit from increased longevity both in gaining time to find suitable mates and in the distance dispersed after mating. Males, and to a less extent females, are found on aphid infested trees near fresh water, and the suggested biological value of feeding is in sustaining the swarming flight especially for the males. Trichoptera adults are found feeding on aphid infested trees and the earlier findings that adult Trichoptera feed are confirmed.
3682256|Bryophyte species distributions were analyzed with respect to microtopography at an alpine tundra site in central Alaska which is dominated by tussocks of Eriophorum vaginatum. Bryophyte distributions were found to be significantly correlated with slope but not with azimuth. Different types of tussocks and hollows and mats between tussocks also supported different bryophyte floras. Water loss resistances of three species of moss did not account for differences in their distributions.
3682355|Goshawks were studied in their boreal forest breeding habitat in central Sweden from 1977 to 1982. Nests were regularly spaced, with a nearest neighbour distance of 6.3 km, corresponding to a density of about 3 pairs
3682074|Breeding red-throated divers Gavia stellata were studied in Shetland during 1981-1983. The overall probabilities of nest success were 0.35 in 1981 and 0.25 in 1982, as calculated by the Mayfield method. Productivity was shown to be at least 0.51 chicks fledged per breeding pair in 1981 (n = 100) and 0.36 in 1982 (n = 91), and a review of all field studies for Shetland gave a mean value of 0.45 per year (n = 1104) with no detectable trends in productivity since 1918; this was considered probably sufficient to maintain a stable population. Nests at lochs smaller than one hectare experienced the greatest hatching success. The majority of known breeding lochs were used in three consecutive years, with a significantly greater re-use of lochs which had previously supported successful pairs. Breeding success declined with season in 1981 and 1982 largely due to reduced hatching success of late nesters, and a slight seasonal decline in egg volume was found in 1983.
3682575|A breeding population of European common frogs Rana temporaria was studied during six springs. Male and female body length varied significantly between years. Females averaged 6 mm longer than males. Amplectant males did not differ significantly from non-amplectant males in body or leg length. No significant correlation was found in body or leg length between males and females in amplectant pairs at any time of the breeding season.
3682655| The population dynamics of a population of crested newts Triturus cristatus were studied in 1983 at a pond in southern England. Three length classes of individuals were distinguished. Adult newts between 67 and 84 mm snout-vent length migrated to the pond in spring, on days when the temperature approached 5C. Males tended to arrive earlier than females and to remain in the pond for longer. A second period of immigration of smaller adults, between 57 and 70 mm in length, took place in the autumn; these newts overwintered in the water and may have been about to breed for the first time. Juvenile newts measuring between 40 and 51 mm in length also visited the pond during the spring and summer. Immigrant male and juvenile crested newts were significantly higher in weight than emigrants; there was no significant difference between the weights of immigrating and emigrating females. 
3682635| The arctic vascular hemiparasite Pedicularis dasyantha has a lower diffusion resistance for water vapour than any associated species. Excised leaves die within one hour of drought stress under laboratory conditions, in spite of a high succulence. Transpiration rates of P. dasyantha in the field are almost two times higher than in Dryas octopetala, which is the most important host within investigated sites. Diffusion resistances are higher in inflorescences than in leaves, probably because the dense pubescence reduces transpiration rates and raises temperatures in inflorescences to 14C above air temperature on clear days. Pedicularis dasyantha contains significantly more N, P, and especially K than its host. The high rate of transpiration probably enables the hemiparasite to capture a larger fraction of nutrients supplied by the xylem of its host. 
3682578|Patterns of larval coexistence, density and mortality of six birch feeding Stigmella leaf-miners were analysed in four field sites in the Netherlands. Larval feeding was further characterized by quantitative records on phenology, oviposition (per host, per tree and per leaf), larval growth rate and relative use of different mesenchyme layers. As the Stigmella guild on birch in western Europe is known to consist of three phylogenetically distinct species-groups, the specific feeding syndromes were primarily interpreted in this context. Ecological segregation among species groups tended to be larger than that within these groups. Among group segregation mainly involved differences in phenology, types of birch trees, mesenchyme layers used for feeding and larval body size and growth rate. Within group differentiation primarily concerned the distribution and clumping of eggs and the use of differently sized trees. A preliminary analysis of the frequency of mines per infested leaf produced a rather aggregated pattern, suggesting that only a limited number of the available birch leaves are considered as suitable by ovipositing females.
3682438|Size and structure of a South Swedish population of Lampetra planeri larvae were studied during 5 yr. Population size fluctuated considerably within the studied section of stream with a general decline. The fluctuations were positively and strongly correlated (multiple
3682313|In a natural population of the self-incompatible Achillea ptarmica, many-headed inflorescences attracted most pollinators (flies), and each pollinator visited more heads on large inflorescences than on smaller ones. The visitation rate did not increase disproportionately with inflorescence size, as would be expected if clusters of heads had a synergetic effect on pollinator attraction. Both the calculated visitation rate per head and the percentage seed set increased slightly as a function of head number. The removal of rays from all heads in the inflorescence reduced the approach rate by 51%, but had only a small negative effect on seed set (12%). Hence, ray removal probably affected male fertility (pollen donation) to a greater extent than female fertility. The decline in pollination success was similar for all inflorescence sizes, suggesting that ray and inflorescence size have independent effects on the total display, and thus represent separate targets for pollinator-mediated selection. Residual variation in seed set was strongly correlated with patch identity, indicating clonal or environmentally induced differences in female reproductive success.
3682649| We studied the relationship between increase in body weight and reproductive performance in different populations of Norwegian moose to evaluate costs associated with early onset of reproduction, viz. whether early onset of reproduction was correlated with low adult body weight or reduced adult fecundity. The mean carcass weight of non-ovulating yearlings was significantly lower than for ovulating yearlings. However, those 2.5 yr old females that conceived as yearlings were lighter than non-reproducing females of the same age. Thus, to begin to reproduce as a yearling was assumed to be expensive because it reduces the possibilities for further growth. The cost associated with reproduction was further illustrated by the fact that the difference in mean carcass weight from age 2.5 to 3.5 yr of females that produced calves in both years, was less for the females from regions with lowest mean yearling weights, i.e. regions with probably the lowest resource availability. In populations with high mean yearling carcass weights, the proportion of cows with calf and the number of calves per pregnant female in the early reproductive phase (2.5 or 3.5 yr old) were higher than in populations in which the mean yearling weights were low. There was a negative correlation between growth rate in the population after 1.5 yr of age and the mean yearling carcass weight. Thus, low yearling weight was associated with a prolonged period of growth and thereby a reduced reproductive output during the first year of the female's life. For old females ( 9.5 yr old) the number of calves produced per pregnant female was highest in populations where yearling carcass weights were highest. Furthermore, mean yearling weight and the mean adult female weight were positively correlated in those regions. This relationship suggests that within this species early onset of reproduction is not related to retarded reproduction or lower weight later in life. We suggest that the moose has been selected for an early onset of reproduction. 
3682416| Betula pubescens Ehrh. s.l. is the only forest-forming tree-species which has spread naturally to Iceland and southwesternmost Greenland. No trees have immigrated naturally to the Faroe Isles. Afforestation experiments and gardening have resulted in successful introduction of several tree species. Recent experiments comprise planting of Rocky Mountains tree-line species in SW-Greenland northward to Sndre Strmfjord (67N), and the introduction to the Faroe Isles (62N) of trees and shrubs from cool temperate forests of the southern hemisphere, e.g. Nothofagus spp. and Embothrium coccineum Forst. (Proteaceae). 
3682688| The species composition, distribution, seasonal variations in abundance, life cycles, emergence periods, length-weight relationships and biomass of the Ephemeroptera of vre Heimdalsvatn were investigated. Detritus was a significant factor in explaining the variation in total ephemeropteran numbers around the lake. Numbers in the exposed zone reached a maximum during July due to emergence activity. The ephemeropteran biomass at emergence, to which Leptophlebia vespertina (L.), L. marginata (L.) and Siphlonurus lacustris Eaton were the main contributors, was estimated to be
3682647|In this paper I investigate the resource partitioning of roach Rutilus rutilus and bleak Alburnus alburnus in two eutrophic lakes in SE Norway. Zooplankton was the preferred food item for both species during summer, whereas blue-green algae dominated the diet in September/October. There was no diet overlap in May, with the roach feeding mainly on detritus and the bleak feeding on surface insects. During summer the diet overlap increased, reaching high values in autumn. Habitat overlap was close to unity in spring and early summer. Coinciding with increasing diet overlap during summer and autumn the overlap in habitat decreased.
3682381|During winter and spring the oak Quercus robur, was the tree species most utilized by middle spotted woodpeckers. In March, saptrees, mainly maples Acer platanoides, were preferred for a short period. In winter the birds foraged in the crowns of oaks but in spring they preferred lower stem parts. Dead branches were utilized more in winter than in spring. The birds mostly used a gleaning and probing technique, which may render the species more sensitive to severe weather conditions than other woodpecker species. Arthropods collected from trees were mostly spiders, beetles, thrips or springtails. The nestlings were mainly fed on scale insects and larvae of moths and sawflies. The oak habitat specialization is believed to be caused by competition for food with other gleaning forest birds. Food shortage might possibly occur during periods of bad weather, causing increased mortality.
3682206|Litterfall in two deciduous woods in Ontario, Canada, was caught in bag traps and by new screen traps for two years. The beech-maple wood produced
3682542|A leaf washing method was used to compare the numbers and species composition of the phylloplane microflora of corsican pine saplings (a) uncontaminated, (b) exposed to zinc, lead and cadmium pollution from a smelter and (c) artificially dosed with zinc, lead and cadmium oxides to simulate the emissions from the smelter without the complicating effects of other pollutants. There was little difference in total numbers of most groups of micro-organisms isolated from each site, although both sets of metal-contaminated saplings generally supported a higher percentage of metal tolerant isolates than the uncontaminated plants. Artificially dosed plants also supported greater numbers of Aureobasidium pullulans and orange and pink chromogenic bacteria. These particular organisms were also among the most metal-tolerant fungi and bacteria in vitro.
3682332|In a 15-20 yr old forest of Pinus sylvestris, Tylenchus spp., Paratylenchus spp? and Malenchus tantulus were the most abundant stylet-bearing nematodes. Soil layers and ground cover affected the abundance. Mycophagy was observed for Tylenchus sp., M. tantulus, Aphelenchoides sp. and Tylencholaimus stecki. Feeding on roots of the forest grass, Deschampsia flexuosa was recorded for M. tantulus, Paratylenchus spp? and Rotylenchus sp. The latter fed also on pine roots. Connections occurred between feeding habits and field distribution. The facultative feeding habit of M. tantulus probably allowed this species to reach higher numbers under D. flexuosa. The importance, in the field, of the grass Calamagrostis arundinacea for Paratylenchus spp? was confirmed by laboratory experiments. As pine was a non-host, these nematodes were probably grass feeders. Paratylenchus spp? dominated the obligate root feeders with forest grass being a key-factor for the group abundance. Suspected high densities of Paratylenchus spp? on clearings should not affect the growth of pine seedlings and although Rotylenchus sp. to some extent reduced seedling growth its pathogenic status on P. sylvestris was doubtful.
3682298|This investigation was performed during a 5-yr period (1974-1978) in the oligotrophic Lake Langvatn, Central Norway. In 1975 and 1976 the lake was enriched with a commercial fertilizer. In 1975 increase in phytoplankton biomass was first recorded more than three weeks after the fertilization started, despite a near fivefold increase in the primary production after fertilizer application. The mean seasonal biomass increased from c.
3682686| The molluscan fauna was surveyed monthly in 1972 during the ice free period. Densities were low and the most common species were the gastropods Gyraulus acronicus (Frussac) and Lymnaea peregra (Mll.). 
3682656|Stomach contents of 209 dead and droppings of 57 mist-netted migrating or wintering European robins Erithacus rubecula in a Mediterranean area in southern France showed the following seasonal trends: (1) a dominance of invertebrates in early autumn, (2) a dominance of fruits in mid-autumn, (3) acorns being important in mid-winter, and (4) a strong dominance of invertebrates at the end of winter and in early spring. The fruits of 23 plant species had been consumed. The most widespread and abundant ones were also the most commonly taken (Rubia peregrina at the regional level and Viburnum tinus at a local one). The size of these fruits ranged from 4 to 12 mm, mostly between 6 and 8 mm. Owing to the amoutn of fruits consumed and the numbers of birds involved, the European robin is one of the few main dispersers of the numerous fleshy-fruited plant species of the Mediterranean area. Nevertheless, a correct evaluation of its role is only possible within the dense network existing between these plant species and all their dispersers (mainly birds but also mammals).
3682493|The perennial herbaceous mire plant Saxifraga hirculus was grown for two years in a greenhouse under two nutrient regimes. Based on metric characters, primarily those associated with the potential for lateral spread, I found ecotypic differentiation both between plants originating from three adjoining but different habitats on one mire and between plants from three widely separated habitats. The fact that seeds from the different habitats germinated in different proportions after a first and second period of stratification, suggests that there is a habitat-specific, innate seeddormancy. Also the degree of phenotypic plasticity differed among the plants, viz. plants from the least fertile habitats exhibited the largest plasticity.
3682143|Bats were surveyed and insects were trapped in several different habitats to test the hypothesis that insect abundance and types are the most important factors affecting the regional distribution of bats. A bat community of ten species dominated by Eptesicus nilssoni and Pipistrellus pipistrellus was analysed. The results show that the general pattern of bat distribution in different habitats, and the seasonal changes in habitat utilization, could be explained in terms of the abundance of swarming insects, mainly chironomids. Deciduous woodland near water provided essential habitat in early summer for each bat species. Later on, in July, all species spread out to many different habitats. In autumn street-lamps were an important factor affecting bat distribution.
3682621|Predation by goshawks was studied in a central Swedish boreal forest area. Data were collected in winter (January-February) 1977-81 by tracking radio-tagged goshawks, and in the breeding season (April-July) by collecting prey remains at the nest. In the breeding season birds dominated the prey, amounting to 86% of prey number and 91% of prey biomass. Wood pigeon Columba palumbus, black grouse Tetrao tetrix, hooded crow Corvus corone cornix and jay Garrulus glandarius accounted for more than 50% of the prey animals, whereas capercaillie Tetrao urogallus and black grouse accounted for more than 50% of prey biomass. There was no functional response to black grouse density fluctuations. Every year goshawks killed significantly more females than males of both capercaillie and black grouse, due to high vulnerability of the grouse hens while laying and incubating. It was estimated that during spring and early summer goshawk predation removed 25% of the female, and 14% of the male black grouse population. In winter squirrel was the dominating prey, both in terms of number (79%) and weight (56%). The proportion of squirrel in the diet was equally high both in winters of low and high squirrel density. The high proportion of squirrel in the winterdiet, as compared to the breeding season, is believed to be due to squirrels having to accept an increased predation risk in winter, in order to feed efficiently enough.
3682496|This study evaluates a conceptual model on functional and numerical response to short-term fluctuating vole populations of a red fox (Vulpes vulpes L.) population in south-central Sweden. The model assumes that this particular population is located in between socially regulated stable populations to the south and direct food-limited populations to the north. The model predicts: (1) food availability as the primary factor for limiting fox numbers, causing reduced rates of reproduction and survival during years of low vole densities, and (2) density-dependent regulation during years of increasing and high vole densities resulting in increased group sizes within territories of fixed dimensions. During 1973-1980 data were obtained from 1216 fox scats, 874 fox carcasses, 63 tagged foxes, nine radio-collared females and from yearly den counts in an area of
3682577|The diet of dippers in south west Norway was investigated by faecal analysis during the 1985 breeding season. Overall, the diets of adults and nestlings were similar and consisted mostly of nymphs and larvae of Baetidae (mayflies), Leuctridae/Nemouridae (stoneflies), Hydropsychidae, Limnephilidae and Rhyacophilidae (caddisflies). However, strong trends were apparent with nestling age: large items such as caddisflies declined in adult diet but increased in nestling diet as the chicks grew. The pattern probably reflected the growing energy demands of the brood in a central-place. Because some of the items of dietary importance are scarce in acidic streams, we stress the need for research on the influences of acidification on the ecology of Scandinavian dippers.
3682331|In a 15-20 yr old forest of Scots pine, the total number of nematodes under the dominating cover grass Deschampsia flexuosa, reached
3682737|The objectives of this study were to (1) provide a baseline estimate of soil and plant element concentrations for an intensive research site at Imnavait Creek in northern Alaska, and (2) examine the relationships between soil and plant elements in an arctic ecosystem. Soil and plant element concentrations were highly variable along biotic, spatial, and temporal axes. Deciduous shrubs had higher leaf concentrations of N, P, K and Mg, whereas an evergreen shrub had higher leaf concentrations of Ca, Mn, Al and Si. Based on high required solution phase turnover rates, the most likely elemental deficiencies are N > P > K > Ca = Mg. Based on low required solution phase turnover rates and high soil concentrations, Fe, Mn, Zn and Cu deficiencies are unlikely. Manganese could be present in toxic concentrations. The nutrient bottleneck in tundra ecosystems appears to be the rate of nutrient movement to the solution phase.
3682565|Densities of Drosera intermedia were low in two studied habitats (
3682455|Growth patterns were investigated for Eriophorum vaginatum tussocks from disturbed and undisturbed tussock tundra at two sites in Alaska. Total basal area of tussocks decreased with increased cryoturbation but mean basal area per tussock did not. Flowering was observed in tussocks of significantly smaller size on disturbed compared to undisturbed tundra. For tussocks with <10% cover by shrubs and moss, number of tillers per tussock was linearly related to tussock diameter in most disturbed and undisturbed sites. Exceptions occurred in an area that had been bladed with a bulldozer 7 yr before our survey where tiller number increased as the square of diameter and in an area with much frost activity where tiller number was not correlated with diameter. The ratio of daughter tillers to adult tillers decreased with diameter in disturbed tundra, whereas the trend was less pronounced in undisturbed tundra. Microsuccession in undisturbed tussock tundra was investigated by sampling tussocks with different amounts of shrub and moss cover for number of daughter tillers per adult tiller, weight per tiller, percent nitrogen, and percent phosphorus. Small tussocks without cover by other species and large, partially covered tussocks were not significantly different by any measures, but tussocks that were almost completely buried had significantly (p < 0.05) lower values of tillering index, weight per tiller, and percent phosphorus.
3682599|Seedlings of the annual, Salicornia europaea (sensu stricto), germinated in the outer marsh sand flats at Skallingen in early May, and the relative growth rates of root and shoot were high during the establishment phase. Mortality of plants, which was not density-dependent, was greater than 70% in most plots from early May to early October, as a result of wave action, desiccation and the presence of algal mats. Salicornia ramosissima was present in the outer and inner marshes mixed with Puccinellia maritima. Seedling densities of this annual were high, and in early May growth rates were lower than those for Salicornia europaea. Overall mortality of plants from early May to early October was density-independent. Mortality of S. ramosissima in the inner marsh was only 50% from May to October, whereas the mortality of S. ramosissima in the outer marsh was 95% in the same period. Different levels of seed production per plant, which reflected differences in plant architecture, were evident between the two micro-species. Reciprocal transplants from the inner marsh failed to survive on the outer marsh sand-flat. Mean seed production per plant in plants transplanted from the outer marsh sand-flat to the inner marsh was only 10% of the value of the control populations. The distances of seed dispersal were different in the outer and inner marsh. Low recruitment occurred in areas cleared of Salicornia plants in the inner marsh, unlike the situation in the outer marsh sand-flat where tides dispersed seed.
3682079|The voles Microtus agrestis and Clethrionomys glareolus consume more bark in north than in south Sweden in spite of lower availability in the former area due to snow-pressed ground. Field experiments with genetically homogeneous aspen sticks demonstrated that this pattern reflects differences in animal behaviour and not differences in plant palatability. Within a region consumption in snow-pressed areas was usually less than in subnivean spaces or runways. The amount of bark consumption was generally correlated with population density and amount of grazing impact. Great differences in bark consumption between north Swedish areas with high peak vole populations and south-central Swedish areas with moderate peak numbers imply that nutrition is of different importance at population declines in different regions. The ability of voles to move into snow-pressed areas and locate woody sticks in the snow suggests that control of ground cover will not protect tree seedlings at reforestation.
3682377| The investigation was carried out on a sparsely forest covered poor fen 350 m a.s.l. in the inland part of northern Sweden (6432N, 1855E). On the investigated mire the natural regeneration of pine Pinus sylvestris has been relatively successful from the 1920's up to the beginning of the 1970's. Natural regeneration of spruce Picea abies has taken place throughout the period 1938-1970, whereafter no establishment at all has occurred. The age and size structures of the pine and spruce stands on the mire vary in pattern according to the particular type of vegetation in which they are growing. Both the climatic amelioration during the first half of the present century and the successional stage of the mire vegetation were found to be important in regard to present-day age and size structures of the pine and spruce. Root competition and snow conditions are probably important determinants of the size structure of pine stands in the mire environment. 
3682687|The stonefly fauna was studied in the exposed zone and on soft bottom in deeper waters. Emergence was recorded by traps. Ten species were found. All were recorded in the exposed zone. Diura bicaudata (L.) and Nemoura avicularis Morton dominated. During the winter N. avicularis occurred in large numbers on soft bottom at nearly all depths while D. bicaudata was only recorded on stony substratum in shallow water. N. avicularis was therefore more susceptible to predation and was recorded in trout stomachs during most of the year, while D. bicaudata was preyed upon only during the short emergence and flight period. The growth of the most numerous plecopteran species took place partly while the lake was covered by ice. D. bicaudata had two thirds of its growth during this period, while N. avicularis only had one third of its growth during the same period.
3682235|Elements in surface peat and ground water were estimated on seven mire sites in central and north Sweden. The variation in tissue element concentration was studied in eleven plants occurring on the studied sites. The elements estimated were: N, P, K. Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn, Al, Cu, Mo, Na, S, B, and Si. The species studied were: Carex diandra, Carex limosa, Carex rostrata, Epilobium palustre, Menyanthes trifoliata, Pedicularis palustris, Rumex acetosa, Saxifraga hirculus, Scirpus hudsonianus, Stellaria crassifolia and Tofieldia pusilla. In surface peat over the range of sites, the variation in total concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus was six and tenfold, respectively. The variation in total concentration of potassium was four-fold. Extractable concentrations of these three elements showed an even greater variation between sites. Over the range of sites, the variation in tissue element concentration was larger in roots than in above-ground parts. In above-ground parts, floral parts varied less in tissue element concentration than did stems and leaves. The largest variation in tissue element concentration was found in Carex rostrata and Menyanthes trifoliata. The smallest variation was found in Saxifraga hirculus. Tissues of the rich fen species Saxifraga hirculus and Stellaria crassifolia had the lowest concentrations of heavy metals. The correlation between substrate element concentration and tissue concentration differed both between tissues and species. Concentrations of N, P and K in tissues of the Carex species were highly correlated with the concentrations of these elements in the substrate, while N, P and K concentrations in tissues of the herbaceous species, especially Saxifraga hirculus, correlated less well.
3682527|The Smoking Hills in the North West Territories, Canada have burnt for centuries causing long term acidification of ponds in the vicinity. Chironomus riparius, a red chironomid larva dominated the bottom fauna in the ponds. It was investigated if it was the buffering capacity of the hemolymph rather than the oxygen binding capacity of its hemoglobin that gave these larvae a selective advantage and explained their high abundance. Canadian C. riparius larvae were compared with larvae of the same species from Sweden and with larvae of Chironomus plumosus and C. anthracinus also from Sweden. The Canadian strain of C. riparius survived 7 d exposure to pH 3.5 much better than the others. Titration curves on the hemolymph showed that the Canadian larvae had the highest buffering capacity. Within the pH range 6.0-7.0 it was 17-18 meq
3682219| Species composition and abundance relations of flies attracted to and bred from different sizes (20-100 g) and types of carrion (small mammal, cow liver, bird, and fish) were studied experimentally in natural breeding conditions in South Finland. Large pieces of carrion did not attract significantly more individuals or species than did small ones, but there was a positive correlation between size of carrion and numbers of flies bred, apparently because of competition. Altogether 10 species emerged from 50 cultures, and on average 2.78  1.22 (SD) species emerged from one culture. The number of co-occurrences among the emerging flies indicated random colonization. Variation in species composition between like pieces of carrion was not less than variation between carcasses of different size or type; hence, size and type of carrion are not important determinants of community structure within the size and type ranges used. Lucilia illustris (Meig.) was the predominant species, comprising 50% of flies trapped and 85% of flies bred. The difference indicates changing species composition in the community. Two sets of cultures were left open for egg-laying for 2 and 7 d. Competition was less intensive in the former cultures, which produced 4.0 individuals per gram of carrion, contrasting with only 1.4 individuals per gram in the latter cultures. Competition delayed development in all species, but least in L. illustris, which suggests that fast developing species are at a competitive advantage. In agreement with this, abundance was positively correlated with the rate of development. 
3682211|The structure of seven local bumblebee communities was studied in eastern Finland. The number of species in the study sites varied from 5 to 10, 11 being the number in the species pool. Most of the species (queens) had proboscis lengths of 8-11 mm. When floral resources were analysed on the basis of corolla tube depths, a group was found between 4 and 8 mm. In terms of flower utilization, species with similar proboscises had higher pairwise niche overlaps than species differing by their proboscis lengths. Spacing between neighbouring species along the proboscis length dimension was not more uniform in the realized communities than what was expected on the basis of random draws from the local species pool. The results were the same for all species observed in the communities and for the abundant species only (frequency >50%), although competition among species in the latter group is expected to be more intense. When the structure of bumblebee communities and of floral resources was expressed in terms of diversity of proboscis lengths and corolla tube depths, respectively, a positive correlation was found. Data suggest that species with similar proboscis tend to co-occur on fields with availability of appropriate corolla tubes.
3682053| Tomicus piniperda is the first bark beetle to swarm in the spring in Fennoscandia. The intensity of swarming is directly related to air temperature above a certain threshold and reaches 100% asymptotically. While temperature sums above the threshold accumulate, swarming rate slows down. A non-linear model was built on these considerations. The model was calibrated to window trap material from northern Finland, and it was validated against published material mainly from Norway. The threshold temperatures in these materials were 10.8C and 11.6C, respectively. The predictions of the model were satisfactory, and the model will be tried as a part of an entire population dynamics model. The possibilities to predict not only timing, but also the frequency of attack are discussed. 
3682406|Light penetration measurements of blue (Schott filter BG 12), green (VG 9), and red (RG 630) light was made in 30 Finnish lakes with different degree of humus content and eutrophy for the comparison of the structure of phytoplankton communities and the light environment in the waters. The relations between Secchi disc visibility and the penetrations of different spectral regions and relations between the light conditions and the colour of the water was examined. The increase of
3682193|Benthic organic matter was collected quarterly from streams draining a 9-yr-old clearcut, an 18-yr-old "old-field", a 25-yr-old successional forest, and two reference watersheds at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory in the Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina, USA. Samples were separated into large benthic organic matter (LBOM >1 mm) and fine benthic organic matter (FBOM <1 mm). An additional survey of large (>5 cm diam.) and small (1-5 cm diam.) wood was conducted. Standing stocks of LBOM ranged from 124 to
3682234|This study was based on two years of field observations of a Linnaea borealis population in a coniferous forest in Sweden. Detailed information on performance and survivorship of shoots were gathered from consecutively made drawings of 90 individually marked shoot systems of Linnaea distributed among 15 plots in the forest. Branching of the shoot systems was correlated to growth of the main shoot. Increasing light flux negatively affected growth of Linnaea. A tendency for a competitive effect on Linnaea of Vaccinium spp. was also found. In contrast, the surrounding mosses, and intraspecific density of Linnaea had no significant effect on the shoot systems. The growth rate of the shoot population was analysed by matrix models. Population growth rate was most dependent on survivorship and growth of main shoots in Linnaea, while the survivorship of lateral shoots was of less importance. In spite of an average decrease in the population size as revealed by the matrix model simulation, the incorporation of the observed spatial variation in shoot growth increment, branching and shoot survivorship, yielded varying population growth rates. Parts of the population increased in size. The importance of choice of spatial scale in population analyses of forest understory plants is emphasized.
3682696| The Norwegian subalpine lake, vre Heimdalsvatn, has a surface area of
3682700|Densities of Bombus flavifrons and B. rufocinctus were measured over one summer in 23 and 11 discrete subalpine meadows, respectively. I assessed the relation between observed bee densities and meadow size, elevation, floristics, temperature, and time of day by multiple regression. Multivariate regression solutions for each week of observation accounted for 38 to 61% of the variation in density for B. flavifrons and 47 to 87% for B. rufocinctus. Temperature or time of day consistently accounted for the most variation in density of the two species. In early summer meadow size or elevation also accounted for a large proportion of explained variation in B. flavifrons density; as the summer progressed meadow floristics increasingly contributed to the explanation of variation in both species. In mid- to late summer a statistically significant portion of the variation in densities not explained by habitat characteristics was accounted for by densities of congeners: i.e., densities of B. flavifrons and B. rufocinctus were negatively related in eight meadows where they co-occurred. In experimental meadows where all Bombus but one of the two target species were removed, B. rufocinctus underwent significant positive density compensation but B. flavifrons did not. To the extent that B. flavifrons appeared to limit the density of B. rufocinctus these statistical and experimental results are consistent with the hypothesis that competition limits local bumblebee densities.
3682588|Valley Spring is a hardwater rheocrene consisting of a single point issue and a springbrook some 60 m long. The fauna consists of > 60 taxa, with insects and mites predominating. During 1985-86, benthic densities varied both along the springbrook and at single stations over time (range 58 to 756 animals
3682678| The paper describes abiotic factors of basic importance for the biological research carried out simultaneously in the lake vre Heimdalsvatn. 
3682114|The two tree-like birch species Betula pendula and B. pubescens are of medium preference to moose during winter in northern Sweden. Because these birches are abundant in many biotopes, they form a major part of the moose diet. The two birches are very similar in appearance and often occur in mixed stands. Twenty-one birch stands where B. pendula formed from 2 to 97% of the birches were investigated to determine how the relative composition of the stands affected browsing of the two species by moose. In stands composed of 60% or less of B. pendula, there was a preference for this species when regarding 1.5-3.0 m high birches, which carry the largest amount of available browse per tree. At higher proportions B. pendula was still preferred, but use was closer to availability. However, in all stands there were significantly more moose bites per tree of B. pendula than of B. pubescens. In four birch stands browsing on 1.0-1.5 m high birches was also investigated. For this height class there was still a preference for B. pendula, but the difference between the two species was less pronounced than for the 1.5-3.0 m height class.
3682695|The energy consumption of the ducks is based on estimates of bird density and discovery chance together with juvenile production, metabolic rate and assimilation efficiency given in the literature. The approximate values for food energy consumed were 230000, 143000 and 165000 kcal in 1970, 1971 and 1972 respectively, or in terms of lake surface between 0.2 and
3682507|Mercury levels in feathers of nestling (162 broods) and fully-grown individuals (n = 48) were studied. Within feather variation was considerable in many individual flight feathers. In juv. ospreys the mercury levels in distal parts of secondary coverts were significantly higher than those in proximal parts (p<0.01). In total feathers, the mercury levels were higher and their variations were larger in ad. than in juv. accipiters. Various irregularities in the mercury levels in different parts of the plumage of a bird seem to support the hypothesis that the mercury in the food eaten during feather growth considerably affects the mercury levels of the feathers, while the regular trends mainly support the hypothesis that the amount of mercury stored in body tissues is a determining factor of plumage levels. The importance of these factors seems to vary depending particularly on the age of the birds. From the result of this study, feathers as indicators of environmental mercury pollution should preferably be from nestlings. Small feathers are preferable to larger ones, and total feathers should be analysed rather than only parts of them.
3682386| Spartina (Sp.  townsendii H. & J. Groves and Sp. anglica Hubbard) was introduced in Mariager Fjord in 1948. The present study of a 154 ha sample area is based partly on topographic mapping and partly on photogrammetric plotting. The total area covered with vegetation was almost constant
3682336| An investigation covering hydrography, chemistry, vascular and cryptogamic plants, nitrogen fixation, phytoplankton biomass and production, and zooplankton was carried out from April to November 1976 in a tarn in W Norway. The volume of the tarn was
3682291|Fourteen species of carabids were studied throughout the snowfree season in outdoor arenas above the timberline at Finse, South Norway
3682133| The dynamics of sedimentary detritus was examined over a 17-month period in a third-order mountain stream in Colorado. Autumnal and vernal peaks in total detritus standing crop (197 g and
3682087| In studying populations of the land snail Arianta arbustorum in the eastern Swiss Alps, juvenile and subadult snails were found to be aggregated all the time, while adults were mostly aggregated during summer, the main mating period. The mean size of aggregations was 25 cm  25 cm but varied, according to the area a grass tuft covered, while the intensity of aggregations was influenced by weather conditions. Densities of 10-15 subadults and 3-6 adults m
3682716|Using a three-way factorial experimental design the effects of water temperature, ionic content (water type) and total dissolved solids on the mortality rates of Nephelopsis obscura and Erpobdella punctata were examined. A strong interaction between temperature and water type and temperature and total dissolved solids was observed on the mortality of E. punctata. Other than differences in mortality due to reproductive condition, N. obscura showed uniformly low mortality not significantly affected by temperature, water type or total dissolved solids. Thus the numerical dominance shown by N. obscura in Alberta and Western Canada could be explained by the differentially higher mortality of E. punctata with respect to the three tested independent variables.
3682192|Body surface pollen load and gut pollen (pollen diet load) of flower visitors in a Danish population of Saxifraga hirculus were analyzed. The four most frequent visitors, Eurimyia lineata (Syrphidae), Neoascia tenur (Syrphidae), Asindulum nigrum (Mycetophilidae), and Zygaena trifolii (Zygaenidae) had total surface loads (and S. hirculus loads) of 1031 (771), 137 (106), 108 (78), and 318 (27) pollen grains, respectively. Other syrphid visitors had on average a load of 407 (192) pollen grains. Males of E. lineata, N. tenur, and A. nigrum carried more surface pollen than the females; females of E. lineata had a lot of pollen from Ranunculus acris and S. hirculus and males had a lot from S. hirculus. Females of N. tenur carried pollen mostly from S. hirculus, Lotus uliginosus and Galium uliginosum; males carried pollen mostly from S. hirculus. The surface pollen load of A. nigrum was dominated by S. hirculus pollen, whereas that of Z. trifolii was dominated by Cirsium palustre and Lychnis flos-cuculi pollen. The amount and kind of pollen varied enormously both intraspecifically and interspecifically. Eurimyia lineata, N. tenur and other syrphids had total pollen diet loads (and S. hirculus pollen diet loads) of approximately 14900 (657), 3739 (2327) and 17784 (13040). The average syrphid contained pollen from five plant species, only one to two, however, were quantitatively important. The average diet load in females was nine times that in males in both E. lineata and N. tenur. Eurimyia lineata ate a lot of R. acris; N. tenur ate a lot of S. hirculus and G. uliginosum. Generally, no correlation was observed between size or season and the composition of surface load and diet load. Eurimyia lineata made most of the pollen visits. Thus, the seed set from this Danish population of S. hirculus was dependent on a single syrphid species.
3682431|Epipelic production was studied over three years in Lake Gunillajaure, a small, subarctic lake in northern Sweden. In 1977 the lake was in its natural state and in 1978 and 1979 it was continuously fertilized with phosphorus and nitrogen. The fertilizations in 1978 and 1979 did not increase the annual epipelic production measured with
3682265| Lactating female harp seals, most with their pups, were collected on the "whelping" ice in the Gulf of St. Lawrence in 1976 and from 1978 to 1980. During lactation females lost weight at an average rate of 3.170.52
3682117|The utilization of microhabitat and food resources by Triturus vulgaris and T. cristatus was studied in an upland pond in mid-Wales. From April to June T. vulgaris was more evenly distributed across the pond than T. cristatus, which showed a preference for the middle of the pond and the bottom of the water column. From July to September however, when most T. vulgaris had left the pond, T. cristatus was evenly distributed within the water column and a much higher proportion was captured around the shorelines. Both species appear to be generalist predators with diets limited by prey size. Zooplankton were the most important prey for T. vulgaris, while leeches formed the bulk of the diet of T. cristatus. However, T. cristatus did not select larger-sized zooplankton than T. vulgaris. Large body size therefore enables T. cristatus to consume a wider range of prey sizes than T. vulgaris. Microhabitat niche overlap was greater than feeding niche overlap between the species.
3682421|The general feature when the northern limit of distribution of spruce Picea abies L. and meadow fescue Festuca pratensis Huds. is approached, is that individuals tend to become more homozygous at their gene loci, but different alleles are still retained in the populations. This is due to the fact that individuals within populations differ strongly in their genotypes - i.e. not one but many different genotypes are retained also at the species margin. This polymorphism in the marginal populations is probably due to some form of frequency dependent selection. Clines in gene frequency are much more pronounced in spruce than in meadow fescue probably due to a much higher environmental autocorrelation in the spruce case with its very long generation interval.
3682684| For the purpose of benthic studies vre Heimdalsvatn was divided into three depth zones. These were the exposed zone (from the shore down to 1-2 m depth), the macrophytic zone (1-2 m to 5-5.5 m depth) and the non-macrophytic zone (5-5.5 m to 13 m). The reasons for this division and the main characteristics of each zone, including the substrata present, are given. 
3682548|The capture of meadow vole Microtus pennsylvanicus and short-tailed shrew Blarina brevicauda by male and female ermine Mustela erminea was observed in an indoor enclosure which simulated field conditions. We made 114 trials using 15 different male and 17 different female ermine. Each trial involved one ermine deprived of food for either 0, 10 or 20 h, and only one individual of either prey species. In most trials, the hunting efficiency (indicated by search and handling durations, and number of captures) of male ermine was greater than that of females. Females hardly ever captured shrews, whereas males hunted them successfully independently of the level of food deprivation. However, when deprived of food for 20 h, females spent less time than males in searching for voles. These results suggest that smaller females may be specialized and more effective at hunting meadow voles than larger males under severe food deprivation. This advantage may allow them to channel a greater proportion of energy into reproduction.
3682224|Partitioning of food and space resources of two dominating unionid mussel species, Anodonta piscinalis and Unio pictorum, was investigated in a South Swedish lake outlet. Differences in diurnal activities were not considered to be a mechanism for niche segregation. The two species ingested particles of almost identical size distribution indicating a high overlap in food. Mussel distribution was correlated to environmental variables including substrate properties, water depth, current velocity, and distance from the lake, the latter being a relative measure of food quality and quantity. U. pictorum dominated near the lake and in the centre of the river while A. piscinalis had its peak density ca. 500 m below the lake and was relatively more abundant along the river margins. At maximum mussel densities, which were found near the lake, a separation in space was more obvious than downstream, implying possible interspecific interactions.
3682253|Analyses of a recent N. sertifer outbreak in southern Sweden were made during on-going attack, comprising a regional and local mapping of defoliation severity, as well as a study of intensity of larval consumption, abundance of cocoons and parasitation of larvae in relation to fertilizer application. It was found that (1) the outbreak was preceded by summer and autumn droughts, (2) it was limited to infertile soils, (3) pine stands aged 20-40 yr suffered most, (4) it was less severe in trees benefiting from a reduced inter-tree competition, as measured from tree-ring growth, and (5) less severe in a fertilized stand. The findings support the hypothesis on a fundamental effect of stand nutritive state on changes in number of the sawfly.
3682328|The seed-bank in a Baltic sea-shore meadow was studied and soil samples were taken regularly along a 60-m transect. The transect reflected a successional gradient. The seed bank had its highest density around the mean water level for August, which was about 10 cm above the yearly mean water level. It was totally dominated by seeds of Juncus gerardii. The depth distribution was investigated. Only at two of ten sampling points (i.e. around mean water level of August) could a significant peak in the second cm from the top be observed, otherwise the distribution was quite even. A comparison between present vegetation and the seed bank revealed a strong difference.
3682334|Activity of the longtail vole Microtus longicaudus, was monitored in a 25- m
3682371|The aquatic feeding behaviour of moose, and the abundance, species, and chemical composition of aquatic plants, were studied in a small Canadian lake which attracted many animals. Feeding was much more common in June than later in the summer, and somewhat more common during the morning and evening than in the afternoon. Individual adult moose appeared to use the lake intensively during 1- to 4-day visits. Compared to deciduous browse, the aquatic plants had high levels of sodium and iron, less fat, and similar levels of crude protein, crude fibre, sulphate and other minerals. In the preferred feeding areas, compared to other parts of the lake, plants were more abundant, had a different species composition, and were richer in iron and calcium. Recent flooding, a flow of water through the feeding areas, and a bicarbonate-rich tributary may all have contributed to the lake's attraction for moose.
3682449|Soil oxygen flux was measured polarographically in undisturbed tussock tundra and in an old vehicle track at Eagle Creek, Alaska. Because some polarograms did not show effective voltage plateaus, the polarographic method was tested for use in the tundra by experimental manipulation of soil water content and microbial oxygen demand. The response of soil oxygen flux was as predicted for artificially waterlogged systems, and the response to increased microbial demand indicated relatively high oxygen availability. Soil oxygen flux ranged from
3682248|Mercury levels in feathers are presented for both captive and wild eagle-owls from the period 1963-1976. Levels are compared between wild birds occupying old territories and released birds in newly occupied territories. The wild population in SW Sweden shows decreasing levels in the inland territories, and at present these levels are similar to the natural background level. The coastal owls have significantly higher levels which show no decrease. Low levels prevail in captive eagle-owls, fed on low-contaminated food. Birds in newly occupied territories (mainly released birds) have similar mercury levels as native birds. After being released captive birds therefore seem to accumulate mercury rather quickly.
3682691| The species composition, seasonal and spatial distribution, and biomass of the coleopteran fauna of the exposed zone of vre Heimdalsvatn in 1972 are presented. Individual weight data are given for the 8 species present in the lake: Haliplus fulvus F., Hydroporus palustris L., Deronectes alpinus Payk., D. multilineatus, Flkstr., D. rivalis Gyll., Platambus maculatus L., Colymbetes dolabratus Payk. and Helophorus glacialis Villa. Deronectes alpinus occurred in highest densities, but P. maculatus, on account of its higher individual weight, was the major contributor to the coleopteran biomass. 
3682376|Periphyton samples were collected at 15 sites in the Middle Fork of the Salmon River drainage basin, Idaho, USA to test certain principles of the River Continuum Concept (RCC) and to characterize the diatom communities. The standing crop of chlorophyll a increased from 2nd to 4th order streams, peaked in the 5th order stream, and declined in higher orders. These data support the RCC predictions except that peak values were reached somewhat earlier, in terms of stream order, because of the lack of shading in these streams. Also, downstream decreases were not completely attributable to increasing turbidity and decreasing benthic productivity, and may be partially related to discharge. The number of scraping invertebrates was positively correlated with the standing crop og periphyton (AFDM, not chlorophyll a); this, too, supports the predictions of the RCC. One hundred forty-five species of diatoms were identified and the system is characterized by an Achnanthes minutissima - Fragilaria pinnata - Navicula seminulum - Cocconeis placentula community.
3682515| An investigation of the edaphic conditions and the vegetation of 21 fixed plots in Sgne municipality, Vest-Agder, South Norway was carried out in 1967-69 and 1987. Loss on ignition, pH, total nitrogen, total exchangeable bases, base saturation, exchangeable hydrogen, sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium and manganese was analysed. The species composition of vascular plants was investigated. The total cover of the bottom layer was scored. The soil pH had decreased in the more basic soils but had increased in the more acidic soils. The organic content had increased and base saturation had decreased in most samples. Na
3682562|Ground-living spiders were studied, using pitfall traps, in six habitats between 580 and 960 m (deciduous forest, fir forest, forest-line and three alpine mountain top sites) on Mont du Lac des Cygnes. Altogether 88 species of spiders were found during the study summer (June-mid-September 1985), of which 51 belonged to Linyphiidae (s. lat.), 9 to Lycosidae and 8 to Gnaphosidae. The highest species number and diversity were found in the forest-line habitat, the highest individual number on the main summit and the lowest in deciduous forest, the lowest site. Lycosidae and Gnaphosidae species and individuals characterized the alpine habitats, Linyphiidae (especially Linyphiinae) the forested sites and Amaurobiidae and Agelenidae the deciduous forest site. Erigoninae occurred commonly at all sites; their individual numbers were very high at coniferous forest sites. The dominant species in all three alpine habitats was Pardosa concinna, on the forest-line Hybocoptus gibbosus, in balsam fir forest Sisicottus montanus and in deciduous forest Amaurobius borealis. The material included several (sub)arctic-alpine species.
3682590| During three consequtive years, 1975-1977, individually tagged Baltic salmon Salmo salar smolts of sexually immature male and female fish (n = 35027, mean size: 15.2 cm) and precocious males (n = 6518, mean size: 14.2 cm) were released into Umelven (Ume river), northern Sweden. Rate of survival (% captured adults) based on 3714 recoveries was significantly higher (p < 0.01) for smolts from immature fish (10.2%) than those from smolts of early maturing males, i.e. precocious males (2.2%), corresponding to an average yield of 474 and 85 kg per 1000 smolts released, respectively. Gain in survival was on average 2.5% and 1.4% per cm increase in smolt size for immature smolts and smolts from precocious males, respectively. The poor survival among smolts of precocious males is suggested to be related to an interaction between sexual maturation and smolting linked to incompletely resorbed gonads leading to a non migratory behaviour. These non migratory males are then suggested to suffer heavily by predation in the river. The two smolt categories had a similar growth pattern in sea. Smolts from precocious males did not mature early in sea indicating no relation to grisling, i.e. sexually maturing fish returning after first winter in sea. Adult weight of fish returning the fourth summer after release was related to smolt size (P < 0.05). Our Response Surface Model (RSA) predicted that large smolts (19.0 cm) had a higher specific growth rate over their life-span compared to small smolts (<15.0 cm),
3682633| Population dynamics of the coypu, Myocastor coypus, were studied in central-West France. This species has recently colonized temperate regions despite physiological sensitivity to cold weather. Live-trapping over three years demonstrated that increasing population densities from summer into autumn were associated with a faster population turn-over, homogeneous dispersion, and reduced rates of weight gain. Densities fell by 71% over a cold winter in which canals froze for 20 consecutive days, and by 69% over a mild winter with a flood of 5 weeks duration. Mortality was high in the coldest weather, and 45% of those surviving had frost lesions. A scarcity of males after the cold winter (up to 1: 3.3) was matched in a nearby population at artificially low density, where dispersing males predominated after the flood. The effect of the cold winter on reproductive output was to synchronize littering in summer, at a time of rich food supply. It was concluded that a flexible response to winter conditions enabled coypus to minimize the effects of extreme events and maximize their colonizing potential. 
3682379|Effects of lime and artificial rain of varying acidity on the enchytraeid fauna were studied in 4 field experiments in coniferous forest. Artificial rain was applied 5 months per year in quantities of 25 or 50 mm per month and with pH values from about 6 to 2. The "rain" was produced by mixing groundwater and sulphuric acid. The greatest total abundance of enchytraeids and the greatest population densities of Cognettia sphagnetorum and Mesenchytraeus pelicensis were found in plots supplied "rain" of pH 6, pH 4 and pH 3. Their abundances were lowered by additional acidification (pH 2.5 and 2) and also by liming. Species like Enchytronia parva and especially Enchytraeus buchholzi and Fredericia parnoniana were mostly stimulated by liming.
3682372| Hierochlo odorata (L.) Beauv. is restricted to the upper zone of salt marshes and rarely becomes dominant. In the field, the species was found not to have strict N, P, K requirements. It grew in a range of pH values from 4.3 to 7.9, tolerated salinities up to 500 mhos and favoured soils with a moisture content from 25 to 30%. It grew in situations with a mean water table between 14 and 28 cm below the surface. Natural shading in the field was found to increase the heights of plants by about 30%. The application of fertilizer in the field increased the height of sweet grass but also stimulated the growth of associated species. In the greenhouse, the effects of different soils and fertilizers on plant growth were assessed. Inorganic fertilizer (12:18:12) application produced more leaves and tillers than organic fertilizer (6:2:0). Sweet grass grows in a zone of reduced competition between the dune species and the salt-marsh species. Near the salt-marsh, the species may be limited by high salt concentration. The low levels of competition offered by cultivation and the responsiveness of the species to fertilizer suggests that cultivation of Hierochlo odorata may be successful. 
3682290|More than half the lakes in the deciduous and boreal forest regions of southern Quebec harbour at least one aquatic bird species during the nesting period. Although the number of nesting pairs per lake is generally small, those pairs are most commonly seen on lakes with a surface area of more than 15 ha, a winter pH lower than that of normal rain (i.e. < 5.6), an irregular shore configuration marked by abundant riparian vegetation, and islands. In a correspondence analysis, the first axis, representing lake acidity, explains 68% of the total variance. The common goldeneye Bucephala clangula, which is frequently seen on the most acidic lakes, and the American black duck Anas rubripes, which tends to avoid acidic lakes, show the largest contributions to that axis. The second axis describes an altitude/surface area gradient and brings the cumulative percentage of explained total variance to 94%; the great blue heron Ardea herodias and the common loon Gavia immer primarily use large, low-altitude lakes, whereas the ringnecked duck Aythya collaris and the American black duck are often found on the smaller, higher-altitude lakes. Those results are discussed as they relate to the feeding requirements of the various species of bird and the biology of their main prey. The ecological segregation of the three waterfowl species is attributed to interspecific competition.
3682369|Browse supplies in different growth stages of 4 forest associations and forest site types were estimated. Two ecological situations were compared: exclusion from browsing and unrestrained access of ungulate animals. Harvest technique was applied. Three big forest tracts in eastern Poland provided study locations. Results were tested with the use of analysis of variance. The fresh mixed coniferous forest revealed the highest species diversity in the understorey and regeneration zone, while fresh coniferous forest had the lowest. No obvious influence of animal exclusion upon the number of plant species was found. Altogether, 41 plant species were found in the understorey and regeneration zones. In young plantations shoot weight was higher than in thickets, pole-sized and timber stands. Shoots clipped in autumn were heavier than those clipped in spring. The browse biomass varied from
3682160|Six cestode and two nematode species were recovered from a cyclic population of Clethrionomys glareolus in southern Norway. The cestode Aprostatandrya macrocephala and the nematode Heligmosomum glareoli were euconstant species which displayed late spring/early summer peaks in numbers after which they declined. This decrease in prevalence was correlated with decreasing mean age of the host population. Increases in the prevalence of infections with the nematode Syphacia nigeriana in bank voles were correlated to increasing numbers of Microtus agrestis in the mixed woods. Cestode larvae were at maximum prevalence during peak years of bank vole abundance. Pathological conditions such as ascites and peritoneal adhesions, as well as splenic and adrenal hypertrophy, were associated with cestode larvae. There was no general trend of an increase in the prevalence of helminth infection with increasing population density of the bank voles.
3682601|A total of 1560 breeding frogs were collected in three consecutive years at sites in the west of Ireland. All were weighed and measured and the ages of 702 individuals were determined by skeletochronology. The length-weight relationship differed between gravid females, spent females and males, with the gravid females showing the largest weight gain for any increase in length. The majority of males bred for the first time at two years, but most females delayed maturity until they were a year older. While the two-year olds were of similar size, the females subsequently grew at a faster rate and achieved larger maximal sizes than the males. However, both sexes exhibited a decelerating growth rate with age. There was no apparent difference between the sexes in post-maturation survival, which was estimated to be about 50% annually. The oldest frogs were seven years old.
3682312|From the close correlation between the body size of European stoats and the mean size of their vertebrate prey it ought to be possible to predict the body size of European stoats living on a prey fauna of a given size distribution. In New Zealand, stoats of European stock have lived for >100 yr on a prey fauna containing fewer small and more large vertebrate prey than in Europe. They have become generally larger than their ancestors, as expected - especially the females. The vertebrate prey size index for New Zealand stoats extends the correlation predicted from European data. New Zealand stoats also eat large numbers of native insects. If these are included the local prey size indices are lower but still tend to vary with the substantial local variation in body size of stoats within New Zealand. Recent results from southern Ireland also fit the European correlation, but the few data so far available from Northern Ireland do not.
3682223|The patterns of growth and seasonal changes in body weight and fat reserves of three herds of introduced reindeer on the sub-Antarctic island of South Georgia were investigated. Two of the herds, derived from the same stock, were at different densities but the higher density herd was on the better range. In this herd there was a significant growth advantage to the male reindeer, but not to females. The third herd, of a different stock, was also at a lower density on a range which had become overgrazed. The two lower-density herds showed the same annual changes in body weight and only slight differences in the fluctuation of their fat reserves. In addition, body weights in both these herds fluctuated to the same degree as those of a barren-ground caribou in the Northern Hemisphere but fluctuations in the fat reserves of South Georgia reindeer were considerably more severe. The results suggest that the South Georgia reindeer herds are limited by forage availability.
3682692| The lotic communities in vre Heimdalen were completely dominated by insects. The species distribution of stoneflies (Plecoptera), mayflies (Ephemeroptera) and caddisflies (Trichoptera) is given together with autecological notes on the Plecoptera and certain other major species. The species distribution of these groups, especially the Plecoptera, was clearly related to the deciduous vegetation along the streams. There was a reduction in species parallel to a reduction in Salix vegetation. The main inlet stream to the lake, vre Heimdalsvatn, the outlet and the outlet stream had different faunal compositions. The inlet fauna consisted to a large extent of winter growing species, mainly detritus feeders, while the outlet and outlet stream had a fauna dominated by summer growing species, several of which were filter feeders. 
3682500|The experiment was carried out in eastern Spain from 1986 to 1988. The nest-boxes were placed at the height where natural holes occur, visited twice a week, and cleaned after every breeding season. Four vertebrate species used the nest-boxes: great tit Parus major, house sparrow Passer domesticus, tree sparrow Passer montanus, and black rat Rattus rattus. The first species to occupy the nest-boxes, the great tit, was the least able to defend them. During the third year breeding by the great tit in the nest-boxes decreased markedly, probably due to the increase of house sparrow and black rat occupation. We suggest that differences among species in their ability to discover and use new holes could allow some inferior competitors to breed in a habitat along with more aggressive competing species.
3682047|The applicability of qualitative analysis and modelling is discussed with reference to the population dynamics of the spruce bark beetle Ips typographus. On the basis of a set of assumptions and postulates, the structure of the population dynamical interactions is discussed. Dynamic analysis suggest that the Scandinavian spruce bark beetle population is a stable system which may be triggered into "boom and bust" dynamics. We suggest that qualitative analysis should proceed, explicitly, through four steps: (1) An explicit statement of the biological assumptions and postulates. (2) A structural analysis, wherein the critical interaction network of the system is defined. (3) An equilibrium analysis, wherein the potential equilibrium points of the key organism (e.g., the pest species) are deduced. (4) A dynamic analysis, wherein the multispecies equilibrium points are found and their sensitivity to pertuberation analyzed. This formal approach should expose many and varied population systems to the interpretive and explanatory powers of qualitative analysis.
3682637|The ringed seal breeding habitat of the Van Mijen fiord, Svalbard, Norway, was studied from 30 March to 22 May 1986. A Siberian husky dog was used to detect ringed seal birth lairs and breathing holes. Fifteen percent of the total fiord areas was sampled. We estimated the densitites of birth lairs and breathing holes to be
3682040|Seeds of 25 plant species from calcareous fen hay meadows were exposed to different experimental conditions and their germination was characterised. Constant temperature inhibited germination especially in Cyperaceae. Both gibberellic acid and potassium nitrate failed to terminate dormancy. Increased germination rates were found in dicot species after treatment with gibberellic acid. Temperature fluctuations increased germination of Cyperaceae as well as dicotyledons. Treatment with gibberellic acid removed the chilling requirement in some of the species. Dormancy of small seeds with thin seed coats was broken by the application of gibberellic acid or fluctuating temperature; large thick-coated seeds were unaffected by gibberellic acid. No obligatory darkness requirement was found in any species; three species germinated irrespective of light treatments. All other species achieved higher percentage germination in daylight or in red (670 nm) light. Permanent darkness and far-red light (730 nm) reduced germination drastically. The results indicate that germination characteristics of the species investigated can be related to their seed bank types.
3682366| Hydropsyche incommoda, H. rossi, Cheumatopsyche pasella, Macronema carolina, Chimarra mosleyi, and Neureclipsis crepuscularis were studied on woody substrates (snags) in the lower Savannah River. Distribution of most species biomass was positively correlated with attached macrophytes on snags at medium (25-50 cm s
3682236|Epeorus longimanus is a widely distributed mayfly in the western United States that forms relatively large mating swarms. The operational sex ratio of swarms is highly male biased and males are potentially polygynous, suggesting that male-male competition over mates may be intense. We investigated whether body size influenced male mating success in E. longimanus, as evidence of sexual selection. Males collected as mating pairs had significantly greater body lengths compared with males collected randomly from the swarm on each of six sampling dates examined, and had significantly greater head widths than males from random collections on two dates. There was no indication that large males occupied preferred positions within the swarm, and we suspect that the large male advantage may be due to greater success in pursuing females. We found no evidence of size-assortative mating in E. longimanus indicating that males attempt to mate with every female encountered, consistent with the brief copulatory period in mayflies and overall low parental investment of males.
3682495| The life cycles of Cyclops scutifer Sars (Copepoda, Crustacea) in two high mountain lakes in Norway, Gjende and Bessvatn in Jotunheimen, are presented. The population in Gjende has an exclusive 2-yr life cycle and that in Bessvatn a 3-yr cycle which is exceptionally long both among freshwater and marine zooplankton. Bessvatn is situated about 400 m higher than Gjende, and the heat preservation is lower with longer periods of ice cover and lower primary production explaining the difference in cycle length. The prolongation of the life cycle is due mainly to retardation of the developmental rate during the long periods of winter stagnation with water temperatures mostly below 2C. The retardation is especially evident in the nauplii and in the copepodid instars III, IV, and V. Neither population diapauses. Reproduction takes place only in late summer and no adults survive the winter. 
3682134| The daily onset of flight and the time of activity of moths were studied at an arctic and a subarctic locality in midsummer under natural light conditions but with all other factors kept constant. The daily variation of light intensity is much smaller than at temperate latitudes, and the illumination is continuously at levels that normally inhibit the activity of moths. In spite of this, the investigated species showed a distinct daily periodicity with the activity occurring at about the same time of day as in the same or related species from lower latitudes. It is suggested that this is the result of a process of acclimatization to high light intensities. A number of species show a diurnal activity pattern, and it is suggested that this is connected with their high temperature requirements. In the field, Anarta zetterstedti Staud. thermoregulates by settling frequently on dark rocks which can reach high temperatures when the sun is shining. This species can not fly unless its body temperature is above 30C and it prefers an ambient temperature of about 36C. 
3682393| For the one year period considered, it is calculated that
3682130|The macrofauna associated with Fucus serratus at Dale in south-west Wales contained 30 taxa of which five were common: these comprised four encrusting bryozoans and a hydroid. The bryozoans Flustrellidra hispida and Electra pilosa showed significant variations in abundance according to the size and structure of plants colonised. Electra was most abundant on plants where other bryozoans were least numerous. Colony growth in Electra was proportional to the amount of space provided by individual plant segments whilst growth in competitively superior species appeared to be independent of the size of the plant segments colonised. Dynamena pumila was larger and more abundant on larger segment faces where competition was presumably weaker. Each species showed a specific pattern of zonation along the fronds. The dominant species were generally more abundant on the concave surfaces of the plants. There was some evidence for the tendency for certain taxa to co-occur but the degree of association between species was weak and probably of limited biological significance. Species diversity varied with plant structure. More species occurred on concave surfaces at all plant levels but the overall pattern of diversity on the two segment faces was similar; diversity was greatest in the shrubbier mid-frond regions. Differential distribution of the dominant encrusting taxa within this Fucus community results in a considerable degree of niche segregation and ecological isolation.
3682159|An investigation of the blood parasites of Clethrionomys glareolus, Microtus agrestis and Apodemus sylvaticus from southern Norway revealed four genera, Trypanosoma, Babesia, Hepatozoon and Grahamella. C. glareolus and M. agrestis harbored all four genera, but Hepatozoon was not detected in A. sylvaticus. Babesia was fairly common in M. agrestis but rare in the other rodents. The peak prevalence of Grahamella and Hepatozoon in C. glareolus occurred in early summer whereas trypanosomes peaked near the end of the summer. Infections with trypanosomes and/or Grahamella in C. glareolus were associated with lowered hematocrit levels and enlarged spleens.
3682042| Five-year-studies of two wood mouse populations (Apodemus sylvaticus L.) were carried out outside the village Vk, S. Iceland, and in a birch forest close to the lake Mvatn, N. Iceland. The population at Vk was studied on a 1.10 ha grid on a slope covered with Angelica archangelica L., the seeds of which constituted a major food resource for the mice. Altogether 948 individuals were caught, marked and followed during 1973-1978. No other free-living small mammals occur in Iceland, and predator pressure is low and considered non-existent on the Angelica slope. The population density was extremely high; highest autumn density recorded was
3682182|An outbreak of heather beetle Lochmaea suturalis on a wet heath in north-east Scotland was monitored. In many respects, the outbreak was similar to those described in lowland heaths; it started at a particular locus and when the Calluna vulgaris was depleted, spread throughout the heath. Population size then decreased annually due to some undetermined exogenous factor. A contributory factor may be the high incidence (35%) of parasitoid infestation which is density independent and, thus, not controlling. There is no evidence that the hairiness of the var. hirsuta of Calluna has an effect on herbivory by Lochmaea. The distribution of larvae through the canopy is neither influenced by the morphology of Calluna, nor by the associated species, and appears to be at random. This probably represents the distribution of eggs since little lateral migration of the larvae takes place. The response of the vegetation to herbivory is not simple. Associated with decreased cover of Calluna is an increase in Sphagnum plumulosum and Hypnum jutlandicum and reduction in S. compactum and Pleurozium schreberi. Changes seem to depend on initial vegetation and other parameters not measured (e.g. proximity of propagules, microclimate). Regeneration of Calluna does occur, largely by layering; although seedling occurrence increases in some areas, especially in Sphagnum, it seems unlikely that this will make a major contribution to the recovery of Calluna.
3682072|During a six-day period the energetics of the suspension feeding larvae of the mosquito Culex torrentium were studied. An experimental assessment of ingestion, growth and respiration were made at near to field conditions. Assimilation and egestion were calculated and an energy budget for an average larva during the experimental period was established. Gut retention time was measured by marking the gut content with charcoal. Organic carbon in the gut contents, of larvae feeding on natural food, and in the tissues (i.e. to establish growth from 2nd and 4th instar) were measured by an elemental analyser. Oxygen consumption was measured as a decrease in volume of a closed system where the respired carbon dioxide was absorbed by KOH. Only 1.6% of ingested organic carbon was assimilated. The ratio between respiration and growth was 13.8. The high value of the ratio is suggested to occur because of the very active behaviour of the larvae. The results are discussed in relation to the energetics of other aquatic primary consumers (Simuliidae and Trichoptera).
3682316|Few investigations deal with the subterranean phytomass in fens (minerotrophic peatlands), their results differing widely. This study was carried out in a "rich fen" in central Sweden, and involved excavation of peat monoliths, depth-sectioning and hand-sorting as to species, type of organ, and living or dead condition. The below-ground living phytomass was large, over
3682612|In a stepwise regression analysis, oak habitat area and habitat isolation were the most important parameters explaining numbers, density, regularity, and probability of presence in two successive years of middle spotted woodpeckers. No estimate of habitat quality contributed significantly to the equations. A 50% regularity of occurrence during the study period was found in oak areas of 75 ha. It is suggested that, for a small population, habitat fragmentation that gives rise to partially isolated subpopulations will make the population more vulnerable. The large area required by Swedish middle spotted woodpeckers compared with Central European ones, is believed to be a result either of an 'extinction disequilibrium' or of poorer habitats in the periphery of the distribution area of the species.
3682214|Propappus volki was recorded in Dorset chalk streams from gravel substrata where it represented up to 88% of the oligochaete fauna. It was absent from silted sediments associated with marginal and submergent macrophytes. P. volki showed an annual life cycle with a peak of mature individuals in the period April to June, whilst young worms were most abundant after July. The mean monthly biomass in Bere Stream was estimated to be 0.29-0.45 g wet weight m
3682731| The "Response, Resistance, Resilience to, and Recovery from Disturbance in Arctic Ecosystems" (R4D) program initially concentrated on impacts of altered water and nutrient inputs on tussock tundra vegetation. The intensive site is at Imnavait Creek (68C 37 N, 149 17 E), near Toolik Lake, Alaska in the foothills of the Brooks Range, approximately 200 km south of Prudhoe Bay. Tussock tundra was selected for initial study because it has an extensive distribution in the Alaskan Arctic (80% of the arctic region), the majority of the pipeline corridor north of the Brooks Range passes through tussock tundra, and disturbances of arctic tundra are expected to occur in the future. Also important is that 18% of the circumpolar arctic primary productivity and 47% of the circumpolar arctic stored carbon are in tussock tundra. Water and nutrient additions were performed because they frequently accompany disturbance and development in the Arctic. Emphasis was placed on determining responses of physical, physiological, and ecosystem processes to environmental change in such a way that extrapolations to other areas would be facilitated. The hills near Imnavait Creek are covered by glacial till of the Sagavanirktok River glaciation, with a deep organic layer on the less exposed hill slopes and valleys. The vegetation is dominated by Eriophorum vaginatum L., Betula nana L., Vaccinium uliginosum L, Vaccinium vitis-idaea L., Ledum palustre L., Salix pulchra L., and Sphagnum spp. Winds were rarely calm but seldom exceed
3682628|Small mammals dispersing in habitat corridors to and from an abandoned field in south-central Sweden, at the forest edge and inside the forest, were continuously sampled during 1977-81. Altogether 967 specimens of ten species were obtained. Number and dynamics of grassland species were censused intensively in the centre of the abandoned field and extensively on other abandoned fields nearby. Numbers of resident and dispersing animals correlated positively. Grassland field voles Microtus agrestis were almost only obtained in the corridors and woodland bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus mainly in the forest and in narrow grassland corridors. Both these species are folivorous. Granivorous-insectivorous Apodemus and Sorex species moved more on a broad front through various habitats. Different population categories did not show any clear differences in dispersal routes. The findings of different dispersal strategies in a species gradient are discussed in relation to the local dynamics of subpopulations belonging to metapopulations inhabiting whole landscapes. Implications for pest management and conservation of endangered species are considered.
3682490|The open, dish-shaped flowers of Saxifraga hirculus reflected ultraviolet and yellow light, contained very small amounts of nectar, and contained an average of about 75300 pollen grains per flower. Almost 11% of the pollen was inviable. Stigmatic pollen loads and seed set decreased during the course of the season. The plant appeared to be fully between-ramet compatible and partially within-ramet compatible. Seed set for the population was 30.3%. The protandrous flower opened during the day and had male and female phases of nine and three days, respectively. The protandrous system reduced the number of pollination days by a third. At least 26 species of insects, 16 of which were syrphids, visited the flowers. Based on the number of flower visits, four species were the dominant visitors of S. hirculus: Eurimyia lineata and Neoascia tenur (Diptera: Syrphidae); Asindulum nigrum (Diptera: Mycetophilidae), and Zygaena trifolii (Lepidoptera: Zygaenidae). Eurimyia lineata was the most frequent visitor (51% of all visits). As the season advanced, the visits by E. lineata decreased, whereas the visits by A. nigrum increased. Z. trifolii disappeared completely towards the end of the season. Only two thirds of the pollination days were "good" foraging days for these visitor species. The four major visitor species spent an average of 11.7, 27.4, 30.7 and 22.6 s per flower, respectively. Estimates suggest that about 6.5 visits (which is equal to 2.6 min of flower-visiting) and 2100 grains of pollen were required to produce one seed.
3682650| The incubation rhythm of four female great snipe was monitored with telemetric equipment. The mean daily incubation constancy was 90.3  2.0 (SD) per cent, and the mean daily time off the nest amounted to 139.8  28.8 min. The number of recesses per day averaged 8.7  1.9, with a mean duration of 15.7  6.1 min. Generally, the birds incubated for long bouts during the night, and left the nest frequently during the daylight hours. Recesses were concentrated in the warmest part of the day in cool periods, but were more evenly distributed throughout the day in warmer periods. Recess duration decreased with decreasing temperature. These adjustments minimize egg cooling when the bird is off the nest, and thus allow the incubating bird more time to feed without lowering the mean egg temperature. Calculations of the cooling rates of eggs indicate that the bird minimizes incubation energy expenditure as far as possible, but without letting the eggs cool beyond the temperature of no embryonic development. 
3682125|Due to high numbers of mountain hares in recent winters in northern Finland the barking of winter dormant Scots pines was widespread. The hares fed selectively upon upper crown bark of grafted pines, nitrogen fertilized trees and trees in poor condition. Bark of preferred upper crown branches and physiologically mature scions contained less total phenols than lower parts. However, there were no differences between total phenolic concentrations of graft bark preferred by hares and nearby unbarked juvenile phase Scots pine. Neither decrease in resistance after nitrogen fertilization n- or stress was correlated with bark total phenolic concentration. Thus, total phenolic concentration is not a reliable predictor of the susceptibility of Scots pine to winter barking by the mountain hare.
3682062|A method of trapping local populations of Ips typographus was investigated in the field. The size of a population emerging from a hibernation site in the forest litter was estimated using tent traps. This estimate was compared with another estimate where beetles from the population were marked and recaptured in pheromone traps. The estimate of population size with mark-recapture was much higher than the estimate with tent traps, indicating a high degree of immigration. According to calculations only a minor part (less than 20%) of the beetles caught in the pipe traps originated in the local population. Re-emerging parent-adults were marked and released during the second flight period. The recapture rate was 29.8%, almost the same as during the first flight. Immigration during the first and second flight periods was estimated to be of similar magnitude. The results show that it is difficult to suppress local populations of highly mobile bark beetles by trapping.
3682559|Trapping of frass-drop from needle-eating insects in three Scots pine stands, 18-, 55- and 120-yr-old, respectively, in three years, revealed that the consumption rate in the two older stands on average displayed three peaks: in July (consumption by Panolis flammea and a first wave of diprionids), late August/early September (lasiocampid/sphingids, a second wave of diprionids), and September/October (Bupalus piniarius). Annual consumption was the same in these two stands, on average
3682652|Breeding bird communities in five stages of secondary forest succession were studied in northeastern Finland in 1980-82. Three groups of communities were distinguished: open land, brush phase and forest communities, dominated by Motacilla alba and Oenanthe oenanthe, Phylloscopus trochilus and Anthus trivialis, Phylloscopus trochilus and Fringilla montifringilla, respectively. Pair density, number of species, biomass of adult birds and species diversity increased in the course of succession, none of these, however, monotonously. Average bird weight showed a decreasing trend although the variation was considerable. The degree of specialization in communities (measured by ratios derived from numbers of species, genera and families) increased in the course of succession with the exception that the initial stage had relatively high values. Species nesting and feeding in trees and shrubs increased in numbers during forest regeneration whereas species nesting and feeding on the ground showed the opposite trend. The proportions of hole-nesting and sedentary species increased with increasing forest age. The initial stages of forest succession in the north are occupied by specialized open habitat species breeding originally on open bogs and shores. These communities thus clearly differ from those predicted from the general theory of succession, which postulates that the pioneer stages of succession are dominated by habitat generalists and that these communities should have relatively low values of community diversity.
3682148|We studied overwintering in the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus in four 0.5 ha enclosures in an abandoned field in central Finland in the winter 1987/88. In two of the enclosures food was offered evenly distributed over the whole enclosed area (Even Enclosures = EE), in the two others food was offered in one feeding patch with four feeding chambers 2 m apart (Patchy Enclosures = PE). Food was provided in about the same amount in both enclosures. The experiment commenced in early October, with 13 females and 11 males in EEs and 12 + 13 voles in PEs. After two months the voles in the PEs were concentrated around the feeding patches. Territoriality was not observed in EEs, instead the voles formed small exclusive overwintering groups consisting of 2-3 females and at least one male. The size of the home range of the females and males was identical during mid-winter as the voles were non-breeding. By the onset of breeding, range size increased in both sexes, but significantly more in males, however. The survival was about the same in all populations. Every population showed a mid-winter decline suggesting the effect of the mustelid predators observed in and around the enclosures. In the PEs the over-wintering aggregations lasted until the maturation of the first litters. Food distribution affected the spatial distribution of the populations. We conclude that the patchiness of the habitat and especially the availability of food are the most important factors determining the social structure of overwintering populations.
3682084| The reproduction of an undescribed species of the genus Chiloplacus from the Canadian High Arctic was studied at 10C. The mean number of eggs laid per female was 317.889.2, of which 46.87.8% hatched, resulting in net reproduction of 148.8 juveniles per female. Beginning as new-laid eggs the observed maximum age attained was 99 d, and the calculated generation time was 52.6 d. Egg-laying began 26 d after hatching and the reproductive period spanned 56 d. The intrinsic rate of increase was 0.095, and the first 12 reproductive days contributed 80.58% of the value of r. When r = 0.095 the stable age distribution was calculated to be 91.5% immatures and 8.5% adults. Chiloplacus sp. is intermediate in fecundity for free-living soil nematodes, lying between the generally highly fecund Rhabditidae on the one hand, and the much less fecund Dorylaimidae on the other. Chiloplacus sp. lays a larger portion of its eggs early in the reproductive period at 10C than do species from warmer environments, suggesting that reproduction of Chiloplacus sp. is low-temperature compensated. 
3682089| Eggs of the predaceous water beetle Dytiscus alaskanus were incubated in the laboratory at 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30C. All measures of rate of development showed a significant linear regression with temperature. Mortality rates showed no significant regression with temperature. Data for this species were compared with similar data for D. marginalis and results discussed with reference to the climate each experiences. 
3682611| The two prawn species Palaemon adspersus Rathke and P. elegans Rathke differ in their distribution patterns in estuaries: P. adspersus occurs at lower salinities and also extends further into the Baltic than P. elegans. Yet, at low salinities adult survival does not differ between the two species. Reproductive success was, however, substantially reduced in P. elegans at low salinity, but not in P. adspersus. Berried P. elegans females from the Swedish west coast hatched significantly fewer clutches at 10 than did P. adspersus females from the same locality. Furthermore, larval survival in P. elegans was significantly lower at 5 and 7.5 than in P. adspersus. At higher salinities (10 and 24.5) no interspecific differences in larval survival were found, except in one experiment where P. elegans larvae had a lower mortality. It is concluded that the different estuarine distributions of the two palaemonid prawn species result from these interspecific differences in reproductive success at low salinity. 
3682472|This paper examines patterns of structure in the helminth communities of long-billed curlews collected on their breeding grounds in Alberta, Canada. The communities are neither large nor species rich but they do show evidence of having structure which is mediated by interactive mechanisms between some helminths. In particular, we focus on the role played by congeneric host-specialists in contributing to community patterns and suggest that even in low diversity systems, some species may set the stage around which other species must assort.
3682327|Mortality rates in Svalbard reindeer followed the "U"-shaped pattern, with higher mortality rate among calves and old animals than in middle aged individuals. Assuming a stable population size, the mortality data predict a 16.2% annual mortality and recruitment rate among 6 months and older animals, and a male:female sex ratio of 48.5:51.5 among 1-yr old and older. Both predictions are supported by field data. Female mortality rate increased and differed from the male rate in the age interval 2-4 yr, while the male rate increased sharply and differed permanently from the female rate in the age interval above 6 yr. First and last breeding are thought to cause the increased mortality among 2-4 and 11-13 yr-old females. Increased involvement in rutting activities with age associated with lower grazing activity and depletion of fat reserves probably cause the increasing mortality rate among the 6+ yr males. Maximum life span was 17 yr in females and 12 yr in males. Apart from the unknown but possibly high neonatal calf-mortality, only few animals died during summer or during the rut in autumn. Death among calves, yearlings and most of the females occurred before antler-shedding in May-June. Most of the 2-yr and older males died after antler shedding, which occurs from December among the oldest and during April-May among the younger males. Hence, the major part of the mortality takes place in spring. The lack of visible subcutaneous and femur fat in most carcasses indicated starvation as the major mortality cause.
3682119|We have investigated environmental factors influencing the choice of breeding pools by Bufo calamita in two different habitat types in Britain, using a number of methods including the construction of artificial pools and the translocation of spawn laid by competitively superior anuran species. On heathland, major determinants were aspects of pond chemistry especially pH, Na and SO
3682677| The Lake vre Heimdalsvatn is greatly affected by wind. Precipitation, especially heavy rainfall, has probably a good possibility of eroding and leaching material into the lake. The mean annual temperature is -1.2C, and the estimated mean annual evapo-transpiration is about 200 mm. The lake is covered by ice from late October to the beginning of June. Run-off, lake level and precipitation are well correlated, indicating that the influence of the catchment is large and rapid. 
3682284| The colonization by Scots pine of a former middle-geolittoral habitat on the Umelven river, northern Sweden, laid almost completely dry in 1958, was compared with that of a similar habitat, subject to natural changes in water-level, on the Vindellven river. The geographical position, altitude, exposition, slope and type of vegetation were similar at both sites. The percentage cover of field and bottom layers of the middle geolittoral are considered to have decreased after the fall in water-level of the Umelven river. The pines were dated by making annual ring counts. During the period 1962-67 a significant increase in pine colonization took place at the Umelven site above the new, regulated, high-water level. The tree densities (pines m
3682646|The major decline of the West Greenland caribou herd during the 1970s prompted a study in 1977-78 of caribou behaviour in relation to environmental factors associated with the decline. Quantification of caribou activity revealed behavioural responses to critically low standing crops of preferred winter forage. Caribou on poor winter range were mostly inactive with low feeding intensities and abnormal diurnal activity patterns. In addition, these animals exhibited very restricted movements, frequently occurred alone or in small groups, and were unable to maintain normal social bonds. In contrast, where fruticose lichen winter forage was available, caribou did not display these behavioural traits. After the initiation of new vegetative growth, feeding intensity increased and social tendency returned. Comparison with behavioural data from other Rangifer populations suggests that the observed responses to low forage quality are not restricted to Greenland but are a normal response of barren-ground caribou to winter ranges poor in lichen forage.
3682333|Germination of caryopses and seeds of Festuca rubra L. coll. from wet, dry and dune areas in the salt marsh at Skallingen, Jutland, Denmark, was tested in deionized water and diluted sea water. A strong correlation was found between percentage of germination and the topography of the collection sites. Further it was found that salt tolerance for the most salt tolerant populations, growing on low dunes, was provided partly by the husks rather than only being a characteristic of the seed. In less salt tolerant populations from low and dry areas, husks had no influence on germination percentage in 25% sea water.
3682064|The achievement of the Scandinavian campaign is seen in the swift development and unorthodox transfer of an innovative trapping technique into the management of pest populations of the spruce engraver Ips typographus without the use of pesticides. The pheromone traps proved to be far more efficient in the prevention of engraver reproduction and the reduction of beetle numbers than the cumbersome trap trees they replaced. The wholesale application of pheromone traps as an integrated part of engraver pest management is justified alone by the empirically proven benefits that result from a "surveillance with the intent to control", although appraisal of the actual impact of trapping on the population density remains scientifically ambiguous for the lack of reliable methodology. Furthermore, the campaign opens a new era in bark beetle management by stipulating for the commercial availability of pheromones and traps as well as for research on basic and applied aspects. As the years to come may show, behaviour chemistry is likely to bear more promises to engraver management than just trapping techniques.
3682753|A total of 41 stands was sampled for species composition and 29 of these stands for plant standing crop and net annual production at 7 sites on 6 arctic islands. Fourteen additional sites on 10 islands were studied in less detail. Through polar ordination, three groupings were recognized: polar barrens with an average species richness of 6, a phytomass of
3682632|The diet of black guillemots Cepphus grylle (L.) was studied in Shetland between 1982 and 1985, both during and outside the breeding season. Full-grown birds consumed a wide variety of fish and invertebrate species in summer, broadly reflecting the diversity of the inshore benthic fauna. In winter a greater diversity of invertebrates was taken, which assumed increased importance in the diet as the availability of benthic fish probably declined. Chicks were fed a diet of fish, with 70-80% being sandeels Ammodytes marinus and butterfish Pholis gunnellus on the island of Mousa. Sandeels were delivered more frequently in the early morning, coincident with a peak in their feeding activity. Older chicks were fed significantly longer fish. The composition of chick diet varied significantly with date, not chick age. A seasonal decline in the proportion of sandeels in the chick diet may have reflected changes in zooplankton abundance, but the possibility that intensive industrial fishing of sandeels had adversely affected local stocks can not be ruled out.
3682746| A population dynamics analysis for planktonic diatoms is presented that allows estimates of the net rate of increase (k), the death rate (), the sedimentation rate () and, in absence of grazing, the growth rate (). It requires counts of live and dead cells suspended in the euphotic part of the water column and accumulated in sedimentation traps. The application of the model is demonstrated for the three dominant summe diatom species in Lake Constance, Asterionella formosa Hass, Fragilaria crotonensis Kitton and Stephanodiscus binderanus Krieger. Only during the first two weeks of the summer bloom of diatoms the loss rates were unimportant in comparison to the growth rates. Thereafter diatom population dynamics was strongly influenced by sedimentation and mortality, which sometimes led to a decrease in population density even when cell division continued at high rates. There were two periods of extraordinarily high death rates, which were associated in the case of A. formosa with silicon depletion and in the case of F. crotensis with fungal parasitism. 
3682157|Five common indices were compared to see which of them would be most suitable in the study of long time changes in a phytoplankton community. Margalef's index d showed the same course during the year as did the number of species. This is also valid for Brillouin's, Shannon's, Simpson's and McIntosh's indices when based on number of individuals. Brillouin's and Shannon's indices based on cell number were found to differ from the diversity values obtained by Simpson's and McIntosh's indices depending on their different sensitivity to the two components of diversity, species richness and species evenness. Diversity indices including species richness and evenness (e.g. all except Margalef's) are recommended, but their different sensitivity to their species richness and evenness component should not be overlooked. A description of the phytoplankton composition should always be given together with diversity indices. This is very important since any index used gives no information on the species and their ecology.
3682487|Grazing by the crayfish Procambarus clarkii (Girard) on the abundance of submersed sago pondweed, Potamogeton pectinatus (L.), was quantified during 1984 through 1986 at Coyote Hills Marsh (Alameda County, California, USA). Annual marsh surveys indicated that P. pectinatus abundance declined (from 70% to 0% of the marsh surface), whereas P. clarkii abundance increased (from 1.6 to almost
3682745| Life cycle, growth, mortality and production of the polychaetes Nereis virens and N. diversicolor were studied in Norsminde Fjord, Denmark. When 3 yr old, N. virens showed synchronous spawning induced at new moon in April when water temperature was 10-12C. Nereis diversicolor showed a prolonged spawning during early spring and summer at an age of 12-18 months. Average weight-specific growth rate for N. virens and N. diversicolor were 0.0062 and
3682395|The importance of the presence of nymphs of Ephemera danica for the emergence and survival of phoretic Epoicocladius ephemerae was tested in the laboratory. Only a few midges survived when hosts were absent. The synchronization of emergence of the host and its associate was examined in the field. Fecundity and total egg volume per unit wing length was compared between E. ephemerae and several free-living chironomids. The number of eggs was about the same in E. ephemerae as in the other species, but total egg volume was comparatively large. A comparison is also made between the host-related adaptations and feeding habits of E. ephemerae and of the parasitic Symbiocladius rhithrogenae. Some larvae of E. ephemerae use the fullgrown nymphs as pupation sites, probably because the emerging hosts carry the pupae to the water surface. The reason why not all midge larvae make use of nymphs for this purpose is probably because they are unable to adapt to the exact emergence time of the nymphs. Analysis of the emergence data of the midge and of the mayfly support this hypothesis.
3682699|The trophic basis of production of the macroinvertebrate communities at three sites on a second-order, low gradient blackwater stream in southeastern U.S.A. was determined. The sampling sites were located above, within and below a low-flow swamp system. From 47-64% of macroinvertebrate production was supported by FPOM at the three sites, with dependence on FPOM being greatest at the swamp site. Algae (filamentous species and diatoms) supported 15-31% of production, indicating that algae can be of considerable importance even in fully canopied headwater streams. The production of some collector-gatherers including Stenonema modestum (55%), Hexagenia munda (58%) and Baetis spp. (78%), was supported predominantly by algae. Algae also supported 61-79% of Hydropsychidae production and 68% of Simuliidae production. Animal material supported 16-26% of macroinvertebrate production at the three sites. CPOM was of minor direct importance to the macroinvertebrate community of this headwater stream, supporting only 1-3% of macroinvertebrate production. Shredders ingested only
3682135|The aim of this study was to find out whether the low plant production under a canopy of Heracleum laciniatum Horn was due to competition for water, nutrients or light or to chemical inhibitors produced by H. laciniatum. The main conclusion is that the low plant production observed under the canopy is due to competition for light. There were also indications that the competition for nutrition was larger in the soil under H. laciniatum than in the meadow outside the stand, but it has not been shown that nutrient supply limits the plant growth under the canopy. There were no indications that competition for water was a limiting factor. Water percolated through pots with H. laciniatum plants slightly inhibited growth of Poa pratensis and Phleum pratense, but had no effect on H. laciniatum. In soil samples collected from mid of June to late October seeds of Phleum pratense germinated better in meadow-soil than in soil collected under H. laciniatum. Allelopathy is suggested to account for a minor part only of the suppressed plant production under a H. laciniatum canopy.
3682713|Small rodent populations were monitored by autumn snap trapping in 22 localities of Norway during the years 1971-1979. A total of 105528 trap days yielded 7987 small mammals, out of which the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus and the short-tailed vole Microtus agrestis made up 52.3 and 29.0%, respectively. Third in abundance was the wood mouse Apodemus sylvaticus. Both M. agrestis and C. glareolus fluctuated fairly regularly, with general peak years of abundance in 1973 and 1977. Other Microtidae, such as M. oeconomus, C. rutilus and Lemmus lemmus apparently also exhibited cyclic fluctuations. In Arvicola terrestris, Apodemus, and in Sorex shrews, regular fluctuations could not be demonstrated, although the abundance varied considerably. The body weights of sub-adult C. glareolus cycled in accordance with the fluctuations in abundance; the highest weights being recorded in peak years. In M. agrestis, this correlation was less obvious.
3682748|The establishment of Plantago maritima seedlings and juveniles along a distributional gradient was investigated with pantograph technique. Mortality was closely dependent on vegetational characters such as cover, height of vegetation and amount of litter. Superimposed on these factors was mortality due to flooding. The density dependent mortality of seedlings was also investigated. The number of surrounding seedlings seemed to be of vital importance for survival, i.e. self thinning occurred most likely as a result of competition for light. The establishment and survival of seedlings cannot fully explain the distribution of adults.
3682690| A total of 67 species of chironomids were caught in emergence traps placed at the shoreline. Additional larval records increase the number of species to be at least 75, a high number of species possibly explained by the exposed nature of the lake, which also provides habitats for lotic forms. The species composition and relative abundance of the four main groups of Chironomidae indicate that vre Heimdalsvatn is a subarctic lake, with a strong oligotrophic character. The emergence period starts in mid-June and lasts to mid-September. Diversity studies show similarity with mountain lakes in France and with the Bodensee, but the equitability in vre Heimdalsvatn is lower. The chironomid faunal composition of vre Heimdalsvatn seems to be determined by abiotic ecological factors and not the history of distribution. 
3682269|The results of three surveys of wood decomposing on the forest floor of two sites in an abandoned beech and oak coppiced woodland, between 1968-1979, are described. Total wood stainding crop on the forest floor was estimated as
3682672|The interdisciplinary study of the lake ecosystem was carried out under the auspices of the International Biological Programme. The reasons for the choice of the lake and the personnel and institutions involved in the project are described. A brief description is given of the lake itself, its catchment area and its location, together with a short historical review of the development of the area and the degree of human influence.
3682069|Pitfall trapping within enclosures is proposed as a method to get a reliable impression of the relationship between the abundances of a number of coexisting carabid species. The investigations were performed during two years in a heavily grazed pasture at Melle (Belgium). On a rather large scale soil samples could be compared with both enclosed and open pitfall catches. In all cases fenced pitfalls gave ratios between the catches of the different species showing a much better correlation with those from soil samples than the catch-ratios from open pitfalls. This method seems especially suitable to compare the relative abundances of a number of carabid species in short term investigations during periods of peak activities.
3682573|The adult demography of a population of Speyeria mormonia (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) near Gothic, Colorado USA was studied for four years. Values of demographic parameters, including survival, dispersal and sex ratio, varied yearly, without major changes in density. Shift in sex ratio with constant population numbers entails variation in effective population size among years. Flight period, catchability, relationship between body size and eclosion date, and significance of correlation between weather and daily survival rates differed between the sexes. Sexual dimorphism in correlation of wheather with survival rate may partially explain the lack of yearly variation in total population size. There was no significant sexual dimorphism in large scale habitat use, or in dispersal, except in 1982. The demography of this insect is compared to that of related species of Argynnis and heliconiines, from the old world temperate zone and new world tropics, respectively. While some differences are observed which can be ascribed to differences in length of the growing season, many patterns are similar. This implies conservation of demographic traits, even across broad habitat and geographic areas.
3682714|In this paper we provide quantitative information on the occurrence of larvae and nymphs of the tick Ixodes ricinus in populations of the lizards Lacerta agilis and L. vivipara. Levels of infestation were rather low, at least when compared with those of small mammals and sheep. Hence we suppose that lizards feed only a minor fraction of the total tick population. Differences in tick loads among lizard subpopulations are probably attributable to difference in body size and mobility among the host groups. Ticks exhibit a markedly clumped distribution on the lizards. This distribution pattern fits with the negative binomial distribution. The overdispersed distribution of tick larvae in the field and aspects of the lizards' behaviour are considered as factors which contribute to the observed infestation patterns. Tick larvae were active throughout summer, with peak levels occurring during June-July. Nymphs were most numerous during May-June but almost absent during the summer months. Almost always ticks were attached near the lizards' forelimbs. Possible mortality resulting from tick infestation does not contribute significantly to the overall lizard mortality. Hence, these ectoparasites seem to have but a minor impact on the lizard populations.
3682751|Radiotelemetry was used to study the movements of female meadow voles Microtus pennsylvanicus Ord through the reproductive cycle. The study was conducted on a commercial field of crownvetch Coronilla varia L., a plant which provides excellent cover but contains a toxin making it unsuitable as forage. In this habitat, food is limited to small patches of grass and other non-crownvetch species dispersed throughout the fields. Four measures of movement (activity radius, distance moved per hour, nest radius, and area covered) showed significant reductions at parturition. Females maintained low levels of movement throughout the first week of nursing as they concentrated activity around the brood nest. After seven days of lactation, they began to spend less time at the nest. A slight increase in median activity radius occurred through the last six days of gestation. Brood nests were constructed in a portion of the home range that contained a relatively high concentration of food. Chi-square tests revealed a significant positive association of females with non-crownvetch plants during the first six days of lactation but no association with non-crownvetch was found before parturition. Females chose nest locations in which, prior to parturition, they had spent little or no time presumably because nutritious plants were less grazed there.
3682383|The population dynamics and production of D. galeata Sars were investigated from April 1974 to April 1975. The population density and biomass was maximum in June. Population dynamics indicated that food supply was better in spring and early summer than mid-summer. Net production was calculated by method of daily addition of biomass for eight size groups. The total net production of biomass for the year of investigation was
3682061|An analysis of semiochemical communication between host trees, bark beetles and commensal or entomophagous insects discloses five principal means by which semiochemicals can influence the population dynamics of bark beetles. These are: mediation of aggregation and mass attack on new hosts, cessation of aggregation and shifting of attack to uninhabited hosts, induction of aggregation by competing species, inhibition of aggregation by competing species, and mediation of host finding by commensal and entomophagous insects. Further analysis suggests major points of natural vulnerability which lead to six fundamental strategies for potential pest management: prevention of production of aggregation pheromones, sabotage of olfactory perception, exploitation of semiochemical-based secondary attraction, exploitation of antiaggregation pheromones, exploitation of repellent allomones, and exploitation of the kairomonal response by entomophagous insects. Investigations of the many possible tactics arising from these strategies have led to three types of operational pest management programs: prevention of pheromone production by excluding bark beetles from their hosts; suppression of bark beetle populations through the utilization of semiochemical-baited traps, trees or logs; and the use of antiaggregation pheromones to protect vulnerable hosts from attack.
3682597|Larvae of Neureclipsis bimaculata (Trichoptera: Polycentropodidae) construct elaborate catchnets in lotic habitats to trap small drifting invertebrate prey. Three populations located at two oligotrophic and one eutrophic site were studied in southern Sweden. Measurements were made of larval weight, net size, seston quality and quantity, and stream velocity. Neureclipsis larvae alter their net dimensions in response to both velocity and seston concentration. This was determined by comparing net structure and seston at the three locations. Larvae from the eutrophic, high quality seston site attain a significantly (P < 0.001) heavier instar V dry weight, spin a smaller catchnet, filter a volume of water dependent on body size, and slightly alter their catchnet dimensions with velocity. Larvae from the two oligothrophic sites are significantly smaller than those from the eutrophic site, spin a larger net at comparable velocities, filter a larger volume of water at comparable weights, and alter net dimensions with velocity. Estimates of silk production indicate that the net cost is minimized by spinning a very fine silken strand and by adding silk over a period of time. The cost while large is offset by a large capture rate of prey. The structure of Neureclipsis nets appears to be the result of a trade-off between maximizing food capture and minimizing hydraulic stress on the net.
3682175| The purpose of our study was to compare on a seasonal basis the emergence, the drift and the benthos on a short and uniform section (18.5 m) of a stream in the Laurentian Hills of Qubec. Nineteen species occurred on this stretch, but only six were abundant: Leptophlebia cupida (Say), Habrophlebia vibrans Needham, Baetis pygmaeus (Hagen), Eurylophella verisimilis (McDunnough), Stenonema modestum (Banks), and Stenonema vicarium (Walker). Emergence was monitored for 5 years; densities differed from one trap to the next, as did species dominance, but total densities were similar. These data conform to Illies' rules of constancy and harmony. Nymphal densities were high (mean of
3682285|Weight loss and dynamics of plant nutrients (N, P, K, Ca, Mg, S, Fe, Mn, Na, Zn and Cu) in leaf litter were studied in a mature beech forest in South Sweden, using the litter bag technique. An initial decomposition period of about 12 to 18 months was characterized by an absolute net increase of N, P, and S contents in litter, followed by a period of net release of these elements. This development, which was most obvious for N and P, was interpreted as a change from a phase where decomposer activity was limited by the availability of nutrient elements to an energy-limited phase. A net release of nitrogen did not occur until after two years of decomposition, and a transfer of nitrogen and phosphorus between different litter layers is here proposed to work as a retention mechanism. Potassium and sodium were quickly leached from the litter, while release of magnesium, calcium, and initially also manganese, was more associated to organic matter weight loss. Iron, zinc and copper were all strongly accumulated in the litter material. This is explained by mineral soil admixture for the former element and by atmospheric fall-out in combination with the chemical complex formation character for the latter two elements. Finally, the importance of the different release processes in the total nutrient recycling of the forest is discussed.
3682162|Some descriptive data concerning a nest-box breeding goldeneye population in SW Sweden is given. Clutch size and the proportion of breeding adults were not significantly correlated to proximate factors like food and air temperature. A relationship between population density and the proportion of breeding adults cannot be excluded. Predation was the most important nest mortality factor. There was a preference for nest-boxes with successful breeding results in the previous year, while no preference for nest-boxes at good feeding lakes for the ducklings was found. Duckling survival seems to be regulated in a brood size dependent way, and an important mortality factor is losses during travels between different lakes. A negative correlation between temperature and laying date was found, while the yearly variations of the laying date did not influence the proportion of breeding adults, clutch size or hatching success. Clutches which started later contained fewer eggs and produced fewer young than early ones from the same breeding season.
3682723|The distribution of microbial populations that decomposed sugar, cellulose and lignin-related substrates was examined in a beech Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. and maple Acer saccharum Marsh. dominated woodlot developed on glacial till. The topography of the woodlot, characterized by rises, depressions and more extensive level areas about 1 m in diameter with a 0.5 m vertical maximum, produced a mosaic of decomposer habitats designated as high, level and low sites. In general, populations of sugar, cellulose and lignin decomposing organisms (based on ten estimates made from April to October) were two to four times higher in litter and soil samples from low sites than those from high sites. Sugar decomposing bacteria in litter were most abundant at all topographic sites,
3682138| Seasonal measurements of the oxygen and nitrate uptake by a reed swamp sediment were carried out in a shallow, eutrophic Danish lake, Arreskov S. The oxidation of organic carbon in the sediment by aerobic and nitrate respiration was 290 and 188 g
3682091|The Icelandic small mammal fauna is depauperated as is the associated ectoparasite fauna. Three small mammal species occur, viz. Apodemus sylvaticus L., Mus musculus L., and Rattus norvegicus Berk. (R. rattus is probably not a regular member). The mice supposedly came to the island by settlers from the 10th century and onwards. Apodemus and Mus from five localities altogether had seven ectoparasite species, five mites and two fleas. All species occurred on Apodemus whereas Mus was infested by four. Compared with the numbers of ectoparasite species recorded in similar studies in the Nordic countries, there are conspicuously few species in Iceland. Further, Apodemus had an overall higher infestation frequency than Mus (90% and 30%, respectively) and a higher total density of ectoparasites (3.3-20.3 and 0.5 inds/host, respectively). The density figures were high compared with those for mainland Apodemus. Especially the mite Laelaps agilis C. L. Koch and the flea Ctenophthalmus agyrtes (Heller) were common on Icelandic Apodemus. Reduced competition among parasites and/or low predator pressure on small mammals may explain the density figures obtained. The ectoparasite species compositions on small mammals in Scandinavia and Iceland have many features in common that renders it probable that Apodemus originate from Scandinavia.
3682640|Persistent pollutants in mustelid species (e.g. otter, mink, marten) were investigated. For a given animal, concentration of PCB and DDT in muscle were correlated with concentrations in its anal gland secretion. The correlation suggests that small samples of secretion could be used for pollutant analysis thereby eliminating the need to sacrifice animals. There was also a correlation between muscle and liver concentrations of these compounds, indicating a partitioning between different organs. Furthermore, we showed that habitat differences between species led to interspecific variation in the uptake of persistent pollutants. Mink, which mainly feed in aquatic environments, contained a higher proportion of p,p-DDT than marten, which feeds on terrestrial prey. Differences in PCB uptake were also noted between the two predators, though the congener distribution was heavily domined by a few hexa- and heptachlorobiphenyls.
3682359|Soil carbon dioxide efflux was measured in hummock and hollow microhabitats of a subarctic peat bog near Fairbanks, Alaska, during the 1983 growing season. Regardless of the presence of permafrost, hummocks showed a late June or early July peak in soil respiration followed by a gradual decrease. Hollows and wet Carex Lawns showed a gradual increase in soil respiration with no mid-season peaks. Regression equations using soil temperature and soil moisture as independent variables explained 76% of the variance associated with soil carbon dioxide efflux. Sucrose
3682276| Reproduction in the European hare Lepus europaeus Pallas populations was studied in three study areas in South Sweden during 1974-1976; two on the mainland and the third on the Island of Ven in resund. The monthly birth rates was calculated on the basis of the age of juvenile hares shot in autumn. The first births always occurred in February, indicating that the onset of the breeding season was governed by day length rather than by climate. Later, the reproduction rate was determined by temperature, snow cover, and precipitation. Low temperatures in spring delayed the reproduction; high temperatures in autumn favoured a prolongation of the breeding season. Low precipitation in May-July caused a decline in reproduction in July in a sandy pasture area, mainly because water amount was low in the green forage. Annual fertility, estimated on the basis of placental scars, varied between 6.8 and 8.9 young per female. There was a significant negative correlation between fertility and population density. The largest variations were recorded in one-year-old females, and on average the values were significantly higher in three-year-old females. 68% of all females examined had three litters annually; four litters were found in only 13% of all females. The mean litter size for the whole period was about 2.9 in all areas. The size of the first litter was significantly higher in females producing one or two litters than in females with three or four litters. The postnatal losses were on average 30-35% lower in the island population than in the mainland populations (73-84%), probably due to lack of predators, sparse road traffic, and inhibited juvenile dispersal. 
3682310|Photoperiod extension with weak incandescent light from 8 to 24 h stimulated relative growth rate (RGR) of Poa alpina up to 20%. The response was greatest in young plants at low temperatures. The leaf area ratio (LAR) increased by about 50% which more than compensated for a reduction in net assimilation rate (NAR) by about 20%. The effect of daylength extension on RGR was similar for an arctic ecotype of P. alpina from Svalbard, an alpine ecotype from southern Norway and a boreal-temperate ecotype from southern Norway. The main changes in the growth parameters occurred over the 13 to 17 h photoperiod range in P. alpina from both Svalbard and Rondane, although plants at Svalbard are exposed to midnight sun throughout their growing season. The ecotype of P. alpina from southern Norway had fewer tillers and allocated less dry matter to the roots than the two other ecotypes.
3682481|Natural mineral-rich springs which attract moose Alces alces and white-tailed deer Odocoileus virginianus were studied in a small area in central Canada. The spring water was particularly rich in Na and Cl but also contained levels of K, Ca, Mg, HCO
3682526| The adult Trichoptera communities of a small watershed in the Qubec Laurentian Hills were studied during two years with emergence and light traps. Some 180 species and more than 164500 specimens were collected, belonging mainly to the families Hydropsychidae, Polycentropodidae and Leptoceridae; the Limnephilidae with 41 species were the most diverse family. A comparison of catches in emergence and light traps revealed the importance of species from distant or specialized habitats in the composition of local communities. Two series of light trap catches show little similarity (Sanders index) although the traps were only some 60 m apart; this is in accordance with the suspected limited range of efficiency of light traps. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index, the Simpson dominance index as well as the Lloyd and Ghelardi equitability index have been used to describe community structure; our four data series have also been shown to conform to the log-normal frequency distribution of Preston. The sex-ratios of the abundant species are given. In most light trap series and in half the emergence trap series, the ratio differs significantly from 50: 50; there is however no overall dominance of one sex. Differences exist between the ratios obtained for the same species in the two types of traps and probably reflect sexual differences in behaviour at light. 
3682665|Deer mice Peromyscus maniculatus were captured along an altitudinal gradient that extended from 1524 m up to 3353 m in central Colorado during August and early September 1976. No differences were found in mean body weight along the altitudinal gradient. Mean hair length was found to increase along the gradient up to an altitude of 2438 m where it leveled off. Hair density was higher in mice captured at 3353 m than at 1524 m. This suggests that Bergmann's Rule was not found along the altitudinal gradient and that insulation was modified in response to the cooler conditions that exist at high altitude.
3682461|The response of seed germination to substrate water potential was determined for several plant species of the arctic tundra. Seeds were collected from Cape Thompson and Eagle Summit, Alaska and germinated on dialysis membranes over water solutions of polyethylene glycol with osmotic potentials of 0 to -6 bars. Germination did not occur with potentials below -3 bars, except for three fellfield species. Germination was delayed at lower osmotic potentials. Because the response of most species was similar, substrate water potential is probably not a factor affecting the establishment of most tundra plant species from seeds.
3682581| The pelagic amphipod, Hyalella montezuma comprised nearly 90% of the diet of the leech, Erpobdella montezuma in the near thermally constant environment of Montezuma Well, Arizona. This restricted diet, confirmed by both gut content and serological analyses, occurred even though other potential prey were abundant throughout the year in the pelagic column, littoral vegetation and sediments. Seasonal electivity indices for this pelagic prey species were 0.9. It is suggested that the highly predictable environmental conditions in Montezuma Well have contributed to this very close predator-prey relationship. 
3682469|Three isolates representing two species of the Saprolegniaceae were investigated using standard manometric techniques to determine what effect culture temperature and nutrient availability had on respiration following treatment with artificial seawater. All three isolates manifested decreased respiration following treatment in most temperatures and salinities whether or not exogenous nutrient were present, but no treatment prevented test fungi from resuming vigorous growth and infesting sterile bait after the 18.5 h treatment period. In light of previous published reports the present result suggest that saprolegniaceous fungi may become dormant in estuarine salinity regimes, but probably remain viable for prolonged periods. Ecological implications of this phenomenon are discussed.
3682679| Two sediment cores, 143 cm and 268 cm in length, have been investigated. The oldest dating is 8240  500 radiocarbon years B.P. The variation in the composition of the sediments is probably caused solely by climatic changes. The organic fraction is small, never exceeding 20%, reflecting the low primary production and rapid decomposition of allochthonous organic matter within the lake. The proportions of inorganic constituents indicate that the mineral fraction consists of clay and silt particles flushed into the lake from the drainage area. 
3682477| Activity patterns of the muskrat Ondatra zibethicus L. were examined during summer and winter in Delta Marsh, Manitoba, Canada (5011N, 9823W). Animals exhibited intermittent activity throughout the day with a mean periodicity close to 6 h in both seasons. The 24-h activity pattern in summer was typically bimodal with major peaks occurring between sunset and sunrise. Muskrats were more diurnal in winter when maximal levels of activity occurred in late afternoon and early evening (1500-2000). Pronounced inter- and intra-individual variability in daily activity ensured continuous, or nearly continuous occupation of winter shelters by a variable number of muskrats, and thus enchanced microclimate stability. Daily variation in activity and weather were weakly correlated both summer and winter. Of the environmental variables tested, only photoperiod and wind speed in summer, and photoperiod and air temperature in winter correlated significantly with total time spent in lodge or burrow per day. 
3682456|Eriophorum vaginatum tillers were collected at Eagle Creek, Alaska and cultivated in aerated solutions under controlled environmental conditions. The nutrient solutions contained traces, 1.05 and
3682166|Seasonal activity of Ixodes ricinus L. was studied with two different sampling methods at three localities in southern Sweden: blanket dragging in vegetation and collection from small mammal hosts (mainly larvae in the latter case). The blanket method yielded all development stages. The seasonal pattern - bimodal, with one peak in spring and another in autumn - was clearer for larvae collected on small mammals. The nymphs had a similar seasonal activity pattern as the larvae, but nymphal activity usually started somewhat earlier in spring. Adults had three activity peaks - spring, summer and autumn - in the vegetation. The autumn peak seems similar to that found in other European countries, but the timing of the spring peak differs. Weather, influencing development rates, seems to be the main agent behind these differences, since ambient weather (above a certain threshold) cannot explain the patterns. Abundance and activity of hosts (different hosts for different developmental stages) probably also plays a certain role.
3682659| Recent mathematical indices summarizing biological communities of indicators are recapitulated. Improvements of these indices based on weighting according to width of trophic ranges of each species are suggested. Their principle deficiencies, however, are pointed out. Revised lists of characteristic profundal as well as littoral and sublittoral chironomids in Nearctic and Palearctic lakes show that at least 15 characteristic chironomid species communities can be delineated, 6 in each of the oligotrophic and the eutrophic ranges and 3 in the mesotrophic range. It is proposed that these communities be lettered consecutively in the Greek alphabet from  (alpha) to  (omikron). A key to the 15 divisions based on the species associations in the profundal zone of harmonic lakes is put forward. There is very good correlation between the 15 divisions and the ratios of average total phosphorus to mean lake depth and average chlorophyll a to mean lake depth. The ratio of chironomids to oligochaetes and the distribution patterns of single species have proven useful in pin-pointing localized areas of pollution. The primary mechanism governing the distribution of chironomid communities in oligotrophic and mesotrophic lakes appears to be the availability of food materials rather than the annual hypolimnetic oxygen concentration. In eutrophic lakes the relationships between organic matter accumulation and oxygen levels are so interdependent as to be inseparable. 
3682549| Muskoxen Ovibos moschatus in northern Greenland (79-83N) are at the northern limit of their distribution and exist under seasonal extremes dominated by nearly 10 months of winter, much of which is without sunlight. The period of summer vegetative growth is less than two months. In the Kap Kbenhavn area (8230N), diversity of plant species is low (76 species of vascular plants) and forage biomass in major vegetation types in summer varies from over 40 g m
3682321| 1. Alpine vascular plants seem to use other strategies in surviving a cold environment than reducing the reflectance in level leaves. Pubescence in alpine plants has small effect upon total reflectance, but may increase the amount of photosynthetic active radiation within the sheltered canopy. Alpine cushion plants like Silene acaulis, Diapensia lapponica and Loiseleuria procumbens maximize the absorptance of radiant energy with minimum heat losses, probably as an effect of the dense canopy structure. The young inflorescences of Eriophorum vaginatum were found to be extremely efficient absorbators, while the reflectance in Salix catkins was close to that of green leaves. 2. In lichens, a great variation both in visible (400-700 nm) and infrared (700-1400 nm) reflectance was found: (A) The Pseudephebe pubescence group consists of species with very low reflectance at all measured wavelengths. The species are chionophobous, probably because of the high absorptance which makes growth possible during the cold season. (B) The Sticta sylvatica group, characterized by very low visible reflectance and very high infrared reflectance, is well adapted to shade. (C) The Cetraria nivalis group consists of fruticose species with high reflectance both in the visible and the near infrared. The intense visible reflectance probably makes net photosynthesis possible in well protected layers of the canopy. (D) The Nephroma arcticum group with spectral properties resembling green leaves in vascular plants. (E) The Haematomma ventosum group and the Parmelia perlata group with spectral properties intermediate between group C and D. 3. A modified method determining lethal temperatures and energies of activation in the process leading to death during a heat shock, is described. The two parameters are rather species specific in many of the 118 Scandinavian plants investigated. The lethal temperatures completely overlap the values in hotter parts of the world. However, habitat specific lethal temperatures were found; low values in wet- or shade-growing species and high values in dry-growing species. In Picea abies lethal temperatures and energies of activation showed pronounced, but diverging, year cycles in 12 ecotypes from different parts of Europe. Only negligible differences between the ecotypes exist, and cycles are probably photoperiodically determined. 4. Heat hardening can be achieved quickly, both in an active and dormant stage, by increasing the temperature. A linear correlation between hardening temperature, both in the optimal and supraoptimal temperature range, and hardening capability was found. In most species, but especially in cold adapted species, the hardening capability at supraoptimal temperatures decreases with increasing cultivation temperature. 5. Diffusion resistances with open
3682552| We examined ontogenetic changes in diel patterns of habitat use and activity of the lotic isopod Lirceus fontinalis in relation to differences in predation risk from green sunfish, Lepomis cyanellus. Juveniles are 5 mm total length (TL), individuals 6-9 mm TL are mature females (c. 90%) and immature males, and mature males are 10 mm TL. Isopods of all sizes were far more dense in Cladophora, a filamentous green algae, than in open silt/sand substrates in fish pools. Densities of each size did not increase in open areas at night in fish pools when risk of predation presumably decreases. Few individuals of any size class occurred in open silt/sand areas in fish pools. However, habitat use did not depend on fish presence. Densities and relative abundances of all sizes were similar between algal and open habitats in fishless pools both day and night, except for mature males which were more abundant in open areas during daylight. All sizes of isopods were significantly more dense in fishless versus fish pools, and density of a size class was influenced by fish presence. Densities of size classes were typically juveniles > individuals 6-9 mm TL > mature males. Green sunfish are size selective feeders on isopods, thus demography of isopods within pools may be partially influenced by the size structure of the fish population. Isopods reduced their activity, as measured by captures in benthic traps, in the presence of caged green sunfish only at night. This behavior coupled with relatively high activity levels during daylight regardless of fish presence suggests other predators or factors may influence diel activity. Mature males were overrepresented in traps relative to their occurrence in fish runs, indicating high activity levels. Mature males were also more active than gravid and nongravid females and juveniles in the presence of fish in laboratory aquaria. Number of male encounters with nongravid females depended on activity level. 
3682200|Dynamics and performance of established individuals of Ranunculus glacialis at the time of peak flowering were monitored in a mountain area in Finnish Lapland for five years (1982-1986). The plants reproduced only sexually, and their spatial distribution in
3682278| Seasonal activity patterns of Patrobus atrorufus (Strm) were studies by the use of pitfall traps. The samples were taken from three habitats at different altitudes, situated in an alder forest, a spruce forest, and a subalpine birch forest, respectively. With increasing altitude the breeding time of the species and the corresponding peak of activity shifted from autumn towards spring. This change in the breeding pattern was found mainly to be caused by climatic factors, thus the species seems able to accomplish considerable alterations in the life history as an adaptive mechanism. 
3682608|Collection records of adult dytiscid beetles (Coleoptera, Dytiscidae) from 312 sites within the province of Alberta, Canada, were analyzed for patterns of similarity in species distribution. Sites compared on the basis of species occurrence (Jaccard co-efficient of similarity and group average cluster analysis) separated into 12 principal clusters, interpreted as communities. However, cluster inclusion occurred at very low levels of similarity and 30% of sites were unclustered outliers. Ecological characteristics of sites that were recognized as varying between clusters were salinity, productivity, stability, water temperature, substrate type, flow and vegetation. An index relating these qualitatively defined variables to species numbers is presented. An analysis of co-occurrence patterns of species was conducted as an alternative approach to definition of multispecies associations. Each possible combination of co-occurrence between pairs of species occurring in more than 5 collections each was tested for significance (p = 0.005) by means of Yates corrected 
3682478|The fruit fall from the canopy and the understorey in an oak Quercus petraea (Mattushka) Liebl. wood and in a yew Taxus baccata L. wood at Killarney, Ireland, were measured over a period of approximately 18 months; this included two complete fruit crops in each wood. Fruit represents the great bulk of the food of the small rodents present: wood mice Apodemus sylvaticus (L.) and bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus Schreber. From a knowledge of the particular fruits or their parts eaten, the amounts of available food, in
3682085|A peak density population of Clethrionomys glareolus was studied by snap-trapping to determine by experimentation whether spacing behaviour regulated the breeding density. On control plots onset of reproduction was asynchronous, litter size of overwintered females decreased significantly during the summer and no year-born animals matured during the reproductive period. A removal experiment in the early summer resulted in sexual maturation of year-born females. A second removal in late summer indicated an inhibition of maturation in year-born females despite continued intense reproduction of overwintered females. We conclude that spacing behaviour regulated maturation of females early in the summer but other factors, such as food quality, limited maturation in late summer.
3682340| The macrofungal flora (species producing fruitbodies) of oak forest in Scania and N.E. Smland, south Sweden, is compared on the basis of soil chemical and stand structural properties and general differences in the deposition of acid and acidifying pollutants between these two regions. Deposition in Scania is, on average, twice as high and the mean base saturation of the oak forest humus only half of that in Smland. Species characteristic of soils with high base saturation/pH values (e.g. Cortinarius nemorensis, Entoloma nidorosum, Camarophyllus spp., Marasmius epiphyllus) were usually more common in Smland, whereas the opposite was true for most species characteristic of highly acidic soils (e.g. Entoloma cetratum, Lactarius camphoratus, L. theiogalus, Mycena sanguinolenta). Known changes of soil acidity and base saturation in south Sweden during recent decades and information from this and related studies suggest that the species composition of the macrofungal flora in deciduous forest of south Sweden is gradually changing as a result of changing soil chemistry. 
3682350|This paper deals with a change in abundance of a population of Fritillaria meleagris L. The results of the investigation were compared with those of a study performed about 40 yr ago. The comparison showed both a change in the vegetation and in the abundance of the fritillary along a topographical gradient. The study reported here was a transplant experiment carried out in order to evaluate the hypothesis that regulation of the water levels of an adjacent lake was the main reason for the change. The transplantations showed that the performance of the fritillary was negatively affected by the high ground water levels and inundations of the site where the fritillary earlier was most abundant.
3682280|Larval drift of the trichopteran Rhyacophila nubila (Zett.) was studied in a West Norwegian river. The frequency distribution of different instars in the drift samples was significantly different compared with the benthic samples. The drift, measured as the number which passed a transect of the river, rised markedly in periods of high water discharge. Different instars can be arranged according to the extent in which they are drifting: 2 > 3 > 4 > 1 > 5. Instar 1 and 2 shared a neutral phototaxis. From the 2nd instar and on, the larvae became increasingly night-active with a culmination in the last instar which was highly night active, also confined by laboratory studies. It is suggested that changes in activity patterns is associated with a shift towards a more carnivorous way of life.
3682528|The survival of Plantago maritima seedlings was studied on a Baltic sea-shore meadow and related to a topographical gradient and to microtopography. The seedlings showed different survival at different microtopographical levels. These differences could be identified all along the gradient but did not show in the same place in every year. The survival of seedlings was also different in different parts of the gradient. This means that the distribution of safe-sites fluctuates with time. Areas with the highest survival rate of seedlings did not coincide with areas with the highest abundance of adults.
3682404| Cooking Lake (11302W, 5326N), a well-mixed, shallow (mean depth 1.59 m), eutrophic lake in Alberta, Canada, is characterized by eutrophic chlorococcalean and cyanophycean phytoplankton associations, and little change in standing crop with increasing depth. Standing crop and primary productivity are low during the winter but pronounced spring and summer maxima occur. Mean yearly areal standing crop (B) and primary productivity (A) were
3682712|Reproductive output of the golden eagle Aquila chrysaetos (L.), was studied in two areas within the species distribution in northern Sweden during 1975-1980. Reproductive success was compared with the abundance (based on hunting bag statistics) of small game prey species and with the microtine cycles. The proportion of golden eagle pairs with successful breeding and the number of young produced per occupied territory varied greatly between years (21-85% and 0.27-1.24, respectively). In the northern study area I found a significant correlation between the proportion of pairs with successful breeding versus total hunting bag of small game species. There were also significant correlations between vole density and breeding success one year later. This was not the case in the southern study area, mainly due to a good reproductive year for golden eagles in 1977 when small game species were scarce. The good reproductive output in 1977 may be explained by favourable weather conditions that spring. Whether breeding occurs or not is probably determined by prey abundance early in spring just before the golden eagle female lays her eggs.
3682387| Stand structure and rates and patterns of wood litterfall, between 23 June 1977 and 27 June 1979, are described for two sites in a coppiced beech Fagus sylvatica L. and oak Quercus petraea (Mattuschka) Liebl. woodland in south-east England. Total wood fall (excluding trunks) was estimated at
3682170|Feeding on Chironomus riparius, Glyptotendipes paripes (Chironomidae), and Daphnia magna by the predatory freshwater leech, Nephelopsis obscura, was investigated in the laboratory and predictive models developed to estimate prey capture rate in the field. Experimental arena (container) size significantly affected predation rates when arena diameter was less than twice the total body length of the predator. Both chironomid and Daphnia magna capture rates were influenced by predator size, temperature and prey density.
3682156| In Iceland Cepaea hortensis Mll. reaches its northern limit of distribution occurring in restricted areas along the south coast. Samples of snails collected along steep cliffs in two such restricted areas were effectively monomorphic for shell colour (yellow), but were polymorphic for banding pattern and revealed strong area effects. In both localities samples from sites facing east contained varying frequencies of unbanded snails whereas in ecologically similar sites facing south unbanded were absent. In an experimental population released at a south-facing site unbanded snails failed to become established whereas banded individuals survived and bred. It is suggested that the area effects are maintained through non-visual (most likely climatic) selection though other possibilities cannot be ruled out. 
3682326|Malus domestica, Salix caprea L. and Betula pubescens Ehrh. are host plants for Orthosia gothica L. The influence of the three plant species on time of larval development, mortality, and weight gain, and of adult fecundity, was studied. M. domestica was the most suitable food plant for the O. gothica larvae, and there was a positive correlation between the live weights of the females and their fecundity. The consumption, digestion and respiration of O. gothica larvae reared on foliage of S. caprea and B. pubescens were compared. Larvae fed on S. caprea had a shorter time of development, a higher weight gain, and a lower mortality, consumption, digestion and respiration compared with larvae reared on B. pubescens. Larvae reared on B. pubescens used a greater part of metabolism for maintenance than those on S. caprea. The different effects of the two food plants on the larvae were due to nutritional and/or physical conditions.
3682592|From 1981 to 1986 an isolated adder population was studied in the extreme south of Sweden. During this period 48 adult males and 44 adult females were marked. Male adders did not grow as large as the females. Large males had a significantly higher annual mating success and were engaged in more combats than smaller males. The mean length of recaptured males was significantly lower than that of those not recaptured, indicating a higher motality of larger males. Females brood size was positively correlated with body size. In females there was no difference in mean length of recaptured vs not recaptured individuals. The adder is one of the few snake species with male combat where males are smaller than females. I suggest that this is due to stronger selective advantages for large body size in females than in males.
3682752|Predation on brown hares and pheasants in relation to their production was examined in an open field area in southern Sweden. Biomass and numbers of hares and pheasants eaten by the predators were calculated from data on food habits, food requirements, and numbers of the mammalian and avian predators present (11 species). At the same time estimates of numbers and production of hares and pheasants were obtained. At least 40% of the estimated annual production of hares and almost 60% of subadult-adult pheasants in autumn were consumed by the predators. Estimated numbers of hares and pheasants taken by the predators greatly exceeded shooting and road mortality. Foxes and cats were the predominant predators on hares (about 90% of total hare consumption). Foxes accounted for about two-thirds of predation on pheasants; cats and goshawks were of secondary importance. Pheasant nests were preyed upon by hooded crows and also by badgers. Hares and pheasants contributed only about 3 and 1%, respectively, of the food of the predators.
3682589| Adults were obtained from three populations of Taeniopteryx nebulosa and four populations of Brachyptera risi; their eggs were incubated at seven constant temperatures (range 3.8-22.1C). There were interspecific, but not intraspecific, differences in adult life-span, mean number of eggs laid per female, hatching success and egg incubation periods. The optimum temperature for hatching success and the range over which at least 50% of the eggs hatched were lower for T. nebulosa (6.5C, 2.7-15.0C) than for B. risi (9.0C, 5.1-15.8C). No eggs hatched at 22.1C. The relationship between incubation period (d days) and water temperature (TC) was given by:
3682100|The Meadow Brown Butterfly, Maniola jurtina L., which is polymorphic for spotting on hind wings, was studied for five years on four small (
3682437|Adult mountain hares in outdoor cages were studied in order to evaluate the consumption and the digestibility of natural winter foods. Food, feces and urine were analysed for nitrogen, phosphorus, calcium, potassium, magnesium and sodium, and food and feces for fiber as well. The metabolism of the different nutrients are presented in this paper. When energy equilibrium was maintained hares assimilated as an average 21.6 g dry matter per kg body weight and day
3682618|Numbers and proportions of southern bird species in Norway were analyzed, mainly using data from the literature. Southern, regularly breeding, bird species constituted 18% of water/wetland birds and 45% of landbirds. This difference is related to the opposing latitudinal gradients in species richness. Also, the majority of southern water/wetland bird species in Norway are associated with a habitat type that covers small areas, in contrast to southern landbird species. Correlation analysis showed that May temperature and respiration equivalent (a measure of potential for plant growth and ripening) each could account for about 85% of the variation in proportion of southern passerine species, and about 75% in proportion of southern wader species. Significant second-order, partial correlations were found between proportion of southern passerines and latitude, May temperature and respiration equivalent. It is suggested that the northern distributional limits of passerines, may be indirectly causally related to May temperature and respiration equivalent, and also directly causally related to May temperature. Evidence of causal relationships between northern distributional limits of waders and May temperature or respiration equivalent was not found. For May temperature this may be because of insufficient number of wader censuses.
3682458|Eriophorum vaginatum ssp. spissum is a dominant plant species of undisturbed cotton grass tussock tundra in Alaska. It also quickly invades and dominates recently disturbed sites. The hypothesis tested in this research was that the success of E. vaginatum on disturbed sites might be achieved through a higher allocation of biomass to reproductive structures relative to other tundra species. Reproductive allocation of tundra plants in general also was compared with plants of the temperate zone. The results indicate that E. vaginatum is about average among the common tundra species in terms of total reproductive allocation, allocation to seeds, and the proportion of total reproductive allocation that is accounted for by viable seeds. Tundra species, on a relative basis, allocate less biomass to all reproductive structures than temperature species but not necessarily less biomass to the output of viable seeds.
3682408|The concentrations of Cd, Cu, Pb, and Zn were determined in the abiotic and biotic components at two sites in the Fox River, Illinois. Analysis of the metals was completed on solutions of wet ashed or dry ashed samples with a single beam atomic absorption spectrophotometer. Despite different inputs of the trace metals there were no significant differences in the concentration of Cu or Zn in the biota between the two sites. This was postulated to be due to physiological control of these metals. However, Cd and Pb concentrations were higher in the biota and substrate at the high input site. No accumulation of Cd or Pb occurred at higher trophic levels. Cu and Zn concentrations were similar for all biota with the exception of crayfish and snails which had higher Cu and Zn concentrations, respectively.
3682452|The effect of a 1976 nitrogen, phosphorus, and nitrogen-phosphorus-potassium fertilization at Eagle Creek, Alaska, on photosynthetic rates was investigated in 1978 in eight vascular and three nonvascular plant species. While NPK fertilization increased the growth rate of shoots of most vascular plant species, this treatment depressed photosynthetic rates in all vascular species. Therefore, it appears that nutrient limitation of growth is a direct limitation and not mediated through nutrient effect on carbon uptake rates and levels of available photosynthate. The reason for the reduction in photosynthetic rates with fertilization is not known. It is speculated that increases in growth with fertilization causes a dilution of other nutrients or factors, the effect of which is to depress photosynthesis. Moss photosynthesis is stimulated with fertilization. High NPK fertilizer levels stimulate photosynthesis more than low NPK fertilizer levels. This may indicate basic differences in the ecology or physiology of the two growth forms. It is not yet known if the growth of mosses in this area is stimulated by NPK fertilization.
3682598|Vertical distribution of primary production and phytoplankton was studied in a polyhumic brownwater lake and in an oligo-mesohumic lake. During summer both lakes were thermally, chemically and biologically stratified. In the brownwater lake primary production was restricted to the uppermost layer of 1-1.5 m of epilimnion. In the oligo-mesohumic lake noticeable primary production was detected down to depths of 2-3 m. The ice-free period primary production was about 20% higher in the oligo-mesohumic lake, though occasionally the surface production was 2-3 times higher in the brownwater lake. Epilimnetic total phosphorus and total nitrogen concentrations were higher in the brownwater lake, while nitrate-nitrite, ammonium and phosphate concentrations were very low in both lakes. Phytoplankton was confined to the uppermost productive layer in the brownwater lake. In the oligo-mesohumic lake phytoplankton was distributed more evenly, though the mean maximum biomass was at the depth of 3-4 m. Below the oxic water layer biomass decreased abruptly in both lakes. In the oligo-mesohumic lake chlorophyll concentration was extremely high
3682343|The total aestival ectoparasitic burden of six small mammal species (Sorex araneus, Clethrionomys glareolus, C. rutilus, C. rufocanus, Microtus agrestis, and M. oeconomus) was investigated in terms of frequency distribution, frequency of occurrence, species diversity and joint occurrences. The mammals were collected in northern Fennoscandia during peak density years. The frequency distribution of the ectoparasites was best described as negative binomial on C. glareolus, M. agrestis, and M. oeconomus but not so on S. araneus, C. rutilus and C. rufocanus. The distribution did not fit the Poisson distribution in any species. The percentage of S. araneus that had ectoparasites was 49%, and of the microtidae species, 73-96% had ectoparasites. The median number of ectoparasites on the vole species was between 2 and 9 specimens of 1 or 2 species. There was a significant, positive correlation between the number of ectoparasitic species and the total number of individuals on all host species. Pairs of ectoparasitic species occurring together more or less often than expected by chance were found on all host species. However, the pairs rarely repeated themselves on the same host species under different environmental conditions, or on other host species under similar circumstances. Differences in total infestation between reproductive categories and sexes were observed in M. agrestis but not in S. araneus and C. glareolus.
3682538|Different ectoparasitic species occur on different areas on the small mammal host: chiggers in the ear muzzle, ticks on the ears and other parts of the head, fleas and lice on the back and most gamasid mites on the posterior part of the host body. The distribution might be affected by (1) the mechanical interference of the host. Thus attached species such as ticks and chiggers occur in areas where direct predation is limited and small and/or very mobile species are found on other parts of the body. (2) Interaction between parasitic species. In areas where species meet, there might be a segregation in time or in space. Species such as Laelaps agilis (C. L. Koch) and Haemogamasus nidi Michael are most frequently found within a restricted area on the host, but differ in their seasonal occurrence. In other combinations of species, such as in fleas, there are marked differentiations in body areas used. These differentiations may be evolutionary fixed or manifested at first when species meet. (3) Abundance, where an increasing abundance enlarge the habitat used.
3682208| The nitrogenase activity of free-living microorganisms was investigated in a brown forest soil beneath a mature oak-stand outside Uppsala, Central Sweden. The effect of season, air temperature, soil depth and some soil parameters on nitrogenase activity was studied. Only heterotrophic nitrogenase activity was detected. The main activity occurred in the upper 5 cm of the soil profile. The amount of nitrogen fixed during the growth season was calculated to
3682180|The effects of ice-push on shoreline population age structure of Salix planifolia was investigated at Clearwater Lake, a large lake (
3682706| Between midsummer 1976 and November 1977 some 29000 spiders belonging to 168 species were caught in pitfalls on 42 peat and upland grassland sites covering an altitude range of 11-827 m in the north of England. The similarities between the spider faunas of each site have been assessed using a modified form of Srensen's Index and the sites clustered according to their similarities. The sites divided into two major groups; (1) mineral soils where grasses are dominant or shallow peat soils where Juncus squarrosus is dominant and (2) peat soils where Eriophorum vaginatum and Calluna vulgaris are dominant. It is suggested that this major division is the result of the plant "architecture" rather than the species composition of the vegetation. Direct comparison between paired peat and grassland sites at the same altitudes shows no marked separation in the spider species composition on the two soil types but there are differences in abundance of individual species. The three peat site clusters form an altitudinal sequence which is not the result of the decline in numbers of non-linyphiid species with increase in altitude as the cluster formation is largely dependent on the linyphiid species which dominate the catches. Twenty one common species have been used to identify the communities. Many of these species are often found together and form associations. Typically, a number of associations contribute to each community. Only 19 species contribute more than 4% to the numbers of individuals caught in any one community. Diversity declines with increase in altitude, as does the number of species caught. The decline in the number of species caught is the effect of a decrease in non-linyphiid species with increasing altitude. There is no significant decline in the numbers of species of linyphiids with increase in altitude. 
3682302| Populations of Heterotrissocladius subpilosus and Phaenopsectra (Sergentia) coracina were studied from 1974 to 1978 in Langvatn, South-Trndelag, Norway. During 1975 and 1976 the lake was fertilized respectively by 1600 kg and 1000 kg fertilizer, (20% N, 4,8% P). Fertilization had a positive effect on primary production and zooplankton. The effect on the two chironomid species, which both need more than one year for development, was ambiguous. However, there was a positive relationship between the density of H. subpilosus larvae and the primary production. The number of P. (S.) coracina larvae steadily increased during the investigated period. Production estimates gave values in the range
3682489|Food habits of sympatric northern and brown long-eared bats were examined by analysis of droppings collected in six maternity roosts of each species. Relatively large, nocturnal flying insects such as moths (Lepidoptera), June-beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae), crane-flies (Diptera: Tipulidae) and caddis-flies (Trichoptera), were eaten by both bat species, representing 47% (by volume) of the northern and 57% of the long-eared bat's diet. Small dipterans were important food items for the northern bat (47% of the diet) but not for the long-eared bat, which instead consumed large amounts of diurnal or predominantly non-flying taxa such as blow-flies (Diptera: Calliphoridae), earwigs (Dermaptera), spiders (Araneae) and harvestmen (Opiliones) (40% of the diet). The difference in food selection by the two species is probably due to the different foraging strategies used.
3682624|Variation in reproductive traits (sexual maturity, clutch size, clutch weight, mean egg mass, newborn weight) was studied during a four year period in a population of the live-bearing lizard Lacerta vivipara. Sexual maturity was associated with attaining a minimum body size. Clutch size increased with female body length and litter weight increased with clutch size. A major component of the within year variation in these reproductive traits was attributable to female size. Analysis of successive clutches in individual females indicated that a significant fraction of the variation in litter size, adjusted for female length, was due to consistent differences between individuals. Newborn weight varied within and among litters, but no relations between hatchling mass or mean egg mass in a litter and other traits were detected. Size-adjusted reproductive performances remained constant during the course of this study, even though environmental conditions (weather factors, food availability) varied annually. Observed among year variations in reproductive characteristics were attributable to differences in the body size distributions of the adult females.
3682451| Photosynthetic and respiratory response of four Alaskan tundra species comprising three growth forms were investigated in the laboratory using an infrared gas analysis system. Vaccinium vitis-idaea, a dwarf evergreen shrub, demonstrated a low photosynthetic capacity:
3682499|Penned moose Alces alces (L.) offered birch and rowan trees in various proportions in experimental tests showed a clear preference for birch both in terms of selection and use of trees. Both tree selection and tree use was frequency-independent, i.e. the preference for birches did not vary with either the number of birches, or total birch biomass available. The preference for birch was not absolute, i.e. rowans were also present in the diet. Birch were more profitable than rowans in terms of biomass intake rate, whereas rowans were more "nutritious" than birches. The results are consistent with both the optimal diet theory and the "nutrient mixture" hypothesis, although neither of the hypotheses are unambiguous regarding frequency-dependent food selection. It is argued, however, that tree selection and use by moose rather should be considered as a patch use problem and that trees should not be regarded as particulate food items as in most foraging models.
3682407|The annual minimum energy consumption of the bird community was
3682075|Variation in body weight of red deer in Norway was investigated along two climatic gradients; one with increasing latitude, and the other with proximity to the coast. Deer of all sex/age classes were significantly heavier in the northern parts of their range compared with the south and were also significantly heavier at inland localities compared with the coast. Body weights were negatively correlated with temperature and precipitation throughout the years. These clines in body weight apparently support Bergmann's rule, and may reflect selection for large size in cold environments. However, we interpret the results in the light of recent work on plant physiology which indicates higher quality forage at high latitudes, and in cooler and drier climates; conditions which are likely to enhance growth in the north and inland. Evidence that individual deer which migrate inland, following the snow melt, are heavier is also presented and discussed in terms of an adaptive behaviour that maximises the intake of digestible energy and high quality nutrients.
3682720|Six nests of white-tailed eagles in the southernmost Greenland were watched during the nestling period and food items recorded photographically by remote controlled cameras. The species composition of the food was representative even for the adult eagles' diet. Fish made up a major part of 90%, various bird species and arctic fox pups the remaining 10%. The total intake of an eaglet amounted to 50 kg from hatching to fledging. The daily requirements of fledglings, some 800 g fish food, are equal to previously reported values for older birds. The rate of food consumption of eaglets is constant through most of the nestling period.
3682364| A subjective analysis of the seasonal periodicity of phytoplankton populations in several natural lakes and experimental lake systems (Lund Tubes) has shown that the direction and patterns of change are both general and predictable. The paper distinguishes between autogenic successional changes, consistent with increasing community complexity and segregation, and allogenic changes resulting from turbulent disruption of the stratified system. The periodicity of the assemblages recognized is resolved through the interaction of two major variables - nutrient availability and column stability. A simple possibility matrix is proposed which can account for the observed changes in community structure. The principal pathways in eutrophic lakes (diatoms  Volcocales  Nostocales  dinoflagellates or Microcystis, with reversions through 'summer diatom' assemblages) and in mesotrophic lakes (diatoms  Chrysophyte/Sphaerocystis  dinoflagellates, with reversions through 'summer diatom-desmid' assemblages) are generally consistent with the growth and survival strategies of the principal algal species concerned. 
3682566|The response of photosynthesis to reciprocal transplanting was measured in 1980, 1981, and 1986 in two genetically-distinct populations of Dryas octopetala, a circumpolar dwarf shrub. Contrary to expectation, photosynthetic rates were lowest in "home" environments and highest in "foreign" sites. Also, "native" plants had lower photosynthetic rates than "alien" plants. A "rapid-transplant" experiment showed that the observed pattern was not caused by environmental differences between sites at the time of measurement, but rather by the long-term response of transplants to the environment. These results, in combination with the results of an analysis of the fitness response to transplanting (published elsewhere), caution against assuming that a positive relationship always exists between photosynthetic rate and fitness. Integrated measures of carbon gain may be more appropriate as measures of plant performance.
3682391|The distribution, size and abundance of Pelvetia canaliculata (L.) and Fucus spiralis L. and the epifaunal communities associated with these two high shore fucoid algae have been studied at several contrasting sites in North Wales. Several environmental parameters were measured at each site and correlated with the distribution of the algae and their associated fauna. These weeds, which occur in perhaps the harshest zone of the shore, support exceedingly impoverished epifaunal communities in which the amphipod Hyale nilssoni (Rathke), small littorinids and acarines predominate. This contrasts markedly with the extremely diverse epifaunal communities associated with algae situated lower in the intertidal zone.
3682641|The nest site selection of seven Norwegian woodpeckers, Dryocopus martius, Picus viridis, P. canus, Picoides tridactylus, Dendrocopos leucotos, D. major and D. minor, was compared. The following parameters were measured at the nesting tree: forest type, tree species, the tree's "degree of decay", the height of the tree, the hole's height above the ground, the stem's diameter at the hole and 0.5 m above the ground, earlier holes in the stem, and whether the tree was broken or not. Several differences between species were found in forest type and tree species. The use of weakened and dead nesting trees tended to increase with decreasing size of the bird. The following parameters usually decreased with decreasing size of the species: the height of the tree and of the nesting hole, and the stem's diameter at the hole and near the ground. Overlap in nest site parameters was calculated for four species, D. martius, P. viridis, D. major and D. minor, common nesters in Populus tremula. Overlap between D. minor and the other three species was low, whereas considerable overlap was found between D. martius and P. viridis. Both species prefer large, old Populus tremula trees.
3682250|The fluxes of water and chemicals in throughfall and stemflow of three subalpine balsam fir forests of New Hampshire, USA were measured. The three fir stands were highly dissimilar in structural characteristics, serving as a test of the importance of stand structure on these fluxes. The sum of throughfall and stemflow water exceeded incident precipitation by more than 18 to 29%. This difference was attributed to the unmeasured input of cloud droplets impacted on canopy surfaces. The principal effect of stand structure was a positive relationship between stand density and stemflow. The flux of NH
3682382| Larval production of ten species of Hydropsychidae and Philipotamidae was studied at six stations along 6.4 km of a southern Appalachian stream, encompassing stream orders 1-4 and a 600 m elevation change. Species-specific production estimates ranged from 23-983 mg AFDM m
3682701| A population of Tubifex tubifex in an organically rich stream was found to have an annual life-cycle with a prolonged period of reproductive activity throughout the winter and spring. Cocoons were produced mainly during the late winter and early spring. No cocoons were found during August and September, and there were few mature worms at this time. The population density ranged between
3682434| Species richness, abundance relations, exploitation efficiencies, and population dynamics were examined within four carrion fly communities from a small isolated island in the Baltic to the large island of land. A total of 23 species and 11408 specimens were collected. Species richness (studied by rarefaction) of potential carrion flies was lowest on the small isolated island, but the smallest number of species emerged from the second largest island. Lucilia illustris Meig. was the most numerous species at every site, comprising 46-56% of the potential breeders and 71-91% of the emerging flies. Exploitation efficiency, measured by the numbers of individuals emerging per gram of carrion, was highest on the smallest island, but faunal similarity and ordination analyses suggest that competition was more intense on the larger islands. 
3682479|The fungal flora in different parts of a beech forest ecosystem was investigated through a four year period as part of an IBP project. Both colony counts and direct measurements of fungal mycelium indicated that a vast majority of the fungal biomass is concentrated in the upper horizons of the soil, especially in the mull layer. The litter also contained large amounts of fungi when calculated per g dry weight, but still the litter fungi accounted for only a quite small percentage of the total fungal biomass. The fungi growing in direct contact with the living plants, i.e. in the rhizosphere and phylloplane, also accounted for only a few per cent of the total amount of fungi in the ecosystem. On basis of direct measurements of fungal mycelium the total biomass was estimated to be about 100 g dry wt per m
3682729|A population of the Italian crested newt (Triturus carnifex) was studied in 1984 at a pond near Druento (Turin, Piedmont, northwestern Italy). Animals entering and leaving the pond fell into paired pit-fall traps during both spring and autumn migrations. A positive correlation found between rainfall and migration, a shortening of migration periods and summer inactivity suggest that, in the Mediterranean region, air moisture may be a limiting factor for newt activity. During their aquatic period adults showed strong individual differences in weight changes that cannot be explained on the basis of initial body weight or length. High variability in crested newt life history traits may be the result of repeated bottlenecks caused by environmental stress and high population isolation.
3682533|We studied the seasonal dynamics of food niche width and annual niche relations of queens, workers and males of six abundant bumblebee species living on a slope of a subarctic hill in North Sweden. The basic data consist of analyses of pollen contents in nectar loads of individual foragers. At any given time of the season individual foragers utilized frequently more than one flower species during each trip, concentrating, however, most of their efforts on one species only. These "major" species varied between individuals thus widening the foraging niche of the species. No obvious differences were observed in niche widths of the sexes and castes of the species (neither day-to-day nor annual observations). Queens had highest niche overlaps and males the lowest ones. Sexes and castes were separated into groups by their foraging patterns. Difference in proboscis lengths are not obvious niche separating factors at the study area. The environmental uncertainty (in time and space) may occasionally lead to excess of resources, which, in turn, may open possibilities of wide utilization of available flower species, thus rendering close fit between proboscis length and corolla tube depths of the foraged flowers unnecessary.
3682710|Ephemerella inermis Eaton is a univoltine species that emerges in July. Eggs hatch in August and larvae grow rapidly in autumn and spring, but not during winter. Baetis tricaudatus Dodds produces three cohorts per year. Emergence periods occur in early June, July and early September. Only one cohort overwinters as larvae. Microdistribution of both species is controlled largely by the discharge pattern of the river. During 1978, a year of frequent floods, animals were equally distributed among slow and fast water portions of the river. Nocturnal drift densities of both species were much greater in slow than in fast water areas. During 1979, a year of relatively stable flow, benthic larval densities were significantly greater in fast water than in slow water. Early instar E. inermis larvae are most abundant in nearshore areas, but move to deeper water in late autumn. Baetis tricaudatus larvae are seldom numerous in nearshore areas. Densities of both species were positively associated with concentrations of detritus and of other invertebrates, but only when relationships were considered in areas of similar current velocity independently of season.
3682563|Winter activity patterns of 16 radio-marked capercaillie, Tetrao urogallus, were studied during 1981-83 at Varaldskogen, SE Norway. Activity was confined to the light hours of the day, closely following the photoperiod. Diel distribution showed a major peak near sunset during every month. A second peak was found in the morning. This peak was comparable to the evening peak in early and late winter, but nearly disappeared in midwinter. Ambient temperature rather than photoperiod seemed to be the important proximate factor responsible for the changes in morning activity. By postponing activity to the afternoon, capercaillie avoids energy expenditure during the coldest morning hours. Total daily activity (TDA) during the period November-April averaged about 3 h for both sexes. TDA of cocks was U-shaped with the lowest values (2.0 h) in December-January, whereas TDA of hens was fairly stable during November-March with mean value of 2.7 h, increasing abruptly to 4 h in April. TDA during December-January is believed to express the time used for feeding in pine trees. The significantly higher TDA of hens (26%) compared with cocks during this period may be explained by a higher relative heat loss of hens (body weights: hens 2.0 kg, cocks 4.3 kg). The increased level of activity during early and late winter among cocks was probably due to display and related territorial behaviour, whereas increased activity of hens during April probably was caused by a shift from feeding in pines to more time-consuming, selective feeding on the ground.
3682300|The effects of fish predation on the zooplankton community in an oligotrophic lake, Langvatn, near Trondheim in Central Norway, were investigated during six-year period (1973-1978), together with the added effects of changes produced by adding artificial fertilizer in 1975 and 1976. The improved nutrient conditions in 1975 resulted in a rapid increase in biomass and production of the largest herbivore zooplankton species and of the fish population. A change in the behaviour and food habits of the arctic char was recorded; they became more pelagic and fed mainly on zooplankton. An increased survival rate of 0-group and biomass of planktivorous fish in 1975 enhanced the degree of fish predation on the zooplankton during subsequent years (1976-1978). As a consequence of fish predation, the composition of the zooplankton changed, from a mainly large-sized to a mainly small-sized community, dominated by Bosmina longirostris and rotifers. Since fish predation is size-selective and visibility-dependent, it induced a decrease in mean size and in body length at onset of maturity of the cladoceran populations and probably also weakened their ability to produce resting eggs.
3682502|Home ranges and habitat use are described for three adult female, one adult male, and one subadult male wolverines in the Kluane Game Sanctuary, Yukon. When long distance excursions are not included, home ranges of wolverines in the Kluane Game Sanctuary were between 76 and
3682501|Distinct patterns of species distribution upon individual rockfaces are found n a saxicolous lichen community growing on a rockslide in the Canadian Rockies. A grid system was used for sampling individual rockfaces and the likelihood of finding a species on particular parts of the rockface was analysed. Use of chemicals in the field and collection of apothecia allowed specific identification of individual lichen thalli. Lichens were divisible into three groups: those which are distributed apparently at random over the rockfaces, those which are more likely to occur on upper, outer and southerly portions of the rockfaces and those which are found more often on lower, inner and northerly portions of the rockfaces. The upper rockface surfaces are often snow-free in winter while the lower rockface group experiences deeper and more persistent snow cover. Simple microclimatic measurements suggest that temperature also differs across the surface of a rockface. It is hypothesised that lichen distributions are at least in part explained by ecophysiological adaptations to their particular microhabitat, while it is recognised that competition may also play a role in community organisation.
3682390| The energetics of the shredder Sericostoma personatum Spence were studied in the laboratory at 3, 8, 13 and 18C using conditioned leaves of Fagus sylvatica L. as food. Ingestion (I), growth (G) and respiration (R) were dependent on larval size and temperature. Estimated assimilation (G + R) varied between 4.2-5.7%. Gross growth efficiency (G/I  100) varied between 0.4-3.4% and was dependent on temperature. Growth rates estimated from field and laboratory data were in the same order of magnitude. The low assimilation is discussed in relation to the life cycle pattern of the species and its ecological role in the stream community. 
3682539| Minnows have recently been introduced into the mountain lakes of southern Norway. In vre Heimdalsvatn, an intensively studied lake, the minnow population has increased rapidly during the last decade. Studies were performed on feeding habits, habitat preferences, age, growth, energy content, densities, parasites, predation and spawning activities. Several aspects were found to be different from other studies, e.g. higher age of sexual maturation, lower growth rate, no feeding on plants, and low infection of parasites. The interaction with the only other fish, the brown trout, is discussed in relation to the minnow population. In 1978 the minnows constituted little more than 10% of production and food consumption of the trout population, and only limited food competition and predation was documented. Increasing competition is likely with a greater minnow population. 
3682271|Two possible anti-predator strategies of prey were suggested by the distribution of moose at Isle Royale, a
3682352|Population density was estimated monthly by means of direct counts for 16 consecutive months. Capture-recapture experiments revealed that 9-22% of the population was observed by this technique. Most nymphs appeared in June, and the presence of nymphs in September suggests a second generation. There was a strong positive correlation between summer surface drift and mean annual population density for five out of six sections studied. In July-August the sex ratio was near equal, while in September females began to dominate. The bias towards females was strong until new imagines emerged in July. From September a marked weight dimorphism was observed between the sexes. Food limitation, and skewed sex and weight ratios implied intersexual competition in this population. Brown trout possibly affected the population density in one section with less shelter. Wing dimorphism was observed in July and August. Macropterous individuals represented a low percentage (<17%) and were only observed in sections with high densities.
3682553|In the Westerschelde estuary, salt marshes are present as isolated patches fringing the estuary. In the present paper tidal transport of stem-boring larvae of Agapanthia villosoviridescens (Coleoptera) from salt marshes of the upper reaches of the Westerschelde estuary to marshes of the lower reaches is demonstrated. The evidence for the origin of the larvae is based on comparisons of growth and development characteristics of larvae found in flood debris belts and resident larval populations. These characteristics are different on the various salt marshes along the Westerschelde, probably as a result of estuarine gradients. Additional evidence for the larval origin comes from the plant composition of the flood debris. The occurrence of upward tidal transport is discussed. Considering the comparatively large area of salt marshes in the upper estuary, tidal dispersal of larvae probably will be dominated by transport in seaward direction. So far, very little is known on the role of tidal currents with regard to the exchange between salt marsh populations. The present results suggest that tidal transport may not only be important for dispersal of aquatic organisms in an estuary, but also for organisms inhabiting the semi-terrestrial estuarine salt marshes.
3682198| We studied summer activity patterns and thermoregulation in the Mediterranean lizard Psammodromus algirus in a holm oak wood in Central Spain. The circadian rhythm curve was bimodal, with a pronounced peak after sunrise, a minimum at noon and a second lower peak in the afternoon. Increased activity in the morning could be explained by insolation levels, whereas the midday low was caused by the rise in temperature. There was a strong positive correlation between body temperature and both air and ground temperatures. Nevertheless, there was no significant correlation between body and air temperatures when the effect of radiation was removed, which was done by considering only individuals in the shade at high temperatures. Activity showed a bell-shaped relationship with body and air temperatures, with maximum activity at 24.5C (air temperature) and 31.4C (body temperature). The spatial distribution pattern of P. algirus (selection of sunny areas and distance to the vegetation edge) reflects the environmental temperatures that are optimal for activity; the lizards show a strong preference for sunny patches when air temperature is lower than the optimum. We conclude that heliothermy is the only viable thermoregulation pattern in Mediterranean forest environments, with heat conduction playing a negligible role. 
3682705|Hibernation behaviour of six common toads Bufo bufo was studied. Transmitters, generating pulses with a temperature dependent repetition rate, implanted in the toad's abdominal cavity, were used to measure the body temperature. Measurements of body temperature and soil temperature at various depths were used to establish the hibernating depth. All toads moved vertically between a few preferred depths and hibernating depth appeared to vary for individual toads. Upward movements mostly were apparent reactions on changes of the soil temperature gradient at the depth of the toad.
3682614|Ethanol extracts from fresh leaves of Cirsium palustre (L.) Scop. were tested for inhibitory effects on the germination of own seeds, and dried leaves were ground and incorporated in soil to determine if growth of own seedlings was affected. Leaf extracts strongly inhibited seed germination, and leaf residues seedling growth. Inhibition was apparently not mediated by effects on pH or by nutrient deficiency.
3682215|Data on hatching time in the willow warbler for different regions (S Germany, S Sweden and N Sweden) are compared with the median of the corresponding migration diagrams. By doing so it is possible to calculate the age, at which the young of the year start their autumn migration. Our calculated values for the above mentioned regions are 68, 62-66 and 61-62 d, respectively. In our opinion this difference is too small to justify the statement, that northern birds migrate at an earlier age than their southern conspecifics. An alternative explanation is that the German migration diagrams are influenced by the passage of northern migrants, resulting in a later median and an apparently higher age for southern birds.
3682168| Bird communities of high, cold shrubsteppes (pramos) and low, warm shrubsteppes (semideserts) of the Iberian Peninsula were studied using the line-transect method. The seven censused areas are distributed from north to south approximately forming a climatic gradient along which temperature increases and precipitation decreases. Alauda arvensis and Oenanthe oenanthe are typical of pramos and O. hispanica and the genus Galerida of semideserts, while Calandrella cinerea is the most widely distributed passerine. Pramos tend to have high spring densities whereas semi-deserts have high densities and greater diversity during winter. Changes of density between spring and winter are less pronounced in semideserts, showing a relation with the temperature decrease from north to south. These tendencies agree with those found in other habitats (scrublands and forests) along a north-south transect throughout the Iberia Peninsula, indicating that distribution and abundance of the winter avifauna respond positively to increase of temperature. 
3682750|Saplings of mountain birch Betula pubescens Ehrh. ssp. tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman, three years old, were transplanted into three contrasting habitats, viz. moderate and extreme snow-bed and windswept crest. The experimental sites were situated just below the present local tree-limit of birch. During 1978-1983 mortality and height increment were monitored. High initial mortality was succeeded by lower mortality at all three sites. The height increment was significantly higher in moderate snow-bed compared with the two extreme habitats (winswept crest and extreme snow-bed). The main conclusions are that after the first seedling stage the mountain birch survives broad climatic variation. However, normal completion of the life-cycle is only possible within more narrow limits. A minimum amount of the snow-free preriod is needed, e.g. to satisfy the requirements of nitrogen nutrition. The results stress the opportunistic nature of the mountain birch which gives it a selective advantage in the extremely unpredictable climate in mountainous areas in Scandinavia. The reproductive strategy of mountain birch apparently includes having a bank of persistent saplings.
3682754| A study of soils, plant communities, and net annual plant production was conducted with 41 stands at 3 sites on 3 arctic islands. Twelve additional sites were studied in less detail on Ellef Ringnes, King Christian and Melville islands and on four other islands. Through polar ordination five groupings were recognized. Alopecurus and Puccinellia barrens on sand to silty soils and on silty soils, high in sodium salts respectively. Species richness averaged 2.6  2.0 and total plant cover 6.8  2.7%. The Phippsia barrens occur on sheet eroded surfaces and in gulleys with deep winter snow. Species richness was 9.8  5.0 and total plant cover 14.8  9.6%. The graminoid steppes on sandy soils averaged 7.6  2.4 species and total plant cover 40.0  2.8%. Eight stands were dominated by moss-graminoids, mostly on loam soils. Species richness was 24.9  3.4 and total plant cover 77.7  16.1%. Plant producion was
3682307| Spring areas in Jutland, Denmark, representing gradients in physico-chemical conditions and providing a range of stable conditions in space and time, were examined for different aspects of community biology and population biology. Special attention was paid to aspects of the dynamic equilibrium resulting from interactions between stable environments and their biological communities. Localities were chosen to represent spring areas with clear differences in ground water chemistry and where stability in hydrological conditions had existed for many years. This was ensured by confirmation of the occurrence of arctic-boreal-montane plant species, being late glacial relicts. The degree of environmental stability of organisms of the study areas selected was otherwise determined by examination of a number of physical factors and the chemistry of the water. Tracheophytes and bryophytes comprising the macroflora of 14 main localities were described and the microflora represented by the diatoms described from the same localities plus one reference locality, Addit. These data provided a favourable basis for ordination and grouping of the spring areas and for discussing similarity coefficients applied to biological communities in general and to ecosystem stability in particular. Factors affecting the spring areas were surveyed by studies of peat deposits, hydrostatic potentials, historical events and human impact. Brief discussions on the functional aspects of the spring areas are given in an outline of the nutrient funds within the systems and the flow of nutrients in and out of them. Glacial deposits from the quaternary Period constitute the upper 10-150 m of land mass of Jutland, a low-lying moraine landscape reaching a maximum altitude of only 173 m a.s.l. A general description of the hydrological situation for watercourses in the
3682419|During the 1975 and 1976 seasons the net primary production of five common bryophytes in different stands of mature vegetation near Fairbanks, Alaska was investigated. Overall annual moss production at the intensive black spruce site was about
3682417|The treeline in Alaska is usually mapped as the limit of white spruce Picea glauca (Moench) Voss along the south slope of the Brooks Range and in western Alaska and as the limit of Sitka spruce Picea sitchensis (Bong.) Carr. on Kodiak Island and in the Alaska Peninsula. In some localities black spruce Picea mariana (Mill.) B.S.P. and paper birch Betula papyrifera Marsh. form components of the treeline community with white spruce. Of special interest are the grooves of balsam poplar Populus balsamifera L. occurring on the north slope of the Brooks Range and to the west and southwest of the spruce treeline. There is some question as to whether trees survived in unglaciated portions of Alaska during the last glacial period. Spruce trees became prevalent about 10000 yr ago and may still be expanding to their climatic limits. In some areas of Alaska the treeline was more expanded during the Hypsithermal period than it is at present, but in other regions evidence for such an expansion is lacking. Treeline in some areas seems to have been stable for the last several centuries, but is has been expanding rapidly for the last 40 yr in central and western Alaska and for a longer period on Kodiak Island.
3682051|In studying the attraction of spruce bark beetles Ips typographus to a pheromone trap, we have proposed a simple diffusion model with drift as a description of the flight of the bark beetles. The model predictions were compared with the results of a release-recapture experiment, and here we recapitulate the main results from the fitting of models to the data. Several modifications of the basic model were necessary in order to describe the data adequately.
3682494|Changes in reproduction and functional age structure of females in cyclic populations of Clethrionomys glareolus and C. rufocanus were studied by live-trapping individually marked voles during 1980 to 1984 in northern Sweden. A complete population cycle was observed in both species, with a synchronous 'summer-decline' in 1982. In both species, the length of the breeding season became successively shorter towards the peak, and it was extremely short at the decline. When the populations were expanding, the density of breeding females increased in a sigmoid way, and thereafter it remained fairly constant throughout the summer. At the decline, the density of breeding females decreased successively from spring to autumn. Year-born females matured and bred in all years except at the decline. Intrinsic factors, such as spacing behaviour of breeding females, are thought to limit the density of breeders in general, but only when the populations are expanding. Other factors such as deteriorating food conditions are more likely to operate at the decline.
3682571|In an experiment on the effect of zooplankton density on feeding behaviour and prey size selection in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) alevins, total behavioural activity (feeding, social, ambiguous) was positively related to prey abundance up to a density of
3682664|The population ecology of newts was investigated between 1969 and 1974 in two localities near Gothenburg, SW Sweden: the Gunnebo park pond (about
3682397| The seasonal variations in numbers and biomass of the mobile epifauna of a shallow, sandy bay in Gullmar Fjord (Sweden) was investigated during 1976-1977 using the drop-net technique. Juvenile plaice, Pleuronectes platessa L., sand goby, Pomatoschistus minutus (Pallas), and brown shrimp Crangon crangon L. are the dominant epifaunal species. A net enclosing an area of 100 m
3682121|Stoat Mustela erminea body size shows remarkably great variation over the species' European range. The pattern of this variation is opposite to that suggested by Bergmann's rule, i.e., stoats in central Europe are significantly larger than those in southern Sweden which, in turn are considerably larger than their conspecifics in northern Sweden. Neither winter temperature nor the length of snow cover shows any consistent correlation with stoat body size variation, and the larger body size of the southern populations could not be related to a widening of the stoat's feeding niche. A positive correlation was found between the frequency distribution, by size, of available prey and stoat body size in the different areas examined. This supports the hypothesis that body size variation in the stoat, especially females, is an adjustment to regional variations in the sizes of their available prey.
3682508|The phenology of the satyrine butterflies Coenonympha pamphilus L., Lasiommata megera L., Hipparchia semele L. and Maniola jurtina L. was compared under seminatural conditions with Festuca ovina as the food-plant. Coenonympha pamphilus shows striking phenotypic plasticity as revealed by initiating cohorts at successive dates during the whole flight period. Growth rate is finely tuned depending on season, and larvae can hibernate in any of the three first instars, but also aestivate when 'surplus' time is available. Hipparchia semele and M. jurtina have reduced growth rates as last instar larvae at the beginning of summer. Lasiommata megera, which has an obligate bivoltine life cycle, shows the highest overall growth rate of all four species. Results suggest that egg size variation has consequences for the life cycles of these species.
3682722|Habitat changes and the breeding bird populations were studied at Kraghede, N Jutland the years 1970-1980. Generally, agricultural practice was intensified leading to an increase in the area used permanently for growing barley, and the abandonment of grasslands and meadows. Animal husbandry decreased, until it was restricted to a small number of farms. These habitat changes were the largest ones to occur in the Danish landscape for some 150-200 yr and had a significant influence on the breeding birds. Species confined to the meadows, such as the lapwing Vanellus vanellus, meadow pipit Anthus pratensis and others, decreased by 50-80% or even more. Species associated with the grassland when feeding, like the swallow Hirundo rustica, starling Sturnus vulgaris and magpie Pica pica, all had lower population levels at the end of the 1970's compared to those at the beginning of the decade.
3682360| Larvae of Chironomidae, Simuliidae and Trichoptera exhibited various patterns of micro-distribution on the submersed macrophytes Potamogeton  zizii, with broad leaves, and P. pectinatus, with thread-like leaves. Seven common species of chironomid, six belonging to the subfamily Orthocladiinae and one to the Chironominae, showed four distinguishable patterns of distribution. The density of Simulium larvae was much greater towards the apices of the stems on both plants. Among three species of Trichoptera studied, the predatory Rhyacophila dorsalis had a pattern of distribution which was strongly related to prey density, particularly that of Simulium, on P.  zizii, but not on P. pectinatus. P.  zizii supported proportionately more free-ranging scrapers, such as the chironomid Thienemanniella vittata, than did P. pectinatus while the reverse was true for filter-feeders. These patterns are discussed in relation to habitat structure and behavioural characteristics. 
3682255| Fungal biomass and growth and microbial respiration were studied for two field seasons in a second-order subarctic stream where water temperature is 0C for approximately 6 months. Leaf packs (5-g) of alder Alnus tenuifolia, birch Betula papyrifera and willows Salix alaxensis and Salix arbusculoides immersed in autumn of 1979 and 1980 were sampled until June 1980 and January 1981, respectively. Fungal growth and microbial respiration occurred in submerged detritus at 0C. Total and FDA-active hyphal lengths were measured, the active proportion averaging 25% of the total (all leaf species, both years). Generally, microbial respiration peaked in all leaf species after two weeks in the stream. As water approached 0C, respiration declined by 20-50% depending on leaf species, but often increased later in decomposition (at 0C). Seasonal trends in microbial respiration and FDA-active hyphal lengths were not similar although maximal respiration usually occurred as FDA-active hyphae were growing most rapidly. The calculated leaf weight loss due to microbial respiration was small (7-10%) in all leaf species, compared with total weight loss over 98 d. Scanning electron microscopy provided a visual record of leaf surface microorganisms and apparent leaf cuticle dissolution by fungi and bacteria. 
3682237|The social organization of Clethrionomys glareolus Schreber was studied by live trapping in an enclosure of 0.8 ha in Central Finland between the years 1982-1986. The enclosure consisted of three habitats: abandoned field, brushwood, and moist spruce health forest. The population density increased from
3682483|Leptodiaptomus sicilis (S. A. Forbes 1882) in Pyramid Lake, Alberta, Canada, has only one main generation per year. A small summer generation probably does not survive. Adults may persist for 7 to 12 months, and individual copepods may live for up to 17 months. Retardation of the development of copepodid C 4 and C 5 seems to be food linked. The high percentage of survivors (up to 97%) from the first egg pulse of the main generation, and the low percentage of survivors (as low as 3%) from the second egg pulse, is likely due to the absence of cyclopoid adults and copepodids in spring, and to both cyclopoid predation and a poor food regime in summer. Production estimates by several methods gave closely comparable results. Mean daily production by L. sicilis is 0.29 mg dry weight m
3682221|The amount of organic matter and phytomass is estimated on three types of shrub tundras in northern Sweden. The organic matter ranges from
3682560| Composition of the winter diet, habitat selection and population fluctuations in the mountain hare Lepus timidus were studied in the Vrritunturi fell area, Eastern Finnish Forest Lapland, during the winters 1968/69-1984/85. The three population lows recorded during this 17-year period followed each other at intervals of 4 and 8 years. During the lows the hares occurred only in the most favoured (forest-covered) habitats and in two of them they behaved according to the concept of the refuge theory. The mountain birch Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa appeared to be the most important, but not the most favoured winter food item. When the population crashed, the proportion of birch in the diet decreased, and was replaced especially by juniper which is one of the secondary food items (and is for this reason often discarded although cut). It is suggested that the quality and/or quantity of the winter food (i.e. winter pastures) are one of the driving forces in the population fluctuation of the mountain hare in this area. 
3682480|Nest density was stable during the 8-year study period. The mean clutch size was 4.3, and the production of fledglings was 2.0 per pair. Incubation started, on average, when there were still two eggs to be laid and lasted for 18 days. Few eggs were lost but 23% of all broods of nestlings were lost to predators. Single nestlings in a brood were not lost to predators but often starved to death, this applied to 25% of all nestlings. A large proportion of the nestlings were probably infected by Syngamus tracheae, and some of these succumbed during the first weeks after fledging. A comparison with other studies of crow populations shows that the major causes of breeding failure are different in different populations. The causes of variation in breeding success between populations are discussed, especially considering the role of nonbreeding crows.
3682717|Using a three-way factorial experimental design the effects of water temperature, ionic content and total dissolved solids on the reproductive rates of Nephelopsis obscura and Erpobdella punctata were examined. For both species temperature showed the greatest influence on cocoon production and ionic content of the water the least. Water type had no significant influence on the rate of cocoon production in either E. punctata or N. obscura but E. punctata cocoon production was reduced in dilute media. E. punctata laid a larger proportion of deformed cocoons with fewer eggs and embryos than N. obscura which laid a significantly higher proportion of deformed cocoons in soft than in hard water. N. obscura was estimated to produce 1.8 times the number of offspring of E. punctata. Thus the numerical dominance shown by N. obscura in Western Canada could be explained in terms of the differentially higher reproductive rate of N. obscura with respect to the three tested independent variables.
3682535| In winter the water freezes into the substrate within considerable areas of unregulated northern rivers due to low temperature combined with a lowering of the water level. Living individuals of Nematoda, Gastropoda, Sphaeriidae, Oligochaeta, Hirudinea, Isopoda, Trichoptera and Chironomidae were found in samples of ice and frozen sediment from the bottom frozen hydrolittoral zone of the north Swedish river Vindellven. All abundant species in the frozen substratum, except Asellus aquaticus, seemed to be well adapted to withstand overwintering in this special habitat free from predation. Generally, between 80 and 100% of enclosed animals survived thawing. Cysts or other kinds of resting stage constructions, similar to those found during drought, were common in several enclosed species. Specimens of Gyraulus acronicus, Pisidium ssp., Molanna albicans and Chironomidae survived exposure to -4C for five month in a freezing experiment. Extracellular freezing of the invertebrates overwintering in the ice is probable, as the ambient temperature was below the true freezing point of most animals. The composition of the substratum may effect the survival of animals enclosed in ice. 
3682747| In the Oslofjord the amphipods Gammarus oceanicus Segerstrle, 1947 and G. salinus Spooner, 1947 were estimated to live for a maximum of 15 months. All specimens which survived during winter died in spring, mainly in May. A G. oceanicus population living on a freshwater influenced shore contained smaller specimens, had a lower proportion of the female population in breeding condition and probably produced fewer broods than a population living on a fully marine shore. The differences are discussed in relation to environmental factors and the distribution of G. salinus. Gammarus oceanicus possibly was breeding from December to May, some females even in June, resulting in an estimated maximum of three broods from December to May. Gammarus salinus showed two breeding periods, the first from December to May, a few of these females even bred in June, while new females bred from June to October, giving estimated maxima of respectively three (December to May) and five broods. Gammarus salinus females entered a reproductive resting stage in September-October. The sex ratio was mostly female dominated. A shift to male dominance was noted in one population and was related to possible infections. Information from the literature on longevity and breeding periods was compiled and compared to the Oslofjord data. 
3682607|The seasonal course of photosynthetic rate, and light and temperature relations were studied in the dwarf shrubs Vaccinium uliginosum L., deciduous, and Vaccinium vitis-idaea L., evergreen, at a subarctic site in northern Sweden. Using the photosynthetic characteristics and meteorological data from the site, the seasonal and life-span carbon dioxide gain was estimated. The photosynthetic capacity of V. uliginosum was at a maximum one month after the start of leaf expansion and declined rapidly in the beginning of September. The old V. vitis-idaea leaves needed about 2 wk to recover full photosynthetic capacity after snow-melt; the current-year V. vitis-idaea leaves needed the same time after budbreak to reach full capacity. The leaves of V. vitis-idaea showed no seasonal trend in photosynthetic capacity after the first two wk of recovery, but their capacity decreased by one third after the first winter and by approximately 10% yr
3682199|Waterlily leaf beetles inhabiting Nuphar luteum leaves in S. Sweden and Georgia, USA, differed markedly with respect to several life history traits. Developmental time (from oviposition to adult) was about 47 days in Sweden, while it was only 19 days in Georgia. In S. Sweden two generations were reached per year, while the corresponding number in Georgia could be eight. Instantaneous growth rate was three times as high in Georgia as in S. Sweden. Swedish eggs, larvae and imagines were larger than in the Georgian ones. However, clutch size was larger in Georgia, and total estimated fecundity was higher in Georgian females. Mortality rate of immature stages was higher in Georgia. Altogether, the results suggest two different species. Swedish N. luteum leaves were unpalatable to Georgian larvae, and the larvae died from starvation. Longevity of unprotected, grazed Swedish N. luteum leaves was about 28 days, while those protected from grazing lasted for 72 days. In Georgia the corresponding time periods were 13 and >42 days. Thus, it was impossible for beetles to cover all their immature stages on the same leaf, and drowning was presumed to be the main mortality factor. Swedish larvae and imagines were unpalatable to wagtails, and accumulated unpalatable plant chemicals may serve as chemical defences.
3682620|Muskoxen Ovibos moschatus in Jameson Land exist at a density of somewhat more than
3682188| A total of 135 trees were girdled or notched in a forest area close to the river Dallven in central Sweden. The purpose was to see whether good microhabitats for woodliving insects could be created and if so, could be used as food for the endangered white-backed woodpecker Dendrocopos leucotos. The chosen tree species were three of the most frequent used for foraging by the white-backed woodpecker, i.e. aspen Populus tremula, birch Betula alba and common alder Alnus glutinosa. The process of dying and decay in the manipulated trees was followed for eight to nine years, and the following variables were studied: tree condition, tree structure, wood-condition, consistency of bark and cambium, frequency of polypori, foraging marks made by woodpeckers and abundance of insect species of importance as food for woodpeckers. Notched aspen died faster and were more quickly colonized by wood-living insects than were girdled aspen. Since the notched aspen was also reduced more quickly to low stumps or lost their bark, their value for wood-living insects was short-lived. Notched birch died almost as quickly as girdled birch but were populated by slightly fewer insect species. Notching, in general, seemed to create good foraging trees in the short-term whereas girdling produced trees of a longer-term value. In order to improve the local food situation for the white-backed woodpecker, a combination of the two methods is suggested. Nonetheless, both must be seen as emergency measures and cannot compensate for a large-scale reduction in the abundance of old deciduous trees in the forest. 
3682107|The differences in vegetative expansion and in reproduction associated with the annual Spergularia marina and the perennial S. media were investigated and explained as a function of their differential utilization of meristems. Plant size and the time of first reproduction depended on at which node transition of the apical meristems from growth to reproduction took place. Leaf birth-rate and number of flowers depended on the time of activation and the proportion of axillary meristems used in producing shoots.
3682439| The sizes of 1034 Great Tit clutches were studied at the Oulu area (c.65N, 2530E) in northern Finland. The average size was 9.86 eggs in the first clutch and 7.51 in the second in 13 study areas. The decrease in clutch size from the first to the second laying was most pronounced in those females laying the largest first clutches. Irrespective of habitat, the clutch size was larger in the sparsely populated areas than in the densest area (Taskila). The clutch size decreased according to the season in all the areas, but this was not as pronounced in Taskila as in the other areas. The annual average size of the first clutches was inversely related to the breeding density and pronouncedly so to the mean date of laying. The latter was suggested to be an adaptation to the short season in the northern areas. An analysis of data from 27 study areas in Europe, north of the Mediterranean region, suggests that the clutch size does not vary with latitude or longitude. 
3682536|The growth and development of the predominant mycorrhizal fungus infecting the root systems of subalpine Pacific silver fir was examined seasonally in 23 and 180 yr old stands. All data was obtained by sorting roots from intact soil cores separated into forest floor and mineral soil horizons. The predominant mycorrhizal fungus infecting the root systems of 23 and 180 yr old Pacific silver fir was Cenococcum graniforme. C. graniforme comprised 36-97% and 40-96% of the total mycorrhizal root tips in the soil profile in the young and old stands, respectively. C. graniforme root biomass reached a maximum in autumn in the young stand, and in winter in the old. Dual mycorrhizal associations were commonly observed on the same root tip during the spring and autumn periods of root elongation in both stands. Over 80% of the C. graniforme roots were located in the forest floor and A-horizon throughout the study in both stands. Sclerotia were predominantly located in the A-horizon (38-70%) in both stands.
3682145|I examined the activity and habitat choice of white-tailed deer in winter to determine how deer balance feeding in habitats which may expose them to cold with resting in sheltered habitats. Average heat gain or loss of deer for feeding, resting and walking in four habitats in each of 24 h were estimated for two winter periods (early-mid and late winter). These values were used in a dynamic optimization model to predict the hourly behavior-habitat choices which enable deer to maintain thermal homeostasis, minimize the risk of exceeding lethal body temperatures and satisfy daily energy requirements. The behavior and habitat choices observed under natural conditions were consistent with the model predictions. Deer foraged for the maximum time that was thermally possible in both sampling periods and they used exposed habitats without incurring high heat losses. Deer appeared to avoid overheating in sheltered habitats during daylight and avoid hypothermia in exposed habitats at night.
3682488|There are few accounts in the literature of the marine fauna of European salt marshes. The marine invertebrate populations of a coastal salt marsh in eastern England were studied for two years. A total of 32 marine species were recorded. The community was composed of a subset of species from adjacent intertidal sand and mud flats, along with a brackish water component. This gave the marsh a characteristic fauna, which was dominated by infaunal and surface-living deposit feeders. The community showed a seasonal minimum in winter, and the infauna showed an additional summer decrease. This is attributed to increased interstitial salinities. Principal component analysis revealed the importance of the tidal gradient and the structure of the habitat in determining the community. The abundance of both epibenthic and infaunal predators were negatively correlated with the abundance of some prey. Also a small number of other pairwise negative interactions were revealed, but overall there was no strong evidence of interspecific competition exerting much influence on the community. The role of habitat heterogeneity and variation in the lateral movement of adult benthos and larval recruitment as promoters of diversity are discussed.
3682263|Nylon bags of 3.5 mm and 0.25 mm mesh were used to investigate the processing of Salix drummondiana Barratt leaves in two second order Alberta Rocky Mountain Creeks, Twin Creek and Cabin Creek. Micro-organism processing and macroinvertebrate shredding of the leaves were significantly greater in Twin Creek where it was estimated that macroinvertebrate shredding was responsible for 45% of the weight loss. The decay coefficient (k = 0.0209) for the leaves in Twin Creek, the more typical Rocky Mountain stream, was similar to that reported for the fastest decaying leaves in warmer streams. The predominant shredder among the leaves in the mesh bags, Zapada columbiana (Classen) (Plecoptera, Nemouridae) was also the most abundant macroinvertebrate in the benthos of Twin Creek. In Cabin Creek the predominant organism in the benthos, Oreogeton sp. was poorly represented in the leaves. Low orthophosphate concentration of the water and precipitation of calcium carbonate onto the leaves may have inhibited the biotic processing of leaves in Cabin Creek.
3682294|The annual activity and life cycles of thirteen species of carabid beetles coexisting in two forests in Belgium were studied by recording above-ground activity of adult and larval populations, and by examining the reproductive condition of adults in the course of the year. The cycles were far more complex and diversified than suggested by previous works. Besides typical "spring breeders" and "autumn breeders", species were found - with a continuous reproductive period from spring to autumn, - with several variable breeding periods, part of the population overwintering as adults, part as larvae, - with a breeding period that begins facultatively in autumn and continues the next spring, - with a winter reproduction. Comparison of life cycles in Scandinavia and in Belgium also shows their variability in relation to climate. More flexible and varied cycles are made possible by the milder winters further south. Existing classifications of life cycles of carabids appear unable to account for such a diversity and variability.
3682356|Continual heavy grazing of small patches of heather by mountain hares produces conspicuous, short, lawn-like bushes. Their probable development is described. The shoots of such heather bushes maintained a juvenile appearance, contained more nitrogen and phosphorus than the surrounding heather and, to judge from their chemical composition, were more digestible. The generalization that tree and shrub twigs of juvenile growth form are more unpalatable to hares than twigs of mature growth form did not apply in this case.
3682239| The population structure and spatial distribution of the "glacial relict" Pallasea quadrispinosa were studied in Lake Stora fsjn. Samples were taken at three depths throughout an eleven month period. The amphipods had an annual-biennial life cycle. The reproductive period started in October, and hatchlings were released from November until July. Four cohorts were present in November. Some one-year-old females appeared to reproduce more than once. Ontogenetic niche segregation occurred from June to September, when juveniles were found in shallow water and adults were found in deep water where temperatures were below 10C. The diet included phytoplankton, zooplankton and chironomid larvae. The amphipods were infested by several parasites, including larvae of Cystidicola sp., a swimbladder nematode that infects fish. 
3682600| The spatial distribution of bird species was studied by grid mapping in 273 (250  250 m) squares in an open rural area in Denmark in summer and in winter. Species frequencies (fraction of squares with species present) followed a logarithmic linear distribution when arranged by their rank. Species frequency probably reflects relative abundance as the two variables were highly positively correlated. The number of species increased with the number of vegetation layers, ground water level, and habitat diversity. The distributional segregation of species was similar in summer and in winter, even though the winter assemblage only comprised 62% of the species present in summer. The number of species per square in winter was positively correlated with the number of species in summer; the fraction of species wintering in various habitats increased with the number of vegetation layers and the presence of human habitation. Species that flocked had a low similarity between their summer and winter distributions. Among pairs of potential competitors the smaller species either changed distribution locally or emigrated from the area in winter. The number of habitat types was reduced from 5 in summer to 4 in winter, and the number of species assemblages decreased from 5 in summer to 3 in winter. Birds were absent from 52% of the squares in winter. 
3682124| Unisexual populations were found largely at the periphery of the geographic range of the mayfly Eurylophella funeralis in eastern North America. Bisexual populations generally had a normal sex ratio but at least two populations were observed with only about 2-11% males. Hatch success for unfertilized eggs depended on temperature but in general averaged > 61% in unisexual populations and < 14% in bisexual populations. Eggs took about 65 d to hatch at 10C and 19 d at 25C; no hatching occurred at 5 or 30C. Successful oviposition was observed for about 97% and 20% of unmated female adults from unisexual and bisexual populations respectively. The hatch success of unfertilized eggs for three geographically distinct bisexual populations was inversely correlated with the proportion of males in the populations. The genetic structure of bisexual and unisexual populations was very similar. Unisexual populations consists of clones, with as few as four recognizable phenotypes being present at a given location. All offspring had the same phenotype as the mother. Tychoparthenogenesis is suggested as the most reasonable working hypothesis concerning the origin of unisexual populations in E. funeralis. 
3682225| In material sampled from 0.5-6 m on two sampling dates and three subareas the dominant Oligochaeta were Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri Claparde and Peloscolex ferox (Eisen), both composing more than 30% of the abundances of oligochaetes present. The numbers of Oligochaeta were mostly higher in August than in May. Regional differences could be found although the lake seems to be very homogenous. Temporal and vertical variations were detectable in separate subareas. The oligochaete biomass was maximal at 2 m depth. In soft bottom sediments the oligochaetes composed 15.9% of macrobenthos biomass and 12.2% of numbers, but on the stony bottom only 1.9% of numbers. The ratio of Oligochaeta/Chironomidae was similar to those in profundals of oligotrophic lakes. Correlation coefficients between species and two measures of niche overlap were in partial agreement. A temporal niche seems to occur: when the chironomid larvae decrease during the summer, the oligochaetes increase. 
3682202|Interspecific and intraspecific differences in egg development, nymphal growth and the life cycles of Fennoscandian stoneflies are examined in relation to zoogeographical aspects and evolutionary trends. Data on other European and North American species are also considered. Egg development shows considerable diversity, the main categories being ovovivipary, egg development with diapause and non-diapause development. Egg development in species in the non-diapause category can be classified as eurythermal, cold stenothermal or warm stenothermal. Temperature has a marked effect on nymphal growth of some species but not others. The distribution of several species can be explained by their temperature relationships, either in the egg or nymphal stage. Several species modify their life cycle to fit local climatic conditions. In some species, such as Leuctra hippopus, environmental selection has been so strong that they have probably recently evolved into subspecies and/or species in northern Europe. Morphological and ecological variations in the Plecoptera have facilitated their colonization of the variety of freshwater biotopes that occur in Fennoscandia.
3682689|Trichopteran larvae were sampled on soft substrata at all depths, on stony substrata in the exposed zone, and the adults in emergence traps, placed along the lake shore. Fourteen species were taken as larvae in the lake. On stony substrata and in the exposed zone Polycentropus flavomaculatus (Pictet) was dominant, followed by Limnephilus nigriceps (Zetterstedt) in terms of numbers. In terms of biomass L. nigriceps dominated followed by Potamophylax cingulatus (Stephens). Species which usually inhabit running water made up for a larger part of the trichopteran fauna of the exposed zone. The two most numerous species showed different habit preferences. P. flavomaculatus was most common on stable stony bottom, while L. nigriceps was most common on unstable stony bottom. The other species showed no significant preference. On unstable soft bottom at 3 m and below, Mystacides azureus (L.) dominated, accounting for about 90% of the total trichopteran fauna both in terms of weight and numbers. The major trichopteran species in the lake were either detritus feeders, such as M. azureus, L. nigriceps and Potamophylax spp. or omnivores such as P. flavomaculatus and Molanna albicans (Zetterstedt).
3682639| Sediment samples from 5 stations in the northern Baltic proper, 6.5 o/oo S, were collected in April 1987 and the emergence of seedlings was recorded over 120 days in a greenhouse at 20C. Total seedling densities varied from 0 to
3682282|Palaemon squilla (L.) at the Swedish west coast occurred on bottoms covered with Zostera marina L., on bare sand bottoms, in moving water and in rock pools, while P. adspersus Rathke was found on Zostera covered bottoms only. During summer 1978 the increase in length of P. adspersus was 2.2 times greater than that of P. squilla, the former species also attaining a larger maximal size. Laboratory studies showed a wide tolerance in both species to combinations of temperature and salinity. P. squilla tolerated higher temperatures than P. adspersus. The locomotory activity of P. squilla was more than twice that of P. adspersus and concentrated to the dark period. Stomach analyses revealed no interspecific differences in food selection. P. squilla appears to be an opportunistic species able to survive in many different habitats, with a higher dispersal ability, smaller size and larger tolerance to extreme values of abiotic parameters, while P. adspersus is a K-strategist with a high competitive ability, a larger proportion of availably energy devoted to growth, and with larger body size and lower mobility. Although these differences enable the two species to coexist in certain habitats, their habitat segregation still appears to be of primary importance to reduce competition between them.
3682704|Phytoplankton structure and its relation to physical and chemical properties of the water was studied in 58 central Finnish lakes. The biomass ranged from 5
3682454|Standing crops of biomass and nutrients were measured in Eriophorum vaginatum tussock tundra and on a north-facing slope, called the camp site, with similar species composition during the summer of 1976 at Eagle Creek, Alaska. These data were then compared to similar data collected at Meade River, Alaska in 1975. Four species are compared: Ledum palustre, Salix pulchra, Betula nana, and Eriophorum vaginatum. The density of aboveground individuals was greater at the tussock site than at the camp site. The total late season above- and belowground standing crop of organic matter and of biomass was greater at the camp site. The nitrogen and calcium contents of new leaves usually increased during the season while phosphorus and potassium contents decreased. Most of the nutrients were in the mosses and lichen compartments rather than in vascular plants.
3682063|During the period 1971-81 there were severe outbreaks of the bark beetle Ips typographus in southern Norway that damaged trees equivalent to 5 million cubic metres of timber. The outbreaks were caused partly by an extensive windblow and partly by drought. Trap trees were used until 1979, when pheromone-baited traps were introducted as part of an extensive control program. The various aspects of this program are outlined and problems of scientific, technological, economical-administrative and informative character are discussed. Possible explanation for the decline of the epidemic after 1980 is presented and the main conditions which must be fulfilled for achieving successful mass trapping of insect pests are listed.
3682113|The development and feeding efficiences of larvae of Inachis io were compared on mature and regrowth leaves of Urtica dioica. The nitrogen and water content of regrowth leaves was higher than in mature leaves. Larvae fed on regrowth leaves both singly and in groups attained higher ECI and ECD values, completed development faster, and attained a greater body weight than larvae fed on mature leaves. AD values were not significantly different. The consequences on herbivore dynamics of the availability of good quality regrowth of food-plants are discussed.
3682726|In central Sweden, teneral adults of the strictly larval-overwintering carabid beetle Trechus secalis Paykull started emerging during mid-June and bred in mid-summer (July). In contrast, the strictly adult-overwintering carabid Bembidion lampros Herbst bred in early summer (June), and the new-generation emerged in late summer (August). Both species appeared to be univoltine and had a short period of sexual activity (2-3 months). Their main oviposition periods did not overlap, and gravid B. lampros contained a higher mean number of eggs than did gravid T. secalis. Conversely, T. secalis had a longer oviposition period than B. lampros. Prereproductive B. lampros accumulated in high densities along field edges prior to hibernation. The cereal fields appeared to be optimal for reproduction and larval development of both species. Trechus secalis also reproduced in adjacent uncultivated habitats, whereas B. lampros did not. Trechus secalis larvae were completely subterranean, whereas B. lampros larvae were partly surface active. The adaptive significance of their reproductive tactics and habitat preferences as adults and the suitability of cereal fields as habitats for reproduction and survival of populations are discussed.
3682681|Samples of drifting and periphytic microalgae were collected during 1972 from a fast-flowing, stony stream (Brurskardsbekken) in the Jotunheimen mountain area, central southern Norway. The predominant algal groups in the drift and the periphyton were diatoms and green algae, while only a few species were recorded in both communities. A considerable number of species from Chrysophyceae, Cryptophyceae and other algal classes were also recorded in the drift samples. The species composition was in good agreement with microalgal communities earlier described from mountain areas in Scandinavia, although species which probably are new to Norway, were also recorded. A quantitatively important fraction of planktonic species in the drift is interpreted as a contribution from lacustrine habitats in the watercourse. A general change in the periphyton during the summer, from green algae to diatoms, was observed, Altitudinal differences in the periphyton included a delayed green algal maximum at higher altitudes compared to lower. In the zone around the upper birch limit, a transition in species composition as one goes upstream, described in other investigations, was not observed.
3682520|The raccoon dog Nyctereutes procyonoides Gray was introduced from the Far East in several areas of the USSR, mainly the European part, in 1929-55. The first raccoon dogs were seen in Finland in the latter half of the 1930s, and by the mid-1950s, the frontier of the first regular observations had reached the most southeasterly parts of the country. Since then, the raccoon dog dispersed through southern and central Finland at an average annual rate of 20 km. The rate of population increase, as well as present density, has been highest in southern and southeastern Finland, and lowest in the northern parts of the distribution area. The northern limit of the distribution lies nowadays in southern Lapland, only a little further north than two decades earlier, when most of southern and central Finland was already inhabited. The length of the growing season seems to explain most of the variation in the population density between the provinces. The longer the growing season, the better the raccoon dog manages; in southern Finland where the summers are longer, the juveniles have enough time to grow and gather fat reserves before hibernation. Therefore, many of them survive the winter and even breed in the following spring. In the north, in contrast, juvenile mortality is high during the first winter because of the short summer. The food availability, the yield of wild berries and the abundance of small rodents, is mostly responsible for the annual variation in the population density. Near the northern limit of the distribution, climate may also cause some of the annual variation in population density.
3682482|Golden plover stomachs were examined through the breeding season at Hardangervidda, southern Norway. The main foods were Diptera larvae (in particular Tipula excisa), adult Coleoptera (notably Otiorrhynchus dubius and Carabidae), and in May and August berries of Empetrum hermaphroditum. Also some larvae of Coleoptera and Lepidoptera were taken. Adult Coleoptera were considerably more common in the diet than expected from abundance data, while Araneae were unimportant as food in spite of a high abundance. The males take the major parental duties after hatching, allowing the females a more undisturbed feeding, supposed to be strongly advantageous for them due to close proximity of egg-laying and the start of the postnuptial moult. This is reflected in the diet: in July males showed a larger tropic diversity, and ate more adult insects and less insect larvae than the females.
3682394|Nematodes, rotifers and tardigrades from a Swedish pine forest soil were investigated in a monthly sampling programme lasting for one year. The monthly mean values of number, biomass and oxygen consumption were estimated. All groups fluctuated rather much over the year with a summer minimum (
3682167|Variability of Chironomid wing length was studied for males and females of four terrestrial species inhabiting heathlands in Brittany (France). The larvae of two species live permanently in the soil. The populations of the two other species are strengthened or re-established by immigrants each year. Significant differences in average wing length were found within and between species depending on sex, year, emergence period and trapping method. The two migrant species did not have the longest wings. In contrast, within species, migrant individuals had longer wings. Relations between wingth length, wing area and wing loading are discussed with regard to life-history tactics (larval resistance to drought, flight ability, passive dispersal). The use of wing length to predict habitat characteristics was tested but the conclusions lead to promote a restrictive use of the wing length criterion.
3682530|As a part of weir-pond-ecosystem project, the growth patterns and food habits of Baetis rhodani (Ephemeroptera), Capnia pygmaea (Plecoptera), and Diura nanseni (Plecoptera) were investigated. B. rhodani was bivoltine. The winter generation consisted of three cohorts. C. pygmaea and D. nanseni accomplished their nymphal growth in one year. The predominate food consumed by B. rhodani and C. pygmaea was detritus. Variations in the diet of these detritivores are discussed in relation to microdistribution and possible competition. The most common prey items of the carnivorous D. nanseni were chironomids and nymphs of B. rhodani and C. pygmaea. Prey shortage is suggested to be the reason for small D. nanseni eating detritus.
3682161|Larvae of Meromyza pratorum Meigen (Diptera, Chloropidae) were found to affect tillers of Ammophila arenaria (L.) Link in the dunes of Newborough Warren, Anglesey, U.K. The highest percentages of affected tillers were found in September. There were clear differences between the proportions of affected tillers in the various successional stages of the dunes. It was found that the proportion of affected tillers was reduced by a fertilizer treatment but slightly increased by removing associated species.
3682506|The photosynthesis of Spagnum fuscum (Schimp.) Klinggr. at different water contents and CO
3682448|Cellulase, chitinase, and protease activities were examined in Eriophorum vaginatum tussocks at Eagle Summit, Alaska. Changes in the activities were recorded for tussocks of differing relative plant composition. Highest total activity was found in tussocks with at least 50% (relative surface) cover by mycorrhizal colonized shrubs. Total enzyme activity declined in tussocks as the variety of plants decreased. The lowest enzyme activity was found in the moss dominated tussock. Changes in the nature of cellulose hydrolysis suggested that decomposition may be primarily regulated by litter composition in some cases and soil environment in others.
3682203|The palatability of saplings of several different species, geographic origins and
3682586| Eighty-four species of Chironomidae were collected, using emergence traps, from three poor fens located in the Experimental Lakes Area (ELA) of northwestern Ontario. Of these, 37 were considered to be true peatland fauna. The majority (23) of the peatland species are new North American or Canadian records and, of these, 10 are previously undescribed. Numbers m
3682351|The diets of free-ranging male and female mink were sampled by analysing faeces collected from radio-tagged individuals. Significant sex differences were apparent in the predation upon three of the five principal prey groups. The larger males preyed much more heavily upon lagomorphs, the largest prey taken, while females preyed more upon fish and crustaceans than did males. These differences were consistent in each season except the autumn (September to November), when males preyed more heavily upon fish and crustacea than did females. Due to their large size, adult lagomorphs are felt to be relatively unavailable to female mink. Male mink are apparently large enough to specialize on lagomorphs, and male mink niche breadth was consistently lower than that of females. Dietary overlap approximated to 40% in all seasons except summer (68%), when female predation upon lagomorphs reached a peak. This reduction in intraspecific feeding competition was felt to be a valuable side-effect of body-size dimorphism.
3682122|In the first years after coppicing, Cirsium palustre is abundant in Dutch ash coppice woodlands and in the second year, it flowers abundantly. In later years the species is nearly absent. In contrast to its behaviour in meadow and spring communities, the species typically behaves as a true biennial in this system. Despite fairly high mortality, the plants flowering in their second year produce enough seeds to replenish the seed bank. It is suggested that the persistence of the species in this system depends on its ability to form a longlived seed bank and on a nutrient availability high enough to enable some rosettes to exploit the high photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) in the first year after coppicing and thus to reach the critical size needed for flowering in the second year. Rosettes persisting to the third year generally do not flower and ultimately die because shading by the tree canopy has become too severe.
3682414|The author stresses the need for more clearly defined concepts and terms related to ecological research in the northern biogeographical zones and regions. The concepts 'arctic', 'subarctic', 'tundra', 'forest-tundra', 'open woodland' (and similar expressions), 'taiga', etc., are discussed below. The expressions 'tree' and 'forest' are briefly mentioned. The main interest below is focused on terms related to the tree- and timber- (forest-) lines and their interrelations.
3682118| Two tubificid species Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri and L. claparedeianus formed more than 93% of the total number of oligochaetes in the profundal. Limnodrilus spp. worms were found down to 33 cm in the sediment but in great numbers in the upper zone in June and October. Worms confined to the top 15 cm of sediment accounted for 53-92% of the total number. There were two annual maxima in population density and biomass, one in late spring (
3682260|Ten closely-located kettle-hole ponds in northern Sweden were ordered along a vegetational, successional gradient from the present-day representation of the six vegetational units distinguished. Different rates of vegetational development caused by differences in depths of basins have made possible the long-term existence of early successional stages. A fact that has offered the possibility of studying most of the vegetational succession of these habitats. The number of water beetle species inhabiting each pond were correlated to successional stage and area of pond. Mean species numbers decreased from 34 to 14 per pond with increasing maturity of the vegetational succession. This decrease in species richness of water beetles is caused by a decrease in number of habitats or vegetational units present. The increased floral conformity is mainly due to a more stable water-level caused by lower rates of bottom seepage from the accumulation of organic deposits. Besides the extended zonation of littoral vegetation, a high water-amplitude is also connected with recurrent nutrient pulses caused by the faster detritus composition during drought periods. Thus the changing water-levels contribute to a high water beetle diversity through the maintenance of both a high habitat complexity and a high production. A positive correlation between pond size and number of water beetle species were only found if the fen ponds were excluded. From this it is concluded that the area effect is here a good predictor of species richness only within ponds of a similar successional stage.
3682173|Measurements of daily variations in the intensity, spectral composition and polarization of the direct and the indirect sunlight are presented, and the physics of light propagation through the atmosphere is discussed. Observations of daily changes in these properties of the skylight are presented from two different locations in Norway. Probable adaptations of the light detection systems of insects living at high latitudes are predicted from the observations. The adaptation processes under consideration are (1) changes in the light absorption characteristics of the visual pigments, (2) changes in the visual sensitivity to light and (3) a switch in Zeitgeber from the daily intensity changes to changes in the spectral composition of the light in polar regions. It is shown that in particular the intensity ratio between the ultraviolet and the green part of the diffuse light is well suited as a Zeitgeber for insects living at high latitudes.
3682110| The chironomid larvae of the Rouge River, Ontario, Canada, showed a longitudinal zonation which may have been influenced by water temperature and substrate composition. Species of Orthocladiinae predominated in the cooler headwaters while species of Chironomini dominated the comparatively warmer water near the estuary. In the middle section the chironomid assemblage was of a more mixed nature. Differences occurred in both food availability and feeding between sites along the river. Within genera, there were differences in the proportions of major food items between the larval guts and the available food material sampled from the same area. In most cases (e.g. Cryptochironomus, Polypedilum and Orthocladius) larvae selected detritus over diatoms. Some genera (e.g. Microtendipes) changed the proportions of food items ingested seasonally, while others (e.g. Psectrocladius) exhibited a more stable diet throughout the year. Second instar larvae appeared to seasonally adjust their diet most often (e.g. Cricotopus, Tanytarsus and Eukiefferiella), however these changes were not just in the types of food eaten, but also in the proportions of food types consumed. Larvae of all genera continued feeding throughout the cold water conditions (<5C) of winter. Incidence of predation was very low, for example <10% in the Tanypodinae. In the laboratory, species of Chironomini ingested and assimulated, to varying degress, isolated populations of diatoms, detritus and bacteria. 
3682172| Brown trout (Salmo trutta), Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar), brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) and lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush) fry entering the free-feeding stage, were tested for overhead cover preferences in stream channels at different temperatures and water velocities. Atlantic salmon showed strong preferences for overhead cover, brown trout moderate preferences, whereas lake trout had preferences only at high temperatures, i.e. 12.4-19.2C. Brook trout showed no cover preferences. Temperature influenced cover preferences of Atlantic salmon and brown trout considerably. The fry tended to seek more cover at low temperatures, i.e. 6.0-8.3C 
3682238| The relative variation in leaf nitrogen concentration and photosynthetic capacity among individuals and sites are compared for mountain birch populations (Betula pubsecens Ehrh. ssp tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman). Leaf nitrogen concentration and photosynthetic capacity showed significant differences among individuals; 35 and 26% of the total sum of squares respectively, was attributable to differences among individuals. Two measures of leaf morphology also showed differences among individuals (35-58% of total variation). The variation attributable to site differences ranged from 13% (leaf shape, P = 0.11) to 36% (leaf N concentration and photosynthetic capacity, P 0.01). Of the variation in photosynthetic capacity, 51% was related to leaf nitrogen concentration. Possible causes for and consequences of the differences found are discussed. 
3682043|Reindeer and caribou are best known as migratory, seasonally nomadic animals; many continental populations, for example, travel between distinct summer and winter ranges which may lie hundreds of km apart. Much less is known about the movements of animals belonging to island populations. This paper describes seasonal and annual movements of wild reindeer Rangifer tarandus platyrhynchus on the high arctic archipelago of Svalbard, based on observations of nine animals captured and individually marked in Adventdalen, Spitsbergen, between 1977 and 1982. Four ear-tagged reindeer (one male and three females) were followed extensively for between four and seven years. Five radio-collared females were followed intensively for seven months in 1982. Svalbard reindeer seem neither to undertake long migrations nor to be nomadic within seasons like mountain reindeer or barren-ground caribou. They appear instead to use small, traditional, seasonal home ranges more, for example, like red deer or wild sheep. This atypical behaviour is discussed in relation to the dispersion of reindeers' resources in Svalbard.
3682058|Intraspecific larval competition is commonly believed to be the major component of egg-to-adult mortality in bark beetles. Larval mortality is usually shown to be density dependent. In this study I looked specifically at competition among females in the same gallery system, in a sparse but highly female-biased population of Ips acuminatus breeding in cut pine branches near Kongsberg, southeastern Norway. Supplementary data from a slightly female-biased population in western Norway and a population with intermediate female bias in W. Germany are also provided. Survivorship from egg to adult or pupa was measured in laboratory experiments, for the area in which larvae from different arms potentially competed relative to survivorship in areas away from competition. Survivorship was significantly correlated with both average interarm distance ( r
3682534|Primary productivity of algal epiphytes on the surfaces of Phragmites, Potamogeton, and Nuphar was measured seasonally from June 1978, through June 1979, in the littoral zone of Lake Ohrid, using
3682719|Fifteen species of earthworm were collected from a reclaimed fen peat soil used for rough hay in County Offaly, Ireland. The most common species were Aporrectodea tuberculata, Allolobophora chlorotica, Eisenia rosea and Octolasion tyrtaeum. A. tuberculata, A. chlorotica and E. rosea formed a significant association. The total numbers of earthworms collected by hand-sorting reached a maximum of
3682041|Habitat dependence and foraging for bark of semi-cyclic and cyclic voles were examined on clearcuts in central and northern Sweden. Both populations showed inconsistent and weak relationships to habitat variables. Population dynamics of the northern cyclic population was more clearly related to landscape composition. Snow depth explained a large proportion of the total variation between clearcuts when the populations were pooled. Snow and landscape effects agree with recent hypotheses that 3-4 yr cyclic densities are related to predator impact. The negligible effects of other habitat variables may be due to generalized habitat selection by northern rodents and the historical growth of populations in different macrohabitats since population crashes. The relations between density and bark consumption differed between the two regions, indicating a threshold density for more intense bark use. From an applied point of view, areas with seedling damage can be predicted at regional rather than at local scales.
3682070| Isozyme analyses performed on balsam poplar stands in subarctic northern Qubec indicated polyclonal predominance (76%). This suggests that seed sources were adequate for colonization of new habitats. High variance at the clone and the stand levels did not permit, however, the use of morphological traits for clonal partitioning. A non-random sex distribution related to habitat conditions was found both at the regional and the local scales, although there is an equal male-female ratio in the study area. Female stands predominate in regions subject to a maritime climate (1:5) and in fertile and humid habitats (1:7). 
3682086| Gravid females of Capnia bifrons (Newman) from Windermere (English Lake District) were almost completely ovoviviparous, the eggs hatching within 15 min after oviposition in the water. When kept in the laboratory at constant temperatures between 3.8 and 19.8C, few females survived to lay eggs at temperatures above 12.1C. The relationship between air temperature (TC) and the egg incubation period (Y days between fertilisation and oviposition) was given by the regression equation: ${\rm Y}=316.4\ {\rm T}^{-0.9996}\ ({\rm r}^{2}=0.957,\ {\rm p}<0.001)$. This equation successfully predicted egg incubation periods for gravid females kept in cages in the field. Comparisons with similar studies on four non-ovoviviparous species of Plecoptera showed that egg development was rarely more rapid in C. bifrons. It was also shown that the hypothesis of ovoviviparity being an adaptation to combat low water temperatures could be rejected for C. bifrons from Windermere. 
3682097|Ninety cultures of heterotrophic organisms were isolated from soils of four acid Norwegian forest sites, which were active in nitrifying. The isolates were tested for ability to form nitrite in a glucose-ammonium-inorganic salts medium. Eleven cultures were found capable of oxidizing ammonium to nitrite. The nitrifying organisms consist of 4 bacteria and 7 fungi.
3682126|Larvae of the blackfly Simulium noelleri aggregated at very high population densities (up to
3682734|A multidisciplinary approach combining field surveys, aerial photographic techniques, digital terrain modelling, and GIS technology was used to analyze spatial interrelationships at a study site in the northern foothills of the Brooks Range. The sensitivity of snow drifting to topography at the site is pronounced. The drift patterns indicate winter winds are predominantly from the south with a major secondary component from the southwest. These southwest winds are likely in conjunction with storm events. The deepest snow beds are found on the steeper, north-facing slopes. Snow also has an effect on vegetation that is evident at the scale of mapping (1:6000). Communities dominated by Cassiope tetragona are associated with deeper snow regimes, and may be useful indicators of deeper snow regimes even at much smaller scales because of their unique spectral signatures. The analyses conducted to date demonstrate the power of the GIS for analyzing terrain-geobotanical interrelationships, which will increase as we add new layers for other variables, and are able to correlate these with satellite data.
3682083|To determine some of the influences on nesting densities of bumble bees I examined the dispersion and occupancy of 35 nests in an old field on Amherst Island, Ontario, Canada and 39 nests found by Cumber (1953) in England. Densities up to 1 nest per
3682243|A technique was developed for measuring respiration of virtually undisturbed forest floor samples, and used to follow seasonal changes in two black spruce forest stands in interior Alaska. In the laboratory, soil respiration showed a positive response to increasing temperature; however, respiration measured in the field was negatively correlated with air and soil temperature, but positively correlated with water content of the soil within the range (100-250% of dry weight) normally experienced in the field. Moisture levels above 250% inhibited respiration. Precipitation events usually stimulate forest floor respiration, but prolonged periods of dry and rainy weather lead to limitation of respiration by sub- and supraoptimal moisture, respectively. Long-term confinement of soil has significant effects upon soil arthropod densities, moisture content, temperature, and respiration, and should not be taken to represent the natural conditions of the forest floor.
3682152|Food matter eaten in the first snowless spots early in the spring by capercaillie Tetrao urogallus and willow grouse Lagopus lagopus was studied in Finnish Forest Lapland. When the snow disappears, both species change to feeding mainly on the plants available in the snowless spots, although male capercaillie does not exploit this nutritious diet to the same extent as female capercaillie and willow grouse. Selection in favour of nitrogen and phosphorus-rich food items, i.e. Betula pubescens, male catkins Eriophorum vaginatum, flower buds, and Equisetum spp., stems and tips, seems to be characteristic especially of the female capercaillie, whose winter diet is poor in these elements. Female capercaillie also feeds on more plant species or different parts of plants at one time than willow grouse, while no differences were recorded between male and female willow grouse in the composition of their spring food. The crowberry Empetrum hermaphroditum, almost regularly produces a bountiful berry crop in northern Finland, and since it overwinters well, it represents an easy source of energy and water available almost every spring. The quality and/or the quantity of the green food matter available early in the spring may fluctuate considerably and be of importance for short-term fluctuations in the populations of these tetraonid species.
3682171| In a Swedish moose population containing both migratory and non-migratory individuals, 15 cows, 19 first generation and 2 second generation offspring were radio-collared and monitored during 1980-87 to determine their migratory behavior. The migratory behavior of offspring was evaluated when they were > 1 year old and independent of their dams. All 11 migratory cows produced migratory offspring (10, 3). Two migratory offspring produced female calves (grandchildren to the originally sampled cows) that were also migratory. Four of the originally sampled cows were non-migratory and they produced six non-migratory offspring (3, 3). Distances migrated by independent offspring were related to those of their dam. No moose changed its migrant or non-migrant nature during the study. Results indicate that the proportion of migratory moose in the population is determined by the survival and reproductive success of migratory versus non-migratory cows. Migratory and non-migratory moose may be regarded as two distinct phenotypes in this population. 
3682636| A modified strip census of basking ringed seals in the Bothnian Bay was carried out during the last week of April and the first week of May 1988. Of the total ice covered area,
3682335|A notable omission from wetlands ecology has been the study of the influence of herbivores on vegetation. Reported here are the effects of grazing by snow geese Anser caerulescens altantica on the vegetation of salt marshes along the mid-Atlantic coast of the United States. Exclosures were used to compare total and species percent cover between grazed and ungrazed areas in three marshes (Salt Flats, South Pond, and Bodie Island) with differing vegetation communities from 1978 to 1980. Spartina alterniflora was reduced by 2/3 in grazed versus ungrazed areas of Salt Flats. S. patens was reduced by 1/3 in grazed portions of South Pond but recovered when grazing ceased. In grazed portions of Bodie Island total plant cover was reduced by 16%. Scirpus robustus and S. patens reacted in opposite ways to grazing pressure with S. robustus increasing and S. patens decreasing. Elocharis was found only in grazed areas of Bodie Island. Echinochloa crusgali appeared in grazed portions of this marsh in 1978 but decreased in abundance during subsequent years. Scirpus americanus was unaffected by grazing, maintaining a nearly constant percent cover in grazed and ungrazed areas at Bodie Island. Differences in responses to grazing are discussed in terms of each species' growth and reproductive strategies as tempered by the physical and biological environment within each marsh.
3682703|The perennial herbaceous mire plant Saxifraga hirculus was studied in different population densities along an environmental gradient on a mire in central Sweden. Tests were made whether the habitat conditions influenced the balance between vegetative growth of runners and seed production. Along a 30 m long transect the gradient was analysed for vegetation, hydrology, temperature and contents of ions in groundwater and surface peat. Three main zones were distinguished, a spring area, a rich fen area and an intermediate fen area. Range in concentration of ions in groundwater along the transect ( mg l
3682149|We present the results from a radiotelemetric study on space use and activity in a natural population of the wood lemming Myopus schisticolor. Male home ranges were larger than females, and the ratio female home range to male home range was smaller than expected compared to other small rodents. Males moved distances 4-12 times longer than females. We argue that this difference in mobility gives a higher probability of capturing males than females in snap trap studies. If there is a sex biased trappability, this might explain the increasing female biased sex ratio during the snow free season (1:1 in spring, 3:1 [female:male] in autumn), as a higher mortality of males during the reproductive season.
3682249|The limnetic copepod Cyclops scutifer Sars shows an extraordinarily prolonged life cycle in a temperate lake near Oslo, Norway. Developmental sequences become one, two, and three years old, and there are circumstantial evidence of a four year old fraction. Prolongation of the cycle is mainly caused by two consecutive periods of diapause, the first as small copepodids during the second winter, the other as large copepodids during the third winter. There is a marked concentration of diapausing individuals in a small area of the bottom at the deepest part of the lake. There is evidence that this concentration is caused by a horizontal migration to areas with optimal oxygen conditions. The adaptive value of a prolongation of the life cycle is assumed to be an increase in the reproductive potential caused by a spreading out of the reproductive period by three year classes succeeding each other throughout the summer.
3682460|Previous workers have suggested that reproduction by seedling establishment is less important in the maintenance of tundra vegetation than in temperate areas, but few quantitative data are available. Seedling densities were studied at 11 tundra sites in or near disturbed and undisturbed cotton grass tussock tundra in Alaska, and numerous seedlings were found. Examination of seedling age structures suggests that at least Ledum palustre and probably also Empetrum nigrum do replace themselves by seed in undisturbed tundra. Seedling densities vary greatly depending on the substrate available for establishment.
3682272| Radiotelemetry provided data on the activity periods of brown lemmings Lemmus sibiricus in northern Alaska. Activity inside the burrow and inactivity outside the burrow usually occurred in short episodes (<3 min), whereas periods of activity outside the burrow and inactivity inside the burrow were more prolonged and appeared to be associated with foraging (outside) and sleeping (inside). Energetic reserves for lemmings entering a burrow consisted of body fat and undigested gut contents, which allowed minimal survival times of 8.6  2.3 h (mean  1 S.E.). Nevertheless, lemmings usually left their burrows within 40 min of entering, at which time their stomachs would be at least two-thirds empty. Activity patterns of lemmings appear to change in response to predators, weather and nutritional requirements. We argue that lemmings seek to minimize the time spent foraging rather than to maximize the net energy gain while foraging. 
3682146|Investigation of the seasonal changes in composition of an immature Antarctic fellfield cyanobacterial/microalgal community has demonstrated a repeated periodicity. The community consisted of only 14 species. Early spring growth of filamentous chlorophytes under snow and ice was followed by summer dominance of the community by cyanobacteria, particularly Phormidium autumnale. Limitation of the chlorophyte populations appeared to be a result of either dehydration of the soil or increased irradiance. The population maximum of the cyanobacteria occurred in mid-summer, although there were no obvious reasons for the cessation of growth at this time, and declined rapidly in late summer. Regrowth of the community occurred from very small inocula each spring, most of the biomass having been lost during late summer or during the washout associated with the spring thaw. This regrowth demonstrates the potential for the population to establish an immature fellfield community very rapidly following exposure by glacial retreat or physical disturbance.
3682264| Carbon dioxide production by the Bombus terrestris queen was measured at different temperatures (10-30C) and during different activities of the bumblebee. During flight the CO
3682052| Temperatures in the forest litter of Norway spruce Picea abies were recorded throughout the day to obtain environmental parameters that could be used to design realistic flight-activity experiments in the laboratory. Flight activity and survival were monitored electronically in plastic chambers where the conditions were controlled by an environmental chamber. Flight attempts of the bark beetle Ips typographus were initially lower in chambers with forest duff but were prolonged compared with those of beetles in chambers with a metal screen substrate. Small bark slabs and spruce twigs in the duff were utilized as food and extended the period of flight and survival. A thermal gradient in duff from 25 at the surface down to 13.8C at a depth of 4 cm also slightly increased the survival of beetles compared with a constant 25. A daily ambient temperature cycle as well as the duff thermal gradient increased the survival from about 3 d to more than 8 d. The latter length in the laboratory agreed with survival rates of caged beetles in a clearcut forest area, while beetles caged in the forest survival for more than 14 d. Temperatures were monitored at the duff surface of the caged beetles and compared with the catches of beetles that were attracted to a pheromone trap and collected with an electronic fraction collector. Information on flight and survival during the dispersal period is necessary to the design of ecologically sound management programs for control of bark beetles. 
3682123|The diel rhythm of juvenile (0+) Astacus astacus was studied experimentally with constant and dielly fluctuating water levels. In the first case the diel rhythm was mainly crepescular, but with tendencies of a phase shift towards diurnal rhythm during low light conditions. The locomotor activity increased with temperature and with the length of the dark period. In presence of a crepescular predator the crayfish decreased their light period activity. With fluctuating water levels the activity increased especially when the water level changes occurred during normal resting periods. Crayfish did not show any adaptation to fluctuating water levels by preferring covers constantly situated beneath the surface. The relative effect of the water level fluctuations increased with temperature. As the main part of the juvenile crayfish population is concentrated to the litoral zone, diel water level regulations are thought to be detrimental to crayfish populations even if the regulation amplitude is small.
3682232|Beetles were collected by pitfall trapping for a two-year period in seven adjacent habitats in an upland site in North Wales. Positive correlations were demonstrated between number of beetle species and number and diversity of plant species. Similar correlations were shown between beetle numbers and plant species. However, only 15% of the beetle species were herbivores requiring host plants. The degree of habitat selection by individual beetle species was demonstrated, ranging from habitat specialist, being found in one habitat, to habitat generalist, being found in most habitats. Herbivores were significantly more habitat specialist than predators or scavengers. The grouping of beetles, demonstrated by ordination analysis, was similar to, but less precise than, the grouping of plant species. The beetle groups reflect habitat selection preferences by individual species rather than a functional relationship between beetle species. They provide an example of the centrifugal structure of habitat selection theory.
3682525| The changes effected by air-borne pollutants in the wintertime water economy of the Scots pine were investigated in industrial and urban environments in Oulu (65N). Pine needles were found to undergo a wintertime water stress, which was more intense in the polluted area than in the less polluted environment. The water stress of the needles was found to be the more severe, the more pollutants had accumulated in the needles. In the needles of the trees growing in the polluted area, transpiration started shortly after they had been brought into laboratory even at midwinter, but the healthy trees were not equally sensitive in their response. When the weight loss of branches was observed in outdoor conditions, it was noted that the branches brought from the polluted area lost weight more rapidly than the branches of the healthy area. Air-borne pollutants hence constitute an obvious additional risk to the wintering of plants, particularly their water economy. 
3682464|Respiratory loss and bulk transport of organic matter from dung pats in a Danish pasture were measured by a chromic oxide marker technique. Measurements covered the period until a dung age of 7-8 weeks. On average, respiration and transport contributed 46% and 54% of organic matter disappearance in three spring experiments; in three autumn experiments the corresponding values were 25% and 75%. Thus, both processes are important. The rate of transport was highest at the bottom of the pat, whereas the highest respiratory rate occurred in the top and periphery. During the first 10-14 days transport predominated, probably owing to the activity of dung insects, whereas respiration was remarkably low. During the remaining period, transport was probably affected mainly by earthworms. Respiration seemed to be mostly microbial and to proceed during dung pat decay in essentially the same way as did cellulolytic activity. Earthworms did not significantly affect the respiration of pats.
3682580|The objectives of this study were to assess the roles of plant species, time, and site on competition for tracer
3682576|The relative success of a sample of 99 immigrant dispersers was studied in a population of Peromyscus leucopus in deciduous forest from 1980 to 1985. Dispersers were identified in two ways: (1) as immigrants to a natural dispersal sink and (2) as individuals that relocated their center of activity more than one home range diameter within a large live-trapping system. Female immigrants were significantly less likely to be pregnant or lactating than philopatric residents; males showed no significant difference. Reproductive immigrants were more likely than non-reproductive immigrants to establish residency after dispersal. There was no difference in survivorship of philopatric residents and those dispersers that successfully immigrated.
3682155|The numbers, densities and mean heights of the above-ground shoots of Vaccinium myrtillus growing in the geolittoral on a bank of the Muddusjokk river, N Sweden, were studied in relation to the position of the seasonal high-water level. V. myrtillus was constantly present in the upper half of the geolittoral belt, with its lower limit about 50 cm below the drift-line and its lowermost occurrence of all at 82 cm below. The vertical extent of the whole transect was 1.3 m. The vertical extent of the entire geolittoral was assessed by studying the distributions of a range of vascular plants and bryophytes. The upper geolittoral subdivision had a greater vertical extent (0.68 m) than the middle and lower ones (together 0.60 m). V. myrtillus does not appear to be a suitable indicator species for determining the local high-water levels along watercourses in N Sweden.
3682625| During the growing season of 1981, we studied phenological patterns of development of vegetative shoots and sexual organs, partitioning of biomass and productivity, and partitioning and concentrations of N, P, K, Ca, and Mg for the evergreen dwarf shrub Cassiope tetragona (Ericaceae) at a high arctic lowland oasis at 79N on Ellesmere Island, Canada. Short elongation
3682088| In this study two questions concerning the structure and organisation of shallow brackish and estuarine fish assemblages are: (1) Does the species number decline with lower salinity as found for the macrofauna invertebrates? (2) Does the water temperature during the year influence the abundance of fishes along the Swedish coast? In a west coast estuary salinities were higher but fluctuated more than in the Bothnian Sea. Days with temperatures exceeding 15C were up to twice as many in the west coast estuary as in the Bothnian Sea. In spring the species number increased, but later on in summer it declined to increase again in autumn, but declined once again as winter approached. Fish density in the west coast estuary increased gradually to a maximum in late summer and then declined, while in the Bothnian Sea there was often a decline during summer. Positive correlations were found between observed minimum salinities and average species number, and between number of days with temperatures exceeding +15C and both yearly average and maximum fish densities. Juveniles (0+) were present for longer periods in the west coast estuary than in the Bothnian Sea and reproduction of the common species started earlier in the former area. In winter the shallow areas are devoid of fish because of ice and so are re-colonised each spring. The study demonstrates that water salinity limited the species number, and water temperature the abundance of fish. 
3682324|Several of the most important reindeer forage plants in Svalbard were analysed for content of minerals (Na, K, P, Ca, Mg, S, Cl, Fe, Cu, Mn, Zn, Mo and Co) and for content of ash, crude protein, crude fiber, ether extracts and nitrogen free extracts. Some forage plants were also examined in in vitro digestibility trials. The results were compared with results from similar analyses of alpine mountain plants from southern Norway. Also freshly voided fecal samples were analysed for the same components as the forage plants. The Svalbard vegetation had a higher content of Na, Ca, Mg, Cl, Fe and Co, than similar plants from Southern Norway. The content of other elements examined seemed to be more equal in Norway and on Svalbard. Within the Svalbard area plants growing in limestone areas had the highest content of calcium and magnesium. Also plants growing on manured soil below bird cliffs appeared to have high nutritional value. It is furthermore concluded that the closeness to the sea as well as the occurrence of several plants with high mineral content, gave the Svalbard reindeer the possibility to further improve their mineral balance compared with continental reindeer. Also the dietary shift from lichens as a major dietary component in Norway, to mosses on Svalbard, may increase mineral intake, but may also have an inferior effect on digestibility. Although balance experiments and carcass analyses of minerals in Svalbard reindeer are missing, it is concluded that Svalbard reindeer apparently had adequate intake of most mineral elements. In spite of low standing biomass of reindeer forage plants, the quality of the vegetation seemed to compare favourably with continental reindeer pasture.
3682491|Ecotypic differentiation of Cochlearia officinalis L. was studied in four populations, roughly described as "beach", "bird cliff", "spring" and "estuary", which occupy different habitats in the northern part of Norway. The plants were cultivated under controlled conditions on soil to which nitrogen was applied at various amounts (0, 0.2 and
3682179|Three populations of Tayloria tenuis (Splachnaceae) growing on three isolated cattle droppings in coniferous forests of the Eastern Pyrenees were sampled by permanent grids through three years. Each population was initially in a different stage of the dung colonization process. At first, T. tenuis developed a conspicuous protonema on the dropping surface. After one or two years, the moss completed development and fruited abundantly. Eventually, the populations were covered by larger pleurocarpous mosses, which were common on the forest soil. There were important differences between the two stages of development of the T. tenuis gametophyte: the protonema stage exhibited high mortality but rapidly covered nearly all the free surface of the dropping. Afterwards, the gametophore stage established more permanently. Pleurocarpous mosses growing over Tayloria tenuis gametophores produced changes in the vegetative and reproductive pattern of this species. Tayloria tenuis disappeared gradually from the places covered by pleurocarps, although these larger species exhibited high rates of mortality at a micro-scale level.
3682631|Both age and size may influence female reproductive performance in mammals, and successful early reproduction may lead to reduced success at later attempts. The effects of age, size and early reproduction on distribution of reproductive effort throughout a single breeding season was examined in female mountains hares Lepus timidus L. Hind foot length was used as an index of body size, because, unlike body weight, it did not fluctuate with reproductive status. Fifty-six female carcasses were collected from March to October 1984, and their litters were assigned to one of three chronologically equal 'litter periods' (1-3) of equal length. Whereas number of ova shed was always independent of age, large females shed more ova than did smaller females in litter periods 1 and 2. Prenatal mortality of ova and embryos was highest during litter period 1, when it was independent of age and size. Although prenatal mortality remained high in first year females in litter period 2, there was an overall decline through to the final litter period when it was negligible. Total number of young produced through the season increased with skeletal size in old females (age > 1), but not significantly in first year females. It is concluded that large size, rather than age, favours early reproduction in mountain hares. Every additional offspring produced in litter periods 1 and 2 reduced that female's production in period 3. After correcting for this cost of early reproduction the number of young produced in the final litter period also increased with maternal size.
3682246| Arctopsyche grandis was studied for two years in a cold stream in central Idaho. Larvae have a one year life cycle consisting of five instars. Three to four instars are present in most months. Growth is rapid in summer with instar I and II passing to IV and V in 30 d or less. Little or no growth occurs during winter. Maximum larval densities were 547 (1977) and
3682254| Soil/litter inhabiting annelids and arthropods were studied for one year in a mesic deciduous woodland, Andersby ngsbackar, one of the most northerly areas in Sweden to possess unbroken oak/hazel vegetation. Lumbricidae, Enchytraeidae, Collembola, Acari, Coleoptera, Diptera and Araneae were important faunal groups with regard to abundance, biomass and respiratory metabolism. Annual mean biomass (
3682054|Population dynamics of the southern pine beetle Dendroctonus frontalis has been the subject of intensive research in the USA for more than a decade. TAMBEETLE, an acronym for the mechanistic model of population dynamics of D. frontalis, was developed to abstract contemporary knowledge on the insect. This model was developed as a joint venture between the Biosystems Research Group of Industrial Engineering and the Department of Entomology at Texas A&M University. The approach used to develop the model and the structure of component submodels is described. Research leading to the development of the model involved a series of field and laboratory studies aimed at various aspects of the population system of the insect. This research is reviewed. Important areas needing further research are identified. Studies dealing with factors involved in initiation of infestions, biome-level epidemiology, host susceptibility, stand modeling, and dynamics of within-tree mortality were emphasized as important topics for further research.
3682297| The limnology of Langvatn situated in Trndelag county in Central Norway, has been studied for five years (1974-1978). In two years, 1975 and 1976, the lake was fertilized with a general fertilizer to change feeding conditions for the fish food organisms. Reasons for the choice of the lake are described together with a brief description of the lake itself, its catchment area, location, geological origin and the effect of human influence. 
3682092|The life-history patterns of four Hydropsyche species (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae) found in the Credit and Humber Rivers of southern Ontario were investigated through rearing studies, larval and adult collections, and analyses of densities and mortality of field populations of pupae. Hydropsyche slossonae was univoltine but was probably capable of producing a second generation under favourable conditions at the warmest station at which it occurred. Hydropsyche sparna was partially bivoltine at upstream stations and bivoltine at downstream stations. At downstream stations, the common species were Hydropsyche bronta, which was trivoltine, and Hydropsyche morosa, which was bivoltine. Hydropsyche sparna, H. bronta and H. morosa all exhibited a split-cohort development, in which not all of the summer-produced larvae completed development, pupated and emerged before the end of the growing season. Overwintering populations consisted of young larvae that had hatched from eggs laid by adults of the previous generation. Analysis of the temporal changes in the densities of living and dead pupae provided a reliable way to separate overwintering and spring- and summer-produced generations.
3682450| Evapotranspiration was measured periodically from late June through mid-August 1978 in Eriophorum vaginatum tussock tundra near Eagle Creek, Alaska. The average evapotranspiration rates from tussock and intertussock areas were
3682739|Light-saturated
3682653| Bacterial utilization of photosynthetically fixed dissolved organic carbon (PDOC) released from natural phytoplankton assemblages was studied in two small, extremely humic, forest lakes in southern Finland. Bacterial activity (measured as uptake of
3682425|The Abisko Scientific Research Station is situated near the altitudinal tree-line in the North Swedish mountains. Research is going on in the area since more than 70 years promoted by its untouchedness, accessibility, variety, facilities and traditions of research. The research initiated at the station and now in progress is referred to three main headings: 1. Ecology of the tree-line; 2. Growth strategies of plants along the chionophilous-chionophobous gradient; and 3. Man's influence on the ecosystems.
3682663| In the summer of 1977 we studied the reindeer population on the islands Barentsya and Edgeya in the eastern part of the Svalbard archipelago. A total of 1374 reindeer were observed: 326 animals in the western parts of Barentsya and 1048 animals on Edgeya. Considering those parts of Edgeya which were not visited, the total number of reindeer on Edgeya was estimated at 1300 animals. The total number of reindeer was lower than in previous years. The decline probably was due to severe winter conditions in 1975/1976 and 1976/1977 confirmed by the fact that many carcasses and few yearlings were observed. Nearly all reindeer occurred on the coastal plains and in the valleys. These areas have the relatively richest vegetation. The average recruitment of the total population (counted) was 15.9%. The adult sex ratio was in favour of females: 59% females versus 41% males. There were differences both in the recruitment and in the adult sex ratio between three distinct areas on Edgeya and between two on Barentsya. These differences may be due to dissimilarities in food quality and feeding conditions caused by climate, and by small exchange of reindeer between the areas. The high frequency of shed male antlers on Frankenhalvya and Talaveraflya, north and south coast of Barentsya respectively, indicates that these areas belong to the wintering grounds of reindeer on this island. Concentrations of shed female antlers on Barentsya were less pronounced. The highest frequency was in the areas Sjodalen and Kvistdalen-Talaveraflya in the northwest and south respectively. Females may use these areas as late wintering grounds and possibly as calving areas. The average group size was 2.2 and the aggregation index 3.1. Seventytwo per cent of all groups, containing 48% of all reindeer, fell into group size 1 and 2. Males mostly were observed alone or together with one other animal. Females with calves most frequently occurred in groups of 2 and 4 animals. 
3682683| The zooplankton in vre Heimdalsvatn was studied from May 1969 to Aug 1973 in order to obtain knowledge about their functioning and role in the lake ecosystem. The paper concentrates on the main species: Holopedium gibberum, Bosmina longispina, Cyclops scutifer, Heterocope saliens, Conochilus unicornis, Polyarthra vulgaris and Kellicottia longispina but Megacyclops gigas, Daphnia longispina and ciliated cells are also considered. The development of the populations was fairly synchronized and made it possible to determine life cycles, development times, growth, reproduction and production from field data. The total production of the multicellular zooplankton was 2-3 mg dry wt m
3682354| The age structure of alnus glutinosa (L.) Gaertn. populations was studied in two areas on the coast of the Baltic Sea. One area, situated in Uppland, eastern central Sweden, at 6007N, has a relative land uplift of 5.3 mm yr
3682540|The algal epiphytes of three species of Sphagnum from the mat edge of an acid bog were quantitatively sampled over three months. On the basis of differences in total algal abundance, algal diversity, and the growth of certain algal species and species groups, two significantly different algal communities were recognized. While these communities were only centimeters apart, they differed in physical, biological and nutrient parameters, with lower, moister plots having more algae, higher algal diversity, and lower concentrations of phosphate, ammonium, and silicate ions.
3682741|Changes in water and nutrient movement are common disturbances resulting from human activities in arctic regions. To assess the influence of water and nutrient movement on different plant growth forms, we added water and NPK fertilizer along 10 to 20 m linear transects across small natural drainages on an Alaskan tundra slope. Water was added by continuous-flow emitters from a drip irrigation system at a rate of
3682339|I investigated within- and between-year patterns of flowering phenology of entomophilous plants in an isolated old field in northern Michigan, USA. The number of open flowers was censused at 5-d intervals from June-September of 1984-1986, and the data analyzed by detrended correspondence analysis. DCA axis 1 reflected within-year phenology, was highly correlated with date of censusing, and implied substantial constancy in flowering sequences. However, DCA axis 2 revealed significant between-year variation in abundances of flowers; years differed significantly in their scores on axis 2, and these differences were driven by variable plant species abundances during late summer. Within-year patterns showed that the floral community consisted of three more-or-less distinct temporal "guilds" of plants, and that the rate of turnover in community composition throughout the season was not uniform. The appearance of these guilds was not synchronous across years. Insects foraging on these species throughout the floral season can expect constancy in the relative timing of blooming, but are exposed to considerable temporal heterogeneity in flower resource abundance both between- and within-years. Opportunities for coevolutionary specialization are therefore likely to be constrained.
3682642|Relationships between female size and fecundity, egg viability and embryonal development were studied in Neoriprion sertifer. Sawfly females, reared from the 1st instar larvae on Scots pine needles heavily affected by industrial pollutants or on relatively unpolluted needles, were induced to lay eggs parthenogenetically in the field in Finland. Females reared on polluted needles were smaller and oviposited an average of 68.8 eggs, and those reared on unpolluted needles 79.4 eggs per female. However, the higher egg viability in the former group masked the effect of reduced female size. This compensation was primarily related to the size of the females, larger individuals producing relatively fewer viable eggs in both groups.
3682547|Food composition, prey size utilization and foraging behaviour of three sympatric woodpecker species (Dendrocopos major, D. medius, D. minor) were studied in an oak forest near Budapest during the breeding season in 1983 and 1984. Considering these three aspects of feeding, the great spotted woodpecker is a generalist species. Food composition of this species resembled the arthropod supply on the bark of trees more than those of the other two species. The bark of the trees seems to be a relatively unproductive microhabitat in the breeding season, so woodpecker species use, to different degrees, the food supply of the foliage as well. The food and the foraging behaviour of the middle spotted woodpecker show that this species feeds on prey living both on barks and in the foliage; it occupies an intermediate position between the great and the lesser spotted woodpeckers. Prey size did not correlate with predator size suggesting that woodpeckers adapted not to the summer resources but rather the winter ones.
3682245|It has been a widely held opinion that several fin whale populations inhabit the NE Atlantic. In the present communication the existence of one versus several fin whale populations in this area was considered. A survey of catch figures indicated considerable similarities among the various whaling grounds. Thus the figures did not support the belief that the various grounds were inhabited by different populations. The low productivity of the whales and their good mobility in an environment where the effects of physical barriers are limited were among the factors discussed as acting against the origination of separate populations. A model, ("the funnel analogy"), was presented according to which decrease in density would first be expected at the periphery of distribution. The area W of Iceland was suggested to constitute the present distributional core of the fin whale in the NE Atlantic. An account was given of the catch of fin whales in Iceland during the past 32 yr. Catch figures calibrated for increased catcher efficiencies showed a falling tendency.
3682541| The studies concern the changes in communities of rotifers in a model system of 4 through-flow ponds linked in a row and constantly supplied with waste-water after mechanical-biological treatment. Studies were carried out from the spring of 1977 to the spring of 1978 - i.e. during the first year the ponds were used. Twenty-four species of rotifers, forming three cenotic communities differing in number of species, dominance structure and abundance, were found. Gradually increasing similarity of communities with the distance from the source of post-waste water reflects the increasing stability of physico-chemical and biological conditions in the examined model ecosystem. Maximum biocenotic stability was observed in the last pond with the highest specific differentiation, and also considerable share of oligo- and -mesosaprobionts, the highest frequency of species and slight differences in abundance between the dominant and accompanying species. The role of trophic factor in formation of rotifer communities in the successive links of the presented model pond system is pointed out. 
3682668|Quantitative data describing drift rates and benthic density of macroinvertebrates are utilised to estimate the rates of downstream displacement of invertebrate populations in the Wye, Wales. Calculations are based upon two models, one a classical exponential relationship between drift catch and distance travelled and the other derived from a solute balance equation. Results from the two models were significantly correlated. Estimates of the rate of benthic community displacement ranged from 2.8 to
3682158| A sequence of laminated sediment, 30 cm long, deposited in the deepest part of an eutrophic lake, Lovojrvi, in southern Finland, was analyzed microscopically. Seasonal changes in sedimentation were found to be well retained, due to the absence of bottom animals and the rather high sedimentation rate. Delimitation of the annual layers was based primarily on the repeated cyclic pattern observed in the stratigraphy of the planktonic diatoms. The annual character of these diatom cycles was established through their agreement with information obtained during three earlier one-year studies on the plaktonic diatom community. In the lower part of the sequence studied the laminated structure appeared quite regular, the annual layers being composed of pairs of a whitish, diatom-rich "summer" layer, and a dark brown, more organic "cold season" layer, but in the upper part the laminations were more variable, due to allochthonous inputs caused by human activity in the drainage area. Several thick clay layers which could be dated back to known constructional events on the lake shore aided the interpretation of this sequence, within which prominent alterations in the planktonic diatom flora were also observed. The gradual increase in the proportions of acidophilous diatoms during the past decades was interpreted as indicating a slight lowering in the trophic status of the lake, primarily due to the termination of flax soaking, which had been going on by the lake shore for centuries. 
3682109|Seasonal changes in spatial distribution of search effort of birds that prey on small mammals were studied in two structurally different coniferous forest habitats in the northern boreal zone in SE Norway. During the season with snow cover both the proportion of Microtus relative to that of Clethrionomys in the predators' diet, and their use of a clear-cut relative to that of older forest were lower than during the snow-free season. This was related to a lower relative availability of prey (Microtus agrestis and M. oeconomus) in the clear-cut when the ground was snow-covered than when it was snow-free. Based on this local pattern I suggest the following explanation for differences in migratory strategy between raptors that prey on small mammals in Fennoscandian boreal zones: species that migrate to snow-free areas in winter are either adapted to hunt by the energetically expensive method of quartering in open grassland habitats, where prey (Microtus) availability is relatively low during periods with snow cover (hen harrier Circus cyaneus, short-eared owl Asio flammeus, and long-eared owl A.otus), or by sit-and-wait in open grassland and forest habitats, the latter with relatively high prey availability during periods with snow cover, but unable to locate concealed prey (kestrel Falco tinnuculus, common buzzard Buteo buteo, and rough-legged buzzard B. lagopus). In contrast, species that remain in areas with permanent snow cover during winter use the energetically cheap sit-and-wait tactic, and are able to hunt in closed forest habitat and localize concealed prey (the remaining owl species). Interspecific differences in prey availability as determined by hunting habitat and hunting mode is probably more important in shaping the migration patterns of Fennoscandian owls than is nest site availability.
3682446|The amount and distribution of organic matter was measured in different categories in six montane tundra vegetation types in a snow accumulation area and in tussock and intertussock areas in Eriophorum vaginatum tussock tundra in central Alaska. In root properties, the tussock and intertussock areas were more similar to the fellfield zone than to the vegetation zones below the snow accumulation area. Root density apparently increased as soil nutrients decreased, but this increase may be caused by higher soil moisture and higher root relative water content. The tussock tundra has accumulated more dead soil organic matter than any of the montane zones.
3682685|Twenty stations were sampled monthly during the ice free period (June-September) in 1972. Emergence traps, emptied daily, were also employed. The major macroinvertebrates in the exposed zone were Ephemeroptera, Gammarus lacustris, Trichoptera, Chironomidae, Plecoptera and Coleoptera, and these constituted over 90% of total numbers. Densities of G. lacustris, Ephemeroptera, Tipulidae and Plecoptera showed a positive correlation with detritus. No significant relationship was found for the other taxa. Nearly 70% of the fauna emerged, and did so during the period from June to September. Chironomidae, Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera and Tipulidae accounted for nearly all emergence and their total average annual emergence was
3682643|Pup counts of grey seals at Froan, Norway, during the period 1974 to 1987 are given. The counts indicate an increase in pup production from 1974 to 1983. The counts from 1985 to 1987 indicate a stagnation and possibly a decrease in production. This is probably due to culls at the breeding ground, particularly during the 1984 breeding season.
3682184|The purpose of the experiment was to see whether a change in nutrient availability resulting from perturbations might alter rates of development of the major plant growth forms of an arctic tussock tundra slope. Slow release fertilizer pellets (NPK) were spread in June and July 1985 on the frost surface under an 8-20 cm thick layer of thawed tundra in the northern foothills of the Brooks Range, Alaska. Initiation day of main phenological events, their duration and their intensity (% plants reaching a phenophase in a plot) were recorded during the 1985, 1986 and 1987 growing season. Variations in initiation day of phenophases were mainly due to environmental variations among years and to a lesser degree to fertilization; only timing of vegetative bud break of evergreen shrubs was significantly affected by fertilization, and occurred earlier than in the control. Flowering intensity varied significantly from one year to an other but was not significantly stimulated by fertilization.
3682610| The soft-sediment littoral zone of arctic Toolik Lake (68N) is composed of patches of macrophytes and bare sediments, which support distinct communities of chironomid larvae. Macrophytes were typically dominated by Stictochironomus rosenschoeldi (Zett.) but also had persistent populations of Heterotrissocladius maeaeri Brund., Paratanytarsus spp., Ablabesmyia sp., as well as several other less common taxa. Bare sediments were dominated by H. maeaeri, Parakiefferiella sp., and Zalutschia zalutschicola Lip. S. rosenschoeldi was common in bare sediments but far less so than in macrophytes. Few taxa were restricted to either habitat. Life cycle lengths, estimated for some species, ranged from 1 to 4 yr. Analysis of indicator species suggested that Toolik is oligotrophic to ultra-oligotrophic, which is consistent with the available primary production estimate for Toolik Lake. Littoral chironomid communities, in addition to profundal communities, may be useful in lake typology. 
3682405| About 300 km line transect censuses of breeding land birds were made in northern Norway in 1974-76. The data (1020 pairs in 26 samples) were grouped into seven major habitats: stony ground and oceanic heath (C1), continental dry heath (C2), "2Calcarius heath", dry peatland, wet peatland (C5), meagre and average birch forest, and rich birch forest (C7). Bird density ranged from
3682194|The immigration and colonization of small mammals into a small depopulated wooded area surrounded by meadows was monitored by live-trapping and then compared with the same processes in an open forest following removal trapping. Rate of recolonization was lower in the depopulated woods than in the continuous forest. Bank voles, Clethrionomys glareolus, predominated the small mammal communities before removal; however, after removal the percentage of bank voles decreased and species diversity increased. When comparing the bank voles from the wooded area with the continuous forest, we found a higher percentage of sexually active animals, the lack of reproducing females and slightly lower body weights. Based on these characteristics the bank voles that recolonized the small woods were regarded as dispersers. The meadow belt surrounding the depopulated wood acted as a "filter" which stopped some bank voles and allowed others to pass through, and also "selected" different species crossing it according to their mobility. Some effects of such habitat barriers on the functioning of metapopulations are discussed.
3682418|The characteristics of the present tree-line in continental Northern Quebec appear to be related to modern and past ecological conditions.
3682358|The growth of Atlantic salmon parr was investigated at three different sections of the small stream Levangerelva and its tributary during the period October 1978 to October 1979. Mean growth varied significantly between the sampling sites studied. The growth was found to be density dependent at all the sampling stations. Faster growth in the tributary was considered to be related to warm water draining from the epilimnion of a lake situated 2 km above the sampling site and a greater supply of alloctonous food from the alder wood covering parts of the stream banks. Differences in nitrogen and phosphorus content, conductivity, pH, total hardness and humus content of the stream water did not show any relation to growth variations in the different parts of the stream.
3682258|Fish production was estimated at three sites on the Jarama River, a small, typical upland river in Central Spain. Population estimates were made by the successive removal method of electrofishing. The same six species were recorded at each of the sites: Chondrostoma polylepis, Barbus barbus bocagei, Leuciscus cephalus pyraenaicus, Salmo trutta m. fario, Gobio gobio and Cobitis paludicola, with the first three species always dominant. Density, biomass, production (assuming that
3682209|The age, density, distribution and reproductive capacity of Scots pine Pinus sylvestris L. were investigated along an altitudinal gradient through the only undisturbed tree-line remaining in the Cairngorm Mountains. Saplings at 300-410 m a.s.l. were unlikely to develop to reproductive maturity because of repeated browsing by red deer Cervus elaphus L. By contrast, pines were regenerating successfully in scrub at 531-590 m, where the population included individuals of all ages up to 300 yr. Above 590 m, there grew only saplings aged less than 30 yr and these declined in density with increasing altitude up to 730 m. The climate at 531-590 m was not so severe as to prevent pines from growing to reproductive maturity. However, it may have been severe enough to restrict the activities of large herbivores and so the pine saplings there escaped the heavy browsing suffered by plants at lower altitude. Presumably zones of successfully regenerating pine scrub might occur more widely in the Cairngorms but for a shortage of seed-bearing trees.
3682516|An investigation of the relationship between the onset of sexual maturity, age and body size in common toads Bufo bufo was started in 1984 at a pond in southern England. During the toad breeding seasons of 1984 and 1985, 7259 common toad 'metamorphs' were captured and permanently marked so that if captured as adults their true age would be known. Although a very small proportion of males and females reached sexual maturity at ages of two and four years respectively, most did so much later and asynchronously. The body size of toads breeding for the first time was relatively constant for each sex and not correlated with age. The rational behind our understanding of the mechanism of female choice is discussed in the light of these results.
3682596| Part 1: Diet selection was studied on free-ranging reindeer fitted with an esophageal fistula (EF) and by analysis of rumen samples from reindeer shot in the field. Plant density was assessed from quadrats on field plots. Three measures of palatability were used, the nitrogen, fiber, and total non structural carbohydrate (TNC) contents of samples from clipped vegetation. As lichen density decreased the EF reindeer included progressively more vascular litter and pieces of winter dormant species in their diet. Diets with highest TNC and N/F and the lowest fiber, providing the most readily digestible diets, were selected. The combined density-quality criterion gave the best prediction of their diets. In summer, forbs, and to some extent grasses and dwarf shrubs, were selected. Plants of highest density and in an early growth phase gave the best prediction of summer diets. In winter the variety of vascular plants utilized increased with increasing herd size and decreasing density of lichens in the vegetation. The width of diets was a function of diversity of available plants. It is suggested that dietary selection by reindeer has been a three stage process: evolution of a gastro-intestinal system capable of digesting lichens containing secondary compounds, behavioural tracking of the plant production pulse, and diet width scaling according to density-quality of all potential foods. Part. 2: Wild reindeer closely followed the wave of vascular plant production in spring and summer with a significant correlation being found between the daily foraging time per habitat type and the highest concentration of green phytomass. Snow-bed meadows were the most consistently selected vegetation type by the four herds studied, viz. Hardangervidda, Snhetta, Prudhoe Bay, and Svalbard, during the summer. Habitat niche-breadths were narrow during the winter, largely due to the limitation of access to the food supply by the snow-cover, broadened as the landscape became clear of snow, narrowed again with the initiation of plant growth and broadened once more as the wave of plant production reached all habitat types. At high levels of food resources the alpine herd (Hardangervidda) narrowed the feeding niche breadth (or adopted a selective feeding strategy) as the habitat niche breadth increased. The high arctic herd (Svalbard) living in the least productive environment, at the same time of year adopted a generalist feeding strategy as their habitat niche breadth expanded. Part 3: In this part the temporal organization of a low-alpine herd of reindeer (Hardangervidda) is described, and subsequently compared with those of two arctic herds. Their foraging efficiencies under different degrees of food availability were analysed, in order to test the hypothesis that food intake changes in response to the prevailing state of the food resources. The number of daily feeding bouts increased from 2 to 6 as the diet changed from the winter to the summer pasturage. Strong winds in winter and insect harassment in summer severely depressed the daily time spent foraging. When these environmental factors were accounted for no significant inter-seasonal differences in daily foraging time of the low alpine herd were found; on average 50% of each day was spent grazing, of which 78% of the time was spent on actual ingestion (feeding rate). The feeding rate within the active periods varied with the snow-depth, due to the need to dig a food crater in the snow and due to the particular selective feeding strategy adopted. The data from the present and from other studies suggest that the foraging efficiency of wild reindeer, expressed as their daily food intake follows a Holling type II functional response as food availability changes. Part 4: Sheep is the only sympatric ruminant which grazes with the reindeer on alpine pastures in Norway. The inter-specific niche relationships of the wild reindeer and the domestic sheep in summer were studied on part of the western Hardangervidda, to test the hypothesis of inter-specific competition. Three niche dimensions were measured, diet, habitat utilization, and spatial distribution. The estimates of the degree of overlap obtained suggest that this is relatively high for diet and habitat utilization but low for spatial distribution, which leads to a low degree of foraging interference. Since the intensity of both interspecific and intra-specific competition depends on the ratio of the herbivore densities to the food resource density, the degree of overlap in utilization by the two species tell us nothing about the degree of competition. Present numbers of both species on Hardangervidda have a beneficial influence on the vegetation, by opening-up the shrub-layer canopy and thus facilitating the maintenance of grasses and forbs in the field layer, which has a higher carrying capacity for ruminants. The balance between the beneficial effects and inter-generic competition (if any) deriving from the present-day stocking rates is so far unknown. Only longterm monitoring of the performance of both populations will shed light on this competitive aspect. 
3682196|Significant variation in the number of stamens and ovules per flower, the stamen/ovule ratio, and the number of seeds per berry was found among seven blackberry species, each represented by one clone, and to a much lesser extent among inflorescences within species. Inflorescence size and architecture were found to have no major influence on these reproductive parameters. The position of a flower within the inflorescence strongly influences its onset of anthesis, which in turn is closely correlated with these reproductive parameters. Ovule number decreases with time, although in some species it increases again at the end of the flowering season. Number of seeds decreases more or less linearly with time, although there is an unexpectedly high number of the earliest berries of the triploid species, which is probably the result of interspecific pollination. Pollen production estimated in one species decreases with time, per theca, per flower and per ovule, whereas the percentage of good pollen grains remains unaltered.
3682060|The knowledge about reemergence of parent spruce bark beetles Ips typographus, their dispersal, and production of a second brood is reviewed. A majority of the beetles reemerge after their first brood. The process is mainly determined by temperature but high breeding density decreases the average time spent in the tree. The difference between males and females in reemergence seems to be small. In the field, a positive relationship between residence time and fat content at reemergence seems to exist, whereas the opposite tendency is found under laboratory conditions. In the laboratory, the survival of beetles reemerging late is on the average lower than that for early reemerging beetles. The time of reemergence and size of the first brood do not, however, seem to influence the production of a second brood. A large proportion of the reemerging beetles are able to establish a new brood in the laboratory, but calculations based on the number of attacked trees and estimated reemergence in forests in South Norway suggest that only about one third of the beetles actually produce a second brood. In northern Europe, successful colonization of new trees by the reemerging beetles seems to require a period of several warm days during the main reemergence period.
3682384|Forbs and leaves of deciduous shrubs had high concentrations of Ca, Mg, K, P, and N. Deciduous dwarf shrubs had intermediate concentrations but higher than evergreen dwarf shrubs. Monocots, cryptogams, woody and belowground tissues had low concentrations. Plant nutrient concentrations and nutrient content in soil organic matter increased from dry towards moist tundra areas. The residence time of nutrients was considerably less than ten years in surface litter, but several decades or centuries in total organic matter. The longest residence time was found in the moist part of the tundra. N, K, and P in Betula nana leaves were translocated to a great extent prior to leaf fall, whereas Mg and particularly Ca were only slightly translocated. As on other tundra areas shortage of nutrients probably limits plant growth. In that case short supply of N and P seems most probable due to retention in litter and soil organic matter.
3682711|Chestnut oak Quercus prinus L. litter in the southern Appalachian Mountains of the United States decomposes slowly during winter and more rapidly in other seasons. This pattern differed from other studies of litter decomposition in more northern environments where decomposition rates were relatively constant throughout the year or more rapid beneath a winter snow cover. The pattern observed can be approximated by using monthly actual evapotranspiration estimates as a correction factor for the decomposition constant, k, in the commonly-used negative exponential decomposition model. Mean microarthropod densities increased from a seasonally weighted estimate of
3682622| Fertilization of 1  4 m plots of old-field vegetation in Minnesota, USA, with various compounds resulted in increased plant tissue concentrations of N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Na, and Mn. Microtrus pennsylvanicus showed significantly greater activity, estimated by scat counts, on plots fertilized with sodium sulphate. Data also suggested that increased Microtus activity in response to elevated plant tissue sodium concentration resulted in greater soil nitrogen availability and higher levels of nitrogen in plant tissues. 
3682584|The impact of inundation was studied on two marine littoral collembolan species: Isotoma viridis and Hypogastrura viatica. The unwettable integument causes the collembolans to drift on the water surface during inundation. When trapped under water they try to climb up from below the water level. Their survival on the water surface is higher than under water. H. viatica, occurring in a habitat that is inundated relatively frequently and over a long time, had a greater ability to survive on the water surface than I. viridis. The mortality on the water surface was caused by starvation. A strong correlation between the mortality and the metabolic rate was shown. The highest mortality was found at lower salinities, where oxygen consumption of the animals is highest. The metabolic rate and mortality was lower at salinities up to 75% S.W. At 100% S.W. there was again a rise in metabolic rate and mortality. This is probably due to energy-demanding processes concerning internal osmotic and ionic regulation. After flooding, transport by sea currents can play a role in the distribution of the species. Reproductive synchronization after inundation is considered to be a mechanism for restoring a disturbed population.
3682445|The development stages of several tundra plant species were observed during the summers of 1977 and 1978 in different vegetation zones in a snow accumulation area and in tussock tundra. Leaf maturation and senescence tend towards synchrony regardless of the time of emergence from under the snow. Flowering stages are less synchronous and general than are the vegetation stages within a growth form.
3682702|Three large (4 to 8 ha) and 14 small islands (0.3 to 2 ha) in a lake in eastern Finland, all situated less than 0.5 km from the mainland, were surveyed for small mammals. Three species of shrew and two species of vole were resident in July 1982: Sorex araneus on 10, S. caecutiens on 2, S. minutus on 5, Microtus agrestis on 12 and Clethrionomys glareolus on 4 islands. Immigrants were trapped from tiny islets, and the data indicate that S. caecutiens and M. agrestis are better dispersers than S. minutus and C. glareolus, respectively. Microtus agrestis, S. araneus and C. glareolus occurred nonrandomly, on subsets of the larger islands, while the two small Sorex species occurred more erratically, possibly because of competition with S. araneus. Juvenile sex ratio was male-biased on the mainland but female-biased on large islands, possibly because juvenile males move more and are more likely to emigrate from an island than juvenile females. Metrical and non-metrical (epigenetic) cranial traits gave similar patterns of population differentiation in S. araneus. Two of the three large-island populations have differentiated from the mainland populations and from each other, suggesting that the populations are relatively stable. Small-island populations, which are often less than 10 individuals in size, showed little differentiation but had more epigenetic traits fixed than large-island and mainland populations (founder effect). This suggests that the small-island populations are unstable, have a high extinction rate.
3682288|Populations of four species of Gammaridae (Crustacea, Amphipoda) were sampled over 15 months in the south-western Kattegat at Sangstrup Klint (Denmark). Chaetogammarus marinus, C. stoerensis and Gammarus oceanicus had annual life-cycles, while G. salinus most likely had two generations per year. Mature C. marinus females were found from March to July, mature C. stoerensis females from March to June, mature G. oceanicus females from December to early June and mature G. salinus females from late November to late July. The theoretical maximum number of clutches were estimated at five for C. marinus, five plus for C. stoerensis, and six for G. oceanicus and both winter and summer reproducing G. salinus. Spring was the period of main recruitment in all populations, with additional recruitment during summer in G. salinus. The geographical patterns of the reproductive strategies are discussed in relation to environmental factors and interspecific competition.
3682346| A comparative study of the Red Kite and Black Kite was conducted in the Doana National Park in southwestern Spain. Although the diets of both kites were similar, the Red Kite captured significantly more prey items from scrub habitats close to nesting areas than from marsh habitats, which were further away. Habitat differences in prey abundance and distance from breeding areas suggest that the Red Kite depended on a less abundant but more stable food supply. Nestling mortality from starvation was highest for the last hatched nestlings in both species. The growth rate of Black Kite nestlings was markedly higher than that of Red Kite nestlings. Moreover, growth rates increased with clutch size in the Red Kite, whereas they were constant in the Black Kite. Differences between species in reproductive traits are discussed mainly with regard to their feeding ecology. The slower growth and greater effect of sibling asymmetry on mortality of the Red Kite are consistent with our interpretation that the Red Kite's food supply is less abundant than the Black Kite's. 
3682127| The distribution pattern of Calluna vulgaris on the ombrotrophic peat bog khultmyren, S. Sweden, was investigated. Calluna occurs primarily on hummocks, with its maximum biomass (ca
3682147|A comparative study was made of one managed forest and one natural forest regarding the supply of decaying wood on the ground and the occurrence of bryophytes on the wood, especially epixylic specialists. The total substrate surface of wood is larger in the primeval forest. The larger quantity of decaying wood increases the probability of wood occurring in all decay stages. Logs of Populus tremula occurred only in the natural forest. An important proportion of the wood substrate in the natural forest consisted of logs of large diameter class; these logs were missing in the managed forest. Fiftyfour bryophyte species were found on decaying wood. They were separated into four different groups. Facultative epiphytes first colonized decaying wood, followed by epixylic specialists and finally by competitive epigeics. Opportunistic generalists showed a more irregular pattern of occurrence. The bryophyte flora on decaying wood was most species rich in the natural forest. Sixteen epixylic specialists occurred here, several considered to be threatened by forest management, while only 5 of these species occurred in the managed forest. The higher frequency of epixylic specialists in the natural forest is related to the greater frequency of favourable habitats, specifically: logs of large diameter, decayed wood, Populus tremula and (to a lesser extent) Picea abies.
3682289| Clutch size and breeding success was related to nest-box size in 215 nests of Tengmalm's owl in the Kauhava region, western Finland in 1966-82. In vole peak years, but not in other years, mean clutch size was positively correlated with the bottom area of the nest-box, increasing on average by 0.005 eggs cm
3682619|For 9 years, three breeding populations of the common toad Bufo bufo were censused during the breeding season. The hypothesis that catchability is equal for breeding males in each population and breeding period was tested. By comparing the lengths of all males captured with those recaptured in the same breeding period, it was shown that large males had a higher catchability than small ones. The ultimate cause of this unequal catchability remains unclear, but several causes can be rejected. Population parameters based on capture and capture - recapture data are highly influenced by this unequal catchability.
3682727|Reproduction and survival of four carabid species commonly occurring in cereal fields in central Sweden were investigated. The adult-overwintering Pterostichus cupreus L. bred in early summer (June), and the largest proportion of sexually active beetles were found to be in their first breeding year; only a minority were 2 (or more) years old. In contrast, the larval-overwintering P. melanarius Illiger, P. niger Schaller and Harpalus rufipes De Geer had a biennal life cycle, and mainly old beetles (2 years or older) contributed to the population's reproductive effort each year. The long prereproductive adult phase in the larval-overwintering species and the relatively short summer in central Sweden prevented many new-generation adults from breeding in their first year. Several overlapping breeding cohorts are therefore present each year, and overwintered beetles bred throughout summer and during part of the autumn. Mandible wear (combined with other characters) was used to determine the age of beetles. However, the rate of mandible wear also was found to vary, depending upon the extent to which each species burrowed in the ground. The ecological significance of (a) a long adult life and (b) the existence of several overlapping breeding cohorts for reproduction and survival of populations in cereal fields is discussed.
3682429| Seasonal variations in the lateral distribution of mayfly nymphs were investigated in the North Swedish river Vindellven; a river with large seasonal differences in water level, current velocity and ice conditions. A total of 22 mayfly species about equally divided between summer and winter species were found along a single transect. At low water level in late summer and autumn most species were distributed over the whole transect. In winter the populations occupying the littoral moved into deeper water, so avoiding the ice. Only very small mortalities were detected in the ice. Prior to the spring flood most characteristically still water species moved to the shallow uppermost littoral while lotic species and the burrowing Ephemera vulgata L. did not show the same aggregation near the shore. It is suggested that these lateral movements allow the nymphs to avoid adverse environmental conditions and to exploit food resources over the whole transect. 
3682680| A phytoplankton investigation was carried out in the subalpine, low-productive Norwegian lake vre Heimdalsvatn in 1969-70 and 1972. This paper describes the temporal and spatial distribution of the standing stock of phytoplankton, and phytoplankton primary productivity. The annual average primary productivity in 1972 was
3682626|Space use patterns of California voles are described from intensive live-trapping data obtained during the late breeding season in a peak density year. Operational sex rations were strongly female biased. Breeding males had mutually exclusive home ranges that overlapped the home ranges of one to several females. The average male home range was larger than the average female home range and tended to encompass female home ranges in their entirety. Breeding females had home ranges that often overlapped extensively with the home ranges of other breeding females. The degree of overlap, however, tended to be either very high or very low, indicating that groups of females may act territorially among themselves. Family groups that may include members of sequential litters formed at high density. Males on experimental removal grids had larger home ranges than males on the high density grids and some became wanderers while most females had home ranges comparable to those on the high density grids. Dispersers onto low density grids were not a random sample of the high density population; large breeding adults and small juveniles were under-represented. No sex differences in dispersal were noted. Immigration into the high density populations was probably negligible.
3682151| Microhistological analysis of fecal droppings indicates that graminoids (sedges, grasses, and rushes) and the only willow present, Salix arctica, are primary food items of the muskox Ovibos moschatus, arctic hare Lepus arcticus, and collared lemming Dicrostonyx groenlandicus in northern Greenland (79-83N). Plant biomass available during the peak growing season varied with vegetation types from $<2\ {\rm g}\ {\rm m}^{-2}$ in polar barrens to
3682718|Glyphopsyche irrorata has adapted to live in ponds with fluctuating water levels and ponds exhibiting winter drought by passing the winter as an adult in the terrestrial environment. Larvae, which hatch in May and pupate in late August, are detritivorous shredders. Males and females emerge in September, with a sex ratio of one and commence mating in the autumn. The entire population has mated by May at which time females oviposit in the water. Adult males and females are present in equal numbers in the spring and have similar longevities approaching a maximum of 8 to 9 months.
3682073|Northern bats foraged predominantly in small individual and transient feeding sites usually in open places near trees and over water. Lakes were preferred as foraging habitat as compared to woodlands and farmlands. The pattern of habitat selection did not change drastically during the period of reproduction. The diet was probably unselective, consisting mainly of small dipterans and moths and also caddis flies, lacewings and mayflies (lake area) and dung beetles (farmland). Northern bats consumed insects of 3-30 mm body length, thus taking prey items of a broader size range than other bat species studied.
3682517|Clethrionomys rutilus and Peromyscus maniculatus occur together in the boreal forest of southwestern Yukon and we studied their population dynamics on unmanipulated live-trapping grids for 17 yr. Peromyscus showed a regular seasonal change in numbers each year with little interannual variation. Clethrionomys by comparison, showed low density fluctuations during one period (1976-1982) followed by changes in number in the next period that are consistent with a typical 3-4 yr microtine cycle. During one of two years of peak numbers adult males had unusually heavy body weights. The sexual maturation of juvenile Clethrionomys varied inversely with density. In most years Clethrionomys showed higher rates of population increase from spring to late summer than Peromyscus and this may be partly attributed to the vole's longer breeding season. Juvenile female Clethrionomys often reached sexual maturity during their first summer when population density was low but Peromyscus never matured during their first summer. Finally, there was no correlation between the two species in year to year changes in overwinter survival rates. This is the first report of a cyclic North American population of Clethrionomys and it underlines the need to search for hypotheses of population regulation that explain both annual and multi-annual cycles within the same population.
3682076| Combined field and laboratory investigations showed that C. villosa was univoltine in the Breitenbach, Germany. Speed and duration of embryogenesis were determined by temperature. Lowest values of accumulated temperature occurred at 6 and 8C, when the duration of embryogenesis was shortest, and egg mortality was low. Egg masses exposed at upstream field sites needed similar time and accumulated temperatures for embryogenesis to those expected from laboratory experiments. At a downstream site embryogenesis was accelerated, possibly depending on increased daily temperature fluctuations in spring. At all field sites the emergence period of adults lasted from September until December. Size and weight of both sexes were significantly lower at the upstream site, not necessarily as a result of temperature, but possibly caused by differences in nutrition. 
3682317| Stomach contents from 15 minke whales Balaenoptera acutorostrata collected in the Lofoten and Vesterlen areas of Norway, August 1988, were analysed. All stomachs contained identifiable remains and constituted of fish only. Herring Clupea harengus was the dominant prey species found in all whale stomachs and constituted 92% of the total prey volume. Cod Gadus morhua was the second most abundant prey. In addition pollock Pollachius virens, haddock Melanogrammus aeglefinus, and great silver smelt Argentina silus were found in single whale stomachs. All fish species found in the whale stomachs in our investigations are of commercial importance, and the sizes of the herrings and cods in minke whale stomachs are of interest for commercial exploitation. 
3682676| The small mammals of the vre Heimdalen valley were assessed by snap-trapping. Birds were surveyed in the shore zone of the lake. Numbers of domestic animals were collected from existing sources. These data are used in a discussion of the influence of the terrestrial fauna on the lake ecosystem. Aquatic production of food for terrestrial vertebrates, and the fertilizing effect of the terrestrial fauna are the main influences on the lake. 
3682049|A model for the interaction between attacking bark beetles and a tree is developed and discussed. It is shown that in addition to the more intuitive outcomes where the tree wins or the beetles win, it is also deduced that under certain conditions there may exist a stable coexistence (at least for some period of time) between the beetles and a living tree. Finally, it is demonstrated that the outcome of the tree-beetle interaction often depends on initial conditions such as the number of colonizing beetles. These results are discussed with reference to empirical findings, as well as to the development of proper population dynamics models for bark beetles in a forest stand, and models developed for assisting forest managers in avoiding bark beetle outbreaks and for minimizing the damage caused by a bark beetle outbreak.
3682436| The significance of variations in soil moisture for the distribution and abundance of the four collembolan species Tomocerus minor, Orchesella cincta, Lepidocyrtus lignorum and Entomobrya nivalis has been studied in a pine forest. During a relatively dry summer, the distribution and abundance of these species were examined on two sites with an initially different soil water content and depth of the litter/humus layer. The distribution of the species investigated could be described with the negative binomial distribution. During the sampling period, Lloyd's "index of patchiness", X/X for T. minor and E. nivalis was subject to changes. For T. minor this was probably related to soil water content. The densities of T. minor and O. cincta were higher in the wet site than in the drier site. At the beginning and at the end of the sampling period the drought tolerant E. nivalis reached equal densities in both sites. The density fluctuations of the four species appeared to be totally different during the sampling period: the drought sensitive species T. minor decreased strongly, L. lignorum remained constant and the drought tolerant species O. cincta and E. nivalis increased strongly. These latter two species were able to survive the dry periods and to attain high densities by reproduction. The results agree with laboratory data on distribution and survival in relation to humidity. 
3682392|The breeding biology of the bank vole was studied in northern and southern populations in Sweden in the years 1973-76. Trapped specimens supplied organ weights and histological data, which were utilized to describe the breeding season, number and size of litters, reproductive losses, spermatogenesis, and sexual maturation. In the north the populations are cyclic. During the increase phase of the cycle the breeding season was long, litter sizes and gonad weights were large, and there was maturation of yearlings in the summer. During the peak phase reproduction was impaired in all these respects. In southern Sweden there was no cyclicity, and the reproductive events varied less, but in 1976 the litters were larger than usual and the season was much extended. In the south the voles born during the early part of the season regularly became sexually mature during their first summer. The differences in reproductive biology are related to population dynamics and discussed in terms of different hypotheses concerning vole population cyclicity.
3682473|When surrounded by growing Sphagnum the rhizomes of Scirpus cespitosus grow vertically upwards in pace with the Sphagnum. It was found that there is a considerable variation in rhizome growth between years and it is assumed that this variation is determined by variation in Sphagnum growth. The latter variation is assumed to be dependent on the weather. Simple and multiple regression analysis of rhizome growth on various weather variables gave the following results: (1) Moisture conditions are decisive for the growth. (2) The distribution in time of the moisture is more important than mean values from a certain period. (3) Although moisture in June and August of the current year was important, the moisture conditions of August of the previous year explained ca 60% of the variation. (4) A combination of the two variables Birot's wetness index in August of the previous year and the same index in current June gave r
3682142|The environment of three Quercus petraea-dominated woodlands differing in species richness of the epiphytic Lobarion pulmonariae alliance was surveyed. Data on occurrence of epiphytes, air pollution and bark- and soil-chemistry are presented. Within a given wood, individuals (of Q. petraea or Fraxinus excelsior) that support the growth of Lobaria spp. were found to have higher bark pH and higher bark Ca, K and Mg contents than individuals lacking these lichens. The most acidic bark was found at Seatoller Wood (Cumbria), a site which experiences strongly acidic rainfall. However, Old Garrock Wood (SW Scotland), although receiving acidic precipitation, had high bark pH and cation contents possibly due to the high levels of exchangeable cations in the soil. The results suggest that while bark pH is important in determining the occurrence of Lobaria spp., bark chemistry is determined by a combination of factors including tree species, atmospheric chemistry and soil nutrient status.
3682090|Seasonal patterns of biomass and standing stock ( g m
3682096|In northern Sweden two field experiments with the reforestation techniques soil scarification, ploughing, burning and grass herbicidal treatment were performed. Small rodents were trapped regularly on the managed plots and their stomachs were examined microscopically for diet composition. Both bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus and field voles Microtus agrestis were common on the reforestation areas while only a small number of grey-sided voles Clethrionomys rufocanus were taken. All three species underwent a population cycle during the studies. The management techniques generally resulted in small and irregular effects on the food selection. The most pronounced changes were lower intake of grasses by M. agrestis after herbicidal treatment and of filamentous tree lichens by C. glareolus after most treatments. Both bank voles and field voles ate predominantly forbs in the summer half of the year, whereas the field voles took also a considerable amount of grass. As a complement to green vegetable-matter bank voles ate berries and fungi in summer-autumn and tree lichens at other times of the year, but seeds and animals food only in very small amounts. All three species consumed large quantities of dwarf-shrubs in autumn and especially in winter. Considerable amounts of bark were eaten by field voles and a smaller proportion by bank voles in autumn-winter. Both for bank and field voles there were indications of worsening food conditions as the population cycle went on. There were, for example, an increase in grass and bark intake in field voles and a decrease in seeds and berries for the bank vole.
3682095| Biomass and nutrient transfer (N, P, K, Ca, Mg) of overstory (branches and leaves) and understory litter fall were examined over a two year period in four jack pine stands aged 16, 29, 49 and 57 years and four mixed hardwood stands aged 7, 17, 20 and 29 years. Relative amounts of the five nutrients in litter fall for both series of stands were N > K  Ca > P = Mg. Return of mineral elements to the forest floor was generally twice as high on the hardwood stands as for similarly aged pine stands. Overall return of nutrients plotted versus stand age generally exhibited a plateau relationship, with relatively little difference among stands; however, some exceptions occurred. Understory contribution to litter fall was very important on these stands, since in most cases the nutrient mass in understory litter was usually similar to or higher than that from the tree layer. Data on forest floor biomass, nutrient distribution and turnover rates of these stands were also presented; mobility of nutrients in the forest floor was in the order K > Mg  P  Ca  N. 
3682474|Larvae of the muscid fly Limnophora riparia live in lake outlets and prey on other invertebrates living there. In experiments, we demonstrated that larvae prefer moss as a substratum, though they will bury themselves in any suitable material to avoid light. The substratum is used to anchor Limnophora larvae as they attack their prey. When given a choice of prey they preferred chironomid and black fly larvae to oligochaetes and psychodid larvae. Larvae of the black fly Simulium noelleri were used in laboratory experiments to test the interaction of predator and prey. Limnophora larvae attacked black fly larvae of all sizes, but preferred small larvae, the body contents of which were often removed completely. Increasing prey or predator density did not affect this latter preference, though an increase in predator density, or a decrease in prey density, did cause the predator to take prey of medium size as well as small prey. Limnophora larvae showed the same size preference when attacking dead (freshly-killed) prey and they preferred to attack larvae rather than pupae when both were available. They did not attack black fly eggs.
3682228| Phytoplankton production and physico-chemical parameters were measured during the summers of 1976 and 1977 in Lake 95 at 6052N, 4601W (area 8 ha, z 6.9 m). The duration of lake stratification during summer was weather dependent. Concentrations of
3682077| First-stage larvae of E. rangiferi kept in water at 50C died within 80 minutes, while at 6 the last larvae died between day 180 and 210. The time it took to reach
3682226|The grazing areas of cattle in a Baltic sea-shore meadow changed during the summer. The effects of this on the demography of Plantago maritima was studied. This species is distributed over most parts of the area and suffers differently from grazing in different areas. It was found that the losses of flowers due to grazing, was severe and that the density peak of Plantago maritima coincides with the least grazing intensity. Flower-spikes established in different time-periods are disproportionally represented as seed-dispersers and this may be of importance in regeneration since early and late flowers bear seeds of different size.
3682315| Foraging northern bats Eptesicus nilssoni were monitored from a car along a 27 km line transect in southern Sweden every week during a 14 month period by means of a bat detector. The number of bats observed along the transect was highly correlated with air temperature, and no bats were observed at temperatures < 6C. Hence, feeding was infrequent in April and May as well as in September and October and did not occur at all from November to March. In summer, the bats were observed in forest and farmland, but in spring and autumn most bats were detected along rows of street-lights. By attracting insects, artificial lights apparently provide local patches of food for some species of bats during periods which may be critical for their survival and reproduction. 
3682176| Xestia moths (Lepidoptera, Noctuidae, subgenera Anomogyna and Pachnobia) were collected with eleven light traps installed in various virgin habitats in the Vrritunturi fell area, E Finnish Forest Lapland (67 44N, 29 37E). Seven Xestia species were caught during the years 1978-84. The most abundant species, X. tecta and X. alpicola inhabited the widest range of habitats, from spruce-covered ravines up to the treeless summit. The other species were almost entirely caught in the sprucecovered ravine. The largest catches were obtained in odd years, although some moths were also caught in the even years. There was a striking male dominance. The trap catches were separated into three groups, corresponding to the original classification of the trap habitats. Of the habitats, the open pine forest was nearest to the summit and the spruce forest farthest away. X. alpicola and X. tecta appear to be ecologically related species, while X. gelida and X. laetabilis are located at the other end of this ecological scale. 
3682666| Constempellina brevicosta Edw. made up about 50% of the chironomids emerging from the littoral of Lake Blsjn. The lake is impounded for hydroelectrical purposes. Constempellina was less abundant at an earlier, smaller amplitude of water level fluctuations in the same lake and much less abundant in a nearby natural lake. The species is able to survive in a frozen substratum on ice-covered bottoms. Records of early life stages and emergence data indicated a one-year life cycle with peak emergence from the littoral zone occurring in mid July. Statistical comparisons were made of size characteristics with respect to time and site of emergence and swarming. Swarming individuals were found to be significantly larger than emerging ones as measured in length of body, wing, tibia, and tarsi. Individuals swarming from mid July to August were successively smaller in all characters except basal antennal segments. Individuals swarming in June were smaller than those occurring somewhat later. The changes in size seem to reflect differences in larval habitat, with early summer material emanating from areas exposed to winter freezing. Males swarming at different sites at the same date were similar in all respects except for body size. Individuals emerging from different depths within the littoral zone at a single date were different in most respects, those from more shallow areas being smaller. Linear regression of swarm material from different dates showed a positive correlation for most characters. The correlations were particularly strong, and applied to all characters, when the early summer material was excluded. Mean AR values were successively lower throughout the season and positively correlated with size. Mean LR values were slightly higher in early summer than later. The LR values varied independantly of size. AR and LR values in swarm material varied between extremes for single individuals which were usually within 20% of the arithmetic mean, or 0.92-1.36 for AR and 0.78-1.06 for LR. Confidence limits for population estimates were within 0.04 units of the means. 
3682591|The distribution pattern of Sphagnum species on bogs follows a hummock-hollow gradient. S. Sect. Acutifolia (that is in this study S. fuscum and S. rubellum combined) dominates hummock tops, ca 20 cm above the maximum water level with a green biomass of 50 g m
3682615|Thirty-three sampling sites representing 11 lichen dominated plant communities on maritime rocks on Bornholm were analysed with respect to composition of the vegetation, number of animals present and gross taxonomic composition of the fauna. The specific fauna of one moss and seven lichen species was examined. The lichen communities studied were largely the same as those found in similar studies in NW Europe, except for the recognition of a distinct Ramalina cuspidata community. The highest average number of animals per area was found in the Schistidium maritimum and the Ramalina siliquosa communities, whereas the highest average number of animals g
3682197|Production patterns of tallgrass prairie and adjacent eastern deciduous forest were summarized for a five to seven year period. Each system responded differentially to annual or growing season rainfall and solar energy (measured by pan water evaporation). Overall, forest productivity was negatively correlated with annual precipitation; the prairie exhibited no relationship with precipitation. These differences probably reflect the lack of water limitation of the forest and the "downstream" position of the forest. Wood and seed production in the forest were the most variable components measured in our study. Neither variable was related to forest foliage production. Seed production in the prairie was also variable within and between years but was related to prairie foliage production. Prairie seed production was not correlated with seed production of the forest. The two ecosystems respond differentially and independently of each other within the range of climatic variation observed here. Such differences have potential significance to consumers who use both systems for habitat or resources.
3682270|The rate of litter decomposition is often expressed as a constant decay rate
3682682|About one hundred genera with more than 300 species have been identified in water samples, net haul material, periphyton samples from artificial substrate, and benthos and sediment samples collected during 1969-1972. More than 40 taxa of lower rank (subspecies, varieties, forms) were recorded. The most prominent algal groups were diatoms with 138 taxa, and green algae with 122 taxa of which the majority was desmids. The material from the epipelic and epilithic communities in the lake is very scarce, while the list of plankton species is relatively complete, with the exception that a large number of small flagellates could not be identified to species level. The taxa which were identified, are presented in a list with additional notes on occurrence.
3682342|Free amino acids and related compounds together with total nitrogen, total protein and soluble small-molecular nitrogen were analyzed quantitatively in monthly tissue samples from bilberry, Vaccinium myrtillus, from 15 May to 24 September 1985, in Oulu, northern Finland. Pronounced accumulation (at the millimolar level) of soluble low-molecular-weight nitrogen in the form of free amino acids was observed at the end of September. Arginine in particular accumulated in the rhizomes and older branches. Protein levels remained relatively constant. Mobilization of amino acids from winter storage into the growing tissues (buds) was evident in May.
3682210|Differences in the altitudinal composition of ground-living spider communities were studied by pitfall trapping in western Norway. These data plus compilations of information from the literature were used to investigate features in the size composition, temporal appearance and spatial distribution of species. Spiders at the highest altitude had the widest distribution both in terms of geographical and altitudinal range. At the lowest altitude species were more often stenochronous than at higher altitudes. The size composition, reflecting food choice of the spiders, tended to be bimodal with increasing altitude. It is argued that small spiders are segregated mainly along the habitat dimension (searchers), while the larger ones are segregated with respect to diel activity patterns and food choice (pursuers). We suggest that mountain spider faunas in temperate regions at high latitudes mainly consist of widely distributed and easily dispersed species.
3682261|Treefall gaps sampled for size, age, and woody vegetation in 1977 were resampled in 1981. Large gaps had more and larger stems than did small gaps; however, basal area and number of stems per unit area remained fairly constant over the range of gap sizes encountered. Overall, most species showed little change in their relative importance values in gaps of different sizes or ages. However, the four main canopy species differed in their responses. Acer saccharum Marsh. reached maximum importance in small gaps, Liriodendron tulipifera L. and Fraxinus americana L. in large ones. As gaps aged, Fraxinus decreased in importance while Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. gained in importance for all gap sizes. For about half the gaps studied, some new adjacent disturbance had occurred between 1977 and 1981.
3682509| Chaetopteryx villosa Fabr. is uni- or semivoltine. The species was reared at 6C and 10C (8 h light, 16 h dark = LD 8/16) and at 10C and 14C (LD 14/10). Larval instar duration and pupal period decreased with increasing temperature. Instars II-IV were completed within 2-5 wk. Vth instar larvae pupated after two to twelve months. Pupal development required between one and three months. At 6C no specimens pupated. At 10C, LD 14/10 accelerated the development of instars II, IV, V and pupae. Head capsule widths were different between laboratory and field specimens. Relative consumption rate (RCR) ranged between 3.07  1.12 (instar II, 14C) and
3682363|An investigation on biological nitrogen fixation in the forest floor was carried out in five watershed areas in Central Sweden during the summers 1978 and 1979. Five different types of bottom layers with underlying soil horizons were investigated for nitrogen fixation. An inventory on the occurrence of potential nitrogen fixing lichens and alder trees was also carried out. Low fixation rates were determined in mesic-soil mosses, F/H,layers and mineral soil. Though two orders of magnitude higher than in mesic-soil mosses, the nitrogen fixation in the investigated Sphagnum mosses must be considered as low, probably due to absence of blue-green algal associations. The contribution to total nitrogen fixation by lichens is low, but Alnus incana may play an important role. The estimated biological nitrogen fixation calculated as a weighted mean over the five watersheds is in the order of 0.5 kg
3682558| The effects of temperature, oxygen and substrate on growth rates of three tubificid oligochaetes were examined in the laboratory. Two species Tubifex tubifex and Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri (Tubificidae, Oligochaeta) had similar narrow temperature ranges over which growth occurred, from 10-13C and both showed a considerable tolerance to extended periods of anoxia, of at least 16 and 10 weeks respectively. However no growth was observed under anoxic conditions. A third common species Ilyodrilus templetoni was sensitive to anoxia and could not survive more than four weeks. There was no evidence of differences in substrate quality affecting growth rates of either T. tubifex or L. hoffmeisteri. The temperature and oxygen responses of these three species may explain their distribution in some lakes of the English Lake District. 
3682537| The distribution of wintering land birds was examined in the archipelago of land (60N, 20E) along two ecological dimensions: (1) the island continuum from small skerries (0.5 ha) to the mainland of land (97000 ha), and (2) the habitat range of the mainland of land. In the species-area relationship, both the exponential and power function models fitted well. The increase of the number of species with island size was interpreted as a consequence of increasing habitat diversity on larger islands. The smallest islands supported only few seed-eating species utilizing the islands in a fine-grained fashion; none of these birds belonged to the breeding fauna of the islands. With increasing island size and habitat diversity, insectivores and species tied to the human culture were added. On the mainland of land, more than half of the birds were observed near human habitations; bird communities wintering in pine forests were richer than in deciduous forests. Proportion of wintering species was greatest in the breeding communities of pine forests. The proportion of wintering species was presumably regulated by the degree of structural change in the habitat between summer and winter, this change being most drastic in deciduous habitats. The species observed could be broadly classified into three feeding categories: opportunists,, omnivores and scavengers, dependent on the diverse food items provided by man; food specialists, species ating seeds and berries, ranging widely in the islands and habitats; and insectivorous habitat specialists, inhabiting coniferous habitats and islands with coniferous (pine) forests. Opportunists, in particular, get increasing wintering opportunities by the impact of man. 
3682433| The growth and size of the newts, Triturus vulgaris (L.) and T. cristatus (Laurenti) in different parts of Norway (+ Jmtland, Sweden) were studied. Age was estimated from skeletal growth marks, size-frequency histograms and, for the males, from the number of testis lobes. On average, the T. vulgaris larvae in central Norway and Jmtland are smaller than those in southeastern Norway, although in good localities, at the same altitude, they are of approximately the same size and complete their development already within 2 1/2-3 months. Larvae living in eutrophic habitats are larger than those in oligotrophic-dystrophic habitats. In bog habitats at similar times of year the T. cristatus larvae from central Norway are about the same size as those from similar habitats in southwestern and southeastern Norway, but somewhat smaller than those from eutrophic ponds in the Oslofjord area. No significant differences in the mean size of adult T. vulgaris from southeastern Norway and from central Norway were found. The maximum lengths attained were recorded from central Norway, however. In eutrophic habitats T. vulgaris adults are usually larger than those in oligotrophic/dystrophic habitats. In southeastern Norway, where growth is rapid, T. vulgaris may become sexually mature when 2+ yr-old, in central Norway usually a year later, in Jmtland, on average, still later, and in their northernmost locality (Vefsn) they probably do not breed until 5+ or 6+ yr-old. On average, T. cristatus adults from southeastern Norway are slightly larger than those from central Norway, and may become mature at 2+ yr-old, compared with 4+ yr-old, at the earliest, in the latter area. The differences in the growth rates of both larvae and metamorphosed stages, of both species, most probably represent a response to climatic differences, although biotope quality is also an important factor. 
3682141|The pre-nesting feeding behaviour of pink-footed geese was studied in hayfields in southern Iceland during the late spring of 1989. Persistent snow-patches protected underlying grass from the effects of severe night-time frost. Areas within 1 m of snow-patches had significantly greater amounts of green material than those further away; green material contained more than double the protein of brown, dead material, which predominated in open fields. Geese spent nearly 60 times more time feeding within 1 m of snow patches than expected by chance, and 20 times more time within 2-5 m. Their feeding rates here were faster and their step rate slower than further away. In this way, the geese selected the prime forage as soon as it became available.
3682174|Patterns of seed and vegetative reproduction were investigated for three floodplain species, balsam poplar Populus balsamifera L., feltleaf willow Salix alaxensis (Anderss.) Cov. and sandbar willow Salix interior Rowlee, and one upland species, trembling aspen Populus tremuloides Michx., in interior Alaska. All four species have similar patterns of seed germination in response to moisture stress and high salt concentrations when tested under laboratory conditions. In field experiments, percent germination of all four species was also very similar, ranging from 0% on dry sandy sites, to greater than 60% on mesic silty sites. Germination on salt crusts ranged from 0-40% for all species, depending on the physical characteristics of the soil surface. Colonization of mesic silty sites was almost exclusively by seed, whereas colonization of dry sandy sites was limited to those species which were able to root sucker under floodplain conditions. Root suckering was also an important means of establishment on frequently inundated sites where establishment by seed was limited by flooding. Differences between the species in their distribution on the floodplain were related to differences in patterns of vegetative reproduction, but not seed germination.
3682185|Pollination and seed predation were studied in Silene vulgaris populations during two seasons, one with much lower pollinator abundance than the other. Among the pollinators, noctuid moths of the genus Hadena also acted as seed predators. Nectarforaging female moths oviposited in flowers, and their larvae consumed flowers and seed capsules. Despite a lower percentage of pollinated flowers in the year of low pollinator abundance, similar numbers of flowers set fruit in both years, because fewer flower buds and flowers were eaten by Hadena larvae during the year of low pollinator visitation. The number of seed capsules preyed upon was also lower in the year with low pollinator abundance, resulting in a higher seed set. The positive correlation between the percentage of pollinated flowers and the percentage of seed capsules destroyed was also observed when comparing flowers opening in different parts of the season. Early flowering plant individuals had the same pollination success but suffered higher seed predation than late flowering ones. Selection for maximized pollination success through synchronous flowering, is probably the main reason for the compressed flowering period in S. vulgaris, but the high level of predation early in the season may further increase the reproductive success of synchronous flowering individuals.
3682330| During a two year period 13498 individuals of 66 species of carabids were taken from 44 sites on peat and upland grasslands over an altitude range of 11-847 m in the north of England. The similarities between the carabid faunas of each site have been assessed using a modified form of the Srensen's Index and the sites clustered according to their similarities. Five carabid communities on peat and three on mineral soils have been identified and the more abundant species have been used to characterise them. Peat Community I occurs on dry heath and is characterised by peat associated species such as Trichocellus cognatus and Bradycellus ruficollis together with widespread open habitat species such as Pterostichus madidus, Notiophilus aquaticus, Calathus melanocephalus and Nebria salina. Peat Community II is found on areas where dry heath and deep wet peat are adjacent and is characterised by the species already mentioned together with typical wet habitat species such as Pterostichus diligens, P. nigrita, Patrobus assimilis, Agonum fuliginosum. Peat Community III is found on blanket bog and is characterised by the wet habitat species in the absence of the species present on the dry heath. Peat Community IV found on the lowland oligotrophic mires is characterised by the small number of species present and the addition of Pterostichus niger and Agonum ericeti to the few wet habitat species present. Peat Community V, on the scarp slope of Dun Fell, consists of the wet habitat species of Peat Community III together with Pterostichus madidus, Nebria salina, Notiophilus aquaticus and Calathus melanocephalus. Grassland Community I, on the fell tops, is characterised by the presence of Nebria gyllenhali, Notiophilus germinyi and Patrobus assimilis. Grassland Community II and III are less clearly defined but Grassland Community II may be present on wetter sites than III and is characterised by the presence of Pterostichus nigrita, P. diligens and P. strenuus together with Notiophilus biguttatus, N. aquaticus, Pterostichus madidus and Patrobus atrorufus. Grassland Community III consists of the latter group of species together with Nebria salina, Calathus melanocephalus and Notiophilus aestuans. The number of grassland sites studied was small and there may be further communities on the upland grasslands. 
3682267|A field incubator based on a closed flow system was applied for primary productivity measurements in situ. The seasonal development of epiphytes showed a pronounced productivity maximum in May (
3682329|Gravimetric feeding studies were used to examine the feeding strategy of Pteronarcys proteus (Plecoptera) using unconditioned, 1 month conditioned, and 2 month conditioned deciduous leaves of four species (white oak, red maple, black locust, dogwood). Assimilation efficiencies of Pteronarcys nymphs feeding on unconditioned and conditioned leaf material ranged from 13.4 to 21.9% AFDW of leaf material indicating that Pteronarcys was able to digest and assimilate leaf material. Assimilation efficiencies did not change as leaf material conditioned which suggests that assimilation efficiency does not accurately reflect changes in detrital food quality. However, as leaves conditioned, the ingestion rate of Pteronarcys nymphs accelerated. Rates at which dogwood and locust leaves were ingested peaked after 1 month, then declined with a second month of conditioning. Rates at which maple and oak leaves were ingested increased significantly with 2 months of conditioning. Assimilation rates of Pteronarcys nymphs varied in a pattern similar to ingestion rates. This reflects the importance of ingestion rate in the feeding response of Pteronarcys.
3682183| Ant assemblages of a successional dune area (Tvrminne, south Finland) were analysed at three levels: the distribution of species among habitats, the distribution of colonies within habitats and the spatio-temporal distribution of individuals. The distribution of ant species among habitat patches representing different stages of succession is correlated with the composition of the epigeic fauna, the number and condition of dead twigs on the ground and the vegetation architecture. The composition of ant assemblages seems relatively independent of the plant species composition, and there are uncoordinated successional steps between the vegetation and ant communities. In the early successional stages interference competition is weak and insignificant, as indicated by the random spatial arrangement of colonies, the absence of postcompetitive niche segregation and the low encounter rates of ant workers on the ground and at baits. In the aggressive behavioural hierarchy, Formica cinerea is a submissive species as compared with either Formica sanguinea or Lasius alienus. 
3682749|The dynamics of a Plantago maritima population was studied along a distributional gradient on a sea shore meadow during four years. The dynamics of the population varied along the gradient. In the lower parts there was a high flux with high mortality due to flooding but also a higher reproductive effort and good establishment. In the upper parts the flux was slower with lower reproductive effort and lower seedling success but instead longer lifespans. Population growth in these upper areas was primarily restricted by competition for light which prevented flowering and lowered the seedling success. Both cover values and the number of species decreased seawards and consequently the strength of competition. Simultaneously the risk of flooding increased. Thus the density peak was found at the intersect of these two variables. The plants showed differences in behaviour along the gradient in reproductive effort, growth rate, phenology etc. Whether this variation was phenotypical or genotypical is not known.
3682207|Inputs and outputs of allochthonous particulate organic matter were measured during 15 months in the upper part of a beech forest headwater stream. Inputs were estimated to
3682136| The life cycle, reproductive biology and growth rates of Hypogastrura tullbergi (Schffer), one of the most abundant and widespread Collembola on Devon Island, N.W.T., were investigated. Reproductive activity was confined to a period of 2-4 wk every season, starting approximately 2 wk after snow-melt. Individuals of H. tullbergi had the potential of breeding in at least 2 successive summers. This species had an extended, flexible life cycle with a total life span of approximately 3 yr. Growth rates of individuals of H. tullbergi maintained at field temperatures with an excess of fungal material greatly exceeded growth rates of individuals in the field population. It is suggested that in the field, growth rates are limited by food rather than directly by low temperatures. H. tullbergi was not able to grow on a diet of decomposing Dryas integrifolia leaves. Growth rates of fungal substrates were found to depend on temperature, species of fungus, and age. Maximum growth rates for adults occurred at 10C, but juveniles showed a maximum growth rate at 15C. The adaptive significance of aspects of the biology of H. tullbergi for long-term survival in tundra environments is discussed. 
3682602|Winter breeding, as judged from heavy reproductive organs in both males and females, was observed in bank voles, yellow-necked mice and wood mice in south Sweden during the winter of 1976-1977. The breeding was probably a result of unusually favourable feeding conditions created by an extremely rich beech mast crop.
3682430| Monument Creek, a second-order Alaskan subarctic stream, experiences a severe thermal regime, with water temperatures of 0C for six months. Leaching, long-term decomposition and macroinvertebrate colonization of 5 g leaf packs were studied using leaves of the major riparian tree species, alder Alnus tenuifolia Nutt., birch Betula papyrifera Marsh. and willow Salix alaxensis (Anderss.) Cov. subsp. alaxensis and Salix arbucolides Anders. var. glabra Anderss. The processing rates of birch (k = 0.0080) and willow (k = 0.0063) were moderate while alder was processed very rapidly (k = 0.0513). Leaching rates did not differ significantly among the three leaf species, and accounted for 10-15% of total weight loss. Densities and biovolume of colonizing insects increased from fall to winter. Shredders dominated insect biovolume by midwinter, but were a small fraction of total biovolume in leaf packs that had frozen over winter and were sampled following spring thaw. This may be a function of low food quality in spring and/or the timing of shredder life histories. Limited allochthonous input and constriction of the stream channel due to freezing, with resultant high shredder densities, may explain the relatively rapid detritus processing rates in Monument Creek, despite cold stream temperatures. 
3682459|The dynamics of seedling establishment, and growth of native cotton grass-tussock tundra species were studied during the natural revegetation of small bare areas excavated in tussock tundra. The seedlings of Eriophorum vaginatum spp. spissum and Carex bigelowii, two sedge species, established most successfully. Few seedlings of nonsedge species emerged with the small disturbances. Most seedling emergence occurred early in the first growing season following the excavation of the bare areas. The density of emerged seedlings was higher in bare areas excavated in the autumn preceding the observations, rather than in bare areas excavated at the start of the first season of observation. After two growing seasons, survival of seedlings was not affected by the time the seedling emerged within the growing season. Eriophorum vaginatum was the most abundant species because it: (1) had the highest seedling emergence rates, particularly early in the growing season; (2) produced more tillers per seedlings; and (3) had a higher growth rate per seedling than C. bigelowii.
3682314|The importance of seasonality in shaping latitudinal size patterns was investigated in 16 species of lycaenine and satyrine butterflies with distributions in Sweden and continental Europe. Species without shifts in voltinism within the study area generally displayed clear size clines, increasing in size from north to south within Sweden. These species were also larger in continental Europe than in Sweden. In northern temperate areas a linear model for mean size at different latitudes seems to be a reasonable approximation for most species in this category. The size patterns for three species with shifts from univoltinism to bivoltinism at latitudes within Sweden were more reminiscent of the "saw-tooth"-pattern predicted by theory for such cases. The results suggest that size patterns in European butterflies to a large extent is governed by the length of the favorable season at different latitudes, affecting selection for development time and size. Altitude and drought also affect the effective season length and may amplify or complicate latitudinal patterns.
3682163|An examination has been made of the changes in bacterial and fungal populations during the decomposition of oil in contaminated soil. The number of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria and the length of mycelium increased in the oily soil whereas the number of CFU (= colony forming units) of fungi was highest in a control soil. The percentage of oil-utilizing fungi increased from 60% to 82%, while the bacterial utilization figure increased from 3% to 50%. The important oil-utilizing fungus Scolecobasidium appeared only in the oily soil, but otherwise the composition of the fungal flora changed only little after addition of oil. In laboratory experiments the chemical Pajab FI was shown to increase microbial activity.
3682623|The relationship between micro-site nitrogen status (total soil N conc., total vegetation N, and leaf N conc.) and performance (biomass) for two evergreen and two deciduous dwarf shrubs was studied in a subarctic heath. One deciduous species, Vaccinium uliginosum, dominated on sites having the highest vegetation nitrogen content and highest leaf nitrogen concentrations. The evergreen Empetrum hermaphroditum dominated on sites with a low total vegetation nitrogen content and low leaf nitrogen concentrations. Two other species, V. myrtillus (deciduous) and V. vitis-idaea (evergreen), showed intermediate patterns that were not clearly separated from either V. uliginosum or Empetrum. Soil nitrogen content showed no significant differences between micro-sites. Possible physiological reasons for the observed patterns are discussed.
3682735|The snow melt food at Imnavait Creek takes place sometime between 12 May and 2 June and constitutes the single most important hydrological and geochemical event. Three years of study indicate this event spans 7 to 10 days and that peak discharge can be expected to be between 0.6 and 0.9 cu. mes. Ion concentrations peak during the first 15% of the event while pH is at a minimum. In all cases, ion concentrations in the spring runoff are 4 to 9 times those of the snow pack. Precipitation, including dryfall, contributes significant amounts of Ca, Mg, K, Na, Cl and SO
3682453| Rate of phosphate absorption measured on field-collected, excised roots of eight species from a tundra site and a taiga forest was more strongly correlated with growth form traits than with type of community. In the taiga forest phosphate absorption rate ranged tenfold among species and was higher in graminoids than in shrubs. In both sites deciduous shrubs tended to have higher rates than evergreens. Phosphate absorption rate was not strongly reduced at low temperature in any species examined and there was a temperature optimum of about 20C in Eriophorum vaginatum. Phosphate absorption rates were higher in lateral than primary roots, although both root types had substantial respiration rates. At one tundra site, calculation suggest that roots of E. vaginatum require 30-40 d to absorb a quantity of phosphorus equivalent to that required to synthesize the root and another 5-6 d to provide the net phosphorus requirements for the remainder of the plant. 
3682518|Dichogamy in five taxa of Pulsatilla (P. patens, P. pratensis, P. vernalis, P. vulgaris ssp. gotlandica and P. vulgaris ssp. vulgaris) is incomplete with overlap between the female and male phases of a flower. The species are protogynous with the duration of the obligate female phase lasting 0 to 10 d and the duration of stigma receptivity of unpollinated flowers lasting 3.5 to 32 d in the greenhouse. The pollen presentation time varied between 1.5 and 10 d. There were significant differences among species in duration of both female and male phases. Hand pollination decreased the duration of stigmatic receptivity and pollen presentation significantly. The spatial separation of pollen presentation and receptive surfaces in a flower changed with time due to the continuing growth of the androecium and the gynoecium, and due to the temporal pattern of pollen presentation within the androecium. Hand pollination experiments indicate that seed set may be partly pollen-limited in a natural population of P. vulgaris ssp. vulgaris. The level of cross-pollination was high in this population as shown by high levels of pollen deposition on the stigmas during the obligate female phase.
3682661| The breeding biology of the starling Sturnus vulgaris was studied in three populations in northern Finland, with additional reference localities in nearby areas. Results from a total of 329 nests are presented from years 1962-1976. The onset of laying in the Oulu area took place on 5 May, the median date being 10 May, about one week later than in southern Finland and 2-3 weeks later than in central Europe. The clutch-size was 5.29  0.05 in the first nests and 5.06  0.26 in later ones. Incubation time was 12.1  0.6 d. An average of 3.31  0.10 fledglings was produced per pair, 3.69  0.08 in succesful clutches, which is significantly less than usually reported from central Europe. Most of the losses were due to starvation of the young. No second broods were observed in the Oulu area, and repeated nesting was not common, probably because of the general late start of laying. The reasons for the recent decline in several Finnish starling populations do not lie in the production capacity but must be sought for elsewhere. 
3682638|The microhabitat relationships of five mosses, which co-occur on cliffs and screeslopes in eastern Newfoundland, were evaluated by discriminant functions (DFA) and multiple regression analysis (MRA). The first three discriminant functions account for 91.3% of the among-species variation in microhabitat characteristics, and are interpreted as representing species separation along 1) water deficit, 2) pH, and 3) temperature gradients. Multiple regression of individual species' abundances on measured microhabitat variables was successful, and highly significant regression equations accounting for 78% to 91% of variation in abundance were developed for all but one of the species studied. The combined DFA and MRA results show that the five moss species have distinct and different microhabitats within the cliff/scree-slope habitat. Microdistribution of Grimmia torquata, an arctic-montane moss at its southern limit, appears to be determined by sensitivity to high summer temperatures. Two southern mosses at their northern limit (Aulacomnium androgynum, Isothecium myosuroides) appear to be limited by water availability and, possibly, by low winter temperatures. The abundance of two species whose distributions extend both north and south of the study area (Encalypta procera, Eurhynchium pulchellum) shows no clear relationship with microclimate, though the microdistribution of the former species appears to be highly dependant on pH.
3682523| Diatoms in a series of old plankton samples collected from Vxjsjn, southern Sweden, between 1912 and 1971 were compared to the planktonic diatom record of the sediment accumulated during the same period. Contemporary descriptions of the floristic composition of the various samples were found to be unreliable. Clear taxonomic discrepancies between the written records and the sediment record necessitated the re-examination of all old samples and the adoption of a standardised taxonomy. When compared on this basis changes through time in the composition of the diatoms in the old samples were found to be in close agreement with changes recorded in the sediment. The re-emergence of Melosira italica subsp. subarctica in the mid 1940's, probably as a result of the partial improvement in the lake following sewage diversion, is seen clearly in both sets of data. The importance of storing algal samples for use in future palaeoecological research is stressed. 
3682303|Langvatn lake is a large waterfilled kettle hole in glaciofluvial deposits developed during the last deglaciation. The main outflow from the lake occurs by percolation through the permeable sediments at the shoreline. The sedimentary rocks and sediments (calcite bearing) within the watershed influence the quality of the lake waters.
3682606|The effects of irrigation and fertilization on nutrient content, shoot growth and photosynthetic rate of the deciduous Vaccinium uliginosum L. and the evergreen V. vitis-idaea L. were studied in a field experiment at Abisko, Swedish Lapland. V. vitis-idaea responded to fertilization with a greater increase in leaf nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium concentrations, as well as with a relatively greater change in shoot growth than V. uliginosum. Also to irrigation did V. vitis-idaea respond more strongly. Decreased leaf longevity was indicated in both irrigated and fertilized plants of V. vitis-idaea. It is concluded that no general response pattern for evergreen and deciduous plants can be expected to emerge unless one also takes other plant characteristics, and also site characteristics, into consideration.
3682370|Chironomus anthracinus generally had a one year life cycle at 8 m depth in Lough Neagh, during the study period. In spring 1975 however only a proportion of the population emerged as usual, the rest remaining a second year in the benthos to emerge in 1976. The mean dry weight of larvae just before emergence was 2.8 mg in 1971 and 2.6 mg in 1974 but only 1.6 mg in 1975, and it seems that larvae must reach a weight of at least 1.0 mg in the early spring to emerge that year. Considering temperature, oxygen saturation and standing crop of phytoplankton as factors influencing the life cycle, mean monthly chlorophyll a (phytoplankton) was weakly correlated with mean monthly increase in weight and % monthly weight increase could be related to temperature.
3682574|Seasonal changes of bird communities and use of foraging substrates by the birds were studied in two forests with contrasting vegetation structure in montane and subalpine levels of central Spanish mountains throughout complete annual cycles. Common factors contributing most to foraging segregation among species were found to be the foraging on the ground vs that on vegetation and use of proximal vs distal tree parts. A complete dissimilarity exists between the composition of the respective foliage-gleaning guilds, the converse being true for the trunk-searchers. Temporal distribution of bird species is to a great extent determined by their use of space, thus existing a gradient of seasonality with maxima for ground-searchers, minima for trunk-gleaners and intermediate positions for foliage-gleaners. A close relationship among temporal variability, mean annual density and niche breadth is found for the subalpine pinewood community, but not for that from the montane oakwood, this being related with their contrasting migratory patterns and the structural stability of vegetation in each wood. The pattern of covariation in community parameters mirrors the summed response of individual bird species to the changing environmental conditions. Increases in community richness, density and diversity are related to temporal invasion by ground and foliage-gleaners of these highly seasonal Mediterranean habitats.
3682585|Microcrustacean community and biomass dynamics were studied for two years in a Nymphaea-Eriocaulon macrophyte marsh and a nearby shallow lake which lacked macrophytes in the Okefenokee Swamp. In this blackwater, acidic wetland, micro-crustacean diversity and biomass were similar to other circumneutral lakes and littoral areas, contributing to a productive fish assemblage. In the lake, the annual biomass pattern (
3682292|In the High Arctic, leaf angles of graminoids are lower than would be expected to optimize absorption of incident solar radiation. Inflorescence, leaf, and culm angle of two prostrate grasses, Phippsia algida and Puccinellia vaginata, were measured in a variety of plant communities with differing microtopographic and microenvironmental conditions (surface relief, soil stability, soil moisture, and soil and air temperature). Growth form was found to be controlled primarily by environmental factors. Both species exhibited a plastic response to an amelioration of physical factors in situ. Leaf angles of both species were higher under conditions of increased soil moisture and temperature, and decreased vapor pressure deficit and windspeed. Adaptation to reduce the severity of the environment apparently holds a greater selective advantage than adaptation to maximize leaf orientation to a low sun angle.
3682222|The use of loss-on-ignition (LOI) and carbon content (C-content) in estimating soil organic matter is examined. To evaluate the assumptions behind the use of these methods, the conversion factor (LOI/C-content) is examined as a function of depth and spatial variability. Due to increasing variability with depth no general relationship between LOI and C-content can be established for horizons below 60 cm. For horizons above 60 cm it is demonstrated, that more than one conversion factor is needed. The application of a regression equation to correct for inorganic losses is shown to be problematical. This is due to the variability in inorganic losses and the varying C-content of the organic matter.
3682132|A 4-yr field study was carried out on selected species of myxomycetes. Reticularia jurana, Symphytocarpus flaccidus, Amaurochaete atra, and A. tubulina occur predominantly in May-June, Ceratiomyxa fruticulosa, Stemonitis axifera, S. fusca, S. hyperopta, and Fuligo septica in June-August, and Colloderma oculatum, Trichia botrytis, T. decipiens, and Fuligo muscorum in September-October. Lycogala epidendrum may occur from May to October. Whereas several species seem to be restricted to late autumn, those appearing in spring and early summer are occasionally found also later in the season. Many species with large plasmodia are rare under arid conditions. Complex factors probably influence spore germination, and it is often impossible to explain a sudden abundance of a species merely from temperature and precipitation. Several species show clear substrate preferences. Plasmodia may develop in cavities in wood and then move out to the surface to fructify. Insects are probably important for the dispersal of several species. Invertebrates, among them snails, are predators on plasmodia as well as on fructifications.
3682402| The sediments and various organisms in Lake Pijnne were examined for contaminants. The average mercury content of water plants was 9, of plankton 14, of sediment 114, of zoobenthic predators 83, of fish 332-1510 and of birds
3682543|28924 hoverflies of 85 species were caught in a Malaise trap in an English suburban garden during the eight-year period 1972-79, and three additional species were hand-netted. Hoverfly larvae fall into five trophic categories all of which were represented by adults in the trap sample. 82.71% of the hoverflies trapped have larvae that feed on aphids, 12.04% feed on decaying organic material, 5.14% eat living plants, 0.09% scavenge in Hymenoptera nests, and 0.02% are associated with tree sap or rotting wood. The relative frequency of the different trophic groups varied annually and seasonally although the aphid-feeders were nearly always the most abundant. 22 species are believed to breed in the garden, and a further 29 in the surrounding area; 15 species are regarded as casual and 22 as chance visitors. It is suggested that the high plant diversity and spatial heterogeneity of gardens result in them supporting more species than would be found in a natural area.
3682579|Habitat composition of 39 capercaillie Tetrao urogallus display grounds was compared with available and unused habitats in two coniferous forest areas in southeastern Norway. Macro-habitat was described with respect to forest successional stage and topography. Micro-habitat was described with respect to microtopography, plant association, and forest stand structure. Totally, 28 variables were measured. A pronounced macro-habitat preference was found for elevated areas with forests older than 60-70 years. Micro-habitat composition varied considerably. However, a slight but significant preference was found for heterogeneous, open-spaced understory, and for visibility of more than 30 m. Suitable micro-habitats were abundant, and distribution of display grounds were mainly limited by macro-habitat characteristics, i.e. elevated, old forest areas.
3682186| Allopatric Atlantic salmon parr occupied a wider and lower range of mean water velocities than have been previously reported for parr in sympatry. With regard to depth, substrate and cover no substantial differences were found. Different fish sizes did not affect habitat use by parr significantly, neither did habitat use change during the season. Habitat availability strongly influenced observed habitat use thus, invalidating use of habitat suitability curves based on observations of habitat occupancy by fish only. The allopatric parr consistently selected habitats different from the available habitat, i.e. had preferences also in the absence of intraspecific interactions between age classes. Habitat conditions not used by the fish were more readily identifiable than habitats used. The parr rarely used shallow ( 10 cm) and deep (> 60 cm) stream areas, low mean water velocities ($<10{\rm cm}\ {\rm s}^{-1}$), fine substrate (sand and finer) and stream areas without cover. However, the calculated habitat preferences were also affected by habitat availability. Multivariate analysis did not identify any of the habitat variables as substantially more important than the others, but suggested that the importance of variables may vary with type of habitat studied. 
3682467|During April-December in 1980 and 1981 larvae and pupae of Chironomus plumosus from Lake Tystrup-Bavelse, Denmark, were sampled with short intervals. On the basis of morphometric data of the larvae, counts of larvae and pupae, and measurements of the oxygen conditions in the lake it was concluded that adults emerge at different times depending on e.g. depth-conditions. Adults originating from the deep Lake Tystrup appear over two periods yearly (April-June) and (September-October). In the intervening period which is characterized by stagnation and shortage of oxygen there is no emergence of adults. Adults from the shallow Lake Bavelse appear mainly during June-August. This shallow lake-part has no, or at the most very short, periods with stagnation and lack of oxygen. The observed temporal difference in the emergence of adults in the two lake-parts is proposed to be the main reason for the maintenance of two different Mendelian populations of Chironomus plumosus in Lake Tystrup-Bavelse.
3682733|An ecological study is presently being carried out at the headwaters of Imnavait Creek to develop a better understanding of the dynamics of an arctic ecosystem. While all ecosystems are driven by both energy and mass inputs, in an arctic setting this is much more evident. Therefore it is critical that we have a detailed understanding of the hydrology of the basin. In the United States, no hydrological studies of an arctic watershed have been made where measurements are continued throughout the winter season. While most biological processes are dormant throughout the winter, this is not true of physical processes such as active layer freezing and thawing and snow accumulation and redistribution by wind. This paper summarizes what we have learned hydrologically from three years of study at an arctic watershed, Imnavait Creek.
3682420|In Picea abies seedlings the critical night length for bud-set was determined for provenances from different latitudes, longitudes and altitudes within the natural range of the species. The clinal variation of this character was demonstrated. Inheritance studies indicated that this character is controlled by many genes with predominantly additive effects. In seedlings of Pinus sylvestris and Pinus contorta, growth cessation and bud-set took place in all light regimes, thus, even under continuous illumination. A photoperiodic optimum for height growth was determined. The photoperiodic influence on such characters as recurrent flushing of shoots, needle growth, dry matter production and frost resistance was demonstrated for northern and southern populations of the two Pinus species. Shorter nights were needed to induce a particular photoperiodic response in the northern populations as compared with those from the south. The importance of reliable phenological characters for assessing frost hardiness in provenance and progeny trials by means of early tests, is discussed.
3682738|In the foothills of the Philip Smith Mountains, Brooks Range, Alaska, tussock tundra is the most widely distributed vegetation, and it occurs on rolling hills and in valleys that were shaped by a sequence of Pleistocene glaciations. In this study, aboveground standing biomass and production were compared in "intertrack tundra" areas that were relatively homogenous with respect to downslope drainage and adjacent "water tracks" that acted to channel water flow to the valley bottom stream. Comparisons of biomass, leaf area index, and specific leaf weight were also made between upper and lower slope positions. Similarities and differences of vegetation structure are examined with respect to graminoid, deciduous shrub, evergreen shrub, herbaceous, and bryophyte components. Water tracks were found to have 1.5-1.7 times the biomass of intertrack tundra, and production (excluding secondary growth) in water tracks was 40% greater than in intertrack tundra. The aboveground biomass for all areas studied and the annual production values were similar to those found in other studies of tussock tundra. While only slight differences in depth of thaw occurred in water tracks and intertrack tundra during June and early July, water tracks thawed more deeply with the onset of summer rains. Warmer temperatures at 40 cm depth in July and August may have increased nutrient availability, whereas greater rooting depth and movement of water may have increased nutrient capture in water tracks as compared with the intertrack areas. Greater biomass and a deeper thaw depth occurred at upper slope locations.
3682057|Bark beetles feed and reproduce in the phloem/cambium tissue of trees where severe competition between individuals of the same and different species significantly reduces their reproductive success. In this coevolutionary setting, individuals that can avoid competition whenever possible by means of genetically controlled behavioral mechanisms are naturally selected. Avoidance of intraspecific and interspecific competition is accomplished in part even before landing by olfactory perception of specific pheromones and allomones. These olfactory systems may function at least as well after landing. In several species the uniform distribution of attacks on host trees indicates that individuals avoid competition by only attacking if they are at least a minimum distance from other established attacks. Once beetles are under the bark their tunneling patterns indicate that a behavioral mechanism exists to avoid intersecting nearby galleries of competing individuals. Finally, beetles may choose to re-emerge if the expected chances of successful reproduction by continuing their stay become less than the probabilities of finding another host and successfully reproducing.
3682275| Two populations of Sericostoma personatum Spence were studied during one year in two first order woodland streams, varying in water flow and temperature regime. The life cycles took two and three years, respectively. Numbers in drift varied with water flow, and daily elimination rates of about 1% due to catastrophic drift were found in one of the streams. Differences in elimination rates between the two populations are discussed in relation to predation, catastrophic drift, and quantity of food present during the year. The production was about 0.9 g
3682078| From the end of August to early May on average 506400 goose days were spent on the farmland of Fils, 92% by pink-footed geese, 7% by greylag geese and 1% by bean geese. 36% of the goose days were spent on stubbles (autumn), 38% on stubbles with undersown seed grass (autumn-spring), and 21% on new-sown barley fields (spring). Geese feeding on spring barley consume kernels left on the surface or in the upper surface layers. In 1982 and 1983 trials were set up to quantify the effect of grazing. The effect on yield and plant structure was measured by comparing ungrazed (exclosures) and grazed plots. Grazing by geese significantly reduced the grain yield (7-20%), but the reduction was not proportional to goose usage. The maximum reduction in sprout density was observed in 1982 in an area with heavy goose usage; sprout density was reduced by 72%, but the subsequent yield in the same area was only reduced by 8%. Plants on grazed plots compensated for the reduced sprout density by having more tillers with ears and grains of higher weight. The effect of grazing on stubble, seed grass, and winter cereals on Fils is discussed. 
3682693|The very dense trout population in the lake was substantially reduced by heavy fishing. The resulting changes in growth, age distribution and population density were examined. Fishing efforts with 32 mm nets gave the highest sustainable yield. With a yearly effort of 1600 nights with these nets the predicted sustained yield would be
3682732|Maps of the vegetation and terrain of a
3682465|The relationships of faunal diversity and vegetation structure were studied in twenty deciduous forest plots in South Sweden, all of them managed. Following animal groups were censused: shrews (Soricidae), bats (Chiroptera), voles (Cricetidae), fieldmice (Muridae), birds (Aves), groundliving beetles (Coleoptera), spiders (Araneida), and harvestmen (Opilionidae). The analysis of the 22 vegetation variables was made by means of repeated and rotated PCA. Rarefaction was used to ordinate the bird species richness of the different forest plots. The multivariate vegetational analysis resulted in three distinct and readily interpretable components: horizontal and vertical spatial heterogeneity, and mean basal area. The number of small mammal species (except bats) was greatest in forests with great amount of understory while the number of bat species increased with increasing mean basal area. The number of bird species in a fixed number of territories was also highly correlated with the mean basal area. Hence, maximum bird species richness was obtained in mature forests but not in those with greatest vertical heterogeneity. The invertebrate communities showed very few distinct relationships to the vegetation structure. Dominance decreased as vegetation complexity increased. Dominance also decreased with increasing species richness in all faunal communities studied.
3682567| Slow release fertilizer pellets (NPK) were spread in June and July 1985, on the frost surface under an 8-20 cm thick layer of thawed tundra in the northern foothills of the Brooks Range, Alaska. The fertilizer was applied at a rate of 3.8 kg N,
3682667|In two mature Danish beech forests, one growing on fertile mull, the other on acid mor, cycles through vegetation of Ca, Mg, K, Na, Mn and P are followed. Nutrient content is measured in precipitation, throughfall, stem flow, litter and herbage as well as in soil pool (0-10 cm). In both forests, Na is found to pass vegetation in highest rate compared to soil pool. On acid mor, trees accumulate amounts of nutrients comparable to the amounts falling in precipitation, but on fertile mull trees accumulate more of all nutrients than that which falls in precipitation, with the exception of Mn. P seems to be the limiting growth factors for trees on acid mor, and none of the nutrients investigated seems to limit growth on fertile mull.
3682673| vre Heimdalsvatn is clearly influenced by the geological conditions, and the lake basin and catchment area are determined by the bedrock and the mountain structures. The distribution and characteristics of the loose deposits are decisive for the lake's water budget. The groundwater in the catchment area and the Quaternary deposits near the lake influence the amount and quality of the lake waters. 
3682468|Forages used by moose, Alces alces, in the aspen-dominated boreal forest were studied to determine seasonal changes in digestibility (nylon bag technique) and chemical composition. Digestibility of all forage classes increased to 70% during spring and summer with the presence of new growth and declined to a low of 30% with plant maturation and dormancy. Mean protein contents during these periods were >20% and <7%, respectively. Nutritional quality of herbaceous forages peaked earlier and higher than that of woody plants in spring but quality declined earlier and reached slightly lower levels in late winter. Cell wall composition of grasses, sedge, and foliage varied seasonally and was correlated with forage digestibility. In multiple linear regression models, hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin content of browse, grass, and sedge provided significant predictions of digestibility.
3682435|We studied the relationships between litter size, litter weight, newborn weight, relative clutch mass and the female snout-vent length in some Lacerta vivipara populations over a period of three years. Litter size and litter weight were positively correlated with female snout-vent length in all the populations for all the years, as in most other lizard species. Relative clutch mass generally increased with female size, though correlations appear not to be very tight. Considering the two best studied populations suggests that montane females invest less in reproduction than lowland ones. The main reproductive traits of the species appeared highly variable between as well as within the different populations hitherto studied. We argue that current theory about lizard reproductive strategy requires, first to work out a good estimate of reproductive effort, and second to get more information about the relations between the species and their environmental, biotic and abiotic conditions.
3682627|Inter- and intra-specific differences in survivorship of Nephelopsis obscura and Erpobdella punctata under anoxic conditions were examined. Two types of experiments were used. In the closed (static) experiments the leeches faced three stresses - anoxia, build-up of metabolites and starvation, while in the flow-through experiments only anoxia was experienced. The results obtained from the two types of experiments indicate that survival times are longer in the flow-through experiments. Inter- and intra-specific differences in survivorship under anoxic conditions correlate well with the patterns of reproduction observed for field populations of N. obscura and E. punctata.
3682380|Brown lemmings reach much higher densities than collared lemmings near Barrow, Alaska, and captures from 19 summers of snap trapping confirm previous reports that brown lemmings prefer lower, wetter habitats than do collared lemmings. Data also support the hypothesis that brown lemmings concentrate in higher habitats during early summer when melt water floods lower habitats, then shift to lower habitats where preferred food is more available as the waters recede. This pattern appears similar to seasonal shifts in habitat use reported for Norwegian lemmings. Two hypotheses were not supported by our data: (1) Unlike Norwegian lemmings, brown lemmings did not expand their use of suboptimal habitats at higher population densities. Rather, absolute densities changed in concert so that the relative densities among habitats remained unchanged. (2) Preferential use of polygon troughs during winter, as indicated by patterns of winter grazing, was not simply a function of snow depth. Instead it appeared to be related to shoot density of preferred foods. Nearly all patterns of habitat use seemed to be linked to food availability. Other factors, such as protection from predators by vegetative cover in summer and increased insulation from deeper snow in winter, did not appear to influence the distribution of lemmings as strongly.
3682262|Nitrogen fixation activity was determined for Lotus tenuis, Medicago lupulina and Trifolium pratense. The three species grew in clones in grassland in an area reclaimed from brackish water in the 1940s. The
3682293|Sixty-eight white-tailed sea eagle territories were studied on the Swedish Baltic coast in 1964-1982 and 22 territories in Swedish Lapland in 1976-1982. Older data were assembled for comparison. The breeding frequency of adult pairs was high in both study areas (ca. 90%). Median egg-laying dates were 17 March (Baltic) and 7 April (Lapland). Average clutch size and egg volume did not differ between samples from the Baltic taken between 1856 and 1982. Average clutch size was significantly smaller in Lapland (1.6 eggs) than on the Baltic coast (2.1 eggs). Clutch size in Lapland was positively related to carrion availability during March. Nestling survival was significantly lower in Lapland, due to starvation in broods of more than one young. Brood loss was significantly more frequent in Lapland. At the Baltic, nest success decreased from 75 to 22%, and brood size from 1.8 to 1.2, from the early 1950's to the mid 1960's. Nest success in 1976-1982 was significantly lower at the Baltic (26%) than in Lapland (45%), with a much larger proportion of consistently failing pairs. The proportion of eggs laid that resulted in fledged young was estimated at 16% at the Baltic and 39% in Lapland. It is concluded that egg production and nestling survival were suppressed by limited food supply and nest success by human interference in Lapland, and that the reproductive impairment of the Baltic population was due primarily to contamination with toxic substances, mainly DDE.
3682259| The seasonal on- and offshore migrations of the epibenthic community on a marine shallow soft bottom in Gullmar Fjord (Sweden) was recorded for a period of three years. Quantitative sampling was carried out in shallow water ( 1 m depth) using drop-nets. A new sampling device was also introduced which allowed quantitative sampling in deeper water. The brown shrimp Crangon crangon L., juvenile plaice Pleuronectes platessa L. and the gobiid fish species Pomatoschistus minutus (Pallas) and P. microps (Kryer) constituted the dominant inhabitants of shallow water, contributing >90% of the total number. The annual production was
3682367|The censuses are based on six surveys (1590 km total) carried out between 13 April and 17 May 1975 and two surveys (560 km) on 13 and 15 May 1978. The material consists of 716 observations in 1975 and 214 observations in 1978, involving 1960 and 572 ringed seal specimens respectively. The transect width was determined in retrospect on the basis of the sighting angle and sighting distance, the latter being estimated and corrected by a factor typical for each separate flight. The mean sighting distances varied from 720 to 1140 m with a range from 160 to 2450 m. On average over 3000 ringed seals were basking on the ice of the Bothnian Bay in 1975 and 1978, promising at least 4000 specimens living in the area in total. Sources of methodological bias, factors affecting the observability of the seals, and the estimation of the total population based on the numbers of basking seals are discussed.
3682728|Laboratory and field experiments were conducted to investigate bioenergetics of winter dispersal and to compare winter (cross-ice) dispersal abilities of three small mammals: Microtus pennsylvanicus, Peromyscus leucopus and Blarina brevicauda. Total metabolic rates increased with running activity and decreased as ambient temperatures increased for all species. Thermal conductance was significantly higher for running than for resting Microtus and Peromyscus, but decreased significantly with activity for Blarina. Winter dispersal abilities, calculated from treadmill experiments, increased with ambient temperature and with body size of the species. The superior dispersal ability of Microtus in comparison with Peromyscus results from the former's ability to utilize more energy reserves during running. The comparatively low winter dispersal ability of Blarina, which was less than a third of the two rodent species, resulted from its high weight specific cost of transport at winter temperatures and its relatively low energy stores and/or energy utilization during running.
3682301|The interaction between the phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish populations and certain abiotic environmental factors, was investigated in an oligotrophic Norwegian lake during a 5-yr period (1974-1978). The effects of adding artificial fertilizer in 1975 and 1976 were also studied. When cladoceran dominated, the zooplankton community was able to maintain a more or less constant phytoplankton biomass and a rather low phytoplankton production even when nutrient levels were raised. In years when rotifers were dominant, algal biomass and productivity increased, despite the amount of added nutrients being lower. The regression for the relationship between daily phytoplankton P/B and daily herbivore zooplankton P/B indicated that these trophic levels were highly interdependent. A change, from large-sized to smaller herbivorous zooplankton, due to fish predation, also led to an increase in phytoplankton turnover. The investigations show that planktivorous fish may be the key factor which determines the stability of limnetic systems and controls the material transfer from the algae to the higher trophic level.
3682550|We observed forage and habitat selection in radio-collared moose at feeding sites in southeast Norway. Use of older forest increased from spring to autumn. Birch Betula spp. and bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus accounted for c. 75% of the diet. Occurrence of important forage plants, height of browse, and difference in phenology between plant species all appeared to play a role in moose selection of feeding sites. Shading influences moose forage by delaying plant phenology and possibly through its effect on leaf content of water and secondary compounds. On single birch trees, feeding was concentrated to the top branches at midsummer; during spring and autumn more leaves from side branches were eaten. Greater discrimination as vegetation matured was also evident from the wider variety of forage species used at midsummer. Selection of feeding sites was not related to density of important browse species. We propose that variations in light/shade conditions may play a role in moose choice of feeding sites and that moose on summer range will benefit from a heterogeneous mixture of plantations and older forest stands.
3682471|The attack by the bud-galling sawfly, Euura mucronata, on its willow host was simulated by removing every other living bud from previous year's shoots in a natural stand of Salix cinerea. The impact of simulated attack on the growth of the willow and the subsequent attack by E. mucronata was estimated after one growing season. Experimental bud-killing resulted in a growth reaction in S. cinerea characterized by significant increase in the length of new shoots produced by the remaining buds. Also the number of buds and E. mucronata galls per shoot were significantly higher on bud-removal branches as compared with control branches. The overall survival of E. mucronata larvae was better on long shoots than on short shoots. The result shows that sawfly attack increases the amount of high quality resources for the subsequent generation of the same sawfly as predicted by "resource regulation hypothesis". We conclude that these highly specialized insect herbivores have adapted to utilize and to maintain the willow's juvenile traits. Rapid regrowth of willows after damage may have originally arisen as an adaptation in response to other, less specific pressures such as mammal browsing or snow and ice damage.
3682396| Carbon dioxide production and oxygen uptake were measured in undisturbed sediment cores taken during winter from four lakes of different trophic state. Respiration was measured at 5, 10, 15 and 20C at high oxygen saturation (75-100%). The respiratory quotient, calculated from the mean values of carbon dioxide production and oxygen uptake at each temperature for each lake, was 0.83-0.96 with a mean value for the four lakes of 0.90. At very low oxygen saturations (<10%) carbon dioxide production was 21-42% of the production at 20C and high oxygen saturations. The results indicate that under aerobic conditions, oxygen uptake and carbon dioxide production are closely-coupled processes in these lake sediments. 
3682401|The size and appearance of the preputial glands of Clethrionomys glareolus showed variations which were associated with season, sex and maturation. The glands were by far largest in mature males followed by mature females, and subadult males and females, in that order. There was a positive relationship between the length, fresh weight and dry weight of the glands. The possible role of the preputial glands in relation to territoriality, social status and sexual attraction is discussed.
3682187| The disappearance of arthropod corpses in a temperate grassland of the Mediterranean coast (Barcelona, Spain) has been analyzed in this study. The mean time in which the corpses stayed out in the field is less than five minutes (x = 285  282 s), in a range of 2-2228 s. This holds true in cleared areas as well as in high vegetation areas. Ants are the principal scavengers of this type of remains, although the species that collect them vary according to the time of day and season of year, with the corpses' disappearance being the most rapid during the middle hours of the day, precisely when ants' density on the ground is less. The reason for this was the peak daytime abundance of insectivore, opportunistics ants. Anyway, the short time lapse that the prey stay in the field - at any time of the day - can be considered as an indirect estimate of the scarcity of these resources. 
3682519|Two tundra Polytrichum moss species were sampled in the field near Barrow, Alaska, three times during the growing season. Lipid, sugar, and starch concentrations of the green above ground shoots and below ground rhizomes were analyzed. Lipid and TNC (sugar + starch) concentrations were higher in Polytrichum commune growing on raised polygon rims than in Polytrichum alpinum. There were no significant differences between the two populations of P. alpinum. Green parts had significantly higher lipid concentrations than rhizomes in P. commune but not in P. alpinum. Both species had significantly higher sugar concentration in green shoots and higher starch concentrations in the rhizome and sugar concentration varied significantly in both species. Seasonal variation of TNC concentration levels were significant only in P. commune. A statistically significant positive relationship was found between lipid and TNC concentration while a stronger statistically significant negative relationship was found between sugar and starch concentration. The first is interpreted as an adaptation to drought in surface waxes and osmoticum while the second is interpreted as conversion indicator depending on tissue and use. Polytrichum mosses resemble evergreen vascular plants in their seasonal stability of these compound groups.
3682098|Catches of Trichoptera from 67 light traps in Great Britain are studied. Two families are excluded: the Limnephilidae because they have been considered in an earlier publication, and the Hydroptilidae. Catches from 148 complete year records, from 1965 to 1971, are grouped in three areas: A. Scotland, 15 sites; B. Wales and Northern England, 18 sites; C. Southern England, 34 sites. The total of over 146000 caddis flies includes 60 of the 109 British species from 14 families. Small or nil catches are explained by limited distribution or dispersal, short adult lives and day-flying habits. The flight periods are related to published information on life cycles. Most species are univoltine, but some small species are bivoltine. In contrast to Limnephilidae, there is no evidence of a summer adult diapause, median weeks for flight periods tend to be earlier in the south, and few species are autumnal fliers. Density distribution maps, produced by computer, are given for six species.
3682423|Birch forest on the slope of the Jesnalvaara fell forms a gradient ranging from 7-8 m high trees (at 75 m a.s.l.) to birch shrubs less than 1 m high at the top of the fell (330 m a.s.l.). Upper parts of the forest (above 220 m) were defoliated by Oporinia autumnata (Lep., Geometridae) about ten years ago and, with the exception of the top, only a fraction of birches have recovered. Climatic conditions explain the limitation of the damaged area - Oporinia eggs were killed during cold winters. Predators may also limit the damage. Detensive mechanisms in the birch leaves - especially a low nitrogen content and high concentrations of phenols inhibiting trypsin - can slow down an increase in herbivore density by reducing their reproductive capacity. Birch leaves from the lower limit of the damaged area are least suitable for the growth of herbivores. They have the highest concentration of phenols, too. Birches at the foot of Jesnalvaara are able to increase leaf phenols after mechanical damage of nearby leaves. This is enough to retard the growth of several herbivore species. Ability to recover after defoliation is an important part of the anti-herbivore strategy of the birch. This ability is higher in shrub birches than in tall trees and better after a warm than a cold summer. Birch leaves in the year following defoliation are less usable for herbivores and cause increased mortality and lowered reproduction. These properties are the weakest in birches at the foot of Jesnalvaara where the probability of being defoliated is also lowest.
3682524|Insects and spiders were sampled on branches of spruce in a
3682106|In order to explain, in terms of a morphologically based plastic response, the absence of density-dependent mortality, and the regulation of reproduction in the halophilous annual Spergularia marina, leaf demography and the use of meristems were studied in populations of three different densities. Leaf birth and death rates were almost constant at the higher densities, whereas at the lowest density both increased throughout most of the observation period. This increase was caused by the addition of new vegetative shoots, each one resembling the individuals growing at higher densities in having an almost constant leaf birth and death rate. The capacity to adjust leaf death rate to birth rate with density was high. There was no difference in the proportions of meristems used for flowering as the density increased. After the first flower had been produced, each following node produced a flower. The proportions of meristems used for vegetative shoots were strongly density-dependent; more shoots were produced at lower densities. The regulation of flower production was almost entirely caused by the addition of vegetative shoots.
3682504|The number of litters, litter size and survival of Clethrionomys gapperi and Microtus pennsylvanicus were documented at two elevations (1450 m; 2240 m) in the Canadian Rocky Mountains to determine if those life history traits changed with the length of the breeding season. The high elevation was colder, had fewer frost-free days, and more precipitation than the low elevation. The length of the breeding season of C. gapperi and M. pennsylvanicus averaged 8 d and 34 d longer, respectively, at the low elevation than at the high elevation. In both species and at both elevations, most females survived only long enough to produce one or two litters. Litter size was significantly greater at the high elevation than at the low elevation in M. pennsylvanicus, but not different in C. gapperi. Overall, nestling survival was greater at the low elevation than at the high elevation in M. pennsylvanicus, but not different in C. gapperi. Summer and winter survival rates were not different between elevations in either species. Differences in litter size and nestling survival between elevations in M. pennsylvanicus may be related to differences in habitat quality.
3682150| I studied the seed rain, seedling bank, newly emerged seedlings, and seed bank of tree species in a deciduous forest of northeastern North America (Qubec, Canada). The main objective was to determine to what extent the tree species present on the site differed in some of their regenerative traits. All the species present on the quadrats as mature trees contributed to the annual seed rain, although seed rain was strongly dominated by yellow birch and sugar maple. The seedling bank was mostly composed of red maple and sugar maple, but inputs from the 1988 cohort were mostly red maple and yellow birch seedlings. Seedling mortality was high in general (from 60% to 100%), but sugar maple had the lowest mortality of the tree species present. Two species maintained a seed bank on the study site: yellow birch and american basswood. Some species not present on the quadrats, but having populations nearby, disseminated seeds onto the quadrats (i.e. white ash and grey birch). Other species, not present on the quadrats as mature individuals, had seeds in the seed bank although they did not participate in the seed rain, did not maintain a seedling bank, and did not establish seedlings in 1988 (i.e. pin-cherry and Rubus spp.). Red maple, sugar maple, and yellow birch showed contagion in the dispersion pattern of their seeds in the seed rain (and the seed bank for yellow birch), and of their seedlings in the seedling bank and the 1988 cohort. Seedlings of american beech and american basswood of the seedling bank and the 1988 cohort were randomly dispersed over the quadrats, although their seeds in the seed rain had a contagious dispersion pattern. It has often been proposed in the literature that regenerative traits come only in "compatible assemblages" and that, consequently, species may be grouped according to their strategy of regeneration: e.g. species that maintain a seed bank vs those with a seedling bank; species with either a seed or a seedling bank vs those with the ability to sprout. In the community studied, it appears that regenerative traits do not come in neatly packaged exclusive assemblages, although the species do seem to possess different combinations of regenerative traits. However, yearly variations in seed production, seed germination, and seedling survival may render difficult the identification of strategies of regeneration. 
3682277|Body weight and growth of European hares Lepus europaeus Pallas in relation to environmental conditions, population density, age, sex, and reproduction were studied in three populations in southern Sweden on the basis of hares shot during October-December. There were no significant differences in mean body weight of juveniles in the three areas. Differences in juvenile growth, as indicated by the correlation between eye lens weight (age indicator) and body weight, between areas and years were related to variations in nutrient conditions, in an island population it was probably also related to population density. Adult body weights did not differ between two mainland areas despite differences in food supply and population density, whereas island adult hares were, on average, significantly lighter than mainland hares. Also this difference was ascribed to nutrient conditions and/or population density. There were no significant differences in body weight between adult hares of different age classes. But reproductive females showed a significant positive correlation between number of litters produced annually and body weight. This relation indicates that reproduction is favoured by large body size and body weight, which also might explain the average higher mean body weight in females than in males. Juvenile hares showed no clear tendency in sex dimorphism of body weight.
3682201|The moss species Orthodontium lineare, originally from the southern hemisphere, has been spreading in Europe during this century. We have monitored the distribution patterns of the species in Sweden. The age distribution differed between localities due to variation in the proportion of colonies in old age classes. We attributed this to differences in colony mortality. Although O. lineare had a high spore output in most localities, the colonies showed a clumped pattern, indicating strong neighbourhood effects in the colonization of new spots within the locality. The regional distribution was uneven and markedly southwestern. The distribution was related to regional and local availability of suitable habitats (decaying wood in not-too-dense forests), and to a lesser extent to climatic variables. Spore transport and establishment are suggested to be the limiting factors for colonization of suitable habitats of O. lineare.
3682345| Studies in the field and in a greenhouse were conducted to examine the effects of sand burial on seed germination, seedling emergence and establishment of Panicum virgatum L. on the foredunes of Lake Erie. Under natural conditions, the seedlings emerged from sand burial depths ranging from 0 to 11 cm, with a mean  SD of 4.73  1.82 cm. The frequency distribution of the depth of emergence of seedlings in the field was significantly skewed to the right and platykurtic. In the greenhouse, some seedlings emerged from a burial depth of as much as 16 cm. Although percent germination of seeds was not affected by sand burial, the percent emergence and the rate of emergence of seedlings were significantly reduced by excessive sand burial. Seedling mortality was found only among seedlings that emerged from sand burial depths of 10 cm or more. In the field, all the seedlings established in one growing season had originally emerged from sand burial depths of less than 12 cm. Within this burial range, seedlings from shallower burial depths had lower chances of establishment than expected, whereas those from deeper burial depths had higher probabilities of establishment than expected. 
3682503|Eggs and three different stages of premetamorphic tadpoles of moor frog Rana arvalis and common toad Bufo bufo were offered to the following potential predators in acidified lakes: newt Triturus vulgaris, water beetles Rhantus exoletus and Dytiscus lapponicus, dragonfly larvae Leucorrhinia dubia and Aeshna spp., water boatman Notonecta glauca and water bugs, Cymatia bonsdorffi, Glaenocorisa p. propinqua, and Corixa dentipes. The predation pressure on eggs of R. arvalis was low due to thick jelly. The eggs of B. bufo were not attractive to predators with chewing mouth parts due to unpalatability but predators with sucking mouth parts were not repulsed. Tadpoles of R. arvalis were eaten by all predators but tadpoles of B. bufo were unpalatable to most predators. The predators used in the experiments are the new top predators in acidified fishless lakes. They may contribute to the reduction of populations of R. arvalis in acidified areas.
3682707|The life cycle of Mesidotea entomon sampled near the shore of Norrbyn in the northern Bothnian Sea, has been investigated. The species, a predacious brackish water isopod, had a three year life cycle. In May - June the juveniles were released from the female marsupium at a size of 3 mm. During the second summer size dimorphism became apparent, where the males were larger than the females. During the third summer and autumn the development of ova started in females. Maturation mostly occurred during late winter. Males matured before, and at larger sizes, than the females, 36.0 and 29.1 mm, respectively. The average fecundity was 153.2 and the females carried the eggs and embryos for several months before the release. Calculation of the survival rate for each year during the life-span revealed 0.05, 0.66 and 0.43, respectively.
3682311|Age, sex and legbone marrow fat content of 90 red deer Cervus elaphus killed by wolves Canis lupus in winter in southeastern Poland were examined 1984-1988. The majority of kills were calves (44%) and hinds (40%); stags formed only 16%. The average age of hinds was 7.2 yr compared to 5.3 yr in stags. Animals older than 10 yr comprised only 13% of prey. Adults showed high femoral fat content (> 80%) throughout the winter (76% in early winter and 52% in late winter). Among calves femur marrow fat varied through the winter. In early winter 70% of calves had a high fat content (> 80%), though by late winter only 20% had such a high fat content, whilst 43% had low fat content (< 20%).
3682102|Auchenorrhyncha of a new polder were sampled by different kinds of traps in four stations in new habitats, one station on the salt marsh and one just outside the polder. In the latter stations 20 species of Auchenorrhyncha were caught in numbers that declined during the four year study. The proportion of macropters of the common Streptanus sordidus was highest in the largest catches. In the polder proper 392 specimens of 13 species were caught, all had moved at least 1500 m, but some could be traced to origins at greater distances. The number of immigrants also declined during the study. The distribution of the leafhoppers over the trapping stations suggests that leafhoppers, although sometimes transported over great distances, as a rule quickly fall out once they are airborne. Probably only one species had founded a resident population in the new polder at the end of the study.
3682365|The mean year-class ratio in 6 samples of weasels (total n = 477) ranged from 59% to 84% young, and mean age from 0.79 to 1.16 yr. There was no difference in age structure between samples from 5 game estates and 1 reserve. Mean annual mortality of weasels of both sexes and all ages was 75-90%. In 12 pregnant weasels the mean number of embryos, observed from April to June, was 5.6. There was a definite anoestrous season in winter. Records of the number of weasels killed on game estates show that weasels and stoats reacted differently to the first outbreak of myxomatosis in England in 1954; and that weasel populations are capable of enormous sudden increases (usually associated with "mouse years"). These increases are probably due largely to summer litters produced by precocious juveniles, and also to some adults breeding a second time (both possibilities confirmed from ovarian histology on this material). Traditional gamekeeping practice may influence the seasonal pattern of mortality of weasels (highest in spring) but its effects are probably short-lived.
3682651|The discontinuous bark cover formed by epiphytic lichens and algae provides a mosaic of microhabitats for the fauna. Multivariate analyses applied to 1800 samples collected in Belgian Lorraine (southern Belgium) during each of the four seasons has made it possible to distinguish five major classes of arthropod microcommunities. Two of them are confined to special habitats or places at certain seasons, viz. - a Pseudochermes fraxini (Homoptera) community found on Fraxinus during the summer, and "trophically" different from others; - a Vertagopus arborea (Collembola) community observed in foliose lichens in St. Mard mainly in winter. The three other classes are directly related to the epiphytic cover, viz. - a Dometorina plantivaga (Oribatida) community found in crustose epiphytes; - an Eueremaeus oblongus/Trichoribates trimaculatus (Oribatida) community sheltered by foliose lichens; - an Entomobrya nivalis (Collembola)/Cerobasis guestfalicus (Psocoptera) community observed in fruticose lichens. The ecological meaning of those microcommunities (mosaic and stratification patterns, seasonal variation, succession) is discussed. The results support the hypothesis that corticolous microcoenoses are associated with the epiphyte type and that their composition is greatly affected by the vegetation stratification pattern on bark.
3682572|In this study the number and species composition of diaspores dispersing into two newly abandoned peat harvesting areas in Finland were investigated. In an area abandoned six years earlier a total of 2978 living seeds m
3682353|This study examined the basis of diet preference in a mammalian hibernator, the yellow-bellied marmot Marmota flaviventris, in the White Mountains of California. Preference indices calculated from dietary data and food plant availability in the habitat indicated that forb species were preferred over graminoids, particularly in the spring and early summer. Chemical analysis of food plant species suggested that marmots preferred forbs over graminoids because of their lower fiber (cellulose) content and higher concentrations of phosphorus, sodium and possibly protein. Inclusion of graminoids in the diets was probably due to their greater availability in the habitat coupled with the need to maximize the rate of nutrient intake during the short (4-5 month) active season. Seasonal changes in diet composition were noted which may reflect, in part, temporal changes in nutrient demands.
3682341|Bilberry tissues accumulated nitrogen for the winter in the form of reduced low-molecular weight amino compounds. The storage organ was principally the underground stem and the oldest parts of the aerial shoot. Most of the nitrogen was stored in arginine and ammonium compounds, and less in glutamine and other amino acids. Proteins did not accumulate during the winter. The soluble nitrogenous compounds were discharged from storage in May, when nitrogen was translocated from the lower parts of the stem to the growing leaves and buds. Amino acid compositions and concentrations in winter were almost identical under the snow and in snowless areas, only the concentration of glutamine being lower and that of glutathione higher in the snowless area. The level of total protein, particularly in the leaves and buds was much higher in a nitrogen-polluted industrial area than in unpolluted urban forests. The same difference was observed in total amino compounds, but among individual substances it only appeared in ammonium compounds. Certain species differences in the amino acid pool were recorded between V. myrtillus and V. vitis-idaea.
3682266|The species composition, biomass (measured as algal volumes) and chlorophyll concentration of epipelic algae was studies before (1977) and during (1978-1979) fertilization with phosphorus and nitrogen of Lake Gunillajaure, a small subarctic lake in northern Sweden. The epipelic biomass, dominated by Cyanophyceae and Bacillariophyceae, was high
3682048|Pest control programs are usually evaluated without considering the population dynamics effects of the particular manipulation being recommended. A simple mathematical model is analysed which demonstrates that neglecting population dynamics may be disastrous. Emphasis is placed on the kinds of questions that must be asked before a pest control strategy can be fully evaluated. The discussion must necessarily be speculative since we lack the essential empirical basis for evaluating the effects of suggested pest control treatments. In itself, it is indeed alarming that this discussion must be speculative.
3682144|The influence of week of season, leaf position on plants, population size and population growth rate on twospotted spider mite adult and functional sex ratio was determined for wild populations found on field corn. Adult sex ratio became less female biased as the mite population per plant increased. Adult sex ratio became increasingly female biased at higher leaf positions on the plant. Population growth rate (measured as proportion eggs in the population) was positively correlated with the proportion females in the adult population. Functional sex ratio (ratio of sexually available females to males) was positively influenced by population growth rate. The other factors studied only slightly influenced this parameter. Ecological implications of these findings are briefly discussed.
3682466|Emergence of peatland insects was studied in Central Finland by sampling insects on a raised bog with tent traps from five different surfaces: muddy hollow without vegetation; hollow covered with Sphagnum; deep (0.7-0.9 m) open-water pool; shallow (about 0.3 m) pool with bottom covered by Carex vegetation; shallow (about 0.3 m) pool with bare muddy bottom. The material was collected at two-days intervals from 13 May until 31 August in 1981. Biomass emerging from the sites varied considerably. In general, aquatic sites were clearly more productive than semi-terrestrial sites. Corrected total biomass values for deep pools, shallow Carex pools, and shallow mud pools were 2.471, 1.066, and
3682212|Sixteen fens and marshes with areas between 10 and 285 ha was censused at least six times in the period 11 April to 10 June. The proportion of the number of resident species observed on a visit increased from the beginning of the census period up to the end of May. Thereafter it decreased. Variability in the census of the number of species was lowest in the end of May and the beginning of June. Throughout the seasons studied there were frequent visits of non-resident species. The proportion of non-resident, but not the proportion of resident species, observed on a visit, increased as the number of resident species at a locality increased. Census efficiencies per ten-day periods are given for 14 species. Census efficiency of a species correlated positively with the body weight of the species. The highest census efficiency for most species occurred in the period 21 April to 31 May. It is suggested that if two visits are made in that period about 80% (S.D. = 9.8) of the resident species will be observed.
3682299| The limnology of an oligotrophic lake, angvatn, situated in Trndelag county in Central Norway, has been studied for five years (1974-1978). In two years, 1975 and 1976, the lake was fertilized with a general fertilizer to change feeding conditions for the zooplankton. Mean phytoplankton biomass in the epilimnion and primary production for the years (1974-1978) were 417, 618, 1370, 607 and
3682247|The hoarding behaviour of one pair of nuthatches Sitta europaea L. and of four individual marsh tits Parus palustris L. was studied during autumn and winter in a deciduous grove in central Sweden. Sunflower seeds were offered at a feeding table. All individuals studied stored seeds intensively throughout the whole study period. The two species showed very different hoarding patterns. The nuthatch pair aggressively defended the area around the feeding table, which was within their territory, from other nuthatches and also seemed to affect the hoarding behaviour of the coexisting marsh tits. Some significant differences were found also between conspecifics in some aspects of hoarding behaviour, which could in some cases be related to sex or dominance. These differences may make hoarding profitable for the individual birds if they also differ in their foraging patterns individually, and so will have a greater probability of finding their own stored items than other individuals. However, the evidence for individual segregation of hoarding patterns is not conclusive.
3682385| Thirty forest bird communities were studied with regard to the changes in structural indices (number of species, density, biomass, species diversity H) and in energetics (energy flow A, production P, ecological efficiency P/A) in temporal and spatial gradients. All these characteristics increase during temporal succession; in natural deciduous forest there is a two-peak pattern of the increase, with the maximum in 15-20 yr old forest ("time ecotone";
3682137|The digestive capacity of free-living moose Alces alces (L.) and roe deer Capreolus capreolus (L.) for four plant species was studied with in vitro technique. Moose were found to digest all species better than roe deer. Individual variations were also smaller for moose. In moose the level of digestibility was the same both summer and winter, while roe deer shot in winter digested winter samples of bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus L. and to some extent Scots pine Pinus silvestris L. better than did summer roe deer. This was taken as evidence for a seasonal adaptation in the roe deer rumen. Digestibility of the plant material studied showed a strong negative correlation to the fiber content. The results are discussed in relation to winter problems for roe deer and possible food competition between moose and roe deer.
3682505|Initial stages of plant succession (from 0 to 8 or 9 yr) were studied on abandoned peat harvest sites of two adjacent areas in Finland. At the Mustasuo area only 13 field layer species, all perennials, and 3 ground layer species became established during that period and species composition stayed relatively constant. All species occurred sparsely with low biomass. The Riitasuo area was colonized by 43 field layer and 19 ground layer species during the first 8 yr of succession. In that area the originally plantless sites were totally covered by plants within a few years. Many of the first species to arrive were annuals, most of which were soon replaced by perennial species. The great differences between the two areas in the rate and pattern of early succession are suggested to arise from differences in the seed sources and in the physical and chemical characteristics of the soil. The areas were found to differ especially by the thickness of the remaining peat layer, by the particle size distribution of the peat soil and by the contents of nitrate and ammonium nitrogen of the soil.
3682554|Ther hypothesis of the exploitation of ecosystems predicts that plant communities in productive habitats should experience a low grazing pressure, while communities in less productive habitats should be structured by intense grazing. Thus, if a high population density of rodents was to be established in these communities and they could graze without predation, the plant community in the productive habitat should be more affected than the community in the less productive habitat. This was tested by building enclosures for grey-sided voles Clethrionomys rufocanus and lemmings Lemmus lemmus in a productive tall herb meadow and a less productive snow-bed on Finnmarksvidda, northern Norway. The simulated rodent population densities varied from 150 to
3682055| Analyses of volatiles in hindguts of Ips typgraphus males from different spruce trees and attack phases are reviewed. The composition of monoterpenes, and the chirality of -pinene, have been determined in phloem samples. Relationships between compounds emanating from spruce trees and bark beetles, respectively, have been studied. Male beetles depend on their host tree for the production of pinene alcohols. The ratio between the pinene alcohols is almost constant in males boring in the same tree but can vary widely between males from different spruce trees. Very good correlations were found between some host tree monoterpene hydrocarbons and bark beetle produced pinene alcohols. The production of the essential pheromone component 2-methyl-3-buten-2-ol, was not correlated with the monoterpene content in the host trees, while the production of the other essential pheromone component, cis-verbenol, depends on the amount of the precursor, (-)--pinene in the phloem. Male beetles boring in a resistant spruce tree will continue to produce the pinene alcohols, including cis-verbenol, as long as the tree defends itself with resin. 
3682281| The foraging activity of bumblebees in a subalpine/alpine area in northern Sweden was related to weather factors (temperature, light, wind and rain) by counting the number of specimens visiting a square (5  5 m) with a high density of forage plants. The combined effect of light and temperature was the most important factor regulating the flight activity. The condition of the arctic light-climate allows bumblebees to fly even at the less light hours of the day. No clear differences according to flight activity were observed between the subalpine/alpine species Bombus balteatus Dahlbom, B. lapponicus (Fabricius) and the species B. jonellus (Kirby), B. pascuorum (Scopoli), B. pratorum (L.), observed in the subalpine habitats. A comparison between the flight activity of queens, workers and males shows that queens are able to fly at the lowest temperatures followed by males and workers at slightly higher temperatures. The relevance of the overlap of the body sizes between the casts is discussed. 
3682648|Eriksson et al. (1980) hypothesized that the abundance of certain macroinvertebrate predators, such as larvae of the phantom midge Chaoborus, should increase in acidified lakes because of the elimination of fish. To examine the influence of pH and presence of fish on Chaoborus abundance, we surveyed Chaoborus populations in 33 lakes in Ontario, Canada which ranged in pH from 4.5 to 7.4. Chaoborus larvae were not more abundant in the acidified lakes that were devoid of fish than in the remaining lakes. Therefore, we concluded that pH and presence of fish are not prime determinants of total Chaoborus abundance in Canadian Shield lakes. We hypothesized that significant increases in Chaoborus abundance should only be anticipated when fish populations are eliminated by acidification of relatively nutrient rich lakes.
3682112|Utilisation of heather at three Scottish moors, by red grouse, mountain hares, sheep and red deer, was measured by collecting their faecal droppings regularly from plots on heather patches of different ages. Rates of heather growth differed between moors, and preferences of the four species, all grazers of heather, were related more closely to its height than to its age. Thus hares spent most time on ground with heather less than 15 cm high, sheep less than 20 cm, grouse preferred heather 10-30 cm high and deer spent most time on heather over 25 cm high. Differences between outer, middle and inner plots on patches at one of the moors indicated that grouse are reluctant to move far from cover into areas of newly burned ground, and reluctant to move far into patches of tall, dense heather, when these are next to shorter material. Hares preferred the middle of patches on newly burned ground and very young heather. At two of the moors, but not the third, there was evidence that heavy grazing by hares in winter reduced the amount of young heather available to hares and grouse in spring. This potential reduction in the quality of the spring diet of grouse is discussed in relation to previously reported associations between numbers of hares and grouse at those two moors.
3682492|The activity patterns of a coarse browser, the moose, Alces alces, and a selective browser, the roe deer, Capreolus capreolus, in a north boreal forest, central Sweden, were compared with respect to time allocated for foraging and processing (ruminating) in different seasons. Data were quantified by measuring 24 h activity patterns which included both the duration and frequency of active and inactive periods. Activity patterns were measured from 9 female moose and 9 roe deer that were radiomarked during April 1974-May 1978 (roe deer) and February 1982-December 1984 (moose). In total, data were available from 4345 h for roe deer and 14745 h for moose. Roe deer differed from moose in having active bouts more evenly distributed over the day. Generally, both species were most active during sunrise and sunset. Total daily active time varied with season, reaching the highest value in late May - early June among roe deer (56.7% of the day) and a month later among moose (51.9%). Both species were least active in February (30-40%). Average length of active bouts did not differ significantly between the species but changed with season (roe deer 48.6-99.2 min, moose 61.6-88.7 min). Average length of inactive bouts varied significantly with season, with moose having consistently longer bouts (89.3-156.3 min) than roe deer (55.8-107.0 min). The number of activity bouts per day were also higher among roe deer. During midsummer, they changed activity nearly twice as many times as moose (
3682634|We examined the relationships between morphology and foraging behaviour in a group of insectivorous birds wintering in temperate mixed forests in northern Iberia. Using principal components analysis we reduced 11 biometric variables to three major morphological components and 20 foraging categories to four major ecological factors. The relative length of the tarsometatarsus and bill morphology were the most important morphological variables predicting foraging ecology. Birds exploiting distal parts of trees and foliage were generally smaller and had relatively longer tarsometatarsi than those foraging on trunks. Foraging on the ground and branches of medium diameter was associated with bill thickness. Ecomorphological patterns were discernible at the level of substrate use and foraging methods, but bear no relation to selection of tree species or foraging height. Morphology correctly predicted niche breadth and interspecific overlap. In Parus spp. interspecific differences in bill shape could explain 63% of the interspecific segregation according to substrate use ( R
3682233|White spruce forests on the most elevated surfaces of the Mackenzie Delta are dying out and are being replaced by open spruce/lichen-heath or spruce/bog woodlands. Soil profiles indicate that these woodlands have not received flood-deposited sediments for many years. The active layer is only 20 to 50 cm deep by mid-summer, and the organic soils are colder and more acidic than soils under white spruce forests flooded during spring ice breakup in 1961, 1972, and 1982. Spruce regeneration is limited to those stands that are flooded periodically, have moderately-closed canopies, and have a ground cover of herbs rather than feathermosses and lichens. It is proposed that a decrease in flood frequency is primarily responsible for the poor regeneration of white spruce on the most elevated delta surfaces. Spruce woodlands on the delta could succeed to tundra vegetation if present fluvial regimes continue.
3682660|Birds are a powerful tool of environmental monitoring, on account of their ecological diversity. Because of this, bird populations seem best suited for monitoring biological, possibly non-linear effects of specified environmental changes, such as habitat modification, and for "general monitoring" aimed at detecting unexpected environmental changes as they occur. Because many population changes have multiple causes, monitoring specific environmental changes is most rewarding if birds are grouped by e.g. habitat, major strategy (e.g. resident vs. migrant species), or feeding guild. A blueprint for a Nordic monitoring system based on breeding land birds is presented. Local trends may be atypical, and representative coverage of the major habitats in large areas should thus be ensured. As annual population fluctuations usually give little information in environmental monitoring, long-term projects are necessary. The line transect method seems applicable to many monitoring purposes, as it is rapid, inexpensive, relatively accurate, and suitable for sampling the northern terrestrial biota of the Holarctic region, probably including the temperate deciduous forests.
3682071|Succession of forest floor vegetation (cryptogam and understorey vascular plant synusiae) is studied. Diversity patterns in northern boreal and hemiboreal to middle boreal lichen-rich forests are different. Even when the lichen volume, which describes the successional status, is taken into account, the diversity in southern forests is lower. The descriptors of diversity are rather independent of lichen volume in southern forests. When the Stereocaulon-rich forests are excluded, stronger correlations are observed in the northern forests, but the species number decreases only slightly as the lichen volume increases. Evidently this is due to relatively large sample plots, where suitable patches for minor species are usually available. The decrease is much stronger in Shannon's and Simpson's indices. This is mainly due to a decrease in evenness since, as the lichen volume increases, the dominance of some Cladina species increases. Therefore, these indices are not particularly efficient in describing the richness of the community. Stereocaulon-rich stands have diversity values which correspond to Cladina-rich stands with a considerably higher lichen volume, which gives additional evidence for their status as successionally rather mature communities.
3682105|The chironomid communities of fifty lakes in northern Norway are presented and briefly described. A limnological classification of the communities is given, together with remarks on the methods used. The interrelationships are given of the chironomid communities and such lake-water parameters as the minimum oxygen content, Secchi disc values, conductivity, total hardness and calcium content, total nitrogen, total phosphorus, chlorophyll a, and estimated fish yield. The best predictive and monitoring value of the chironomid communities, as classified by the above system, was obtained for the organic parameters. Compared with other indices used for estimating fish yields, the present method is as reliable as the better ones.
3682213| The effects of freshwater outflows were evaluated in three ways: (1) microbial populations in the outflow area (mainly Tvrminne Storfjrd) were compared with populations outside the area, (2) direct counts were made at three sites to monitor the abundance of bacteria along the seaward course of the outflows, and (3) a survey was made of the distribution of microorganisms in the archipelago. The indices used for the presence of freshwater outflows in the archipelago were low salinity, increased amounts of humic matter, and increased temperatures in the winter. In the outer archipelago, the effects of the outflows were most evident in the low-salinity surface layer below the ice and were also distinguishable in spring and late autumn, but were noted only sporadically in the summer. The outflows were traced as far seaward as the border of the sea zone. The outflows transported various types of bacteria, bacterial spores and yeasts, but did not significantly affect the community respiration. Many of the microorganisms flowing with the fresh water in the winter evidently originated from sewage. During the other seasons, the roles of outflows from the firth of Pojoviken and runoff from the land became evident, but their contributions could not be estimated because fresh water and sewage move together. However, most of the bacterial spores seemed to originate from the land. The archipelago east of Tvrminne Storfjrd proved to be appropriate for inshore brackish-water investigations being undisturbed by freshwater outflows. 
3682111|Age and size distributions and growth rates of individual trees were examined in a black spruce stand growing on a peatland in Alberta, Canada, 38 years after fire. Both height and basal girth frequency distributions were positively-skewed, with many small and few large individuals. Age distributions were negatively-skewed; most trees were recruited five to seven years after fire and there was little recruitment after 25 years. Stem analysis data indicated that increment in height was nearly constant over the life of the trees but larger trees grew faster than smaller trees. The trees which started growth immediately after the fire maintained faster growth than those recruited some years later. At the time of study, above ground competition and canopy shading were not considered to have a large effect on growth rates of individual trees. Several hypotheses are presented to explain these differences in growth of individual trees.
3682268|The species composition, species richness, and the general characteristics of the Corsican bird fauna are compared to those of similar French mainland areas. Species richness on Corsica is approximately 30% lower than on similar-sized reference areas on the mainland. A comparative study of the species composition indicates that species impoverishment is not evenly distributed among different species groups. These groups were defined on three levels: taxonomical, biogeographical, and ecological. The sea bird fauna appears not to be impoverished. Freshwater and anthropophileous bird species groups show only little impoverishment, which is to be related to their good dispersal ability as a consequence of the discontinuous distribution of their habitats even on the mainland. The mainland forest species group is one of the most impoverished, but mainland forest species having colonised Corsica show important habitat expansion and increased densities on the island. The sedentarity of these species and particular features of the Corsican environment are proposed as explanations.
3682325|We examined biotic and abiotic factors associated with density and diversity of larval midges (Diptera: Chironomidae) in the littoral zone of Par Pond, an 1100 ha cooling reservoir located near Aiken, South Carolina, USA. A total of 144 core samples were removed from 12 areas during each of 3 sample periods. Principal component analysis, Mantel analysis, and various univariate statistical tests were used to detect seasonal differences in (1) associations among areas and genera of Chironomidae, and (2) responses of midges to a multi-faceted environmental gradient. Water temperature, which in this case was a function of both season and thermal effluents, was the factor most strongly associated with relative changes in density and diversity within the chironomid assemblages. Plant biomass and/or plant diversity were significant factors correlated with midge density and diversity. Both particle size and organic content of the substratum, which varied little across stations, were relatively unimportant factors. Despite the presence of a multifaceted environmental gradient, the composition and relationships within the midge assemblages were remarkably similar across areas although total abundance and diversity varied. On the basis of their similarity in structure and function, we classify the midge assemblages within the reservoir as members of the same community. However, in response to dissimilar or unequal selective forces (principally the area-specific effects of thermal effluents), these assemblages appear to behave environmentally as multiple units rather than as a single component of the benthic community in Par Pond.
3682191| The common garter snake, Thamnophis sirtalis, has frequently been studied, but never in the far north where climatic influences on distribution and abundance might be expected to be severe. We examined the structure and dynamics of a communal den population at the northern limit of the species' range. Snakes were sampled at the hibernaculum from spring 1983 to spring 1987. Males were more easily caught than females, and few inferences could be made about the latter. Population estimates, though possessing wide standard errors, seemed to indicate that the denning population of 500-600 snakes, mostly adults, was stable. Annual survivorship of large males (400 mm SVL) was high (0.68-0.98) and was not correlated with body size. Thirty-four snakes that were first marked in 1983 were recaptured in the spring of 1987, indicating that they had survived at least six years, assuming they were a minimum of two years old when first marked. Recruitment to the denning population consisted of an influx of 'new' individuals (450-550 mm SVL) each autumn. It is not known where these snakes spend the first few years of their existence. The relative stability of numbers and high overwinter survivorship observed over the course of this study contrast sharply with the only previous study of T. sirtalis in cold climates. 
3682181| The tree-ring patterns of birch and pine in the Tornetrsk area of Swedish Lapland were compared. In order to dendrochronologically identify years of major insect attacks on birch, pine being unaffected by these outbreaks, served as control. The sharp growth increase in birch following the historically confirmed, heavy outbreak in 1954-55 is discussed and evidence pointing to possible earlier outbreaks is presented. 
3682662| The benthic resting stages of pelagic cyclopoids were studied in the oligotrophic lake Pjrvi (maximum depth 87 m), southern Finland. Stage 5 copepodids of Thermocyclops oithonoides were found in the bottom from September to April, with highest abundances in the littoral at 1-2 m. Dormant Mesocyclops leuckarti (mainly stage 5 copepodids) were found from mid-August to April, with a strong concentration at the depth of 1.5 m, and resting stage 4 copepodids of Cyclops kolensis from mid-summer to late winter at the depths of 1-13 m. Single stage 4 and 5 copepodids of C. strenuus and C. lacustris were also found in the bottom during autumn and winter. Available information on the periodicity of these species conforms well with the hypothesis of a temperature-adjusted photoperiodic control of diapause. In the sediment, the resting stages of pelagic cyclopoids were confined to the uppermost 2-3 cm, C. kolensis penetrating slightly deeper than the smaller Thermocyclops and Mesocyclops species. Losses during the resting period were highest in T. oithonoides, in which the seasonal mortality rates were significantly correlated with temperature. Its overall mortality was slightly lower at 2 m than at 13 or 40 m. C. kolensis had the lowest mortality, with no clear relation to temperature. The mean winter biomass of the benthic resting stages of pelagic cyclopoids exceeded that of the true benthic copepods, and the winter losses of the former were equal to about one fifth of the total annual production of the true benthic copepods. 
3682257|The feces of stream insects may be a major component of fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) available to collector organisms. In Mink Creek, Idaho, winter defecation rates for 9 species ranged from 86 mg dry feces
3682059|A summary of the present knowledge of variation in individual quality within a bark beetle population is given, with emphasis on the spruce bark beetle Ips typographus. A major causal factor is density, mediated by competition during larval development. Density negatively influences individual quality measured as weight, fat content and pheromone production. Together with decreasing mean values at higher densities, the skewness of the frequency distributions goes from negative to positive, while variance changes little. High densities, which often occur in the field, thus result in a large fraction of "low quality beetles". They have lower reproductive capacity and presumably lesser dispersal ability, lower survival, and earlier response to pheromone. This might concentrate the population in the next generation with increased competition as a result. It is suggested that a decrease in beetle "quality" due to increasingly intense intraspecific competition can contribute to the decline of an epidemic population.
3682675| The catchment area of vre Heimdalsvatn reaches from the upper half of the subalpine birch forest zone to the lowermost part of the high-alpine subzone within the alpine zone. The units dominating the area include mountain birch forest, tall herb meadow, mire vegetation, bilberry heath, snowbed communities, chionophobous heath vegetation, and areas without a continuous vegetation layer. It is shown that the potential natural vegetation corresponds closely to the actual vegetation distribution. 
3682378|The distribution and abundance of protozoa in two chalk streams were studied. Particular attention was given to the ciliates and amoebae associated with the dominant submerged macrophyte, Ranunculus penicillatus. Highest numbers of protozoa occurred in habitats in the stream where the current velocity was reduced. Mean standing crops of ciliates, flagellates and amoebae were 32.5, 2.9 and
3682447|The root systems of 16 dominant higher plants in 6 tundra plant communities were examined for the presence of mycorrhizae. Six are ectomycorrhizal, one strictly ectendomycorrhizal, six endomycorrhizal, and three nonmycorrhizal. The higher fungi which fruited among these plants were identified and related to the plants with appropriate ectomycorrhizal associations. Fungal biomass was measured in each community and the mycorrhizal component discussed and estimated. New records of Alaskan species of higher fungi are presented along with new descriptions of mycorrhizae on two subalpine plants.
3682415| Inland areas in SW Greenland south of lat. 67N have thermic conditions which are subarctic or just border on subarctic situations, but natural woodlands of Betula pubescens coll. and Sorbus groenlandica, though not covering vast areas, are confined to favourable places from lat. 6015 to 6115N. Alnus crispa forms thickets in middle fjord - or inland areas between 61 and 67. Apart from those depending on human activities, the factors limiting hardwood tree growth in Greenland are climatic and due either to hyperoceanic conditions in coastal mountains or skerries (too low summer temperatures) or high degree of continentality, resulting in extremely low precipitation (e.g. Sndre Strmfjord inland with subarctic steppes and salt lakes). Boreal (including sylvicolous) species, e.g. Cornus suecica, reach far north of the areas inhabited by low birch woodlands, but boreal species dominate the flora of the treeless skerries in South Greenland as well as areas at the head of the fjords where birch trees locally reach heights of 6-7 m. 
3682555|The two larger newt species in Europe, Triturus cristatus and T. marmoratus, have largely exclusive distributions but live in sympatry in a small area in western France, where they also hybridize. Triturus cristatus is increasing in abundance in the area at the expense of T. marmoratus, although this study shows that T. marmoratus has higher relative lifetime reproductive success. Triturus marmoratus lays more eggs than its relative under controlled conditions, and more T. marmoratus eggs in relation to its relative abundance are found in natural breeding sites. The hybrids are even more fecund, but their eggs and embryos have a lower survival rate. The data are compared for age at maturity and species longevity, and estimates of lifetime reproductive success show that T. marmoratus females are more fecund than T. cristatus females. There are no differences between the species in survival of the embryos. It is therefore not clear why T. cristatus is replacing T. marmoratus, but changes in terrestrial habitats due to human activity might be the explanation.
3682721| Pitfall traps caught large numbers of representatives of 44 families of invertebrates just before snow fall and under the snow. Some groups of ectotherms were most active in late autumn and late winter, the activity of some increased throughout the winter and some showed no major change although subnivean temperatures were usually near 0C. The most commonly trapped groups were: phalangids, collembolans, diplopods, coleopterans, dipterans, arachnids, gastropods and chilopods. 
3682227|The wind profile in the IBP beech stand and the vertical temperature distribution in the same beech stand and in a neighbouring clearing were investigated. In addition the temperature and humidity conditions in the trunk space of the beech stand and in the clearing were compared. The precipitation components were investigated during two periods. Because of the topography and the small extent of the wood the wind profile depends strongly on the wind direction. Maximum temperatures were found to occur in the upper part of the canopy during in-leaf periods. During leafless periods the temperature distribution indicates the presence of two distinct levels of energy exchange. Advection of airmasses from the adjoining bay strongly influences the climate of the wood. Because of the density of trees and the narrow fanshaped canopies, yearly throughfalls amount to 55-60% of the total precipitation, while stemflows amount to as much as 12%.
3682220|Eighty-five unhatched eggs from 68 white-tailed sea eagle clutches were collected during 1965-1978 along the Baltic coast and in Lapland. The eggs were analysed individually for residue levels of DDT and its metabolites, PCB and mercury. Pooled samples were analysed for levels of dieldrin and hexachlorobenzene (HCB). The variations in residue levels within and between clutches were studied before the material was grouped for investigations of relationships between reproduction and contamination. Levels of DDE, PCB and mercury were significantly higher in the Baltic as compared to the Lapland material. In the Baltic, the reproductive success on a clutch basis and on a nest basis was significantly and negatively correlated to the egg residue levels of DDE and PCB; no correlation was found with mercury. Critical ranges were estimated to
3682195|Year class splitting has been observed in a population of the terrestrial isopod Philoscia muscorum (Scopoli) in a fixed dune grassland. In this population, individuals born in one season differentiate into two forms, one of which grows to maturity in one year, the other in two. Laboratory investigations of growth, fecundity and survivorship of individuals showed fundamental positive relationships between rate of growth and the ambient temperature/day light regime, and between parental size and the number of offspring produced. Size also affected survivorship, with adults surviving better than juveniles. A link between survivorship and the temperature/day light regime was only obvious in small juveniles. No direct physiological cause for the year class split could be derived from the laboratory studies, but a trade-off between the need for delayed or early breeding could result in the patterns of growth and reproduction observed in the field population. Delayed breeding allows continued growth of adults and hence larger numbers of offspring. Early breeding allows more growth of juveniles which greatly improves their chances of winter survival.
3682422|The close correlation between climatic fluctuation and forest growth near the tree-line is discussed. Depending on climatic conditions, the opinions of foresters on the yield potential of the northernmost pine forests have varied greatly from time to time. In Finland the Zone of Protection-Forests is defined by law (1922) and the Forest Research Institute has prepared practical instructions for the silvicultural management of the Protection-Forests (1959). These instructions are rather conservative. Thus, radical measures, such as clear-felling and artificial reforestation, are avoided whereas, in the first place, silvicultural thinnings and removal of over-mature standards in younger stands are recommended. This kind of management allows the rational utilization of the yield capacity of the forests, without endangering their future existence. The scenic value and multiple use of these forests also are considered in the management instructions.
3682654|The research area includes subalpine meadows, alder communities, dwarf-shrub heaths, lichen heaths and highalpine meadows (1960 m-3090 m a.s.l.). The material consists of 4419 Julidae (31.6% adult) collected by extraction of litter samples (66.4%), in pitfall traps (26.3%) and by handsampling (7.3%). Cylindroiulus meinerti (Verhoeff) only occurred below 2000 m; Leptoiulus saltuvagus (Verhoeff) was mainly found at Alnus viridis sites; Leptoiulus simplex (Verhoeff) had its main distribution in the lichen heath (2200-2300 m); Ommatoiulus sabulosus (L.) was found most frequently in the subalpine meadow and Leptoiulus alemannicus (Verhoeff) occurred up to 2800 m without any altitudinal concentration. Adults of L. saltuvagus showed only one distinct activity peak in September, those of L. simplex were diplochronous (June/September) and O. sabulosus summer stenochronous (July). L. saltuvagus reached maturity in stage IX (only males), X or XI after four or five years. In their first year of growth the members of a generation reached the third or fourth stage, in the second year the sixth or seventh, in the third year the eighth or ninth. Females could carry full-sized eggs in the autumn of the fourth year in the tenth stage or in the fifth year in stage eleven. Apparently eggs may be laid in spring of the fifth or sixth year. Overwintering density of L. saltuvagus in alder litter was found to be
3682470|The effects of pH and aluminium on embryonic and early larval stages of Swedish brown frogs Rana arvalis, R. temporaria and R. dalmatina were tested in laboratory bioassays. In all three species egg mortality and time needed for embryonic development to hatching increased when pH declined, but no significant effects were found on embryonic development when aluminium level was elevated. In R. arvalis and R. temporaria larval mortality was affected by both pH and aluminium. In both species the frequency of occurrence of larval deformities increased in acid water, and there was a synergistic effect of pH and aluminium. In R. arvalis swimming behaviour was disturbed by high levels of aluminium at pH 5. In all three species the frequency of stressed larvae increased when pH was depressed and aluminium concentration elevated, and there was a synergistic effect when both were combined. The three species differed significantly in egg mortality, time needed for embryonic development, larval mortality, larval deformities and larval stress at low pH and high aluminium levels. R. arvalis showed the highest acid tolerance and R. dalmatina was the most sensitive to low pH.
3682120|At a high arctic lowland on Ellesmere Island, heath communities dominated by Cassiope tetragona were widespread, and occurred in a variety of habitats that differred in time of snowmelt, relative site moisture, soil thaw depth, and air and soil temperature. Cover, standing crop, and production were dominated by woody plants, notably Cassiope tetragona and Dryas integrifolia. The Cassiope-dominated heaths were similar in composition to those at other Canadian high arctic localities, but were less similar to localities in Greenland and Spitzbergen. Compositional relationships among Cassiope-dominated heaths in different habitats at the study site may be largely determined by two interrelated environmental factors, time of snowmelt and site moisture. Aboveground vascular plant biomass was concentrated near the ground surface, resulting in simple vertical structure that takes advantage of relatively warm soil and air temperatures in summer, and a protective snow cover in winter. Aboveground vascular plant standing crop was largely comprised of attached dead tissue, and there were equal proportions of above- and belowground biomass. Low community production was due to dominance by long-lived, slow-growing species, and to short growing seasons and cold temperatures. Overall character of Cassiope-dominated heaths reflects the conservative, stress tolerant growth strategy of the dominant species, Cassiope tetragona.
3682403| Survival of the midge larvae Chironomus plumosus and C. anthracinus in anoxia at 4C was investigated. C. plumosus survived about twice as long as C. anthracinus. The corresponding LT 50 values were ca 205 and 100 d. There was no statistically significant difference between the survival in anoxia and in aerated water, which indicates that the main reason for death in anoxia is not the absence of oxygen. This main reason is presumed to be starvation. The presence of undissociated H
3682279|Climatic fluctuation is a serious problem for forestry in Lapland. Some indications about the nature and causal relationships of such fluctuation have been discussed. Cyclic variation can be explained by a "memory" in the atmosphere, variation in the Moons's gravitation, and solar activity. The index of atmospheric circulation over the northern hemisphere was the most effective climatic parameter in explaining the growth variation of Scots pine.
3682715| In Hastings Lake (longitudes 11315 and 5350N), a shallow eutrophic lake, the spatial and temporal changes in species composition, diversity, standing crops, and primary productivity of the epiphytic algae attached to Phragmues australis and Scirpus validus were investigated in relation to the physico-chemical environment. Of the dominant species, cyanophycean algae (Lyngbya diguetii and Calothrix sp.) developed best in the 25 cm region below the water surface, while the chlorophycean alga, Stigeoclonium nanum and the diatoms (Cocconeis placentula, Gomphonema parvulum and Rhoicosphenia curvata) did so in the 50 cm and 75 cm regions, respectively. Certain dominant species persisted throughout, interrupted by "shock periods" which created spring, summer, and autumn peaks. Species diversity indices increased with depth, and generally decreased spring through winter. Standing crop maxima occurred within the top 25 cm of the host stems, and showed spring and larger autumn peaks before declining to low, yet significant winter levels. Productivity, too, was greatest in the top 25 cm region, and again peaked in the spring and autumn. Cross incubation studies elucidated vertical and seasonal relationships among productivity, photosynthetic index, and efficiency, and productivity efficiency. An interplay of "sun and shade" adapted populations within the community was found. The epiphytic algae displayed but a muted seasonal response to physico-chemical fluctuations; however, there was an association with overall nutrient changes as determined by meq
3682357| We examined population fluctuations of the voles Microtus agrestis L. and Clethrionomys glareolus Schreb. by biannual trapping; black grouse Tetrao tetrix L., mountain here Lepus timidus L., and red fox Vulpes vulpes L. by using bag records from all over Sweden, questionnaires from south-central Sweden, and population indices from Grims Wildlife Research Area in south-central Sweden. Synchronous population fluctuations between voles as a group and the other species conformed to a 3-4 year periodic pattern in both autumn and spring populations only in northern and central Sweden (the boreal forest region). Spring populations of boreal forest grouse, hare, and probably also fox, lagged one year behind the voles. The northerly areas also formed geographical units of co-fluctuation within each game species. Using our own data as well as reviewing previous studies in Fennoscandia, we conclude that synchronized 3-4 year population fluctuations of voles and medium-sized herbivores are confined to the central and northern part of Fennoscandia, although voles may exhibit short-term population fluctuations further south. The synchronizing link between the herbivores could be (1) food plant quality and/or quantity and/or (2) predation. We could not reject either of these two plausible mechanisms as a cause of interspecifically synchronous fluctuations. 
3682736| Imnavait Creek is a tundra stream in the Arctic Foothills of Alaska. The stream is beaded, i.e. consists of pools (up to  2 m deep) connected by narrow channels. Peat dominates pool and channel substrate materials with occasional rock and moss substrates. The watershed is underlain by ice-bonded till and is hydrologically water-tight. Because of low rates of weathering, bedrock and till do not contribute significantly to ionic composition of the stream water. Breakup occurs in late May to early June with surface flow until September. During periods of low rainfall, channel flow is reduced and pools become hydrologically isolated and thermally stratified (with very high surface water temperatures). Streamwater is acidic (pH values 5.3-6.1) with very low alkalinity (
3682347|The hypothesis that bogs are climax (structurally and compositionally stable) communities has been proposed for several large regions including southeast Alaska. A logical consequence of the bog climax is the hypothesis that, where there is infrequent large-scale physical disturbance, landscape-level changes from early successional woodland to late successional peatland should have occurred during the Holocene. This hypothesis is tested in southeast Alaska using analyses of fossil arthropods and site stratigraphy, as well as a review of the ecological literature. Results indicate at least three major landscape types have dominated since deglaciation: deciduous woodland (about 9000 to 6000 yr BP), coniferous woodland (about 6000 to 3000 yr BP), and peatland (about 3000 yr BP to present). Other paleoecological and ecological studies from around the region provide evidence for directional changes, both past and present, from woodland to peatland. Furthermore, there is no clear evidence for peatland to woodland transitions in the absence of large-scale disturbance. These results suggest that the bog climax hypothesis deserves a more careful examination by ecologists studying succession.
3682050|A model of attack dynamics on a single tree under mass attack by the spruce bark beetle Ips typographus is developed from earlier studies of pheromone production and response of the flying population to the pheromone signal. The model is explored for different numbers and sex-ratios of pioneer beetles and responding beetles. Both numbers of pioneers and responders were important for the dynamics, while the sex-ratio of pioneers was less important. A decreased proportion of males among the responding beetles was important for the result of the model. In the early stage of the attack the model predictions of both numbers and sex-ratio of beetles landing were similar to examples from naturally mass-attacked trees, although the attack proceeded more slowly than in the field. Several aspects of the attack dynamics, such as density-regulation of the number of attacks on the tree, as observed in the field, were not predicted by the model. Gaps in the knowledge of the chemical ecology of the tree-insect relation, such as qualitative change in odours from the tree, spacing mechanisms on the bark surface, and mortality due to host resistance, are pointed out with help of the model.
3682082|Intraspecific variation in the maximum shell length of Pisidium is small in comparison with variation in the life span of the clams, from 4 mo to 4 yr. The use of shell length as a measure of size is complicated by large intraspecific variation in the weight-length relationship, a possible reflection of resource availability on the weight of the soft parts. Maximum embryo length is relatively constant (1 mm) in the majority of species but litter size is variable (1 to 40), generally increasing with parent size. The time of egg-laying is determined by the size of the clam, season, and previous episode of reproduction, while the timing of the release of embryos, depending also on embryonic growth rate, is additionally affected by temperature and oxygen conditions. In brief, the maximum adult and embryo lengths are relatively conservative traits while growth rates vary by an order of magnitude. Reproductive effort, when measured by the ratio of litter weight to parent weight, may increase or decrease with parent length and age. Both semelparous and iteroparous populations are known in several species. We suggest that if maximum adult length can be reached by the first reproductive season (in a favourable environment) the population is semelparous, otherwise (in an unfavourable environment) the population is iteroparous. Gravid clams in semelparous populations continue to grow, and thus assimilation cannot be meaningfully partitioned into reproduction, somatic growth and maintenance. Along a depth gradient from 8 to 65 m, maximum and mature shell lengths, embryo length and litter size varies significantly in Pisidium conventus subpopulations not distinguishable electrophoretically. Large clams in deep water produce large embryos but small litters, which is contrary to the general trend of increasing litter size with parent length. Low food availability that decreases juvenile growth rate may restrict litter size in this case.
3682674| Owing to the high altitude of vre Heimdalen and the complex topography within the valley, climatic conditions are complicated. The valley is situated in a mountain region with a subarctic or tundra macroclimate, which exists over the lake itself and on the SSW-valley side. However, the favourable combination of slope angle and exposure of the NNE-valley side gives a radiation or continental type of local climate on this side. The large net input of radiant energy onto the NNE-valley side during the summer results in higher air temperatures, greater precipitation and higher air humidity than elsewhere in the valley. This is clearly reflected in the luxuriant vegetation on this side. Thus, the climate of the vre Heimdalsvatn area is strongly influenced by terrain irregularities and shows how fundamentally different growth possibilities due to local climates may be over short distances in the uppermost valleys on the eastern side of the central mountain chain. 
3682101|Microfungi were isolated with the soil washing technique from five different soil horizons in three podzolic coniferous forests in Sweden. Totally 126 species were identified of which 45 were found at two and 24 were found at three sites. The most common genera were Mortierella and Penicillium. Other genera isolated in high frequences were Oidiodendron, Tolypocladium, Trichoderma and Verticillium. Pronounced differences in species composition were found between the soil layers, while great similarities were shown in identical soil layers at different sites.
3682169| A documented warmth preference in the pool frog Rana lessonae is also expressed in the reproductive behaviour of a northern fringe population (60N). During the breeding period of 31 days, individually marked frogs were observed during chorus. Male choruses were formed in the warmest parts of the pond, but moved between three areas. At night, these areas maintained the highest water temperatures in the pond, especially at low temperatures prevailing in the beginning of the breeding period. Oviposition occurred in the current chorus areas, and 86% took place during the first two weeks of the breeding period. That the choruses and oviposition changed locations within the favourable breeding areas can be explained by a pronounced thermal preference in the frogs, and winds moving the warm surface water in different directions. The water temperature required to initiate oviposition was 16C, which is similar to those reported from related more southern populations. The thermal preference expressed in the breeding behaviour of both sexes and the tendency for early oviposition may be behavioural responses to environmental constraints on reproduction in the short season at 60N. 
3682444|Analysis of bryophyte vegetation along a topographic gradient in Alaskan montane rundra reveals definite species distribution patterns. Because the bryophyte species distributions do not always correspond to boundaries between vascular vegetation zones, tundra vegetation types based mainly on vascular plants may be imperfectly suited to description of bryophyte vegetation.
3682561|The seed banks in the soils of seven mature beech forests in southern Sweden were examined using the seedling-emergence method. Seedling emergence in the field was also studied. In the studied forests, covering a wide range of vegetation and soil types, between 1020 and 4500 germinating seeds m
3682587|Seven bryophyte and three vascular plant community types were described from eight small fens in the Vechtplassen area (prov. of Utrecht, the Netherlands). Clear relationships between the species composition of the bryophyte and vascular plant layer were found. The bryophyte species composition shows a gradual change from quaking fens dominated by Calliergon cordifolium to fens dominated by several species of Sphagnum. Fens dominated by C. cordifolium have relatively high pH and conductivity values and are strongly quaking, whereas fens dominated by Sphagnum have relatively low pH and conductivity values and the peat layer is continuous down to the bottom sediment. A comparison of the present-day vegetation with an earlier successional scheme for this vegetation type (Segal 1966) indicates a raise in nutrient levels and a decrease in the amount of seepage water welling up at the sites, both due to human activities. We suggest that in early successional phases bryophytes react faster to these changes, whereas in later phases vascular plants react faster.
3682283|The development of an invertebrate community in a large scale, experimental stream system is described. Colonisation was chiefly by means of ovipositing adult insects with lesser components introduced with water and stones. A succession of taxa was recorded with large peaks of numbers in the spring and the autumn, comparable to those observed in studies on natural streams. Diversity of the fauna increased quickly at first and then more slowly, possibly because of the reduced availability of ovipositing adults later in the year. Even in the absence of drift and migration, recruitment of insect larvae, which naturally favour gravel substrata in running water, can be rapid and will produce a varied community in which Chironomidae and Ephemeroptera play an important role.
3682099| The vegetation of a snow bed has been described by a pin-point method and a modified Raunkir frequency analysis. The thawing of the snow has been followed and some soil properties have been investigated. It is concluded that the composition of the vegetation in the snow bed is influenced mainly by the duration of the growth period, but locally the density and the species composition are determined by the downward flow of the melt water. 
