4602784|Traditional Newfoundland horticulture has been a subordinate and compensatory element of the subsistence sphere in a plural economy centered on fishing. Criticized as inefficient and ruinous to the land, this tuber-root-brassica gardening has in fact been a valuable contribution to diet, is relatively efficient, and compensates for the inadequacies of land and weather. Field data from the Great Northern Peninsula, where some traditional practices persist, demonstrate that the practices conserve time and labor, and substitute massive applications of materials to assure a yield sufficient for household needs. The inefficiency in the tradition may be understood as a response to the constraints upon household labor and follows a kind of Leibig's law of the minimum. Recent changes in gardening practices reveal the dynamics of horticulture in the household's mixed economic strategy. As cash and land have become more common, they have been used to further reduce time while maintaining sufficiency.
4602356|The Andes are characterized by valley systems that differ according to the steepness of the environmental gradient as well as the human occupation and land use patterns. This article discusses the natural and crop zonation in one valley of the eastern Andes of northern Peru which includes many of the principal plant and crop zones of the Peruvian Andes. The entire valley is exploited by one peasant community. The article describes some of the land use patterns of the community and compares this valley system with others on the eastern slopes of the Andes.
4602732| Stocks (1983) suggested four reasons which motivate the planting of South American tropical forest swidden crops in concentric rings. His third proposal, that of protection from insect pests, is examined in the light of recent fieldwork with the Bar, and reformulated to suggest that protection from mammalian pests may be a more accurate explanation of the value of this type of field architecture. 
4602546|Changes in worldwide grain production area are analyzed to assess the impact of major agricultural activity on global biomass. During the 26-year study period, nearly 1% of the earth's ice-free land surface was converted to grain production. This increase in agricultural area reduced the planetary biomass; however, it had minimal effect on net primary productivity. Geographically, the overall change caused by increased grain production has been to redistribute the planetary biomass poleward.
27654156|Herd mobility is a tool for managing environmental variability in African pastoral systems. This study examines the monthly mobility patterns of 24 herds over six years in the 20,000 ha communal area of Paulshoek, Namaqualand, and assesses the social, economic, and ecological factors affecting the livestock movement of individual herds and all herds combined. When the mobility pattern of all herds was considered, no seasonal or between-year differences in response to rainfall were evident. An analysis of individual herd mobility patterns showed that half of the herds were relatively sedentary over the study period while the other half were regularly mobile. Although herders used mobility to manage their herds in the unpredictable semiarid environment, their daily decisions were often made in response to their social, economic, or personal situations. There was no significant difference in livestock production between herding strategies, but sedentary herders had a greater localized impact on the rangeland than mobile herders. Our analysis suggests that non-environmental factors play a significant role in herd mobility and may consequently affect the efficiency of livestock production and environmental management.
4603014|Birth seasonality at high latitudes is a complex phenomenon which is undoubtedly affected by a subtle interaction between environmental rhythmicity (most notably in photoperiod and temperature) and cultural adaption. There is intriguing evidence that human gonadotrophic activity (and hence fertility) may be affected by seasonal fluctuations in light intensity and duration. Nevertheless, cultural factors are important insofar as they mediate between environmental rhythmicity and human fertility/birth patterns. This article examines the distribution of births over several decades in an Inuit community located 300 miles north of the Arctic Circle. Several shifts in birth seasonality are noted, the most significant of which is a dramatic shift from pronounced seasonality in the 1970s to non-seasonality in the 1980s. Longitudinal ethnographic fieldwork has allowed an examination of social and economic changes accounting for the rather sudden disappearance of birth seasonality. These include increasing reliance upon wage employment and social assistance, decreased dependence upon subsistence hunting and trapping, changing attitudes on the part of young people entering their prime reproductive years, and the introduction of television, radio, and southern-style recreational activities.
41474580|Detailed ethnographic studies of individual subaks indicate that subaks are neither as homogeneous nor as harmonious as some other studies have suggested. Their internal workings are complex and often contradictory and contested. Processes of continuity and change co-exist in delicate dynamic equilibrium. These studies signal a need for wariness about generalization and a need for close study of specific cases. This paper is just such a study, not of a subak as such, but of an innovative and (to date) extraordinarily successful localized project to develop rice-cultivation in a more sustainable direction through a shift away from petrochemical-based agriculture toward a more organic approach based on locally produced compost. We use this case also to address questions about the relevance and role of the subak in such developments.
4603418|A single round household survey was conducted between October 1997 and May 1998. Information was collected on 1545 Maasai households in Kenya and Tanzania using a standardized questionnaire. These data represent the first large-scale, cross-border comparable survey of socioeconomic indicators for the Maasai. The structure of the study is similar to that of a natural experiment: one ethnic group living in two very different nation-states. The survey results describe a current "snapshot" of Maasai livelihoods. Living arrangements are described at both the household (olmarei) and multihousehold (enkang) level, together with changes in housing type. The roles of cultivation, transhumant migration, and employment are described, including a consideration of the prevalence of murranism (warriorhood). The implications of rising levels of sedentarization and cash crop production for Maasai economic diversification are explored. Participation by Maasai in the tourism industry is extremely low despite the proximity of Maasai to major international tourist destinations in East Africa. Levels of formal education show a marked sex bias in completed primary school education in both countries, with far fewer women than men having attended school.
27654138|Despite growing interest in traditional and local ecological knowledge for conservation and resource management, the role of migrant resource users is largely unexplored. Challenging many assumptions about what constitutes "local knowledge," migrant and immigrant harvesters of non-timber forest products on the Olympic Peninsula, Washington possess useful ecological knowledge of overstoryunderstory relationships and how forestry practices affect understory biological and commercial production. Harvesters of salal (Gaultheria shallon), a shrub used in the multi-million dollar floral greens industry, were interviewed in Mason County, Washington in 20012003. Interviews revealed that harvesters possess different kinds of resource management knowledge depending on whether they are experienced harvesters or more recent newcomers to the area. These differences may also correlate with differences in their harvesting practices. Understanding how resource management knowledge differs between experienced and newcomer harvesters can inform forest managers in their efforts to develop effective management and permitting policies for floral greens and other non-timber forest resources in the Pacific Northwest of the United States.
41432984|Marine protected areas (MPAs) are often met with reluctance by affected stakeholders, and in some instances outright objection. Some argue that this is due to insufficient understanding of the functions of MPAs. Others suggest that it could be because of a perception that they are losing more than they are gaining. It is also possible that stakeholders are generally supportive of the idea but think that the MPA should be located elsewhere. We argue that it is images people have about what the MPA is and does that determine how they react. Drawing from three MPA case studies in Spain, we illustrate the importance of critical examination of stakeholders' images and what they imply for the governance of MPAs.
25652783|An important component of urban green space functionality is the way in which such spaces are perceived and used by urban residents. Use is affected by many factors including the nature and dynamics of urban morphology at the city and neighbourhood scale. This paper demonstrates a method for conducting analyses of green space socio-ecological functionality and presents the results of its application to Karachi, Pakistan. The paper explores the use of the results of an urban gradient analysis for site selection and presents the results of an associated survey of functions using three case study green spaces. The results show that, although urban dwellers in the city use green spaces infrequently, when they do it tends to be for long periods of time and for a range of purposes. Levels of overcrowding at the more accessible sites indicate the value that urban dwellers place on these resources, and their importance to the city as a whole. The results of this study provide evidence for the need to protect green spaces from the competing demands associated with increasing urbanisation, especially if the wider goal of urban sustainability is to be achieved.
4603358|The impact of increase in population on land use and subsistence pattern was examined in two environmentally contrasting Huli-speaking communities, Heli and Wenani, in the Tari basin in Papua New Guinea Highlands. Despite the similar extent of population increase in both communities, the damage to land differed markedly. In Heli, a decrease in land productivity owing to excessive agricultural use has induced farmers to shorten the fallow duration, which in turn has led to further land degradation and difficulties in increasing food production. In contrast, Wenani villagers have coped with the population increase by enlarging areas for cultivation and possibly will be able to double their present production level, although increasingly frequent disputes over land rights have restricted peoples' access to fertile areas. During a period of climatic perturbations in 1994, land and labor productivities of crops were three times higher in Wenani than in Heli, which suffered a severe food shortage. This difference in ability to cope with climatic perturbations may have increased with population growth. The findings in the present study suggest that the effects of population pressure on food production may differ between communities, depending on the indigenous environment and subsistence pattern.
4603448| A large and growing number of agricultural households in less developed countries are also engaged in international migration. Thousands of farmers from the highland provinces of Caar and Azuay, Ecuador, have immigrated to metropolitan New York, where they work in menial jobs and remit, as a group, millions of dollars annually. This paper examines the effects of international migration on agricultural production and land-use in two regions of Caar Province. An agricultural survey was administered in two communities to determine land-use and agricultural production of migrant and nonmigrant households. Contrary to most reports on the subject, migration has neither led to agricultural abandonment nor have remittances been dedicated to agricultural improvements. Semisubsistence agriculture remains an important riskaverse economic and cultural activity, but cultivation is a poor investment. A large investment in housing and land has converted much of the region into a peri-urban landscape of cultivated real estate. 
4603331|Mobile livestock herders have long been seen as the main culprits of overstocking and rangeland degradation. In recent years, however, anthropologists and ecologists have argued that African pastoralists have developed sustainable modes of pasture management based on a sound knowledge of savanna ecosystems. Comparing indigenous knowledge on species' grazing values, plant succession, and ideas about the causes for environmental change in two African pastoral societies (the Kenyan Pokot and the Namibian Himba), it is shown that their knowledge is indeed fine-grained and complex but at the same time socially constructed and embedded in ideology. It relates to a cultural landscape and not to abstract considerations on climax vegetation and its changes over time. Pastoral knowledge is built up around the interaction between herds and vegetation rather than around the environment as such.
27654220|The prey choice model, previously applied among shellfish gatherers in Kiribati, Micronesia, has shown that they are foraging in a manner that matches the predictions of optimal foraging theory by maximizing their net energy return rates. Similar conclusions can be drawn subsequent to testing the patch choice model, including patch switching; patch sampling; and the analysis of risk. In light of these results, it is argued that natural selection probably never encouraged the persistence of conservation because individuals have nearly always benefited from short-term goals to ensure greater fitness. However, the possibility remains that as a result of changed circumstances brought about by increasing human population, more efficient extractive technologies, and expanding market opportunities, genuine, as opposed to epiphenomenal conservation, may become established in heavily impacted environments.
4603555|This study first explores the physical and psychological health effects of residence near industrial hog farms. The study compares differences in specific health symptoms, psychological distress, and perceived control between a group of 48 nearby residents and a control group (n = 34) with no exposure to hog farms. The process through which nearby residence affects psychological distress is then explored by examining for mediating effects of either physical health symptoms or perceived control. Findings suggest that nearby residence is associated with increases in 12 of the 22 reported physical symptoms. Most of these significantly different symptoms are related to respiratory, sinus, and nausea problems. Nearby residence is also associated with increased psychological distress and decreased perceptions of control. Nearby residence appears to affect psychological distress by increasing physical health symptoms. Although nearby residents report significantly lower perceived control, perceived control does not play a significant role in the process through which nearby residence affects psychological distress.
4602389|This article explores links between disease and social standing in a primitive New Guinea community. Social and cultural events have modified the incidence of certain diseases. Furthermore, the changing patterns of disease may have influenced the development and form of social distinctions.
23353207|A growing dilemma is how to conserve Amazonian forest while allowing local people to secure their livelihoods. Small-scale swidden farming in Amazonia is entirely dependent on the continued provision of ecosystem services (ES) that generate the conditions for agriculture. This study identified soil-related ES needed for, and enhanced by, productive swidden systems from the farmer's perspective. Workshops in six farming communities in northeastern Peru discussed various land uses, swidden systems that continue to be productive, and swidden systems on degraded land. The participating farmers noted changes in their production systems and described the ES (or lack thereof) in terms of soil quality, crop production quantity and quality, burning practices, forest regeneration, and farming skill. The central elements described in farmers' own strategies for managing soil-related ES were fallow management for biomass production and crop diversity, factors identified as central to future ES management work in established agricultural areas in Amazonia.
4602755|This analysis of G//ana territorial organization shows how land rights are acquired and how they affect patterns of land use. Both spatial and social boundaries are discussed. It is shown that the appearance of overlapping spatial boundaries is clarified through a focus on the land rights of individuals and a consideration of historical population movements over the region. The discussion of social boundaries shows that, while interterritorial marriage and mobility networks are extensive, increases in property and food production appear to be associated with a closing of social boundaries (increased social nucleation). This is suggested by greater endogamy and a trend toward patrilineal inheritance of land rights in recent years.
4603345|The optimal use of Amazonian flood-recession soils in contexts of dense settlement is, according to many anthropologists, agronomists, and ecologists, the cultivation of proteinaceous cereals and legumes. Storable protein is thought to be necessary for nutritional security through the fish-poor season. Campo Alegre, a Tikuna floodplain community of over 1300 people, is one of the largest indigenous Amazonian communities in the contemporary ethnographic record. Furthermore, some two-thirds of its agricultural production is directed toward market sale. However, in the summers of 1994 and 1995, residents cultivated no proteinaceous crops on their extensive floodplain to store for later consumption. Their utilization of these soils, a relatively new resource for them, is best understood in relation to the intensification of two traditional resource bases--fisheries and upland soils, the resulting pressures on their production flows, and the desire to maintain them.
4603104|Based on a year data collected over 1 year from a sample of 200 households living in a village in southwestern Bangladesh, the present study examines the prevalence of higher rates of unemployment and underemployment in agriculture particularly among the landless and small farmers and sharecroppers. When compared with the existing previous data from other parts of the country, growing rates of unemployment and underemployment in agriculture were evidenced. Population pressure, landlessness, environmental constraints, and technological changes in agriculture are some of the causes of unemployment in farming. Both male, female, and child laborers in the farm household perform various amounts and types of off-farm work to supplement low farm income. Off-farm income accounted for 66% of the family income. Contributions of female and child labor are significant. Education and urbanization show positive effects on the availability of off-farm work as well as off-farm income.
24013721|The role of humans in historic fire regimes has received little quantitative attention. Here, we address this inadequacy by developing a fire history in northeastern Oklahoma on lands once occupied by the Cherokee Nation. A fire event chronology was reconstructed from 324 tree-ring dated fire scars occurring on 49 shortleaf pine (Pinus echinata) remnant trees. Fire event data were examined with the objective of determining the relative roles of humans and climate over the last four centuries. Variability in the fire regime appeared to be significantly influenced by human population density, culture, and drought. The mean fire interval (MFI) within the 1.2 km study area was 7.5 years from 1633 to 1731 and 2.8 years from 1732 to 1840. Population density of Native American groups including Cherokee was significantly correlated (r=0.84) with the number of fires per decade between 1680 and 1880. Coincident with the Removal of the Cherokee and other native peoples from the eastern United States and immigrations into northeast Oklahoma, the MFI decreased to 1.8 years. After 1925 fire intervals were considerably lengthened (MFI=16 years) due to fire suppression and decreased fire use until the recent prescribed burning by The Nature Conservancy. Many of the historic fire years that were previously shown to be synchronous across Missouri and Arkansas during drought years were also fire years at this site. Overall the frequency of fires was weakly associated with drought compared to human population density.
4602801|Traditional subsistence pastoralists in East Africa tend to keep large herds, milk cattle in preference to eating them, and subject them to long foraging treks. Such practices are widely considered ill-suited to arid lands and are believed to arise because cattle are raised more for social prestige than food production. Whether this is true can only be judged by considering the responses of cattle to arid zones and, given the herder's goals and options, his management practices. In considering these factors, we show that indigenous East African cattle demonstrate energy-sparing capabilities during drought. Pastoralists can therefore herd cattle at great distances from water at little more cost than animals on the normal maintenance diet and watered more frequently. The physiological response of cattle to drought, the ecological constraints imposed by livestock and wildlife competition, and the energetic efficiency of mixed milk and meat pastoralism explain why herders traditionally select their characteristic management practices.
24015697|Terraces are ubiquitous, in some ways defining, features of Mediterranean environments, yet their longerterm history and relationship to human populations and food economies are not well understood. This paper discusses a complete system of terraces across the small island of Antikythera, Greece. We bring together the evidence from archaeology, ethnography, archival history, botany and geoarchaeology, supported by direct dating of buried terrace soils, and consider terrace investment in relation to major episodes in the island's punctuated history of human activity. This broad-spectrum approach leads to a range of interesting insights on the spatial structure of terraces, on the degree of correlation between terrace construction and changing human population, and on the implications of terrace abandonment for vegetation and soils.
41474637|Fear of an upcoming woodfuel crisis caused by increasing woodfuel consumption in Bamako has had great influence on forestry policies aiming to reduce the impacts of urban woodfuel consumption. During the last 20 years, energy gap analysesthe relationship between supply and demand of woodfuelshave been produced by the government of Mali to prove the impacts of woodfuel consumption in Bamako on surrounding woodlands. This study evaluates the methodology and data used to describe this woodfuel crisis through a comparison with regional and historical data. The results of the energy gap analyses are challenged by using different estimates of woody resource availability and woodfuel consumption to create best and worst case scenarios. These show either high surpluses or high deficits with a difference of 2.7 million tons/yr. The woodfuel system of Bamako is highly dynamic and it is very difficult to evaluate its sustainability using a simple methodology such as the energy gap analysis. Trends over the last 20 years show a highly efficient woodfuel system that has adapted to changing circumstances, ensuring a continued affordable woodfuel supply for the urban residents. Better data on the productivity of West African woodlands and urban consumption are needed to avoid misinterpretations of the impacts of woodfiiel harvesting on woody resources.
4603308|Chronic, heavy livestock grazing and concomitant fire suppression have caused the gradual replacement of palatable grass species by less palatable trees and woody shrubs in a rangeland degradation process termed bush encroachment in South Africa. Grazing policymakers and cattle farmers alike have not appreciated the ecological role fire and native browsers play in preventing bush encroachment. Unpredictable droughts are common in South Africa but have deflected too much blame for bush encroachment away from grazing mismanagement. Bush encroachment is widespread on both black and white farms, although the contributing socioeconomic, cultural, and political forces differ. Managers at Madikwe Game Reserve have reintroduced fire and native game animals into a formerly overgrazed system in an attempt to remediate bush encroachment, with encouraging preliminary results. A bush control program is needed that educates cattle farmers about the ecological causes of bush encroachment and encourages the use of fire and native browsers as tools for sustainable grazing management.
27654205|We explore the association between climate change and warfare in eastern China over the past millennium from a macro-historic perspective. High-resolution palaeo-temperature reconstructions and the complete record of warfare incidence in eastern China were compared. Results show that warfare frequency in eastern China (its southern portion in particular) significantly correlated with the Northern Hemisphere temperature oscillations. Almost all peaks of warfare frequency and dynastic changes occurred in cooling phases. We suggest that in historic China, the reduction of thermal energy during cooling phases significantly shrank agricultural production. Such ecological stress interacted with population pressure and China's unique historic and geographic setting to bring about the high frequencies of warfare over the last millennium. We recommend scholars take climate change into account as they consider the anthropology of warfare in the historic past.
4602928|The relatively low reproductive rates of hunter-gatherer populations have been attributed to high natural mortality, low fertility, and cultural practices such as infanticide and sexual abstention. While we currently lack the data necessary to determine the relative effects of each of these factors on reproduction in any hunter-gatherer population, an analysis of the relations between cultural practices and reproduction at a more general level can set the stage for further research in hunter-gatherer societies. This paper reviews and discusses the current literature on specific links between female nutritional health, fertility, and infant mortality. It begins with a consideration of food taboos, one potential source of hunter-gatherer female nutritional stress. In particular, it is argued that the timing of food taboos on females in many hunter-gatherer societies often coincides with critical periods in women's reproductive careers. Next, the paper explores the interrelationships between female nutritional health and fertility and infant mortality, using data from modern hunter-gatherer and agricultural populations. Finally, because data adequate to test specific relationships between patterns of food restrictions and reproduction are not yet available, the paper concludes with a brief discussion of the data necessary for testing these relationships in hunter-gatherer populations.
4603177|Waste management in developing world urban areas is an acute problem which is linked to high growth rates and abatement methods less advanced than in the developed world. Existing neighborhood waste management practices often include the use of organic waste as a feed supplement for urban livestock (mainly goats, but also sheep and cattle). These urban animals bring economic benefits to less affluent residents, who would suffer an economic loss if their supply of urban waste was reduced or eliminated by an organized waste collection and disposal strategy. This paper employs a survey of 319 Greater Khartoum households to derive an estimate of waste intake per urban animal, and illustrate demographic factors (e.g., rural or urban roots, income, education, number of children) which influence animal keeping. A loglinear/logit model is developed to predict animal-keeping households. This model can be applied by waste management planners to estimate the frequency of urban animals in developing world urban areas.
4602954|This research uses aggregate statistical sources to describe agricultural diversity in a 31 county area of Appalachian Kentucky over the period 1880-1910. In particular, it considers the distribution and duration of forest farming in this region. It examines the causes of agricultural diversity by testing a series of hypotheses conceptually based in ecological theory. For 1880, counties differed in the degree to which they had the characteristics expected for forest farming. This variation was geographically patterned. While there was still geographical variation in county agricultural characteristics in 1910, sufficient change had occurred so that none of the counties continued to closely conform to the pattern expected for forest farming. Variation and change in county agricultural characteristics were found to be related to population density and growth, soil quality, the presence of railroads, and the development of commercial coal mining.
4603064|Traditionally, the Shipibo economy was subsistence-based with shifting cultivation supplying calories, principally in the form of plantains and root crops, while fishing and hunting provided animal proteins to the diet. Some men, who recently began producing rice for sale in regional markets, now allocate less time to wild food procurement. Moreover, this trend has been accompanied by the nucleation of households, a growing cash market for agricultural labor, and the intravillage sale of faunal foods. This paper shows that with cash cropping, some Shipibo now freely distribute less food to others in relation to the amount they produce. To account for this change, a theory is developed based on time allocation and patterns of economic behavior reported throughout the Amazon. This theory is then applied to explain specialization and the formation of cash markets for food labor among the Shipibo.
4602317|Viruses normally associated with man, or antibodies to such viruses, were found in animals in two villages in West Bengal during a 6-month survey. Eleven serotypes were isolated from the feces of seven vertebrate species and one serotype from flies. In one of the villages, echovirus 7 was most frequently isolated at the start of the study and was obtained from six species, including both mammals and birds, whereas poliovirus 1 occurred in two species at the end of the study. Repeated isolations were made from two dogs over a 2- to 3-month period. The coprophagous, terrestrial species (dogs and chickens) yielded the highest number of isolates and the highest number of serotypes, whereas the primarily nonterrestrial species (monkeys and house crows) yielded the least number of isolates and serotypes. Most of the cattle and some of the goats had antibodies to a Hong Kong (
4603492|Among African pastoralists evidence that wealth is associated with other measures of household success is scant and the significance of wealth differentials for family welfare remains poorly understood. Predictions that wealth in livestock is associated with increased adequacy of household food supply and with improved child nutrition are tested with longtitudinal data on herd size, household composition, food supply, and anthropometric status collected in 1992 for a sample of traditional Datoga households (n = 20) living in the Eyasi basin in northern Tanzania. Although a majority subsisted below poverty cutoffs estimated for east African pastoral populations, there was large variation among households in measures of wealth and resource availability. Individuals in relatively wealthy households did not appear to benefit either in terms of adequacy of household food supply or in terms of average growth performance of young children. Theoretical and methodological challenges in the study of the relationship between wealth and health in nomadic pastoralists are discussed.
4602871|The Raphia palms in the southern part of Benin are confined to freshwater swamps, where the natural vegetation consists of a forest rich in Dicotyledons. Human activity has transformed this forest into a "raphiale" where Raphia hookeri has become the main arborescent species. The influence of this transformation on the vegetation results in a more regular distribution of Raphis hookeri trunks and a gradual disappearing of clumps of ramets. By now, the future of Raphis hookeri species is almost ensured except in situations of over-exploitation.
4603236|The transmission of 93 items of women's indigenous knowledge and bush skills was studied in two subarctic Omushkego (West Main) Cree Indian communities, Moose Factory and Peawanuck, Ontario, Canada. About half of all bush skills were still being transmitted at the "hands-on" learning stage. Some skills such as setting snares and fishnets, beadwork, smoking geese, and tanning moose and caribou hides were transmitted well. Many skills no longer essential for livelihoods, such as some fur preparation skills and food preservation techniques, were not. Loss of certain skills and incomplete transmission of others (a lower level of mastery than in older generations) were attributable to changes in the educational environment, diminished time available in the bush, problems related to learning bush skills at later ages, and changes in value systems. These factors seemed to impair the traditional mode of education based on participant observation and apprenticeship in the bush, which provided the essential self-disciplining educational environment. Policy measures to counteract these trends may include the institution of a hunters' income security program to provide incentives for family units to go on the land, rather than all-male hunting parties.
4603329| In this article data on household food consumption is used to further understanding of subsistence strategies in three Caboclo populations on Maraj Island, Amazonia, Brazil. Data were collected using participant observation and 24-hour food recalls in 16 households for 7 consecutive days during the rainy (March) and dry (July) seasons. Maraj-Au households (n = 6) had the highest levels of energy and protein intake relative to recommendations. This was probably related to their successful integration into the prosperous aai (a palm fruit) market of the riverine area. Praia Grande households (n = 6) had the lowest values for energy intake (rainy season), which supports the authors' ethnographic observations of some instability in the subsistence system of this population. Paricatuba households (n = 4) exhibited intermediate values of energy and protein intakes, but less seasonal variation in consumption than the other two populations. Despite the differences observed, food consumption does not appear to be a major limitation for any of the three populations. The data support recent hypotheses concerning the concomitant and multiple use of vrzea (floodplain) and terra firme (upland) environments by the Caboclos and integration into the local market economy as the central strategies in dealing with the so-called socioenvironmental constraints of the Amazonian floodplain. 
25652740|The effects of socioecological transformations such as climate change, the collapse of the Soviet empire, and civil war are examined for 14 villages in the valleys of the Pamir Mountains in the historical Badakhshan region, now divided between Afghanistan and Tajikistan. Preliminary findings indicate concern for food sovereignty, evidence of biocultural impacts of climate change, an increasing burden on women, debilitating opium addiction, the ecological importance of sacred sites, and other priorities related to sustainable livelihoods, such as energy needs (for fuel and lighting) and physical and social infrastructure in the form of roads and schools. In the complex setting of the Pamir Mountains, characterized by both cultural and ecological diversity and marked by artificial political boundaries, the creative and pragmatic interaction between indigenous and scientific knowledge sustains the best hope for survival. Applied research must combine communities of inquirers (research institutions) with communities of social practitioners (farmers, pastoralists, and civil society institutions) to facilitate indigenous participation in generating context-specific knowledge. The goal of such research is practical outcomes that will meet the urgent priorities of village communities. This paper establishes a baseline from which undertake applied human ecological research related to livelihood security.
27654181|This paper is an attempt to combine the results and conclusions of two independently designed research projects, in order to achieve a more complete understanding of the degree of exploitation of living marine resources by a small Tongan coastal fishing community. Results of a socioeconomic resource-driven survey and an anthropological study adopting a commons dilemma approach, agree substantially on the impact of tradition and changes, but disagree with regard to the driving forces. The socioeconomic study argues that dynamics between traditional and modern economic values best explain the state of the community's coastal fisheries; while the anthropological study argues that social values and obligations still determine to a great extent the goals people pursue with their economic activities. Current fishing pressure, the marine tenure system, and present and future marketing potentials are all factors which may result in conflict between the traditional Tongan system and the modern cash-based, remittance sustained system. These will ultimately affect the current and future status of coastal resources and the social cohesion of the community.
4603299|This descriptive study identifies patterns of land use among small farmer settlers in the Northeastern Ecuadorian Amazon using cross-sectional data collected among approximately 400 households in 1990. A "typology" of land use patterns is built and considered in relation to two household characteristics: duration of settlement and labor. Several variations in land use patterns are identified according to the degree of forest clearing they involve. Findings suggest that most settlers reflect a low cleared area pattern which may be related to a "brake" family-based coffee production cleared and places on the area cultivated. Reducing clearing by settlers already in the region may therefore mean reinforcing what most are already doing. However, since lower welfare may be associated with lower cleared areas patterns, reinforcing their use will involve making them more profitable. Improving the well-being of the human as well as natural resources of the Amazon frontier will inevitably entail policy measures which reconcile the needs of settler households with forest conservation.
27654207|In 1998, a decree issued by the Indonesian government enabled communities in Krui, Indonesia, to register for concession rights over the area of state forest land planted with their agroforests. Registration would provide farmers with the legal right to manage and benefit from these agroforests. In 2005, we found that even though none of the Krui communities has ever formally applied for their concession rights, the decree has been instrumental in stopping outsiders' attempts to appropriate these agro-forests. Farmers within the state forest zone felt secure enough to continue investing in their complex agroforestry systems, while planting trees reinforced their feeling of security. We conclude that it is not the legal status of tenure, but the perception of tenure security that is of significance in people's land-use decisions. These results are considered in the wider context of statecommunity conflicts over forest land in the tropics.
4602754|Traditional subsistence pastoralists are often seen as causing environmental degradation through overgrazing, and are also seen as responsible for a decline in wildlife numbers through resource competition and habitat change. This paper investigates recent ideas on the interaction of pastoralism and conservation that question the validity of the concepts of overstocking and overgrazing as applied to arid and semi-arid rangelands. The Ngorongoro Conservation Area, a Maasai pastoralist/wildlife conservation joint land use area in northern Tanzania, shows no clear signs of pastoralist-induced environmental degradation despite a preoccupation with this possibility by successive administrations. Ecological studies together with other considerations suggest that joint land use works to the long-term benefit of both pastoralism and conservation in this and other areas.
4603030| A study of spear fishing by the Bar of the Maracaibo Basin provides data demonstrating a benefit accruing to individual fishermen fishing in groups. An analysis of counts of successful and unsuccessful spear thrusts shows that fish are made more vulnerable to spear thrusts by companion fishermen who wear down and confuse the fish. Fish vulnerability is seen to depend on the number of encounters a fish has already survived. This Encounter History effect may be operative in other predator and prey relationships. 
24017344|Non-timber forest products contribute significantly to rural livelihoods in the West African savannas. This study investigates differences in use preferences for native woody species in six categories of plant use and their economic returns among five ethnic groups in Northern Benin. Ethnobotanical survey data from 230 households revealed that both ethnic affiliation and location significantly impact species' valuation. Of a total of 90 species, 61 % were used for medicinal applications, 41 % as firewood, 39 % for construction, and 32 % as human foods. While certain plant species were used by all rural dwellers, others were used exclusively by particular ethnic groups. Vitellaria paradoxa, Parkia biglobosa and Adansonia digitata are key economic species for all groups. Conservation measures should consider multi-purpose trees fulfilling subsistence and cash needs while taking into consideration cultural differences in use preferences.
4602657|This paper proposes models and examples of five principal modes of interaction between genes and culture in human evolution. Because genes and culture ultimately interact in the minds of individuals, the models are focused on individual-level processes of "constrained microevolution." The central hypotheses are (1) that cultural evolution as well as genetic evolution commonly proceeds by the differential transmission of alternative "instructions" among individuals, (2) that genetic and cultural processes directly interact through mutual influence on each other's differentials of transmission in a population, (3) that the cultural process is often self-selecting by its own criteria, and (4) that these criteria generally operate to enhance rather than oppose human adaptation. Evolutionary change at higher levels, which is particularly important in sociocultural evolution, is interpreted as restructuring the nature and extent of the variability available at the individual level. To clarify the conceptual differences of the models and hopefully to stimulate related analyses in other areas, I discuss selected examples of each of these interactions. I conclude with some remarks on the relative importance of the models to human ecology and evolution.
4602714|In view of the generally disappointing performance of colonization projects in the Amazon basin, unusual projects merit close scrutiny because they may suggest a more effective organizational form for the colonization of humid lowlands. With this end in mind, this article examines those aspects of the Upano-Palora project in southeastern Ecuador that are attributable to the project's unusual plan of establishing settlements first and building the roads afterwards. It concludes that the "settlements first, roads second" developmental sequence reduced the costs of the project, produced an egalitarian pattern of landownership, and contributed to a pattern of land use that had potentially damaging ecological effects. These findings suggest that variations in the timing of road building have an important impact on outcomes in new land settlement schemes.
41433089|Contemporary subsistence hunting practices of North American Indians have been questioned because of hunters' use of modern technologies and integration of wage-based and subsistence livelihoods. Tribal traditional ecological knowledge (TEK) has been questioned on similar grounds and used as justification for ignoring tribal perspectives on critical natural resource conservation and development issues. This paper examines hunting on the Lac du Flambeau Indian Reservation in North Central Wisconsin, USA. The study used semi-structured interviews with hunters from the reservation to document their contemporary hunting practices and the traditional moral code that informs their hunting-related behaviors and judgments. Subsistence hunting is framed in the context of TEK and attention focused on the interplay between TEK's practical and moral dimensions. Results indicate the importance of traditional moral codes in guiding a community's contemporary hunting practices and the inseparability and interdependence of epistemological, practical, and ethical dimensions of TEK.
4602786|Human carrying capacity for tropical agricultural populations can be estimated with a computer simulation of the agroecosystem. A stochastic model is developed for estimating carrying capacity in one of the government-directed small farmer settlement projects along Brazil's Transamazon Highway. Carrying capacity is operationally defined in terms of an empirically computed relationship between population density and probability of colonist failure with respect to various criteria. When high population density leads failure probability to exceed a maximum acceptable level, population can be considered to be above carrying capacity. Colonist failure probabilities are those that are sustainable over a long period of simulated years. High variability in crop yields appears to have a strong effect on failure probability based on comparison of deterministic and stochastic runs of the simulations. Failure probabilities are raised by variability at low population densities, but are lowered at extremely high densities where most colonists would fail in an "average" year. Effects can be tested for colonists with different backgrounds or with differing agricultural practices such as fallow times. Failure probabilities in standard runs are higher than those considered acceptable to government planners at all population densities simulated in the present study's stochastic runs (lowest density 24 persons/km
4603344| Mapuche Indians have a long tradition of using edible wild resources. The people of Rams (Neuqun, Argentina) consider themselves descendants of the Pehuenches, an Indian group that once inhabited the Pehun forest region. They now live in the steppe, far away from the forest. Our primary interests are how this community uses edible resources and in analyzing which plants are still utilized. We conducted an ethnobotanical study, which consisted in interviewing several Mapuche families and collecting plants with their help. Ecological variable of plant use, such as search cost, handling time, and nutritional content, were analyzed from the perspective of Optimal Foraging Theory. Our results indicate that the Rams inhabitants have a thorough understanding of their environment, expressed in a selective gathering of wild resources. Cost and benefit trade-offs seem to be considered when edible plants are collected. 
4602258|By introducing the concept of the natural selection of individual organisms, Darwin was able to cut through the mystification surrounding theological discussions of the origin of species. By placing the concept of an individual "struggle for satisfaction" in an analogous conceptual framework, a similar feat may be performed with regard to the mystification and reification surrounding much of contemporary social science. The proposed theory states that individuals are the generating force behind the origin, spread, and transformations of sociocultural complexes and that all sociocultural phenomena are explicable in terms of the differential replication of ideas by individuals as this is conditioned by selective pressures generated by particular material conditions of life. The theory is used to illuminate certain key issues in evolution, such as adaptation, group selection, and free will.
4602866|Much of pastoral development in Africa has been predicted on the assumed desirability of converting pastoralists to commercial beef producers. Such development has ignored two fundamental aspects of pastoral production: first, the greater human support capacity of a dual milk/meat production system, and second, significant wealth inequality within pastoral communities. This paper presents a case study based on several years of field research in Kenya Maasailand; it examines variations by wealth status in milking strategies and the level of milk offtake for human consumption. Rich households have five times the number of cattle per reference adult as poor households, but similar levels of milk consumption, due to differences in the allocation of milk between calves and people. Residential location and watering frequency also vary by wealth status, contributing to a difference in total milk production per cow.
40603026|The aim of this paper is to explore the relevance of a systematic application of resilience thinking to questions of pastoralist policy, a task that requires taking the concept of resilience beyond the level of a metaphor and operationalizing it. One approach to accomplishing this is the components-relationships-innovation-continuity framework (Cumming et al 2005), which, in this paper, we apply to analysis of the social-ecological system of the Gabra people in north-central Kenya. While some types of indicators, such as those monitored by humanitarian information systems, can help to identify when the resilience of a system has been eroded, indicators of the components, relationships, and sources of innovation and continuity help o make clear the dynamics of how resilience is being lost. In the case of the Gabra, our analysis suggests that there is a need to envision a third alternativea stability domain that is distinct both from traditional pastoralism whose viability has been undermined and from the perversely resilient poverty trap that is coming to dominate. While this kind of conclusion may not be new, a resilience-based analysis helps to uncover specific details regarding what such a third alternative might entail and what kinds of policy levers might help to make it possible.
4603158|Commercial cattle ranching began in east central Arizona during the late 1880s when thousands of head of cattle were introduced onto the previously unexploited grasslands of the Little Colorado River Basin. Most of these animals were imported from western Texas where serious overgrazing had resulted in both catastrophic cattle losses and widespread range deterioration. By the turn of the century, the Texas experience had been repeated in Arizona, because Texas cattlemen continued to follow the same destructive stocking practices in this new region. This paper examines: (1) the early development of cattle ranching in the Little Colorado River Basin; (2) the various factors which contributed to overgrazing in the region; and (3) the consequences that commercial cattle ranching had on the local environment and on the pre-existing farming communities of the region.
4603343|This paper examines the impact of very high population densities and agricultural intensification on farm diversity and food security. Geertz and other researchers have suggested that intensification is likely to lead to crop specialization and a loss of diversity. Others, especially for Africa, have argued that intensification maintains or even increases agro-diversity. The case of Hamisi, in western Kenya, one of the most densely populated areas in all of rural Africa, supports the latter scenario. Farmers engage in a wide variety of sophisticated practices that maintain exceptionally high levels of agro-diversity. Their farming system includes complex patterns of intercropping, polyvariety, an emphasis on multi-purpose crops, and the close integration of crops and livestock. Despite this agro-diversity, we find that the intense population pressure in Hamisi has resulted in such small landholdings that diet quality and food security are seriously jeopardized. Despite the diversity of their farms, most families are highly dependent on market purchases and they consume very limited quantities of nutritionally dense foods, especially protein.
40603014|The Cochabamba Water War of 2000 was precipitated by Bolivians' defense of common-pool water resources and institutions against privatization. This article examines the design of a water institution and its sustainability during periods of water scarcity in urban Cochabamba. Based on data collected via participant-observation and panel surveys conducted in 72 randomly selected households, I draw three main conclusions. First, the institution operated according to principles found in sustainable resource management institutions in the rural Andes (Trawick 2001) and across cultures (Ostrom 1990). Second, while the function of the commonpool resource institution was stable over the five study periods, the social structures that supported collective choice and operational rules were sensitive to external events including seasonal water scarcity. Third, while institutions with strong historical precedents for contingencies under resource stress may be sustainable, other forms of social organization on which the institution depends may be more vulnerable to water scarcity.
4603504|Companion animal overpopulation is a problem of human creation with significant human costs that can only be addressed through human action. A model was constructed to understand the dynamics of canine overpopulation and the effectiveness of various policy options for reducing euthanasia. The model includes economic and ecological factors in human and dog populations. According to the model, a "no-kill" society is an achievable goal at an acceptable human cost. Spay/neuter programs were generally found to be the most effective, with increasing adoptions also being an effective option. However, spay/neuter policies need to be evaluated over a very long time horizon since full impact may not be achieved for 30 years or more. Spay/neuter efforts can have a large impact even if they only effect a small portion of the human population. Adoption and spay/neuter programs were found to work well in combination, and to continue being effective as society approaches "no-kill" dynamics.
23280339|Manna grass (mainly but not exclusively G. fluitans) used to be widely gathered in most lowland areas of the present territory of Poland and western and southern Belarus. It had an important function as a component of tribute paid to local landowners by villagers, which led to the persistence of manna gathering even when this was not sustainable for peasants themselves. Manna grass was always an expensive food due to its time consuming gathering, but appreciated for its sweet taste and often served as dessert. In the nineteenth century marshes shrank significantly and the payment of tribute disappeared from the local economy, which gradually led to the total abandonment of Glyceria use around 1914. This article provides a detailed overview of Glyceria use as food within the borders of the former Polish-Lithuanian Kingdom (now Poland, Lithuania, western Belarus and western Ukraine) based on archaeobotanical, historical and ethnographic sources. The evidence for the continued use of manna since at least medieval times is abundant in historical accounts and ethnographic studies, but little has been reported in archaeobotanical findings due to the relatively small amounts of Glyceria consumed.
4603361|Conceptual issues of gender equity in development are examined and analyzed with respect to the Social forestry project (Village and Farm Forestry Project; VFFP) as a means to redistribute access to productive resources and household benefits. A random sample of 120 VFFP participants, both men and women, was interviewed regarding their division of labor and their access to resources and benefits in relation to the project. The survey suggests that women and men produce different quantities and types of labor for the VFFP. Although women supply more labor than men, it is possible that women's overall labor burden is reduced in relation to the national average. For VFFP participants called "core farmers," women enjoy the same access to productive resources and services as men, with the important exception that women do not generally have land rights. Yet 100% of interviewed women "core farmers" answered positively to six indicators of sociocultural advancement because of their participation in the VFFP. Among a second tier of VFFP participants called "participating farmers," a large majority of women respondents claim rights on most resources and services important in the VFFP, although these proportions are less than among men respondents. Most women "participating farmers" answered affirmatively to the six indicators of sociocultural advancement, but in lesser proportions than among women "core farmers."
4603564|Class, ethnic, and gender differences among fisherfolk powerfully influence how the benefits and costs of coastal resource management programs are perceived and experienced in Philippine fishing communities. These and other social differences also limit the efficacy of community participation in these programs and hence the role that local communities can be expected to play in fisheries co-management regimes. Greater attention to institutional changes is needed if the management potential of such regimes is to be realized.
41474608|The transmission of environmental knowledge and land skills was studied among Inuit men in Ulukhaktok, Northwest Territories, Canada. A list of 83 skills important for safe and successful harvesting was generated with 14 active hunters and elders, and examined with a sample of 47 men. This research found that land skills continue to be transmitted most often from older to younger generations through observation and apprenticeship in the environment. However there is a difference in the rate of skills transmission among generations, with average transmission rates lowest among younger respondents. Some skills were transmitted well among younger respondents including general hunting and camp-related skills, but others such as traveling on the sea ice and traditional navigation skills were not. Loss of certain skills and incomplete transmission of others were related to the absence of skills teachers, loss of native language, and changes in the educational environment.
41474640|It has been postulated that the emergence of adaptive co-management can be driven by crises that transform social-ecological systems with low resilience. We compared two concurrent case studies of grizzly bearhuman conflicts in northern Canada to assess whether such crises could effect such transformations in bear-human systems. We conclude that they can, evaluate the outcomes, and identify conditions that may explain these observations. For remote communities, horizontal and vertical institutional connections are important for facilitating learning and the integration of information in wildlife management, yet they can be difficult to establish. Events in Baker Lake, Nunavut, showed that without such connections local peoples' substantial ecological knowledge may not be integrated effectively into decision processes. In the Inuvialuit Settlement Region the quota system for grizzly bear harvests has been able to successfully incorporate both scientific and traditional ecological knowledge, largely because of its cross-scale institutional network. The leadership provided by individual champions was also an important determinant of both case studies' outcomes.
41474651|Despite complete legal protection, improvements in infrastructure, and market conditions that provide easier access to other protein sources, illegal poaching of sea turtles for consumption in Baja California Sur (BCS), Mexico remains a major threat to their recovery. Few studies have focused on understanding the economic and social drivers behind this activity, which is fundamental to determining best practices for discouraging it. From June 2007 to April 2008 we conducted eight in-depth, semi-structured interviews with sea turtle poachers at five coastal communities in BCS to determine the drivers influencing them. The most prevalent reasons for illegal poaching were direct economic benefits, lack of law enforcement and ease of escape from or bribery of authorities, and strong family tradition. Our results suggest that to reduce illegal poaching it will be necessary to better enforce existing environmental laws, reduce social acceptance of sea turtle hunting throughout the region, educate fishers on the ecological importance of sea turtles, and show fishers direct economic benefits from non-consumptive use of sea turtles, such as ecotourism.
41474600|Apartheid isolated South Africa economically and politically from the global arena and its citizens culturally from one another. Post-apartheid policymakers have sought to address prior inequalities in education, health care and employment, concerns central to biodiversity conservation initiatives. This article examines the role of school gardening programs on the distribution and transmission of local phytomedicinal knowledge. Urban Cape Town, an area of high biocultural diversity, presents a unique environment in which to observe cultural distinctions in medicinal plant utilization, the impact of school gardening, and the recent cultural amalgamation in local knowledge transmission. Local healers chose 16 common medicinal plants, which were used to examine fifth and seventh graders' knowledge of local remedies. Results indicate that knowledge of different plants was concentrated in specific ethnic groups and amongst recent migrants. It is proposed that ethnic separation during the apartheid era insulated cultures on socioeconomic and geo-environmental strata, thereby preserving local knowledge.
4603065| The community of Gamboa is located on Itacuru Island, Sepetiba Bay (State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) and includes 26 families, mostly of artisanal fishermen who use paddled or motor canoes, and encircling nets for fishing. In this study, predictions from optimal foraging theory (patch model), in particular of patch residence time, are compared to the observed behavior of fishermen on fishing trips. Fishermen's strategies differ depending on their intended prey. They spend more time in patches and use fewer patches for shrimp than for fish. Gamboa's fishermen tend to leave a patch later than predicted by the model. The difficulty in evaluating stock availability, the comparatively few patches available for shrimp, and the competitive aspects of fishing contribute to the explanation of this behavior. 
27654253|A coalition of environmental activists and professionals created the San Diego Fire Recovery Network (SDFRN) while the largest wildfire in California history was still burning at the city's edge in October 2003. Acting quickly while the citizenry questioned governmental ability to protect their rapidly growing region, SDFRN proposed to reduce fire risk in a way that altered residential knowledge practices and identity while reshaping governance relationships. While this effort stalled after governmental agencies restored public confidence through massive fire prevention initiatives, SDFRN's efforts may not have been in vain. Retained within collective memory, SDFRN contributed to community resilience by diversifying possible responses to environmental change and uncertainty. In this way, flexible, informal learning organizations such as SDFRN may serve as "skunkworks," seizing on disaster in order to incubate socialecological relationships that might avert greater tragedies to come.
40344002|This multidisciplinary study examines the strategy adopted by villagers in the Roviana Lagoon, South New Georgia, Solomon Islands, to cope with changing socioeconomic and demographic conditions. The study addresses land use, shifting cycles, land tenure, soil nutrients, subsistence production, vegetation, land cover change, and carrying capacity. The results suggested that even if a society had been integrated into the market economy and introduced cash cropping, they used a small island, which was fertile, mainly for traditional shifting cultivation under customary management. However, they used a large area of the main island for cultivation of potentially risky perennial cash crops for private income. This case suggests that a local society is able to develop a harmonized way of rural development, community welfare, and environmental preservation.
4602829| Studies of Ro Negro subsistence farming and fishing activities are used to estimate the human carrying capacity for the region and the likely pattern of human land-use during prehistory. Ceramic evidence suggests human presence in the region more than 3000 years ago. Traditional farming is labor intensive and relatively unproductive. Nevertheless, farmers achieve an energy return of 15.2:1, and produce 2600 kcal per work hour. Fish are the major protein source, but fish catch per unit of effort and fish yield per hectare of floodplain are very low; fishermen are probably exploiting local fish resources very close to their limit. The low human population density would suggest that the Ro Negro forest has been relatively undisturbed. Nevertheless, charcoal is widespread and abundant in forest soils. This charcoal is probably from anthropogenic or natural wildfires. These results suggest a much more complex history for Amazonia than previously thought. 
4602808|Genealogical, demographic, and economic data collected in a rural Trinidadian village indicate that: (1) individuals with more land have more offspring, (2) males with more land have higher mating success, (3) young adults with parents resident in the village have higher reproductive success, and (4) the residence of father has a strong effect on young adult male reproductive success, but apparently has no effect on young adult female reproductive success, suggesting a gender bias in nepotism. The results indicate that there are important gender differences in the effect of resources on reproduction and in patterns of parent-offspring interaction.
4602291|This paper examines the environment as a source of dimensions of stimulation that are directly related to the individual's affective response to his environment, and his behavioral adaptation to it. The concept of an optimal level of stimulation is introduced, along with a view of environmental stress as resulting from conditions of excessive deviation from such optimal levels, with particular reference to variations in intensity, diversity, and patterning of the stimulus input. This analysis provides the framework for a consideration of behavioral adaptation to the environment by reference to the concept of adaptation level. Levels of adaptation to particular environmental dimensions, established as a function of past exposure, are shown to act as potent determiners of the individual's evaluation of his environment, as well as representing a plausible basis for the optimal level of stimulation principle itself. The presentation proceeds to an examination of the process of adaptation to the environment as a multilayered process, and to a discussion of the concept of the cost of adaptation as it applies in the behavioral realm. Finally, adaptation is contrasted with an alternative mechanism, adjustment, involving active alteration of the environment by the individual, and the relative place to be accorded to these two processes in the individual's relation to the environment is considered.
4603090|A model of energy analysis is presented to study the concept of labor productivity from a biophysical perspective. It is argued that current methods of defining and assessing labor productivity in the fields of work physiology and input/output energy analysis are relatively poor operational tools for assessing productivity in the economy and society. We propose to adopt society as the hierarchical level of analysis rather than the individual, as labor productivity can best be studied as a function of parameters related to the technological development of society. Parameters considered are: the ratio exosomatic/endosomatic energy used in society, the ratio working/non-working population, the return on the circulating energy investment, and the profile of human time allocated to the economic process. The links between patterns of human time allocation, population structure, standard of living, technological development, and demand on natural resources are analyzed. The results suggest that the role and meaning of human labor differ widely in societies with different levels of technological development.
4603550|Common property regimes may contribute to environmental conservation and offer a complementary institutional model to state-run protected areas. The potential conservation value of common property management is of particular significance in Mexico, where a large majority of forests are held communally. Systems of common property management often exist in a context of close institutional overlap with state institutions. This project assessed the function of a common property regime nested within Lagunas de Montebello National Park (PNLM) in Chiapas, Mexico. We documented forest status and analyzed common property forest management institutions following severe fires that threatened forest conservation. Forests managed by the common property regime are less intact than federal forests, yet still moderately conserved, and many attributes necessary for common property management are functional, despite the recent fire crisis. Yet external authorities contest common property management by local institutions, resulting in limited joint management by the national park and the community. Formalization and expansion of de facto cooperation between the federal and community institutions may enhance forest conservation within PNLM.
23280338|Trade in non-timber forest products (NTFPs) has been touted as promoting forest conservation and enhancing the well-being of local residents through increased cash income, which is considered a positive outcome. However, research on cooperation has demonstrated that increased market access and income may strengthen or weaken cooperation. Because cooperation is essential for community resilience in small-scale societies, negative effects on people's well-being can be expected if increased NTFP trade reduces cooperation. To evaluate whether NTFP trade affected cooperation, we used household data (survey and systematic observations) to compare the frequency of cooperation in two communities of Brazilian Amazon Caboclos, one of which engaged in NTFP trade, while the other did not. Cooperation was less frequent in the community trading NTFPs, but neither household cash income nor household participation in NTFP exploitation was associated with cooperative behavior. Decreased frequency most likely derived from indirect effects of NTFP trade, such as less time to fish or socialize, or other outcomes observable only at the community level, such as income inequality, the influx of new residents and consequent population growth. Our results indicate that conservation and development projects based on NTFP trade may negatively impact social and economic well-being of local communities.
4602272| The history of growth in understanding of primary productivity and in making estimates of biosphere production is reviewed. Two approaches to estimation of land production are discussed. Production may first be estimated by mean values for ecosystem types and the areas of these. A total production of 100  10
4602252|Most observers agree upon the existence among traditional agriculturalists of a conservative attitude toward innovations and upon this conservatism being the rational result of a well-adapted set of existing techniques in combination with a marginal level of subsistence. This view, however, fails to take account of the readily demonstrated existence of both individual differences in agricultural practice and systematic experimentation within traditional agricultural communities. Such individuality and experimentation are probably pervasive in traditional societies, and must be seen as an essential component of their adaptive processes, as important as the more familiar processes of traditional transmission.
4603346|A survey was conducted from February to June of 1997 among livestock herders in two villages of Niger, Kodey and Toukounous, on their perceptions, practice, and problems of night grazing. Cattle and sheep were the species that were taken out for night grazing by the herders. Small herd size and labor constraints were mentioned as the principal reasons for not practicing night grazing. Major benefits of night grazing included good body condition, herd growth, increased milk production, prevention of diseases, and reduction in herd mortality. Insecurity, difficulty in staying awake at night, labor constraints, and damage to crops by animals were given as problems of night grazing. According to the herders, grazing time (duration) during the day and night was shorter in the wet season than in the dry season. In the wet season animals were herded (followed and closely supervised by herders), whereas in the dry season, animals were mostly left to range freely in both villages. In general, children herded the animals during the day, while adults were responsible for night-time herding. Herders' perceptions on night grazing as regards animal production parameters such as weight development, water consumption, fecal output and feeding behavior are consistent with available experimental results. Therefore, future technical research needs to recognize the constraints faced by herders and determine how to overcome them to improve technical and economic efficiency.
27654107|The study investigates traditional knowledge of forest plants in a community (La Quetzal) inhabited by people who returned to Guatemala at the end of the civil war, after 1012 years in exile in Southern Mexico, and now are in the process of constructing a new community in the Lacandon jungle in the Petn, Guatemala. We ask if the basis of knowledge and the use of natural resources change when people migrate. The relevance of vascular plant diversity for consumption and other daily needs of the population is explored. Relatively few species are presently used, with the exception of timber species, where knowledge seems to be increasing. Traditional knowledge has been maintained in certain areas such as medicine. Nature as such is regarded as important primarily as potential monetary capital and not for its subsistence capital. We find that the refugee situation has led to the introduction of global consumption patterns. Still there continues to be a dynamic local intuitive knowledge arising directly from practical experiences. Two interlinked factors have been the driving forces altering the knowledge and the use of natural resources by the people in La Quetzal: Change in the natural environment and change in the social and economic environment.
41432988|Global conservation discourses and practices increasingly rely on market-based solutions to fulfill the dual objective of forest conservation and economic development. Although varied, these interventions are premised on the assumption that natural resources are most effectively managed and preserved while benefiting livelihoods if the market-incentives of a liberalised economy are correctly in place. By examining three nationally supported payment for ecosystem service (PES) schemes in Vietnam we show how insecure land tenure, high transaction costs and high opportunity costs can undermine the long-term benefits of PES programmes for local households and, hence, potentially threaten their livelihood viability. In many cases, the income from PES programmes does not reach the poor because of political and economic constraints. Local elite capture of PES benefits through the monopolization of access to forestland and existing state forestry management are identified as key problems. We argue that as PES schemes create a market for ecosystem services, such markets must be understood not simply as bald economic exchanges between 'rational actors' but rather as exchanges embedded in particular socio-political and historical contexts to support the sustainable use of forest resources and local livelihoods in Vietnam.
4603194|Increased livestock production in developing countries is seen as one way to improve world food supply. However, the impact of increased livestock production on household health and nutrition is unknown. This paper examines linkages between commercialization of livestock production and household nutrition. Linkages include income, resource allocation, food consumption, and human disease risk. Data from Uasin Gishu district, Kenya, show higher consumption of animal products for large commercialized farms, along with greater control of milk sales by men. Effects of livestock development may thus differ by gender, and may include both positive and negative impacts.
27654145|Devolution of natural resource management is a widely claimed aim in policy discourse. The Government of Pakistan is undertaking devolution of Provincial Government, including the Provincial Forest Departments. In historical and current practice, forest management has been devolved to local, community-based jirgas. Jirgas achieve some of the aims claimed by devolution which often fail in community-based management organizations. They represent the interests of different asset-based groups and ensure use rights of all for subsistence. However, the internal logic on which they work is based on different principles than those envisaged by policymakers. A case study of Pukhtun agropastoralists in the Malakand Division, North-West Frontier Province, Pakistan, illustrates the jirga's role in forest management and questions some of the assumptions on which community-based management is founded.
4602673|To postulate an evolutionary advantage of the menopause is to address the paradox of how natural selection can favor cessation of reproduction. To do this, menopause is examined with reference to four criteria: (1) its species-specificity and genetic basis; (2) its evolutionary history; (3) its selective advantage in the context of human longevity; and (4) its possible role in human evolution. A brief review of the literature reveals that the first two criteria are satisfied. The third criterion is supported by a study of four New England genealogies which demonstrated that, among 1,890 women born between 1675 and 1874, those who died postmenopausally had greater inclusive fitness than those who died premenopausally. The finding that females with postmenopausal longevity also had greater fertility may represent age-independent improvement in survival. A theory for evolution of the menopause is advanced, based on the observation that population growth via decreased birth spacing among mobile hominid groups would be enhanced by the presence of postreproductives who served as infant-carriers.
25652742|Cuba's political and economic isolation in today's globalised world demands constant adaptation by its inhabitants. The Cubans' capacity to adapt increases their ability to cope with change and to reshape local ecological and social systems, creating a more resilient system. Worldwide, home gardens are a community's most adaptable and accessible land resource and are an important component in reducing vulnerability and ensuring food security. The role of Cuban home gardens in relation to political change and economic crisis was investigated in Trinidad de Cuba using standard ethnobotanical research methods. Major events, such as the collapse of the Soviet Union and the subsequent economic crisis as well as frequently changing Cuban policies on agriculture, food security, religious freedom and healthcare, have had an impact on household decision-making, influencing home garden composition and management. Social networking surrounding home garden produce plays an essential part in the continuous adaptation to change, aiming to increase a diversity of resources and strategies, hence resilience.
27654103|Despite the attention given to social relations in the pastoral literature, the role of livestock acquisitionsadditions of livestock to herds through bridewealth, exchanges, gifts, payments, and begging (requests)in herd build up has usually been assumed to be relatively minor compared to births and relevant mostly when the need for rebuilding arises after major losses. This study is based on an unusual set of datathe reproductive histories of the female cattle, camels, and goats and sheep of 13 Ngisonyoka Turkana nomadic herders in northwestern Kenya, collected in 1987. The article reports on the means by which mothers were added to the herd and how these changed through time. The results suggest that for this population in the late 1970s and 1980s, acquisitions were not merely relevant when disaster struck, but instead were a continuously important component of herd management. The results demonstrate the crucial role of social networks in the survival of Ngisonyoka pastoralists in their non-equilibrial ecosystem. Social exchanges, such as bridewealth, provide a resource security well suited to the challenges of coping with such unpredictable environments. Researchers and policymakers are urged to make efforts to support such indigenous networks if they want nomadic pastoralists to continue their effective use of arid, marginal lands.
4603237|While many studies have explored how agriculture changes when population density rises, this paper examines actions farmers may take to control whether population density rises. Using information from ethnographic fieldwork, colonial archives, and air photography, two agricultural groups migrating into an agricultural frontier in the Nigerian savanna are compared. Population density in Kofyar communities has risen to over 100/km
4602470|Ecological approaches within maritime anthropology are reviewed, particularly those concerned with resource management in fisheries and characterized by certain assumptions of systems ecology. The systems ecology approach used in anthropology exhibits certain problems, including the assumption of equilibria, the tendency to restrict analyses to immediate and "natural" environmental relations, and the reification of analytical systems. Under the rubric of "people ecology," data from research among commercial fishermen of Fogo Island, Newfoundland, are used to explore an alternative that emphasizes people rather than systems as starting points for study, and underscores the role of larger social and political processes in affecting local man -- environment relations.
4603224|Participatory management approaches are increasingly recognized as an effective strategy for enabling the sustainable use of natural resources. The southeast coast of St. Lucia is one of the sites where a particular form of participatory management, a co-management regime, was recently developed to control the sea urchin fishery. The Caribbean Natural Resources Institute (CANARI), a NGO based in Vieux-Fort, St. Lucia, played a key role in the development of this co-management arrangement. This case study of the sea urchin fishery in Vieux-Fort examines the extent of the devolution of authority to locally-based sea urchin harvesters, explores the potential contribution of local knowledge to the understanding of sea urchin behavior, and points to elements of a strategy aimed at strengthening the organizational capacity of the core group of sea urchin harvesters. The study addresses both present practice and future possibilities in response to concrete questions raised by participants in the study.
4602768|Anthropologists have frequently proposed that sexual division of labor is produced by childcare constraints on women's subsistence work. We present data on the forest activities of Ache women that show that differences in parental investment partially account for variation in food acquisition among individual women. Data also suggest that childcare constraints are important in understanding the sexual division of labor.
4602324|The possibility, desirability, and potential outcomes of applying ethological methods to the study of culture-specific human behaviors are investigated. Ethology and culture are explored. A new term, "instruction," and its use in cultural ethology are proposed. Genetics and survival value are related to cultural ethology. A cultural ethology is given a possible theoretical foundation, and current attempts at a cultural ethology are appraised. A research program in cultural ethology and related fields is proposed.
4603470|Environmental analysis increasingly utilize remote sensing (RS) and geographic information science (GIS) techniques to study the relationship between human societies and their biophysical environment. This paper considers the influence these techniques have had on environmental research. Using the case of the Sahel, the paper first relates contemporary applications of RS/GIS to the history of the environmental scientific practice in the region. While facilitating an expansion of spatiotemporal scales, applications of these new techniques continue the methodological failings of the past by relying on visual measures of environmental change and problematic indicators of human land-use pressures. The human ecology fields (human, cultural, and political ecologies), by emphasizing the causal connections between local management and environmental change, can address the problems inherent with the spatial analytical turn in environmental science. Using the author's experience with the use of GIS in a political ecology study of grazing management in western Niger, ways of more closely integrating RS/GIS techniques into human ecological research are discussed.
4603437|Researchers have used the amount of leisure as a yardstick to proxy for quality of life, but so far they have paid scant attention to the quality of leisure. Here I use spousal leisure sharing to proxy for quality of leisure and, by implication, for quality of life. I draw on life-cycle perspective, price theory, and on human ecology to frame hypotheses about the determinants of spousal leisure sharing. Drawing on longitudinal information collected over 2 years from 32 households in two villages of Tawahka Amerindians, a horticultural and foraging society in the tropical rain forest of eastern Honduras, I estimate the simultaneous effects of age and age squared, cash income, and climatic/seasonal variables on the amount of time spouses spend together in leisure. Analysis using different random and fixed-effect multivariate logit models suggests that (1) life-cycle determinants play a strong role in spousal leisure sharing and (2) neither climate/seasonal variables nor income correlate with spousal leisure sharing. As is true among couples in the United States, among Tawahka couples a change in the income of either spouse has a small effect on the amount of leisure shared by spouses. I find no evidence that economic development erodes spousal leisure sharing or that couples exhibit fissure in their pursuit of a common goal of leisure sharing.
23353199|The rotational nature of shifting cultivation poses several challenges to its detection by remote sensing. Consequently, there is a lack of spatial data on the dynamics of shifting cultivation landscapes on a regional, i.e. subnational, or national level. We present an approach based on a time series of Landsat and MODIS data and landscape metrics to delineate the dynamics of shifting cultivation landscapes. Our results reveal that shifting cultivation is a land use system still widely and dynamically utilized in northern Laos. While there is an overall reduction in the areas dominated by shifting cultivation, some regions also show an expansion. A review of relevant reports and articles indicates that policies tend to lead to a reduction while market forces can result in both expansion and reduction. For a better understanding of the different factors affecting shifting cultivation landscapes in Laos, further research should focus on spatially explicit analyses.
4603281|Despite emerging appreciations of contextual knowledge systems, elements of diversity in mountain farming systems are often characterized as irrational and as obstacles to achieving the production goals of 'modernized' agriculture. In this paper, I suggest that these negative representations are produced at least in part as a function of the normalization of a large-scale agriculture as rational. A case-study of a mountain farming system in the Karakoram mountains of northern Pakistan is presented to expose a contextual rationality in relation to risk minimization and to challenge characterizations of this system as 'backward,' unsophisticated and irrational. Specifically I examine the risk mediating characteristics of practices such as field dispersal, delayed planting, intercropping, and polyvarietal planting and conclude that the characteristic feature of this local farming system is a contextually rational diversity. This conflicts with the modernist paradigm of rationality and economic growth subscribed to by a local development agency. Intervention based on ill-informed interpretations of "traditional" practice have the potential to increase vulnerability of villagers by failing to appreciate the contextual rationality of diversity.
23280340|The management of residential landscapes occurs within a complex socio-ecological system linking household decision-making with ecological properties, multi-scalar human drivers, and the legacy effects of past management. Conventional wisdom suggests that resource-intensive turf grass yards are the most common landscaping outcome, resulting in a presumed homogeneous set of residential landscaping practices throughout North America. We examine this homogenization thesis through an interview-based, cross-site study of residential landscape management in Boston, Phoenix, and Miami. Counter to the homogeneity thesis, we find that yard management practices often exhibit heterogeneity, for example, in groundcover choice or use of chemical inputs. The degree of heterogeneity in management practices varies according to the scale of analysis, and is the outcome of a range of constraints and opportunities to which households respond differently depending on their existing yard and landscaping preferences. This study highlights the importance of multi-scalar and cross-site analyses of decision-making in socio-ecological systems, and presents opportunities for longitudinal and cross-site research to examine the extent to which homogeneity is actually present in the management of residential landscapes over time and in diverse places.
27654146|Enhancement of inland fisheries through stocking can potentially increase fisheries production in developing countries and improve rural livelihoods. However, results of stocking are often unexpected in terms of benefit distribution. Taking an environmental entitlements approach, this paper details the nature and extent of institutional change that accompanied stocking in Savannakhet Province, Lao PDR, and quantifies its impact on households from different socioeconomic groups. Stocking was a catalyst significantly affecting people's command over living aquatic resources. New rules changed who could go fishing for what and when, and how the fish could be utilized. Customary rights were transformed and decision-making power concentrated. Despite this, household surveys demonstrated that no socioeconomic group was benefiting disproportionately and this was due to the specific social, political and institutional context into which enhancement was placed. However, in different contexts, increased benefits for resource users, even in cases of increased fisheries production, cannot be assumed.
4603101|Native peoples have often been protrayed as natural conservationists, living in "harmony" with their environment. It is argued that this perspective is a result of an imprecise definition of conservation that emphasizes effects rather than actual behavior. Using foraging theory as a contrast, an operational definition of conservation is offered. Foraging theory assumes that foragers will behave to maximize their short-term harvesting rate. Hunting decision that are costly in terms of short-term harvest rate maximization, yet increase the sustainability of the harvest are deemed conservation. Using this definition, alternative hypotheses are tested using data on the inter-specific prey choice decisions of a group of subsistence hunters, the Piro of Amazonian Peru. Results indicate that hunters do not show any restraint from harvesting species identified as vulnerable to over-hunting and local extinction. Decisions are made that are consistent with predictions of foraging theory.
27654118|While "Pygmy" hunter-gatherers have generally been assumed to be the original inhabitants of the central African rainforest, recent studies dispute the viability of subsistence in tropical rainforests through foraging alone. There are, however, few studies that are based on sound data of actual long-term foraging. This paper examines the viability of "pure" foraging in tropical rainforests, based on data from participant observation of a long-term foraging expedition among the Baka in the northwestern Congo Basin. The group was observed to subsist solely on wild food resources, particularly wild yams, for two-and-half months. The study was carried out during the dry season when food resources are generally thought to be scarce in tropical rainforests.
4603400|Beginning in the late 1980s, the Irakia Awa commenced changing their basic subsistence adaptation. This included altering gardening practices, changing basic food consumption patterns, and most importantly, eliminating the production of domestic pigs. These changes were undertaken as part of an effort to improve the life experience of local residents and usher in a new plan of village improvement. The plan promoted the disintensification of subsistence production and increased involvement in cash-earning and recreational pursuits, as well as Christianity. If successful, the promoters of the plan hope that the village will become a more attractive place to live, migrants living away will return home to help revitalize the community, and Irakia will flourish in the new cash-oriented modern economy.
4603317|Establishing secure tenure is widely recognized as a fundamental component of sustainable forest management. Policy-makers generally prefer privatization to achieve these ends, although common property institutions may also be appropriate. But if common property tenure is insecure and fails to control exploitation, theory predicts that private tenure should lead to better forest conditions. In this case study of a western Honduras community, forest mensuration data were collected from four private forests and two relatively open access common property forests. Statistical analyses failed to find consistent, significant differences in vegetation structure or soils related to tenure. Notable contrasts between forests reflected historical conditions and owner preferences. Neither form of tenure appeared to emphasize concerns for sustainable management, and ongoing processes of change constrained the possibility for limiting common property forest exploitation. The study adds to others which show that the outcomes of private or common property tenure relate substantially to the socioeconomic, political, and ecological context.
27654295|Energy flows were studied for the 20022003 agricultural cycle in four households for which agriculture is part of a diversified survival strategy and four that practice agriculture as a business. Home garden inputs and outputs were measured monthly. Quantified inputs were: household labour, household agro-system production, and purchased external renewable and non-renewable energy. Outputs measured were: sales, family and animal foods. While both strategies had similar indicators in biomass and energy production, vegetable richness, and soil quality, household garden function and sustainability differed between subsistence and commercial householders. Subsistence gardens complemented family diet and contributed to household system resiliency. They relied heavily on renewable energy sources from within their agro-system. Gardens in commercial households reduced fruit tree area and increased animal husbandry for the market. They depended more on purchased nonrenewable energy sources and were less sustainable and much less energy efficient than traditional gardens.
25652763|Traditional and small-scale farmers may know of practices that control weedy species. When these species are also problematic in restored or managed areas, a collection of this knowledge might assist control efforts. However, past criticisms of using local ecological knowledge (LEK) from small-scale farmers state that small sample sizes and highly variable responses among informants hinders LEK's utility in management. Here I document weed-control knowledge held by New Jersey salt-hay farmers to control common reed and adapt strategies to control its invasion in two restoration settings. Accounts indicated that repeated cutting could eradicate the invasive, and subsequent experimental treatments in restoration settings demonstrated this technique to be very effective. However, only one farmer knew of this technique, and this farmer's accounts seemingly contradicted other farmers' accounts of cutting. This study demonstrates that small sample sizes and highly variable responses are more problematic to studies of knowledge, per se, than in finding valuable knowledge, which simply must be held by a community member rather than be common or well-distributed.
41474612|An ethnobiological study concerning the medical ethnobotany and ethnozoology of two neighbouring communities of Serbians and Albanians living in the Peter plateau (south-western Serbia) was conducted, the latter representing a diasporic community that immigrated to the area approximately three centuries ago. Sixty-two botanical taxa used in 129 plant-based remedies and 204 folk plant uses were recorded. In addition, 31 animal-derived remedies and 27 mineral or non-indigenous products were also documented. Approximately half of the recorded phytotherepeutical uses have been recorded for the first time in the ethnobotany of the Western Balkans and more than onethird of these uses have no correlation with Western evidence-based phytotherapy. Moreover, while both communities use approximately the same number of medicinal plants, two-thirds of the botanical taxa, but only one-third of plant folk medical uses are found in common among the two communities. These findings demonstrate that the two communities, although having lived in close proximity to each other during the past three centuries and in a relatively low biodiverse environment, have maintained or developed unique phytotherapeutical trajectories. The differences between the two folk medical biologies of these communities are reflective of the specific history of the Albanian diaspora, and of the complex processes of its cultural adaptation over the last three centuries.
4602986| This issue of "Human Ecology" is devoted to studies of household organization, originally presented at an invited session of the American Anthropological Association annual meetings in New Orleans in 1990. These papers share an empirical orientation and an interest in demographic processes and economic change, particularly in rural and non-Western societies, including !Kung foragers and Herero agro-pastoralists of Botswana, Ariaal and Rendille pastoralists of Kenya, Gainj horticulturalists of highland New Guinea, and a Euro-Caribbean population of St. Barthlemy, West Indies. These papers demonstrate both the vitality of household studies and the utility of empirical approaches in understanding household formation, continuity, and adaptation to social, economic, and political change. 
4603307|Through a case study of the grassland system of the Mkambati area in the Eastern Cape, South Africa, the paper explores the interaction of social institutions and ecological processes in the creation of a diverse grassland environment. A number of different transitions between grassland states are examined in detail, highlighting a range of social and institutional factors influencing grassland change. The spatial patterning of different grassland types and the frequency of transitions between them are shown to be dependent on the institutional relationships between different social actors. Understanding such complex and multifaceted processes of environmental change requires analytical tools which combine social and ecological perspectives; an extended form of qualitative "state-transition" modeling, which incorporates institutional dimensions, is therefore explored.
4602881|Hunters and bushmeat retailers in Bendel State, Nigeria were interviewed from May through August 1982. Hunting was found to take place in all months of the year, but became more intense during the dry season. Twentyseven species of mammal were reported to be hunted, while 22 species of mammal and five species of reptile were found on sale. Retailers reported that the grasscutter (Thryonomys swinderianus) was the most popular species among their customers, followed by Maxwell's duiker, the brushtailed porcupine, and the bushpig. The grasscutter was also the most widely sold species, followed by the giant rat, monkeys, and Maxwell's duiker. Game animals were found to be shot and sold with little regard to existing laws, with the result that the larger mammals have become rare in Bendel and populations of the smaller ones have come under severe pressure. The bushmeat trade is highly commercialized, and substantial profits accrue to middlemen. Recommendations are made for the conservation of a natural resource, wildlife, that not only provides a significant amount of animal protein but also supports a large rural economy.
4603161|This issue of "Human Ecology" focuses on the interrelated nature of crisis in human and environmental systems and argues that the right to a healthy environment is a fundamental human right. In this article I present a conceptual framework for the "human rights and environment" special issue, followed by a brief review of significant insights offered by each contributor. Collectively the cases presented in this issue explore connections between international and national policy, government action or sanctioned action, and human environmental crises. Cultural notions are seen to play a key role in influencing social relations, legitimizing power relations, and justifying the production and reproduction of human environmental crises. And finally, these cases explore the ways in which political, economic, and cultural forces influence and at times inhibit efforts to respond to human environmental crises.
4603491|The Sakha of northeastern Siberia, Russia, are the highest latitude contemporary agropastoralists practicing horse and cattle husbandry. In the last 100 years their rural livelihood has gone from household-level subsistence food production in clan clusters of single-family homesteads scattered across the landscape, to village-level state agribusiness farm production in compact settlements dependent on Soviet socialist infrastructure, to the presentday post-socialist reliance on household-level subsistence food production. This paper explores how Viliui Sakha are adapting in the post-Soviet context. Since the fall of the Soviet Union and the concomitant dissolution of the centralized state farm system, rural inhabitants have developed household and interhousehold food production capacities based on keeping cows and relying on exchange among kin. One of the basic tenets of Robert Netting's smallholder-householder theory is that in times of change, the household system is the most resilient subsistence production unit because of specific qualities including intimate ecological knowledge and implicit labor contracts. This research shows in what ways Netting's householder theory applies for subarctic agropastoralists.
24013748|Forest transition  i.e., the shift from decreasing to expanding forest cover  in the northern mountains of Vietnam was analyzed at the local scale in four villages from the 1970s to 20072008 to understand feedbacks from local environmental degradation on land uses, the conditions under which such feedbacks occur, and their possible roles in the transition. Remote sensing data were combined with field surveys including interviews, group discussions, mental and participatory mapping, observations and secondary sources. The feedbacks from environmental degradation and changes in the provision of ecosystem services to land practices via environmental cognitions were analyzed. The case studies showed that forest scarcity was perceived, interpreted and evaluated before possibly affecting land use practices.
4602811|The social organizations of two closely related nomadic pastoral societies of northern Kenya, the Rendille and Ariaal, are compared in the context of the relative constancy and variability of their herding environments. It is concluded that the application of Brooks and Yellen's model of stability and resilience in human populations is of value in understanding the impact of environmental constraints on social organization, but it is argued that other social features including the organization of labor and ownership of different livestock types directly bear on the differences between the Rendille and Ariaal.
23353257|Using data from a three-year study of socioeconomic factors influencing hunting in 23 indigenous communities, we assess the influence of indigenous and Christian beliefs and practices on dietary taboos among Makushi and Wapishana peoples in the Guyanese Amazon. We found that members of Evangelical and established (Anglican and Catholic) churches do not differ significantly in terms of their adherence to dietary restrictions and members of Sabbatarian churches show a stronger tendency to adhere to dietary taboos than Evangelicals or members of established churches. Counter to expectations, we found no significant difference in avoidance of meat between households belonging to established and Evangelical churches. Furthermore, members of all church groups deviated in terms of dietary restrictions from indigenous norms as exemplified in dietary advice given by shamans. We conclude that, despite doctrinal opposition to shamanistic practices associated with indigenous taboos, there is continuity in terms of dietary practice among Makushi and Wapishana households that have converted to Evangelical and, to some degree, Sabbatarian forms of Christianity.
4602789|The relatively small number of passenger pigeon bones found in prehistoric sites in the eastern United States is at variance with the tremendous population recorded between the seventeenth and nineteenth centuries. It is argued that, prior to European contact, the population of passenger pigeons was small due to human-wildlife competition over tree nuts. This competition restricted the pigeon's access to food and limited its prehistoric population. When this competitive network was disrupted by European colonization, the availability of food for the pigeon increased. The enormous population that then emerged represents an outbreak population precipitated by enrichment in food and space. The structure of the prehistoric food web in the forests of the eastern United States is diagrammed, and the process leading to the growth of the passenger pigeon population described.
4603169|This commentary outlines the conflict of interests inherent in the state-transnational corporation relationship, and briefly discusses the failure of bilateral and multilateral mechanisms to ensure corporate accountability and compliance with basic human rights and international environmental laws.
4602645|Machiguenga Indians of the Peruvian Amazon, like other low population-density, technologically "simple" peoples, produce ample food for a nutritious diet. Assuming that this is an intended outcome of their food-production strategy, to what extent is it a labor-efficient solution to the problem of producing a "balanced diet"? A linear-programming model of the "diet problem" is constructed with parameters reflecting the Machiguenga economy, and solutions are computed. These are then compared to observed Machiguenga food production; the degree of fit between model and behavior is examined and reasons for discrepancies are discussed.
27654293|How can a single landscape, a shantytown on the USMexico border, symbolize environmental devastation for some and progress and 'the good life' for others? Our analysis of this landscape and the people who are a part of it highlights the complexities of the environmental justice movement in the current era of neo-liberal economic policies. Although the colonia that we studied, "Derechos Humanos," is located on top of an abandoned landfill near an open sewage canal, living here represents a step forward for many residents. However, to many US environmentalists, this landscape represents a toxic wasteland and the people living here are simply victims of border industrialization. Contributing to critical environmental justice studies, our analysis of "Derechos Humanos" highlights the injustices of the global political economy, creative responses to these forces by individuals most adversely affected by them, and the potential limitations of conventional framings of environmental justice and mainstream Northern environmentalism.
4602722|A model of extinction probability, based on the general theory of island biogeography [MacArthur and Wilson, 1967], is proposed for humans on oceanic islands; extinction probability is determined by island carrying capacity, frequency and amplitude of fluctuations in resources determining carrying capacity, and the net costs of contact and exchange between population units. The model predicts that extinction probability will determine island settlement patterns within an island group resulting in nonsettlement of islands with low carrying capacities and settlement of all islands with high carrying capacities. Data examined from the Marshall Islands tend to support the model. The model is extended to initial atoll colonization patterns. Possible requirements for initial settlement are suggested.
25652768|In spite of the remarkable downward trend in fertility that characterizes Portugal, birth seasonality is still evident. A time series analysis of the data shows that, in general, May and September are months where more births take place and that December and February are the months with the lowest figures. In particular, the September peak in births, which is the most remarkable result, is shown to be related to end-of-year (economic) expectations.
27654191|This article is based on a 2003 case study of the Special Program for Food Security in two dry, upland regions of Honduras and Nicaragua. In particular the research sought to identify factors influencing farmers' interest in various "best practices" being promoted as alternatives to the use of fire in cropping and ranching systems. The economic feasibility and/or affordability of several of these practices are questionable in light of most farmers' priorities, risk concerns, or limited resources. The technical feasibility of several of the practices is unclear, at least in the marginal agroecological environments in which most of the farmers in these regions operate. The study highlights the weaknesses of agricultural development initiatives designed without a sufficient understanding of existing agricultural strategies and their purposes. It also reveals the limitations of technological approaches to problems of food insecurity and land degradation, and the need for broader, more integrated rural development strategies. The findings support critiques regarding the biases of many development professionals that may prevent them from giving sufficient attention to local knowledge and perspectives.
4602890|Studies of fertility behavior in the Third World have relied heavily on two variables, income and education, to explain variations in fertility rates. If the socio-economic variables traditionally employed to account for variations in fertility rates are invariant, what other factors could influence fertility rates and child spacing? On the basis of data from 180 slum households in Calcutta, India, the paper indicates that in a situation where material and social conditions are comparable, cultural and demographic variables play a major role in influencing reproductive behavior. In this case study, caste and family type are shown to have a significant effect on the numbers of surviving children. As regards child spacing, the woman's age is of paramount importance.
40343987|Literature on the mobility of pastoralists and resource access is widely available, but conceptualization and understanding of the socioeconomic processes expected to affect the outcome are inconsistent. In this article, drawing on research conducted in the Yerer and Daketa Valleys, eastern Ethiopia, we use the notion of entitlements to examine how, under increasing pressure for resource access, various agro-pastoral households manage conflicting interests in common grazing resources. We observed that in times of drought and resource scarcity incumbent agro-pastoralists find peaceful sharing arrangements with intruding pastoralists. Asset-poor agro-pastoralists enter into mutually beneficial arrangements with pastoralists, trading their resource endowments to grazing land for other assets from the pastoralists, whereas wealthier households prefer a reciprocal riskmanagement strategy. These multiple arrangements have distributional effects because asset-poor agro-pastoralist households can stabilize or enhance their household assets and their capabilities in times of drought, and thus benefit from assisting pastoralist migrants to the common grazing land.
4602858|It has been generally assumed until recently that tropical rain forests are food-rich biomes for human foragers, and that prehistoric hunter-gatherers once lived completely independent of cultivated foods in such environments. An alternative hypothesis that such forests are actually food-poor for humans is proposed here. Specifically, that wild starch foods such as yams were so scarce and so hard to extract that human foragers could not have lived in such biomes without recourse to cultivated foods. The symbiotic relationship found today between tropical forest hunter-gatherers and farmers is not a recent phenomenon, but evolved long ago as an adaptive strategy for successfully exploiting the tropical forest.
4602838|The Northern Ache comprise a small continuously interacting population with a shared community history. Full-time hunter-gatherers until recently, they now divide their time between mobile foraging and settled farming. Here we describe adult time allocation at the settlement and contrast it with our previous descriptions of time allocation during foraging periods. We report that at the settlement men and women work fewer hours each day than they do in the forest, people eat less, women do more work apart from their children, and men invest more in direct parental care. Explanations for differences in time allocation between foragers and farmers should apply to the variation in work effort, production goals, division of labor, and parenting strategies reported here, and conversely.
4602683| The proposition that tropical forest swidden gardens mimic the extraordinary species diversity of the forest by the use of extensive intercropping is examined in the light of the field architecture of the Bar, a people of the Maracaibo basin. Bar fields manifest annular zonation rather than intercropping. It is concluded that Bar horticulture is an inversion of the jungle rather than an imitation of it. 
4602992| The population of Saint Barthlemy, French West Indies, consists of descendants of French peasants who emigrated to the West Indies nearly three centuries ago. As in rural France, new households are formed on the island upon marriage. This study analyzes changes in marriage patterns that have occurred in the 99 years between 1878-1976. These changes include increase in marriage distance, increase in completed family size, increase in celibacy, decrease in the frequency of cousin marriage, and decrease in the percentage of mothers bearing children out of wedlock. The data are derived from the parochial and civil records of birth, death, and marriage of nearly 10,000 individuals. Despite changes in marriage patterns and modernization of the island, there has been little change in household form or the process of household formation. 
40344003|Human population growth has been identified as a primary cause of ecologically destructive phenomena and, if left unchecked, will threaten the survivability of the human species. It has been demonstrated that genetic feedback is the mechanism by which species achieve ecological balance. The present analysis shows the applicability of this mechanism to human population regulation. In this model, the traits of behavior and culture are explained as following a four step process, similar to, and nested within genetic evolution. As species extinction is part and parcel of evolution, and environmental circumstances are changing rapidly, the population regulatory change that would take place on the genetic level of integration would be human extinction. However, the change on the cultural level, requiring a revision of the social contingency from "food production must be increased to feed a growing population" to "food production increases cause population increases," would lead to human sustainability.
4603440|We studied consumption and preference of meats of wild species (bushmeat) by inhabitants of Bioko Island, Equatorial Guinea. The aim of the study was to quantify frequency of consumption and stated preferences of the two main ethnic groups (Bubi and Fang) in the island. Although members of both ethnic groups lived on the island, the Fang originated from the continent and maintained strong links with this area. Thus, preference and consumption of the Fang reflected exposure to animals found in the continent as well as on Bioko. A sample of 196 subjects (115 Bubi and 81 Fang) was interviewed using semistructured questionnaires. A total of 55 different bushmeat species was identified as preferred or consumed by interviewees. Principal component analyses of stated consumption and preference indicated differences between ethnic groups in their general responses. Further analyses of the effects of preference and other factors on consumption of the three main species mentioned (blue duiker (Cephalophus monticola), Emin's rat (Cricetomys emini), and brush-tailed porcupine (Atherurus africanus) were undertaken. Proportional odds logistic regression models for ordered categorical response data were employed. Results indicated that age and sex of the respondent did not affect consumption, but ethnic group was statistically significant for the threestudy species. Consumption and preference of the different meats (N = 11 species) in relation to their availability in the market and price was studied using multiple linear regressions. Consumption is driven predominantly by availability but there is some influence of preference; price of the meat did not have a significant influence.
40343985|During the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, indigenous communities in the Viceroyalty of Peru suffered forced resettlement, introduced disease, and onerous colonial tribute levies. These produced an onslaught of petitions for new tribute counts, as their diminished populations were obliged to pay the head taxes set by earlier censuses. The resulting visitas (administrative surveys) provide a wealth of information on the demography and agricultural systems of colonial Andean communities. However, comparatively little quantitative research exists on the distribution of agricultural resources and the nutritional demands of households. We model agricultural production and nutritional demand using household demographic and landholding declarations in the visitas from the Coica Valley of southern highland Peru, combined with ethnographically-derived estimates of agricultural production and nutritional demand. The results indicate that despite surplus agricultural production in the aggregate, there were significant differences in intra-and intercommunity land wealth and production sufficiency ratios, leaving about 30% of households with caloric shortfalls. In contrast to regional-scale carrying capacity-type models, this simulation characterizes agricultural inequality within colonial Andean communities, and thus accounts for the hardship evidenced by tributary recount petitions, even in a breadbasket province from which much surplus production was extracted to fill colonial coffers.
4602753|The competition between the two major user groups of fishermen in northeastern Lake Erie is analyzed in terms of models of interspecific competition used in animal ecology. Treating the two user groups as two "cultural species," neither the fishing areas used (geographical distribution of the "species") nor the composition of the catch (food of the "species") shows significant overlap. Nevertheless, both parties believe that a conflict exists. There are two possible explanations for this discrepancy: (1) the conflict may be real in some areas and seasons, even though on the whole there is no significant competition under the usual standards used in ecological niche overlap studies, and (2) the conflict may be due to perceptions, and may therefore be of cultural rather than of ecological origin, suggesting that biological models provide incomplete tools for the analysis of problems in human ecology.
4602807|A sample of children from the Nembi Plateau, Papua New Guinea, is monitored for nutritional status, episodes of sickness and disease, diets, work activity of mothers, and weight changes; and health and census records are examined for seasonal patterns of disease, deaths, birth, and birth weights. A seasonal pattern in birth weight reinforced by a seasonal pattern in growth performance and compounded by a seasonal pattern of disease suggests that the time of year in which a child is born is important to the child's growth and health. Yields, labor, and ritual surrounding the gardens give rise to the seasonal pattern of events that impinge upon the health of children.
27654308|Conservation conflicts are often difficult to resolve due to a combination of poorly defined property rights, inadequate funding, high transaction costs, and contrasting value systems among stakeholders. This paper explores these barriers to collaboration in the context of the emerging deer crisis in the Scottish Highlands, where deer numbers are now higher than at any time in recorded history. In particular we explore the potential role of recreational hunting in the government's strategy to contain rising deer numbers from the landowners' perspective. Using both qualitative and quantitative analysis we find that hunting traditions and personal preferences, reinforced by antipathy to conservationists and their perceptions of land stewardship, are the major barriers to shooting more deer for conservation objectives. We conclude that an expansion of commercial hunting opportunities is the best practical approach to resolving the current conflict over deer, but conservationists and landowners must work together to create a more positive context for hunter-conservation initiatives and activities.
4603207|Landholding fragmentation is a common feature of the agricultural systems of small farmers in the tropics. This paper presents a case study from an ejido in central Chiapas, Mexico, where this pattern is common. Farmers recognize soil types of different quality, embodied in a folk soil taxonomy. They argue that fragmentation is the result of their desire to maintain an equitable distribution of all land types among them, independently of the amount of land each controls. The evidence shows that while not all farmers have all soil types, farmers belonging to all ranges of socieconomic strata control soils in all the soil classes. There is no marked concentration of any soil type by any specific group, types are distributed among farmers by their abundance. Farmers have rejected previous government proposals to consolidate their landholdings. Fragmentation is associated with a high degree of social control over the land and a participatory process present in this community.
40343991|Previous studies on the hillside farmers of northern Thailand often focused on their swidden (slashand-burn) agriculture of upland rice and cash crop cultivation and paid little attention to livestock production and consumption, including that of pigs. I describe the household-level pig production and consumption in terms of the number of pigs slaughtered and the number of pigs supplied to others, or acquired from others, in a Hmong village of smallholders in northern Thailand. Study results are based on pig consumption in 17 selected households over two years (January 2005 to December 2006). The number of pigs slaughtered in each household ranged from zero to ten, with an average of 2.4 pigs per household per year. Pigs were slaughtered mainly for ritual events, particularly for annual ancestor worship and New Year ceremonies. A total of 80 pigs were slaughtered, with 78% being killed during ritual events including Christmas and 22% for non-ritual events including children moving up a grade in school. Most Christian households stopped slaughtering of pigs in ancestor worship conducted by a shaman, but continued to do so in Christmas and New Year rituals. A total of 23 pigs were supplied to others, of which two were given to people outside the village, while of a total of 37 pigs acquired, 17 were obtained from outside the village. A total of 80 pigs were slaughtered, including one improved-breed pig that was killed during a marriage ceremony soon after it was acquired from the city. The following changes in pig consumption are inferred to have taken place due to recent socioeconomic changes: (1) diversification of the type of events in which pigs are slaughtered as a result of the introduction of Christianity and the national educational system; (2) active pig acquisition from outside the village as a result of the use of motor vehicles; and (3) the acquisition and slaughtering for events of improved-breeds of pigs which are not kept and used for breeding.
4602355|An ecological approach to the persistence of communal tenure in a Swiss village suggests that such rights are neither historical anachronisms nor aspects of the closed corporate community. The adaptive value of group holdings in alpine pasture, forest, water, and access routes is compared to that of individual rights in arable land, meadows, and buildings within the same community. The nature and exploitation of resources are related to communal acquisition, conservation, and distribution.
4603075|This article discusses the change among Yucatec Maya farmers from traditional shifting milpa agriculture to intensive horticultural production for the Mexican market. The process of agricultural intensification among this group of peasant farmers has involved movement toward an increasingly sedentary form of production which has heightened reliance on the use of chemicals with negative consequences for the environment. The research, which focuses on the pressure on producers to abandon more sustainable forms of cultural controls against crop loss in favor of modern chemical controls, raises the issue of the transferability of sustainable traditional technology to small commercial farmers in the tropics. More specifically, the article draws attention to the sometimes overlooked issue of economic, as well as environmental, sustainability in discussions on agricultural development and resource management.
4602728|Seasonal variance in the diet of Ache hunter-gatherers is examined. Fluctuation in the number of calories of honey consumed daily contributed most to the differences in total calories consumed daily during different seasons of the year. Meat, the most important resource in the diet, provided the greatest number of calories daily, and varied little across seasons. The vegetable component of the diet is characterized by low variance in absolute numbers of calories, but high variance in species composition. The mean number of calories consumed daily per capita is high (3827 calories) compared to that reported for other hunter-gathers. Differences in energy expenditure and consumption among modern hunter-gatherers is discussed.
41474583|The Batur Temple (Pura Ulun Danu Batur) in Kintamani is located at the geographic apex of a so-called ritual water hierarchy and has conventionally been described as a purely religious institution responsible for the coordination and distribution of the irrigation water. However, an analysis of historical palm leaf manuscripts reveals that the temple had a firm economic base with corresponding interests and that it was one of the most important land-owners in late pre-colonial Bali. The article therefore explores from a socio-political and economic perspective the implications of this form of temple landlordism and its combination with ritual water control, particularly for the peasants and the portion of their annual surplus that they were obliged to deliver to this temple.
4603328|In recent decades, Pacific Region indigenous sea tenure regimes have received considerable attention from social scientists who believe that marine-localized common entitlements and fishing practices can aid modern littoral fisheries management. The endorsement of sea tenure institutions as managerial tools, however, has proceeded without adequate consideration of their vulnerability to social and economic changes. The general view held by researchers is that Pacific Island sea tenure regimes are generally undermined by the influence of exogenous forces resulting in an open-access commons. In this article, it is argued that the contemporary transformation of sea tenure regimes emerges not only from exogenous agency, but from a complex set of autochthonous processes. A case study from New Georgia, Solomon Islands, is presented to show how sea tenure regimes can vary within an ethnically and culturally homogeneous region. Three tenure models are presented to show how different pre- and post-European contact regional settlement patterns, localized processes of political expansion and contraction, and dynamic indigenous sociocultural principles have resulted in institutional differences between each sea tenure model. The effect of the market economy on the organizational structure and managerial outcomes of each model also is discussed.
40343996|Ecosystems are complex and difficult to predict and control. Western science-based societies have tended to simplify ecosystems to manage them. Some indigenous and other rural groups who interact closely with a given resource system seem to have developed practices that are adapted to live with complexity. This paper examines how indigenous Cree hunters in James Bay, subarctic Canada, understand and deal with ecological complexity and dynamics, and how their understanding of uncertainty and variability shape subsistence activities. The focus is the Canada goose (Branta canadensis) hunt which is adaptive to shifts and changes in local and regional conditions. Ecological understandings of Cree hunters allow them to account for and deal with a very large number of variables at multiples scales. The Cree deal with these variables qualitatively, an approach consistent with some scientific ways of dealing with complexity, such as adaptive management and fuzzy logic.
4603011|The hypothesis that energy-rich wild plant foods are too scarce in rain forest to allow subsistence by foraging peoples independently of agriculture lacks a firm empirical basis. Data on availability of wild plant foods such as wild yams are sorely lacking, and where quantitative information is provided to support the hypothesis, it usually concerns extent of use of wild plant foods: low availability is tacitly inferred from low use. We explore the alternative hypothesis that "extent of use" underestimates availability of wild yams and other wild plant foods; these foods are present in large enough quantities to support hunter-gatherers, but have become increasingly neglected with increasing availability of cultivated plant foods. Thus, the subsistence of contemporary rain forest foraging peoples, in which extensive relationships with sedentary farmers appear to be universal, may be a somewhat distorted reflection of their subsistence in the pre-agricultural past. Drawing on data from ecology, archeology, ethnohistory, and linguistics, we argue that pygmy foraging peoples of the western Congo basin were present in rain forest environments before the advent of farming villagers.
4602243|Current research on environmental decision-makers at the professional and nonprofessional levels is reviewed. The potential utility of this research for achieving more adaptive man-environment relations in modern industrial societies is examined. A broader framework of research is suggested for viewing the antecedents and consequences of environmental decision-making from an ecological perspective. Mechanisms for promoting research on man-environment relations are considered. In particular, issues in the training of scientific man-power in this interdisciplinary field are discussed.
4603584|This study in the wake of 1990s fire catastrophes identifies and analyzes underlying causes of vegetation fires in eight locations across Borneo and Sumatra. Multidisciplinary and multiscale analysis integrates geospatial technologies with varied social research approaches and participatory mapping. It helps fill a void of site-specific evidence on diverse underlying causes of the Indonesian fires, despite emerging consensus on macrolevel causes and impacts, and policy debates on preventing future fire disasters. Our most important findings include confirmation of multiple direct and underlying fire causes at each of the eight locations, no single dominant fire cause at any site, and wide differences in fire causes among sites. Conclusions emphasize the importance of location specific studies within a regional analytical context. Our "hybrid" research methods demonstrate the explanatory power of integrating geospatial and social analysis techniques, and the benefits of analyzing fire causes and impacts at multiple scales in varied locations across diverse regions.
4602909| This essay examines ritual and ceremonial activities among the Arawak-speaking Wakunai of the Venezuelan Amazon as processes of constructing power relations in changing historical and ecological conditions. Ritual evocations of the vertical dimension of power relations between mythic ancestors and human descendants adapt local populations to conditions of relatively severe stress, such as epidemics and scarcity of fish in long wet seasons. Other rituals evoke the horizontal dimension of power relations between affinally-related groups as a way of expanding the local descent group in conditions of lowered stress. These two ways of exercising ritual power link human populations to specific natural habitats and provide flexibility needed to adjust to demographic and other historical changes. Through ritual performances, the Wakunai transform the natural environment into a cultural landscape of socialized objects and, conversely, remember the history of political relations among peoples through spirit-naming of natural species, objects, places, and geographic landmarks. 
4602316|There has recently been great interest in the demography of primitive human populations. This can often be dealt with successfully by the use of demographic theory and model life tables; however, small populations present problems not encountered in large national censuses. This paper discusses some of these problems and illustrates the determination of model life tables in anthropology with a particular population, the Yanomama Indians. The concern is for the methods to be used, and their applicability, and not with the specific population illustrating them. By applying theoretical models, one can derive information that is otherwise unavailable but is necessary in the important biomedical, social, and ecological understanding of primitive societies.
4602772|This paper examines the question of why the total fertility rate of the !Kung San hunter-gatherers of the Northern Kalahari desert is as low as 4.69 births. When the intermediate variables involved are examined through the employment of a reproductive equation, it becomes clear that low fecundity is a major issue. Arguments offered previously to explain the low fertility of !Kung women, depending on factors such as nutrition, health status, and lactational practices are insufficient. Drawing upon recent data from sports medicine and endocrinology, I suggest that the pattern of San female energetics in their gathering and subsistence routine has a direct effect upon their fecundity. Such a correlation between activity patterns, endocrine function, and reproductive capacity may also be important for understanding the fertility of other mobile hunter-gatherer groups.
4603176|The trend of pastoral sedentarization in Africa presents new economic opportunities to women through the sale of dairy products, agricultural produce, and labor. This study of Rendille of northern Kenya shows a variety of economic strategies pursued by women in nomadic pastoral, settled agro-pastoral, and town communities. Results of household budgets and interviews with married women indicate that urban centers attract both wealthier Rendille women selling milk and poorer women engaged in wage-labor and petty commodity trade; time allocation data shows that women living in towns work as strenuously as those in pastoral communities, while men in towns work less than in pastoral communities and less than women in both communities; and anthropometric data of women and children suggest that increases in women's income may have a beneficial effect on the nutrition and well-being of their children.
4603026| We examine whether among the Bar sex ratios at birth or later ages deviate from the value of one expected by chance. We find no significant bias toward sons or daughters. We also examine whether the costs and benefits associated with sons and daughters are similar or if one sex is more expensive than the other. We contrast our results with predictions derived from Fisher's and the Trivers-Willard hypotheses on sex ratios. 
40343999|Availability of annually reproducing wild yam species (Dioscorea praehensilis and Dioscorea semperflorens) is considered to be a key factor for the viability of forest hunter-gatherer subsistence in the African rainforests. I here describe the habitat and distribution of wild yam patches, and discuss possible human impacts on the formation of wild yam patches, which currently support long-term forest expeditions by Baka hunter-gatherers in southeastern Cameroon. An analysis of canopy photographs shows that annual yams favor a habitat of canopy gaps which receive sufficient sunlight. However, the fact that annual yams patches are limited to specific locations even though gaps in the canopy occur throughout the forest, combined with the mostly vegetative reproductive system of the yams, suggests annual yams do not propagate extensively in the wild. Moreover, areas with abundant annual yam patches that are presently situated far from any villages contain several abandoned village sites. Since the Baka often transplant parts of yam tubers to encourage their spread, it seems that human activities may have contributed to the formation of locally concentrated annual yam patches.
4603010|It has recently been argued that hunter-gatherers do not, did not, and could not live in tropical rain forest without some access to agricultural produce. This opinion challenges models of past non-agricultural subsistence patterns that are based in analogies derived from modern rain forest-dwelling groups. In this paper, the socio-ecological bases of the hunting system of the Kubo people of lowland Papua New Guinea are described. It is argued that this system lacks necessary dependence upon the agricultural system with which it co-occurs and, in fact, can be connected with a system of carbohydrate procurement that is not agricultural. The hypothesized connection provides the basis of a model of non-agricultural subsistence in lowland tropical rain forest.
4602646|The Pearl River Delta offers humans a variety of land-use alternatives. A complex ecosystem which has been in existence in the Delta for centuries has greatly contributed to the region's agricultural productivity. The principal components are mulberry trees, silkworms, pond fish, and humans, interrelated in a harmonious and mutually beneficial way. The system is not only highly efficient and soundly balanced ecologically, but provides much higher economic returns than do other agrarian practices in the Delta.
4603008|Bailey et al. (1989) and Headland (1987) have recently proposed hypotheses stating that human foragers are unable to live in undisturbed tropical rain forests without some reliance on cultivated foods. The present discussion considers these hypotheses, as well as some of the evidence by which they have been tested. Four conceptual problems in the way these hypotheses have been formulated are identified: (1) assumptions about the relationship between key features of tropical forest ecosystems and human subsistence potential, (2) inconsistencies in the definition of "pure foraging," (3) adherence to a dichotomy between foraging and agriculture, the result being that conscious and unconscious effects of exploitation on the demographic parameters of key resources is ignored, and (4) problems in defining the significance of ecotones. I consider the case of Penan hunter-gatherers of Borneo, a population which, by virtue of their reliance on the sago palm Eugeissona utilis, contradicts the conclusions of Bailey et al. and Headland. I consider salient aspects of Penan reliance on Eugeissona, and describe how Penan exploitation of this resource may positively effect its availability. This case is seen to provide a challenge to the hypotheses of Bailey et al. and Headland, not only in the extent to which it contradicts their conclusions but, more significantly, in what it reveals about the assumptions upon which their hypotheses are based. This points to the need for greater precision in the definition of future hypotheses about foraging in tropical forests.
4602879|Six villages in upland West Bengal, India were resurveyed in 1987 and the results compared with the data from a larger area studied in 1977-1978. There has been a 6.4% increase in the human population, but the number of households has decreased 1.7%. The cattle population has increased 14.4% with male cattle accounting for the bulk of the increase. A crossbreeding program implemented 8 years ago has had virtually no beneficial effects. Other observations on the general welfare of humans and domestic animals are presented.
40603003|Home gardens are land use units embedded in a larger land use system, in this case in Candelaria Loxicha, Oaxaca, Mexico. Using a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods, we investigated how home gardens are integrated into local farming practices and how these influence biodiversity. Our findings suggest that home gardens harbour high levels of biodiversity, which are maintained and enriched by farmers' practices, particularly plant and seed exchange. Plant diversity is higher in younger home gardens and in home gardens where owners actively exchange plant material with other people. Through plant exchange, seed storage, and the dispersion of seeds and plants in different land uses, farmers encourage plant diversity and consequently increase the resilience of their farming system in changing climatic, demographic and economic conditions. Both men and women participate in the establishment, care and management of home gardens, but they are responsible for different plants and home garden functions. For economic reasons, the inhabitants of Candelaria Loxicha are increasingly engaging in international migration. Migrants, upon their return bring new ideas and plants that might transform the rural landscape.
41474641|The invasion of exotic earthworms in the Northern Forest of the United States alters carbon and nitrogen cycles and reduces forest litter and native plant cover. Humans are the principal agents of dispersal, spreading earthworms both inadvertently via horticulture, land disturbance, and in the tires and underbodies of vehicles, and voluntarily through composting and the improper disposal offish bait. A study in Webb, NYa town located within the Adirondack State Park, one of the most celebrated cultural and ecological regions in the USexposes the human dimensions of earthworm invasion. Environmental history research, interviews with residents and bait sellers, and a mail survey of town residents show that positive attitudes towards earthworms and their ecological effects lead to casual disposal or use of them. Earthworm use is a strong cultural practice and the risk of their continued introduction in the Adirondacks is high.
40981191|Medicinal plants are indicators of indigenous knowledge in the context of political volatility and sociocultural and ecological change in the Pamir Mountains of Afghanistan and Tajikistan. Medicinal plants are the primary health care option in this region of Central Asia. The main objective of this paper is to demonstrate that medicinal plants contribute to health security and sovereignty in a time of instability. We illustrate the nutritional as well as medicinal significance of plants in the daily lives of villagers. Based on over a decade and half of research related to resilience and livelihood security, we present plant uses in the context of mountain communities. Villagers identified over 58 cultivated and noncultivated plants and described 310 distinct uses within 63 categories of treatment and prevention. Presence of knowledge about medicinal plants is directly connected to their use.
41474584|The subak has a long history as an lirrigators' institution on Bali. It has also spread across Indonesia along with Balinese farmers who were resettled by colonial and post-colonial governments or who have migrated spontaneously since colonial times. While subaks have been much researched in Bali itself, little is known about subaks outside Bali. Luwu District in South Sulawesi is one of the areas where thousands of Balinese families settled in the last four decades. Based on research in this transmigration area, this paper analyzes the emergence and development of the subak in relation to the development of irrigation infrastructure of a state-built irrigation system. A comparison between two Balinese settlements in the same system shows that differences in infrastructural and managerial conditions and arrangements between parts of the irrigation system were major determinants of the institutional space allowed for the subak and ways in which the subaks developed.
4603081|Prehistoric Anasazi Pueblo Indians relied on a diverse set of agricultural strategies, each uniquely suited to specific micro-environments, in their attempts to mitigate subsistence risk. One variant strategy used during the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries A.D. was pebble-mulch gardening. The Rio Grande Anasazi of northern New Mexico occasionally mulched some of their garden plots with pebbles in order to increase soil moisture, reduce erosion, moderate soil temperature, and increase crop yields. This labor intensive technique was primarily employed as a drought-evasive measure. And while pebble mulching is an effective agricultural adaptation to the constraints of a dryland environment, construction was limited to sites with natural gravel deposits and it never replaced more traditional food stress-coping mechanisms. In spite of their potential, pebble-mulch gardens were used for only a short period of time, never contributed much to the total food yield of pueblos, and remained always a peripheral innovation outside of the Anasazi cultural core.
4603216|Shifting cultivation is important to many of the inhabitants of tropical forest regions. Much scientific research has been conducted on this form of agriculture in the humid tropics, but the drier portions of the tropics remain less studied. The shifting cultivation system practiced in the tropical deciduous forests of western Guerrero, Mexico, provides insight into such production systems, especially with regard to crop diversity and fallow characteristics. This system is characterized by low crop diversity, based primarily on maize (Zea mays) cultivation, and a general lack of fallow management. The farmers also utilize several strategies not common to many other regions, including highly seasonal labor allocation patterns, varying fallow cycle lengths, and the occasional application of chemical inputs.
41474674|In earlier publications we have proposed a model to explain the functional role of water temple networks in the agro-ecology of wet rice irrigation on the island of Bali. We argued that the key ecological effects of temple networks are best understood as emergent properties of a complex adaptive system. This argument implies that important aspects of the temple system are largely opaque from the perspective of conventional social science. We proposed that the Green Revolution created a real-world test of our model, by effectively removing the temple networks from their functional role in ecological management. The idea that water temple networks represent a hitherto-unknown kind of institution has been met with appropriate skepticism by other social scientists, who have run a fine-toothed comb through our evidence. Here we evaluate their critiques.
23353258|The emergence of 'new commons' poses theoretical challenges that require empirical efforts and in-depth case studies. Three years of ethnographic work at an Ecuadorian coastal community brings us to propose the emergence of a new commons, historically born from an unstructured group of inhabitants, and refunded as a community seemingly able to convert a degraded socio-ecological system into a more sustainable configuration. To understand this process, we study how institutions and rules developed for the environmental management of strategic common pool resources (CPRs), transforming humanenvironment relationships. This socioecosystem constitutes a co-managed multi-level system of governance, developed through a community building process and a particular community based tourism model. Its analysis suggests that the balanced development of different levels of management with a firm base at the community level bringing into play new CPRs, can be key factors for the emergence of new commons.
41474582|This paper discusses issues of agrarian change in south-central Bali. The proximity to urban areas, especially the tourist centers along the southern coast, provides many off-farm employment opportunities for small-scale farming households. Although rice farming continues, for many households it has become a side business. The flexible nature of rice farming in terms of labor input and available casual off-farm work allows farming households to allocate their available labor to a variety of on-farm and off-farm income generating activities. The subak which unites farmers in the irrigation and cultivation of the rice crop plays an important role in supporting this flexibility. Still, the future of rice farming and the organization behind it looks rather dim with a younger generation unwilling to work in the "mud" and little appreciation of the many benefits the subak provides not only to the farming but to the wider community.
4602400|In southwestern North America, agriculture is limited by both arable land and available water supplies. In the upper Rio San Miguel, as well as in other narrow river valleys of eastern Sonora, Mexico, floodplain farming is dependent upon living fencerows for its environmental stability. Propagated fencerows of willow and cottonwood maintain, extend, and enhance floodplain fields. These ecological filters also protect fields from cattle, harbor agents of biological control of pests, and provide renewable supplies of wood. Traditional Sonoran farmers do not perceive cottonwoods and willows as phreatophytic pests, as their Anglo-American neighbors do. The stability of the upper San Miguel agroecosystem contrasts with severely eroded conditions within the region's other arid watersheds.
4603529|Through a process of participatory mapping, this research assessed the impacts of the 1984 change in Alaska fire policy from one of exclusion to one of management on Native land use in the Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge. Findings suggest that while the change in policy has had little measurable effect on community land use the continued suppression of fire on Native owned lands is having a direct impact on the current availability of wildlife resources to the point of necessitating territorial expansion among Native resource users. However, given the complexity of human nature, the impacts associated with the 1984 policy change should not be reduced to a simplistic cause-and-effect relationship. Rather this analysis demonstrates the interaction as well as the contradiction that occur between policy, culture, and ecology as these factors together have come to influence Native land use.
4603531|While economic development has proven elusive in African pastoral systems, change is pervasive. The majority of the Kajiado Maasai, for example, have endured marked declines in per capita livestock holdings and other aspects of human welfare over the past 50 years. We surveyed 317 Borana households to see if similar patterns occurred in southern Ethiopia, and our predictions were largely confirmed. Once viewed as the epitome of sustainable pastoralism, the Borana system now confronts numerous challenges. Decline in per capita cattle holdings has spurred household-level diversification to include maize cultivation and camel husbandry in some areas. Resource pressure has encouraged local annexation of some formerly common access grazing areas. Economic links between pastoral households and local towns still appear rare, however. Our results suggest that patterns of internally induced socioeconomic change due to population pressure in such semiarid systems are broadly predictable, and that development intervention priorities should reflect system dynamics and address emerging issues. A focus on improving risk management by facilitating household economic diversification and restoring some aspects of opportunistic resource use may be the most appropriate development options among the Ethiopian Boran at this time.
4602962|The conservation of scarce land resources is essential to the long-term viability of agriculture in Rwanda. High population density, steep slopes, and abundant rainfall prevail in the highland portions of this African country, making the task of erosion control uncommonly difficult for the peasant farmer. The specific use to which land is put, e.g., cultivation, fallow, pasture, woodlots, and, if it is cultivated, the particular combination of crops grown, can be seen as contributing to both the cause and the solution of the land degradation problem. Based on data from a nationwide survey of over 4800 agricultural fields in Rwanda, this study reviews the extent to which the land use and croping patterns employed by farmers are appropriately suited, in terms of erosion control, to the topographical and environmental characteristics of their landholdings. Analyses of other aspects of the traditional agricultural system, e.g., variations in relative soil fertility, the use of organic fertilizers, and the location of fields relative to the household, are introduced to help explain why farmers often fail to maximize erosion control through land use and cropping practices. Adjustments to current land use practices that can be expected to reduce soil loss are discussed.
24013719|The socioeconomics and the ecological impact of nomadic pastoralism were analyzed using interviews with 87 herder families and secondary information in the western Khangai, Mongolia. The pastoralists had an income above the national average for rural areas in Mongolia. Most herders continued traditional seasonal migration patterns, which involved ca. 10 moves per year over a total distance of ca. 100 km between summer and winter grazing grounds. As elsewhere in Mongolia, the number of goats owned by herders has greatly increased and cashmere has become the main source of cash income. Total livestock numbers rose considerably after decollectivization of the livestock sector in 1992, but in recent years have periodically been reduced by harsh winters, often combined with drought. Due to the high economic risk of these periodic livestock losses, many herders invest in better education for their children to enable them to migrate to the cities.
4602572|Prior explanations of the distributions of crime have tended to emphasize the criminal intentions of people without considering adequately the circumstances in which criminal acts occur. This paper examines how community structure generates these circumstances and applies Amos Hawley's human ecological theory in treating criminal acts as routine activities which feed upon other routine activities. For example, we consider how married women in the labor force, persons living alone, and lightweight durable goods provide offenders with circumstances favourable for carrying out certain illegal acts. We examine in particular how direct-contact predatory violations require the convergence in space and time of offenders, suitable targets, and the absence of effective guardians. Various trends in the social structure can alter crime rates by affecting the likelihood of this convergence, without necessarily requiring changes in the criminal inclinations of individuals.
4602331|An attempt is made to argue for a more dynamic view of hunter-gatherer population behavior in place of the largely static one that has been widely accepted. Following a review of how the concept of carrying capacity has been used in both hunter-gatherer and ecological studies, attention is drawn to the role of stochastic factors in producing fluctuations over time among populations that are small in size. Some of the implications of this alternative view are briefly discussed.
4602740|Ciguatera fish poisoning is a significant health and resource problem in the tropical world, largely because of its uneven and unpredictable distribution in space and through time. Here, the problem is reviewed with evidence from the Pacific Basin. The contemporary distribution of ciguatera and the species commonly perceived to be toxic are considered and a hypothesis relating the greater prevalence of ciguatera in the eastern Pacific to reduced species diversity is presented. The problem is also considered as a public health phenomenon (the mean reported incidence for the Pacific region as a whole in 1981 was 109/100,000) and attention is given to island dwellers' adaptation to the problem, their explanations of its etiology, as well as its detection, prophylaxis, and cure.
23353200|This paper discusses transitions in land use evidenced by the case of the Suoi Muoi catchment area in NW mountain of Vietnam. Land use transitions were detected from LANDSAT and SPOT satellite images taken over the last 40 years. The maps showing changes in land use were linked with biophysical properties of the land such as slope gradient, elevation and soil type, and cultural characteristic of various ethnic groups by means of logistic regression model. The combination of research methods and instruments from several disciplines, including statistical spatial analysis such as the multiple logistic regression (MLR) models and the multiple correspondence analysis (MCA) on household interview data, and key informant interviews allowed us to identify and validate a number of factors that drive land cover and land use changes in Northwest Vietnam.
4603084|In Canada, there has been a marked increase in the relative frequency of dual earner families, and especially of dual career families, compared to breadwinner/homemaker families. Effects of this change on the handling of incomes inside the household are examined here. In this paper, quantitative survey data and qualitative data on strategies of financial management are described and analyzed for co-resident couples in Winnipeg. Findings are presented on control over income, financial possession, and access to household money. These findings are interpreted as evidence of a shift in the form of companionate marriage toward greater equality of economic agency. It is suggested that the most common household financial strategy among Canadian couples today is that of flexible shares.
24015744|Climate change is a significant future driver of change in coastal social-ecological systems. Our knowledge of impacts, adaptation options, and possible outcomes for marine environments and coastal industries is expanding, but remains limited and uncertain. Alternative scenarios are a way to explore potential futures under a range of conditions. We developed four alternative future scenarios for the Great Barrier Reef and its fishing and tourism industries positing moderate and more extreme (23 C above pre-industrial temperatures) warming for 2050 and contrasting 'limited' and 'ideal' ecological and social adaptation. We presented these scenarios to representatives of key stakeholder groups to assess the perceived viability of different social adaptation options to deliver desirable outcomes under varied contexts.
4603419|Maasai pastoralists in Kenya are rapidly diversifying. Maasai may now derive their main livelihoods (and sometimes considerable income) from farming, wildlife tourism, and/or the leasing of land for large-scale cereal cultivation. The spread of large-scale commercial cultivation competes with wildlife for grazing land, and wildlife populations around protected areas are rapidly declining as a result. This paper presents new data to analyse the way returns from different land uses, and the social structures affecting their distribution, influence the land-use choices being made by Maasai around the Mara National Reserve in Kenya. Returns to different interest groups from livestock, cultivation, and wildlife enterprises, seen in the light of current social, economic, and political trajectories, can help to clarify likely future land-use trends in the Mara. In particular, community conservation initiatives that seek to make conservation worthwhile to reserve-adjacent dwellers inevitably have a strong economic dimension. However, the choices made by Maasai landowners are not a simple function of the economic returns potentially accruing from a particular enterprise. They are as much or more influenced by who is able to control the different flows of returns from these different types of enterprise. These findings are relevant not only for the wider Serengeti-Mara Ecosystem, but also for pastoral livelihoods and wildlife conservation elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa.
41474609|A large number of East African pastoralists reside around protected areas (PAs). Over the last few decades pastoralists have been affected by the loss of grazing lands and increasing climatic variability. Many pastoralists who reside around PAs have resorted to grazing inside PAs to counter environmental variability. However, there is little information on how PAs influence the herding strategies of pastoralists. This case study from southern Kenya employs a spatially and temporally explicit mixedmethods approach to understand and evaluate the herding strategies of pastoralists around a PA. The results find that pastoralists access PAs on a regular basis, regardless of seasonality or herd size. Movement into PAs was partly driven by the loss of grazing land to conservancies. PAs affected pastoral herding by presenting differential opportunity costs to disparate groups. However, households with large herd sizes utilized the most flexible strategies to counter environmental variability and uncertainty.
41432986|Many fisheries management interventions are in the form of spatial regulations that change fishers' access to fishing grounds. How fishers respond to regulations directly affects the ecological and socioeconomic outcomes of management objectives, but little attention is paid to fishers' willingness and ability to make spatial adjustments. We investigate the spatial preferences of small-scale fishers in Sabah, Malaysia, within a framework of mental maps and perceptions. We find that the majority of fishers fish within preferred resource spaces that were heavily influenced by perceptions of safety. Most fishers exhibit low flexibility to adapt to spatial changes, based on i) unwillingness to travel beyond preferred resource spaces; ii) unwillingness to leave the fishery; and iii) low to no alternative employment opportunities. We emphasize the need to uncover and understand human dimension parameters to reduce uncertainty surrounding human behaviour, and ultimately facilitate the attainment of fisheries management objectives.
27654184|This study focuses on individuals' subjective reasons for complying with rules for common pool resource management. We examine the topic of individual rule compliance, which the commons literature has addressed only marginally, and outline recent empirical findings. Hypotheses are derived based on rule compliance theory and explored using data gathered in a Cuban community sharing a solar energy system. The statistical analyses reveal that compliance with rules for energy management is influenced by various factors. Depending on the particular rule, factors such as sanctioning, legitimacy, and compatibility, among others, influence the frequency of individual rule compliant behavior to differing extents.
24013747|The discussion about the impact of pastoralists on ecosystems has been profoundly shaped by Hardin's tragedy of the commons that held pastoralists responsible for overgrazing the range. Research has shown that grazing ecosystems are much more complex and dynamic than was previously assumed and that they can be managed adaptively as commons. However, proponents and critics of Hardin's thesis continue to argue that open access to common-pool resources inevitably leads to a tragedy of the commons. A longitudinal study that we conducted of pastoral mobility and primary production in the Logone floodplain in the Far North Region of Cameroon suggest that open access does not have to lead to a tragedy of the commons. We argue that this pastoral system is best conceptualized as an open system, in which a combination of individual decision-making and coordination of movements leads to an ideal-free type of distribution of mobile pastoralists. We explain how this self-organizing system of open access works and its implications for theories of management of common-pool resources and our understanding of pastoral systems.
40981186|Previous research has examined the influence of values on human-ecological decisions, yet disparate approaches render inferences across studies difficult. In this paper, we present a robust conceptualization of values, encompassing general life values, broad-based environmental orientations, and specific yard priorities, while comparatively examining how these influence residents' land-management practices. Coupling a social survey with observational field data in Phoenix, Arizona, we address how 1) diverse values affect residents' multifaceted landscaping practices, 2) yard structure impacts water and chemical applications, and 3) land management varies across distinctive geographic contexts. Overall, values were not strongly related to land management decisions. Of those that were significant, most were related to groundcover and herbicide use. Yet diverse environmental values influenced landscaping practices in varying and complex ways. In addition, the historic and socioeconomic setting of neighborhoods affect the extent of lawns and related management inputs, while heightened use of pesticides in rock-based, drought-tolerant yards challenges the notion of these lawn alternatives as an environmentally friendly and low maintenance choice.
4603036|Most of the studies on seasonality in food supply and nutritional status have been carried out in areas characterized by extreme climatic conditions. This study was conducted in an area where the climate is favorable for grain cultivation. However, a large part of the population was found to face seasonal variations in food availability, most critically three to four months before the main harvest. Women lost about 3 percent of their weight in this period compared to the post harvest period. The nutritional status of preschool children declined in the lower socio-economic group. These changes also coincided with a period of hard agricultural work, especially for women. The paper deals with factors affecting the duration of the maize stocks as well as strategies used when maize stocks are exhausted.
4602813|The concept of adaptation has been used differently in studies of biological and cultural evolution, and this divergence raises the question of whether genetic and cultural adaptations are truly comparable. This paper compares genetic and cultural traits associated with endemic malaria in Sardinia, Italy. Thalassemia and G-6-Pd deficiency, two genetic traits of the Island's population, are believed to enhance fitness against malaria, despite increased risk for the diseases of thalassemia major and favism. Two cultural traits, a pastoral pattern of inverse transhumance and rules limiting the geographical mobility of lowland women, limited exposure to the malaria vector, Anopheles labranchiae; these are used as examples of cultural adaptations. The distribution, costs, and benefits of the adaptive cultural and genetic traits are compared, and the theoretical difficulties of finding a common measure of adaptive value are discussed.
4602889|Mexico is within the center of origin of Zea mays and has among the highest levels of maize genetic diversity in the world. This diversity is traced to factors at the regional and farm levels. Loss of crop genetic diversity has been related to economic and agricultural development, although opposed views of this exist for the Mexican case. Agricultural development appears to be affecting virtually all types of farms in Mexico. A case study in Chiapas suggests that the adoption of some improved varieties has enhanced genetic diversity in maize, but one improved type competes with landraces in the most favorable land. The adoption of this improved type is associated with greater access to capital and with lower risk.
41433095|Much of the literature on common-pool resources has focused on elucidating the social mechanisms and local institutions that lead to the regulation of common-pool resources. There is much less information about how management regimes translate into environmental impacts or how environmental impacts influence the emergence of management decisions. We use quantitative and qualitative methods to investigate the link between forest condition, agricultural change and the emergence of common-pool resource management regimes in two indigenous Kichwa communities in the Ecuadorian Amazon. We show that forest condition is linked to agricultural production and that the perception of common-pool resource scarcity influences the emergence of management regimes. We argue that population pressure, market forces and resource scarcity, which are usually associated with measures of agricultural change can also promote the emergence of common-pool resource management regimes.
27654252|In 2005, a hurricane named Katrina hit the states of Louisiana and Mississippi in the US, destroying properties and flooding areas. Many people left the region and still have not returned. While some of these people may eventually return, some may not, becoming "migrants." Assuming this phenomenon will occur, is it unique? What is the role of the environment in migration? Can there be violent conflict between such migrants and residents in areas absorbing migrants? We evaluate these questions in the cases of Hurricane Katrina, the US Dust Bowl in the 1930s, and Bangladesh since the 1950s, demonstrating that environmental change can trigger large out-migration, which can cause violent conflict in areas receiving migrants. These findings have important policy implications. Climate change is expected to degrade the environment considerably in this century. Minimizing climate change-induced migration and violent conflict in receiving areas requires an engineered economic slowdown in the developed countries, and population stabilization and economic growth in the developing countries financed by the developed countries.
4603371|Understanding landscape-scale patterns of herding is critical in identifying and assessing the impacts of pastoral grazing. Here, a general model of herding is developed based on the Sukuma agropastoral system in the Rukwa Valley, Tanzania. Using this conceptual framework, the factors affecting the maximum distances herds travel from home and the distribution of grazing around pastoral settlements are examined. The distribution of dry season water structured the landscape-scale distribution of grazing throughout the year, not just during the dry season. Water availability strongly affected the distances herds ranged from home in the dry season and the distribution of grazing around pastoral settlements throughout the year. Associations between cattle productivity and herding practices were also examined. The effects of traveling further from home, keeping cattle in large herds, and using/living in areas of high settlement densities were examined on the following measures of productivity: intake rates, foraging behavior, milk yields, and body conditions. Cattle from larger herds were observed to walk more while actively foraging and engage in more walking bouts (taking ten steps without taking a bite). The increased walking of large herds may explain why they range farther from home and highlight the importance and ubiquity of herd splitting among pastoralists. However, herd size effects were not apparent in intake rates or milk yields. Milk yields were negatively affected by traveling farther from home. These data demonstrate substantial variability within herding populations and show interesting similarities with herding systems in substantially more arid areas.
41474596|Introduced species are a major driver of negative ecological change, but some introduced species can potentially offer positive benefits to society. Asian swamp buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) were introduced to the northern Australian mainland in 1827 and have since become a serious pest. However, buffalo have also supported various profitable industries, including harvesting for hides, meat, and live export. We investigate an indigenous wildlifebased enterprise that harvests wild buffalo from indigenousheld lands in remote northern Australia. We used ecological modelling and social research techniques to quantify the buffalo dynamics and to examine their contributions to sustainable livelihoods in a remote Aboriginal community. Results suggest that the current harvest rate will not drive the species to extinction and it is thus unlikely that the population size of buffalo will be reduced enough to alleviate ecological damage. This enterprise is profitable and provides regular royalty payments to traditional land owners and wage income for employees, along with several additional non-financial capital assets. We demonstrate that the commercial exploitation of introduced species can provide additional or alternative sources of protein and income to promote economic development for indigenous people. This type of enterprise could be expanded to more communities using harvest rates above maximum sustainable yield to provide greater positive social and ecological outcomes for indigenous communities.
4602509| Whenever introduced into Amazonia and its neighboring regions, the shotgun has quickly replaced the bow and arrow and other aboriginal weapons of the hunt. The quick and widespread adoption of the shotgun is plainly a matter of its superiority over most aboriginal weapons. This paper compares the hunting efficiencies of the shotgun and the bow by means of a controlled field experiment among the Ye'kwana and Yanomam Indians of the Upper Orinoco River of southern Venezuela. It also examines the impact of the shotgun on local animal populations and the economic changes brought about by the need to cash-crop in order to purchase Western hunting technology. 
41474594|We use agent-based modeling to study osotua, a gift giving system used by the Maasai of East Africa. Osotua's literal meaning is "umbilical cord," but it is used metaphorically to refer to a specific type of gift-giving relationship. Osotua relationships are characterized by respect, responsibility and restraint. Osotua partners ask each other for help only if they are in need and provide help only when asked and only if they are able. We hypothesize that under the ecologically volatile conditions in which Maasai pastoralists have traditionally lived, such a system is particularly suited to risk pooling. Here we explore whether osotua increases the viability of herds by comparing herd survivorship and stability under osotua rules to a) no exchange and b) probabilistic rules for requesting and giving livestock. Results from this model suggest that this gift-giving system can dramatically increase herd longevity through a limited pooling of risk.
40343984|Globalization induces changes in the combinations of productions and activities within farming systems in all parts of the world. These changes can only be apprehended through an in-depth understanding of the mechanisms and diversity of these farming systems. Labor, as a major technical determinant of differences in competitiveness, is central in these transformations. The technical and economic analysis of labor in Andean dairy production in this paper illustrates this issue. Combining various scales of analysis of labor and productivity highlights the technical obstacles faced by Andean dairy farmers, demonstrates the technical and economic principles of these production systems, and puts them in a competitive context. This analysis also discusses the benefits of a labor-centered approach of farming systems.
27654307|Petroleum and natural gas are the primary fuels in the US food system. Both fuels are now in short supply and significant quantities are being imported into the USA from various nations. An investigation documented that fossil energy use in the food system could be reduced by about 50% by appropriate technology changes in food production, processing, packaging, transportation, and consumption. The results suggest that overall, farmers benefit as well as consumers.
4603259|This paper investigates the links between migration and ecological change by focusing on environmentally-displaced populations. The discussion is based on a case study from the Usangu Plains, Tanzania, a receiving area for displaced herders and cultivators from elsewhere in Tanzania. I focus on two of these groups--the Nyakyusa and the Sukuma--in analyzing the ecological causes and consequences of rural-rural migration. The spread of cash crop production, leading to degradation and resource scarcity, was a key factor underlying displacement from both locations. I emphasize social and cultural variables influencing resource use and management in assessing the ecological impact of migration on the Usangu Plains. Migration is not always ecologically destructive; this paper indicates some of the conditions under which it can have this outcome. In this case study, environmental displacement caused environmental problems to be transferred elsewhere, to be translated into new forms, and to increase in complexity, a phenomenon I call the "cascade effect."
23280335|This paper shows how the prospect of a forest carbon market in Papua New Guinea added a new element of instability to national forest policy and property processes that were already moving in contradictory directions. In particular we examine attempts by foreign investors to forge voluntary carbon agreements with customary landowners after the Bali climate change conference of 2007, and the mobilization of state institutions to counter these 'private dealings'. We highlight the connection between the ways that these processes played out at both national and local scales, with a focus on the highly contentious Kamula Doso forest area in Western Province. We conclude with some observations on the way that the constitutional protection of customary land rights inhibits the formalization of marketable rights in forest resources, including forest carbon, and creates an inconclusive circularity in the operation of forest policy and property processes at different levels of social and political organization.
4603118|In the last few decades, advances in understanding and modeling climate have paralleled the growth of an impressive log of radiocarbon dates and quantitative analyses of climatic indicators including pollen, tree rings, and lake levels. At the same time, archeological research has given us an impressive assemblage of cultural information. We also have the tools for sorting out the diverse sources of variance in our datasets. The time has come to begin to integrate these lines of scientific endeavor to produce a mutually coherent picture of at least one of the mechanisms that have affected the history of humankind, and one that undoubtedly will affect the future as well.
24015700|Among many indigenous peoples of Amazonia, shamanism and Christianity co-exist as central cultural elements shaping the ways in which people interpret and interact with the world. Despite centuries of co-existence, the relationship between shamanism and Christianity has entered an especially dynamic era as many of Amazonia's indigenous peoples abandon Catholicism for Evangelical and Sabbatarian churches. Testing the relationship between Christian church affiliation and shamanism in 23 Makushi and Wapishana communities in southern Guyana, we found that Evangelicals and Sabbatarians are less likely to visit shamans or accept their legitimacy than are Anglicans and Catholics. However, conversion does not necessarily imply a complete rejection of indigenous religious systems as many self-identified Evangelicals and Sabbatarians continue to adhere to some indigenous beliefs and practices. We conclude by positing possible implications of religious conversion for natural resource use on indigenous lands.
4603204|Floodplain fisheries make an important contribution to the total freshwater catch of Africa. Rules and institutions controlling access to these fisheries have received little attention in the literature. This paper explores property regimes operating in the Hadejia-Jama'are floodplain fishery, Nigeria, with a focus on a case-study village. Private, communal property, and open-access tenure regimes exist. The physical characteristics of the resources under each of these categories are differentiated. The economic cost of making resources more exclusive appears to be a key factor affecting tenure. However, the social benefits of communal access are also extremely important. In a risky environment that is characterized by spatial and temporal variation in the distribution of resources, maintaining rights of access to a wide geographical portfolio of resources is an important consideration. This is especially true considering recent environmental changes in the floodplain caused by dams and drought. This suggests that recommendations to improve productivity of the fishery by making access more exclusive may not maximize overall benefits from the fishery, since gains in productivity may be outweighed by losses in social benefits.
4602791|Retrospective data collected in two urban neighborhoods of Tianjin, People's Republic of China, reveal a decline in the rate and duration of breastfeeding since the mid-1930's. There is no reason to suppose that this decline was stimulated by policies intended to discourage breastfeeding, or by pressures from commercial interests determined to expand the use of milk substitutes or supplements. The evidence indicates that breastfeeding declined as women became involved in work outside the home, as they adopted a form of postmarital residence that separated them from other relatives, as income increased, and as their rural origins decreased. No evidence was found to indicate a relationship between breastfeeding and parity or sex preferences.
27654179|In order to assess possible contributions of climate change to the human ecology of the North Atlantic islands we evaluate the utility of cumulative deviations from the mean, calculated for the Greenland ice core storm frequency proxy (GISP2 Na+) and sea ice proxy (GISP2 chloride excess). Our aim is to identify episodes of unpredictable change in the context of long-term trends of cultural and environmental development. Key changes are identified in the proxy climate records in 975 and 980 AD, 1025 and 1040 AD, 1180 AD, 1425 and 1450 AD, and 1520 and 1525 AD. Some of these changes are consistent with those inferred from new studies of the palaeoecological record of the Faroes. This indicates that the cumulative deviation measure could give greatest prominence to the most important climate changes affecting landscapes and settlement (such as the changes of 1425 and 1450 AD and their immediate aftermath), rather than extreme events, such as great single storms.
4602997|This article examines the rhino and elephant conservation policies of Zimbabwe, focusing on the historical experiences of rural farmers with colonial and post-colonial wildlife policies. It begins by defining the social and political ramifications of the current environmental conservation debate in Africa, and how these are crucially affected by rural people's perceptions of environmental goods. Next, the paper explores the exploitative colonial legacy of wildlife conservation in Zimbabwe, and how that legacy has or has not been transformed since independence. The paper pays close attention to the development of linkages between rural farmers, local conservation NGOs, and local and national governmental bodies. Finally, the paper finds that, while many positive linkages have been made between conservation authorities and rural farmers and ranchers in elephant conservation programs, few such linkages have been made in the various rhino conservation schemes. Since Zimbabwe has been relatively successful in conserving its elephant population, but relatively unsuccessful in stopping rhino poaching, the paper concludes that the development of positive linkages between rural farmers and the state, which include heavy doses of popular participation at the grassroots level, is crucial for any successful natural resource policy.
4602380|Using faunal analysis, this article outlines a coastal mammalian harvesting pattern involving a few terrestrial mammals whose biomass appears to have been greater when associated with man than under "natural" conditions. Archeological evidence suggests that these animals fed regularly on cultivated crops and were hunted in house gardens and cultivated fields. By concentrating the supply of both carbohydrates and animal protein, "garden hunting" may have eliminated seasonality and scheduling problems. And because it artificially increased the biomass of selected animals, it may have functioned as a substitute for animal domestication.
4602901|The present study focuses on the characteristics of human adjustment strategies to cope with river bank erosion hazard among inhabitants of the Jamuna floodplain of Bangladesh. Based on a sample survey of 547 randomly selected households, the study found that the strategies taken at the community level fall in the preventive category while at the individual level adjustment measures were more of the corrective type. Overall, such patterns are indicative of a divergent goal and role of individual and institutional measures to minimize hazard loss.
4603436|We studied edible crop species diversity at homegardens of two Chibchan Amerindian Reserves in Costa Rica: Talamanca and Coto Brus. We visited six settlements at Talamanca and five at Coto Brus. We recorded the number of edible crop species growing homegardens; we found 46 edible plant species at Talamanca and 27 at Coto Brus. The mean number of species per homegarden ranged between 3.80 and 6.80 at Coto Brus and 4.50 and 8.63 at Talamanca. We identified species that were common, i.e., found in most households and all settlements, and species that were rare. We estimated diversity indexes for each settlement and each Reserve. Also, we compared crop species composition between both Reserves and among settlements within each Reserve, using the Jaccard coefficient of community similarity. Settlements from the same Reserve were grouped together, with the exception of Villa Palacios from the Coto Brus Reserve.
4603372|The temporal and spatial distribution of fires for an area in east-central Senegal was determined on the basis of multi-temporal NOAA AVHRR satellite images. Three years of data (1990-1992) were analyzed defining the boundary between two different fire regimes: very few and scattered fires to the north with the majority of fires south of the boundary. This boundary was stable for the three dry seasons examined and was identical to the northernmost extension of fires as determined by visual inspection of a hard copy Landsat image mosaic. Fire frequencies were analyzed in relation to dominant vegetation types and yearly precipitation, and the findings compared to results of a field survey of the local population's perceptions of the causes and implications of fires. Survey results clearly showed that the use of fire in the study area is closely linked to the utilization of the environment for livestock grazing and crop production. We conclude that the local population has a high degree of awareness about the application of fire, that different fire use practices concerning can be identified respectively in the grasslands of the northern and the savanna of the southern parts of the study area, and that these practices reflect a well adapted production strategy. Finally, we recommned policy decisions be more flexible in the light of local understanding of fire use.
4602353|In this article, I argue that human social behavior is a product of the coevolution of human biology and culture. While critical of attempts by anthropologists to explain cultural practices as if they were independent of the ability of individual human beings to survive and reproduce, I am also leery of attempts by biologists to explain the consistencies between neo-Darwinian theory and cultural behavior as the result of natural selection for that behavior. Instead, I propose that both biological and cultural attributes of human beings result to a large degree from the selective retention of traits that enhance the inclusive fitnesses of individuals in their environments. Aspects of human biology and culture may be adaptive in the same sense despite differences between the mechanisms of selection and regardiess of their relative importance in the evolution of a trait. The old idea that organic and cultural evolution are complementary can thus be used to provide new explanations for why people do what they do.
40343957|Coupled human-environmental timelines are used to explore the temporal coevolution of driving forces and adaptive strategies from the 1960s to 2006 on Bellona in the SW Pacific. Climatic events and agro-environmental conditions are assessed in conjunction with issues such as population dynamics, agricultural strategies, non-agricultural activities, transport and infrastructure, migration, education, political conditions, etc. Satellite imagery and aerial photos reveal relative stability in agricultural land use intensity despite an increase in de facto population (51% from 1966-2006). Results of questionnaire survey of 48 households show that the utilization of natural resources (notably shifting cultivation and fisheries) remains widespread, although it is increasingly supplemented by other income generating activities (e. g., shopkeeping, private business, government employment). Group interviews are used to discuss ways in which the local communities' adaptive resource management strategies have been employed in the face of climatic and socioeconomic events and changes in the recent past. Fifty years' development is described as a combination of continuity and change. Resource management practices are only marginally impacted by different stress factors, but the importance of agriculture has been decreasing in relative terms. Culturally determined bonds have become a main ' mechanism' to cope with environmental or socioeconomic stress and the Bellonese have become less vulnerable to external shocks.
4602910|The role of introduced epidemic disease in highland New Guinea is considered in light of recent debate concerning pre-contact adaptations. Seroepidemiological studies of the Hagahai, a small isolated groups of hunter-horticulturalists in the fringe highlands of Papua New Guinea, document the recent introduction of mumps, hepatitis B, specific types of influenza, and rotavirus. Results are related to ethnographic findings, detailing past levels of intergroup contact and recent changes in settlement patterns, travel, feasting, health care, and other cultural factors. Data suggest that inter-group disease transmission is greatly increased decades before officially recorded time of contact and that mortality levels documented soon there-after are not indicative of the pre-contact adaptation.
4602771|To date, no wholly satisfactory explanation has been proposed for the division of the Mbuti Pygmies into two types of hunting economies: net hunters to the southwest and archers to the northeast. Examination of the literature suggests that this economic subdivision may rest on differences in seasonality and overall patterns of wild food availability between the southwestern and northeastern sectors of the Ituri Forest. The southwestern sector is described as consisting of almost pure stands of the leguminous tree species, Gilbertiodendron dewevrei, growing on white sand soils. This area appears to be floristically (and probably faunistically) less diverse than the northeastern area. Perhaps in response to relatively low availability of human food, Pygmy bands in the southwest have turned to net hunting and a subsistence economy resting on the meat trade in order to secure a dependable, high-quality source of dietary energy on a year-round basis. Conversely, in the less seasonal and apparently more diverse and dietarily productive northeast, Pygmy bands may face less variation in food availability and therefore be under less pressure to alter their traditional hunting and gathering lifestyle.
27654259|The results of an analysis of the viewpoints of Celestn community members regarding the Ra Celestn Biosphere Reserve, Mexico, are used as the basis for recommendation to improve the community/natural protected area (NPA) relationship. Participant observation was used to record the opinions of 80 people (883 years of age) between April and August 2002. Twenty semistructured interviews were held with local young people randomly selected from the participant observation group and their fathers; one interview was held with a municipal officer. Results indicate that the informants perceived a lack of communication between community members and the Reserve concerning its objectives and action areas, minimal community participation in Reserve regulation development, an absence of alternative productive activities and unjustified restriction of natural resources. These perceived conditions can potentially generate conflict between the community and the Reserve administration, preventing fulfillment of the Reserve's environmental protection mission and negatively affecting community welfare. It is suggested that communication between the Reserve and the community be mutual and free-flowing, that Reserve objectives be identified in conjunction with the community, that community members be included in Reserve activities and administration, that interdisciplinary teams be formed to encourage communication and participation and that alternative productive activities be developed. Particular emphasis is placed on the need to listen to and address the concerns of young people because they will define the community/Reserve relationship in the near future.
4603509|Genealogical data, land clearance patterns, and garden inheritance histories from a patrilineal clan in the Highlands of Papua New Guinea are used to reconstruct population size and agrarian resources for the descent group over a period of 170 years. The resulting analysis reveals a strong relationship between fluctuations in population pressure on agrarian resources and changes in the composition of social groups that in turn accelerates change, then regulates it. Two quantitative relationships show that numbers of outsiders incorporated into the group and their kinship distance both covary closely with pressure on land as measured by an occupational density index.
4603416|Family systems exert substantial influence on the demographic processes of populations. The Moso in Southwest China feature an institutionalized visiting sexual system, which differs from marriage, and a grand household system without conjugal units. Moso women enjoy virtually unlimited reproductive autonomy. On the basis of surveys of 127 Moso households conducted in 1988 and 1989, this paper analyzes the fertility experience of Moso women during the twentieth century and the mortality rates of the Moso population in the PRC era. Moso fertility patterns are characterized by a late age at first birth (median 23 years), long interbirth intervals (median 3 years), and a high rate of childlessness (16%). We conclude that this pattern of low fertility is an outcome of the unique Moso cultural practices. For the cohorts of Moso women born between 1905 and 1929, pathological sterility caused by STD is likely to have depressed fertility as well.
4602611|Bedouin of the Middle East have been considered to subsist exclusively as nomadic herders. A regional approach to the subsistence economy of Bedouin considers their articulation with agricultural systems. The economy of Jebaliyah Bedouin of the southern Sinai is unusual in that they directly practice both herding and orchard agriculture. A survey of historical records and contemporary data explicates the thesis that Jebaliyah Bedouin were not and are not an isolated and economically autonomous group.
4602511|A review of models of agricultural intensification and their application to the agricultural systems of the humid tropics is presented. Taken into account are the distributions of these systems at various population densities, available data on labor efficiencies, the costs of establishing continuous cropping, and data regarding soils under cultivation and various types of fallow. The findings that fallows much longer than 10 or 15 years serve no known agronomic function, that given preindustrial technology, grass fallows are disadvantageous, even environmentally destructive, and that continuous cropping usually entails a considerable amount of environmental modification support the interpretations that agricultural intensification in the humid tropics is best understood in terms of ecologically optimal strategies at different population densities. Points needing further investigation are highlighted: the reasons for very long fallows, and the comparative labor efficiencies of fallow and continuous cropping systems where crops and environments are similar.
23280337|Forest carbon is a new commodity to be produced and traded through market mechanisms that reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD). This paper examines the likely origins and effects of forest carbon through analysis of property relations associated with a REDD-like scheme in Cambodia. Two contracts in the Cardamom Mountains are compared, both implemented by an international conservation organisation with the Cambodian Forestry Administration since 2006. Although the contracts do not yet enable the sale of forest carbon, they do illustrate its processes of production, which are essentially interventions in land and forest property because they involve land-use planning, delineation of forest boundaries, and identification of rights-holders. Ethnographic examination of these processes shows how, in spite of technical standardisation, they interact with local property relations in unpredictable and paradoxical ways. The fictitious and ephemeral nature of forest carbon is therefore exposed, along with the ideals and assumptions of REDD-market proponents.
4602598|Recent changes in the area of the Plan Chontalpa in Tabasco have greatly reduced the production of subsistence crops by rural families, resulting in decreased crop diversity and a concomitant increase in the degree of dependence on outside sources of food. Results from a nutrition survey of 149 families demonstrate that dietary diversity, dietary quality, and nutritional status of preschool children are negatively associated with lower crop diversity and increased dependence on purchased foods. Dietary deterioration is illustrated by the negative relationship found between nutritional status and increased sugar consumption. The assumption that a rise in income accompanying the adoption of commercial production will automatically lead to improved nutrition is challenged: income levels were not found to be consistently related to nutritional status. Children of families that have converted to cattle production, despite greater land availability and family incomes, do not have improved nutritional status. In the study area, where wages are low and food prices are very high, the value of a higher degree of self-sufficiency in food is recognized, yet families continue to switch to cash crops due to the environmental, economic, and time constraints imposed by the system of commercial agriculture in which they participate. The solution is not to return to traditional subsistence farming, however, but to determine under what conditions a more progressive form of agricultural change can occur.
4603551|The process of industrial modernization was characterized by fundamental changes in the interaction of socioeconomic systems with their natural environment. This paper reflects on this transformation process from an ecologically informed perspective, focusing on the interrelation of local populations, their specific mode of production, and the (agro-) ecosystem. Four Austrian villages in different agro-ecological zones serve as case studies for a comparative analysis of different types of farming systems and changes in these systems over time from the early nineteenth century to the present. The paper presents empirical results and aims at contributing to the discussion of relevant topics in human ecology and environmental history. Focusing on the changing significance of livestock in agricultural production systems, it addresses issues including the relation of population density to intensity of land use; soil fertility and nutrient management; the sustainability of preindustrial agriculture; and the gradual opening of locally closed cycles during industrialization and its effect on the landscape.
40603025|Over the past four decades, Maasai pastoralists in Tanzania have adopted agriculture, integrating it with their traditional pastoralism. This livelihood diversification has complex origins and profound implications for Maasai social organization, culture, and demography, and ultimately for their health and well being and for the local and regional environment. In this paper, we examine the process by which this engagement with, and increasing dependence upon, agriculture came about in Ngorongoro District, northern Tanzania. The process there was more complex and influenced by a wider variety of factors than has been reported by previous descriptions of Maasai livelihood diversification. It generally involved two stages: planting a garden first, and later expanding the garden to a farm. We found that some households adopted cultivation out of necessity, but far more did so by choice. Among the latter, some adopted cultivation to reduce risk, while for others it was a reflection of changing cultural and social norms. Motivations for adopting cultivation differed among people of different wealth categories. Diversification was part of wider cultural changes, and was also influenced by power differentials among Maasai age sets and by government policies.
41474615|Most researchers defend cocoa agroforests as a model, which guarantees sustainable cocoa production while protecting biodiversity. However, in most countries, farmers' strategies favour "full sun" cocoa farms, close to the concept of monoculture. Why this apparent paradox? Field surveys were conducted in 2005 and 2008 with 180 migrant and autochthon farmers in four districts of Ghana, including some measurements at the farm plot level and satellite images in a fifth district. An analytical grid shows how factors interact. Adoption of sun-loving hybrids; farmers' negative perception of ecological services in relation to hybrids; legislation excluding smallholders from the legal timber market; recent expansion of the timber industry; and the migratory phenomenon. Most smallholders consider complex cocoa agroforests as a thing of the past. They were designed at a time when land and forests were abundant. The future of cocoa and timber may lie in 'light commercial-oriented agroforests' or a kind of mosaic landscape.
4602325|Lobstermen from each community along the coast of central Maine claim inshore fishing rights in particular areas. Although their claims are unrecognized by the state, they are well established and backed by surreptitious violence. Two kinds of lobstering territories exist, here termed "nucleated" and "perimeter-defended," which differ essentially in the extent to which exclusive fishing rights are maintained. These differences in territorial organization affect the fishing effort of lobstermen, which in turn has a strong biological and economic impact.
27654113|A major challenge for contemporary conservation policies and practices is formulating workable compromises between wildlife conservation and the people who live with wildlife. We strongly support the view that anthropology has a critical role to play in contributing to our understanding of human-environment interactions. The study of complex biophysical and human systems can be greatly assisted by appropriate simulation models that integrate what is known about ecological and human decision-making processes. We have developed an integrated modeling system for assessing scenarios in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area in northern Tanzania to modify the situation there to improve human welfare without compromising conservation value. We present the results of some scenarios that indicate that the current situation there is not sustainable, and that tough policy decisions need to be taken if household well-being of the pastoralists who live there is to be improved or even sustained.
4602570|Marine turtles long have been of great value to peoples of the Indian Ocean, nutritionally, economically, and culturally. Once directed primarily toward subsistence, the hunting of marine turtles for international trade has increased; today their populations are often so depleted that they are not only insignificant as resources, but are endangered. An understanding of exploitation is imperative to guarantee future populations, yet available information is sketchy. "Subsistence hunting" is an ambiguous term, since the most intense exploitation is for export. Historically this has involved Chelonia and Eretmochelys, whose populations are now much reduced. Yet, newly "discovered" populations (Lepidochelys especially) are being exploited, under the stimulus of new foreign markets (e.g., leather), and their fates seem even less hopeful than those of longexploited populations. Moreover "subsistence hunting" for immediate local consumption has led to depletion of nesting and feeding populations of turtles in areas where protein sources are in great demand and human population densities high. Neither the future nor the solution to this dilemma is clear, but it is obvious that economic considerations must be carefully considered, and ecological arguments alone are insufficient to manage these resources.
4602610|Analysis of faunal remains from prehistoric southwestern pueblo sites reveals certain commonly occurring species of mammals and birds, the latter including ducks and geese, hawks and eagles, American Kestrel, Mourning Dove, owls, Horned Lark, Common Raven, and jays. This phenomenon is examined with the analysis of bird bones from four New Mexican pueblos located in north-central and west-central New Mexico. Recovered faunal remains date to specific periods between A.D. 1250 and the present. Over 70 species of birds represent various ecological situations; many of these species presently do not occur near the pueblos and a few occur only in the extreme southeastern portion of the state. Marsh and riparian areas along the river systems and richer grasslands on the floodplains would account for most of these species occurring near the sites prehistorically. However, rather than attribute unusual species to climatic change, trade, or longdistance hunting expeditions by the Indians, an alternative explanation is offered which attributes high species diversity to areas of human disturbance. Disturbed areas such as agricultural fields can increase species diversity in an area and aid in the range extension of many animals. The primary factor in this situation, besides the crops themselves, is believed to be insects, which attract other animals, particularly birds and their predators. In addition, field irrigation systems act to extend riparian growth from the river across the floodplain, creating habitats for these animals. Finally, certain groups of birds and mammals have developed a natural attraction to human settlements and agricultural areas and these include species whose remains commonly occur in prehistoric pueblo sites. The avifauna from these sites also reveals information on the prehistoric use of birds as inferred from bone modification, cut marks, burials, and articulated wings.
4603287| A survey of 102 Mojeo and 62 Yuracar Amerindian households in the department of Beni in the Bolivian rain forest was done to measure the effects of household and village attributes, ethnicity, and markets on the adoption of chemical herbicides and insecticides for farming. We hypothesized: i) that village attributes would matter more among households with weak links to the market, ii) that education and income would matter more in households integrated to the market, and iii) that ethnic membership would not matter because, as a null hypothesis, we assume all cultures are equally adept at processing information about technological innovations. The results of a probit model with Huber robust standard errors did not confirm any of the hypotheses. Village variables were statistically significant at all levels of integration to the market. Contrary to human capital theory, income and education played a more prominent role in relatively autarkic villages. Ethnicity was statistically significant in the pooled sample and at different levels of integration. Results suggest that conventional determinants of adoption of new farm technologies may need reappraisal in more autarkic settings. 
4603577| Indigenous peoples have been using fire in the cerrado (savannas) of Brazil as a form of management for thousands of years, yet we have little information on why, when and how these fire practices take place. The aim of this paper was to explore the traditional use of fire as a management tool by the Krah indigenous group living in the north-eastern region of Tocantns state, Brazil. The results indicate that the Krah burn for a variety of reasons throughout the dry season, thereby producing a mosaic of burned and unburned patches in the landscape. The paper discusses this burning regime in the context of contemporary issues regarding fire management, and in the face of changing perceptions to fire by the Krah themselves. 
40343944|The maintenance of exceptionally high numbers of folk varieties by the Piaroa people of the Venezuelan Amazon is considered. We cataloged 113 manioc folk varieties, their nomenclature, use and relevant characters, revealing significant insights into the role of manioc in Piaroa social life. Through a qualitative investigation of the cultivation, processing and symbolic significance of manioc (Manihot esculenta) in two Piaroa regions over a period of 18 years, we have found that such agrobiodiversity can only be fully explained by a combination of multiple factors, including pragmatic and ecological considerations, the subtle and complex diversity of Piaroa manioc preparations and a variety of sociocultural factors, such as manioc's role as a mediator of social relationships and as a marker of cultural and social heritage.
4603522|Women are important stakeholders in natural resource policies since rural women in developing countries are responsible for most of the collection of food, fuel, and firewood for commercial and domestic use. When it comes to the management of these natural resources, gender inequality due to societal traditions could limit the ability of women to participate in policy-making, even when they are not formally excluded. This paper analyzes the effect of gender stratification on women's participation by undertaking an empirical study of a participatory environmental policy program in Indian villages. It endeavors to answer the question of how gender stratification affects participatory environmental policy-making. Using the case study of a community forestry program, it finds that women are still marginalized in decision-making, even in participatory environmental policies. Gender stratification continues to impinge upon forms of democratic decision-making in developing societies. Using facilitating policy tools that seek to empower such marginalized groups would be one way of making participation meaningful for all groups in society.
4603195|This article is based on a study of time allocation and decision making patterns among the Keiyo in three ecological zones of Elgeyo-Marakwet District, Kenya. It finds that age and gender are important factors to consider when examining livestock production among African smallholder farmers. This is especially true where males are absent from home for wage labor. In these situations women, young males between the ages of 6-15, and persons of both sexes aged 65 and over spend considerable amounts of time engaged in livestock-related activities. These women are also more actively involved in decision making concerning the marketing of milk. The results indicate that there is a definite need to consider the contributions of these other persons when efforts are being made to improve elements of the livestock sector.
4603238|Hunting by Iban forest farmers in West Kalimantan, Indonesia, is an important part of their subsistence economy, and as such became a focus of study as part of a conservation project in the Danau Sentarum Wildlife Reserve. In this paper, we examine Iban hunting of nonhuman primates with comparison to other large mammals. We analyze rates of encounter and capture, comparing encounters, hunting trips, and animal numbers. Information on habitats hunted shows the importance of secondary and old growth forest. Also examined are Iban attitudes, game preferences, and taboos. The significance of these findings is discussed with regard to the threats to wildlife from increases in the use of shotguns, human population, and habitat destruction, showing that conservation may be aided by promoting or enhancing certain aspects of the traditional Iban agroforestry system.
4603143|This research was designed to test the following hypothesis: Among traditional (nonliterate and minimally literate) people residing in their home environment, traditionally derived knowledge of specific cases of ecological processes can approximate scientifically derived knowledge of those same cases. After locating three minimally literate peasant family lineages in Lijiayang and Linfengkeng villages, Shouning County, Fujian Province, China, not applying science-based systems of agroforest management, a decision-tree model of an indigenous agroforest management system was constructed from extensive interviews. The system was centered around shamu (Cunninghamia lanceolata), an important timber species with a long history of management in China. A major part of the management system is agricultural intercropping with a wide variety of cereal, cash, medicinal, and oil-producing crops. Intercropping is practiced in the initial phases of afforestation; is an integral aspect of site preparation and the tending of the young stand; and contributes to tree establishment, growth, and survival. The cases presented demonstrate that local peasant knowledge of the effects of burning, site preparation, crop selection, crop tending, and intercropping duration on soil quality and the survival and development of shamu is strongly analogous to the knowledge derived through systematic scientific research. This process of deriving scientifically valid ecological knowledge through traditional means is called proto-science.
41474598|This paper investigates the impact of human out-migration on long-standing commons institutions in the Sierra Norte of Oaxaca. Local communities have been increasingly engaged with national and international markets for wage labour, with many losing a significant percentage of their resident populations. This paper shows how demographic and cultural change is impacting the two social institutionscargos and tequiosthat underpin the highly autonomous form of governance the region is famed for. The loss of able-bodied men and women has meant that these customary systems are struggling to remain operational. A number of responses and institutional adaptations have been introduced by community authorities, including the forging of translocal ties that show potential for reducing the vulnerability of affected villages. While migration was temporary or circular from the 1970s to the 1990s, more permanent forms of migration have come to dominate since that time. Such a shift undermines adaptation efforts at the community level. Within this context, the lessons for commons theory are discussed, while a new layer of complexity is added to the body of work examining the consequences of rural depopulation on Mexican village life and landscapes.
4603483|This paper traces the evolution as well as key elements, and provides examples of implementation of participatory development and community-based conservation, two concepts that resemble distant cousins in the intersecting worlds of development assistance and environmental conservation. The paper examines the connections between the concepts, the implications of participatory development for community-based conservation, and the reasons for the differences in their conceptualization and implementation. The paper is based on a review of the literature in both fields and on the authors' research and experience with participatory development and community-based conservation. Several keys to understanding the disconnection between the concepts emerge; intellectual and pragmatic origins of and impetus for the concepts, the expertise and interests of their promoters, and the differing emphasis on participation as means versus end. Results may inform our understandings of why many participatory approaches to conservation have failed to achieve meaningful participation in practice.
4603532|The number of birds' nests harvested in the Niah cave today is only a fraction of what it used to be. This article focuses on the socioeconomic causes of the decline. It argues that the present situation is not directly linked to the tragedy of the commons, since the ownership of cave and nests is private. The tragic aspect is, rather, linked to an attitude of free riding which was threatening the private system of ownership in the 1980s, and which forced Penan owners to lease their caves to the former "free riders" (thereby diluting management responsibility), and to harvest nests as soon as possible (before the birds can lay eggs and reproduce). It is therefore the tragedy of a management system whose rules, intended to avoid open access and free riding, lead to unsustainable behavior. Since the birds cannot be privatized, it is also the tragedy of a system in which actors are unable to reach a consensus on how to manage sustainably a de facto common property resource.
27654197|Human preferences will increasingly determine many species' prospects for survival. However, aside from a small number of survey-based studies of preference among disparate taxa, human species preferences have received little attention. I determined human aesthetic preferences among a relatively homogenous group, the penguins, from representation in all recently published, comprehensive, popular books of photographs of penguins (n=4 books; 304 photographs). Representation of visually distinguishable types of penguins, measured by total photograph area, was highly skewed and rankings were highly concordant across books, suggesting large and commonly held differences in aesthetic appeal. Multiple regression analysis indicated that amount of warm color was the only significant determinant of representation, and warm color was highly correlated (r2=0.96) with mean representation of the penguin types. Body size and neotenic form, traits found to influence human preferences among other animals, were not significant, suggesting that the bases of human species preferences differ by species type. The results of this study indicate that human aesthetic preferences discriminate finely among species and may be based on minor features. Conservationists must be vigilant to the potential for aesthetic responses to influence conservation efforts.
40343983|Based on the U.S. Federal Mortality Schedules from the years 1850-1880 infant deaths <1 year were investigated in order to determine whether mortality attributed to "smothering" or "overlaying" followed known SIDS trajectories. By comparing a case sample of 2,236 smothered/overlaid deaths with an age-, regionally and time-matched control sample of all-cause infant deaths (N= 58,293), striking similarities with SIDS became apparent, which were not mimicked in the control sample. These epidemiological traits included a disproportionate vulnerability during the second to fourth month of life (Poisson RR 12.94, p<0.001), a remarkable birth and death seasonally, as well as pronounced racial disparities. The study could also corroborate sex-specific discrepanciessuch as differential impact of month of birth on age-at-death. Results of a Cox regression furthermore indicate that age, sex, race and death season were significant predictors of mortality. This strongly supports the hypothesis that these infant deaths represent empirical evidence of 19th century SIDS.
25652779|In Suriname, the Maroons have practiced shifting cultivation for generations, but now the increasing influence of modern society is causing a trend of decreasing fallow periods with potentially adverse effects for the vulnerable tropical soils. Adoption of appropriate soil fertility management (SFM) practices is currently slow. Combining methods from cultural ecology and environmental psychology, this study identifies two groups with divergent behavioral intentions which we term semi-permanent cultivators and shifting cultivators. Semi-permanent cultivators intend to practice more permanent agriculture and experiment individually with plot-level SFM. Shifting cultivators rely on traditional knowledge that is not adequate for their reduced fallow periods, but perceive constraints that prevent them practicing more permanent agriculture. Semi-permanent cultivators act as a strong reference group setting a subjective norm, yet feel no need to exchange knowledge with shifting cultivators who are in danger of feeling marginalized. Drawing on a political ecology perspective, we conclude that cultural ecological knowledge declined due to negative perceptions of external actors setting a strong subjective norm. Semi-permanent cultivators who wish to enter the market economy are most likely to adopt SFM. We conclude that any future SFM intervention must be based on an in-depth understanding of each group's behavior, in order to avoid exacerbating processes of marginalization.
4602785|This paper develops an analytical method for assessing the interplay of economic behavior and ecological energetics among the Metis Cree, offspring of Cree Indian-European unions in north-central Canada. Business account-book analysis provides unique insights into the production and exchange behavior of individual laborers and their families during the twilight of the fur trade in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The evidence generally supports conventional interpretations of the subartic Metis as economically and socially intermediate between Indian hunting bands and the Euro-Canadian managerial class. However, fine-grained account-book analysis also reveals that this general adaptation exhibited highly variable coping strategies, forming a continuum in work regimens and level of integration into trading-company hierarchies. A focus on individual variability reflects the growing interest among ecological anthropologists in individual strategy, theories of choice, and actor-based decision models.
4602597|How useful are gaming simulations for the study of problems that interest human ecologists? Anatol Rapoport, a principal contributor to the development of game theory, raised this issue with the editors of "Human Ecology", who in turn invited him to express his views in print. In brief, Dr. Rapoport calls into question the real-world applicability of gaming simulations, and explores its limitations. The educational function of simulation, he argues, should not be confused with the research aims of laboratory experimentation. The addition of "realistic" conditions in a gaming simulation merely complicates the experiment and reduces its theoretical significance. It does, however, have some pedagogical utility, whose implications have not yet been adequately taken into account. Dr. Rapoport considers this matter with reference to the problem of "social traps," such as the "tragedy of the commons," an issue which concerns many human-ecology researchers.
4602832|Ecological events which recur with a period of 5-30 years are perceived as "discontinuities" and culturally interpreted. A cultural model of environmental expectation and intervention is inferred from Malagasy games, dwellings, and forecasts. In a series of examples from Malagasy communities, we shall first identify a set of underlying principles. We shall refer briefly to the nearest corresponding concepts in western scientific thought, known as catastrophe theory, and show the relevance of the concepts to four practical problems of environmental management.
4603566|Resurgent protectionists advocate a return to strict nature protection characterized by excluding most people from ecologically fragile areas. Certain groups of indigenous residents, namely those with low population densities, simple technologies, and subsistence economies, are seen as conservation friendly, but groups who are experiencing demographic growth, using Western technologies, and producing for the market are perceived as incompatible with biodiversity conservation. Using insights from common property theory as well as ethnographic observations of the Huaorani Indians of Ecuador, I illustrate how such assumptions constitute a "conservation Catch-22" in which cultural conditions deemed compatible with biodiversity conservation are precisely those from which we would not predict conservationist practices to emerge. Romanticized conditions deemed harmonious with nature lack the incentives necessary for people to develop conservationist practices. Conservation is not a state of being, but a social process inextricably linked to social and political institutions influencing resource management.
27654312|Pastoralists of the high Andes Mountains raise mixed herds of camelids and sheep. This study evaluates the land use of herdsmen who are confronted by both socioeconomic and climate changes in Huancavelica, central Peru. Land use/land cover change (LULCC) was measured through satellite imagery, and pastoralists' capacity to adapt to socioenvironmental changes was evaluated through interviews and archival research. The most dynamic LULCCs between 1990 and 2000 were large increases in wetlands and a loss of permanent ice. We conclude that the people's responses to these changes will depend on availability of institutions to manage pastures, other household resources, and perceptions of these biophysical changes. Socioenvironmental change is not new in the study area, but current shifts will likely force this community to alter its rules of access to pastures, its economic rationales in regards to commodities produced, and the degree of dependence on seasonal wage labor. In this scenario, households with a greater amount of livestock will fare better in terms of assets and capital that will allow them to benefit from the increasing presence of a market economy in a landscape undergoing climate change.
4602814|French farm policy has created incentives for certain production strategies which theoretically require little or no land and which would therefore be particularly suited for small holders. Through credit and subsidies for the construction of pigsties, and through contractual arrangements for the production of hybrid seed corn and tobacco, the government has encouraged these activities. However, because of certain constraints, these activities are more successfully pursued by holders of larger farms. Small holders, because they are small, cannot fully benefit from these strategies which would compensate them for their smallness.
25652778|Self-organization is a key condition to the success of community-based conservation initiatives, including those recognized by the Equator Initiative of the UNDP. This paper contributes to emerging scholarship that focuses on community-based conservation in South Asia and in particular examines self-organization strategies within a small-scale community-based conservation initiative in a cross-cultural setting to further understanding about how such initiatives originate, sustain and grow. This is achieved through a case study of the Baripada Forest Protection Initiative in India by utilizing in-depth interviews and focus groups. In addition to certain often-cited strategies for self-organization, the Baripada initiative included unique features of self-organization such as village community design, implementation and adaptation of rules for local natural resources use and conservation, little need for financial support, and significant mobilization of human resources. These strategies, along with emerging social learning opportunities (e.g., a community plant diversity register) inspired by the Baripada initiative, inform and enrich the criteria for designing and evaluating conservation and development initiatives, irrespective of their scale.
27654292|Resin producing agroforestry in the Krui area of Sumatra in Indonesia is presented as an environmentally friendly, income generating land-use system which contributes to both development and conservation objectives. We studied the change in household income portfolios in three communities in the Krui area. The studies revealed that in the period 19952004 agroforestry remained the main source of income. We predict, however, that due to declining resin productivity per hectare, and rising price and demand for timber, an increasing number of farmers will cut their mature agroforests in the near future. At the same time our data suggests that farmers will continue tree planting activities. In result old agroforests may vanish while new ones will be established.
4602770|Historical factors and lineage affiliation are interpreted as constraining choice of sweet potato or sago as a major source of starch by Etolo family groups. The annual scheduling regime encouraged an association between the primary mode of starch production and the primary technique for obtaining game mammals. An emphasis upon sweet potato was linked to trapping and an emphasis upon sago was linked to hunting. For larger family groups whose membership was older, the preceding constraints were relaxed. By manipulating residential affiliation or the composition of "economic units," people could offset constraints of history, lineage affiliation, and family size. Within the framework of those constraints there was much flexibility in the food-getting choices people made. At the level of household communities, trapping and hunting behavior were not obviously patterned around concerns of available prey or energetic efficiency.
4603575| From approximately 1952-1995 the Copn Valley in western Honduras was the site of intensive production of flue-cured tobacco. Local growers and laborers produced flue-cured tobacco for the transnational corporation, British-American Tobacco (BAT) under a contract farming arrangement. BAT introduced new tobacco varieties, cultivation techniques, mechanization and agrochemicals, as well as the flue-cured processing technique, and then purchased tobacco leaf for the manufacture of cigarettes in their Honduran subsidiary. Using ethnographic data and the interpretation of time series aerial photographs, this article documents the social and ecological impacts of this production system including extent of production, labor requirements, deforestation, exposure to agrochemicals and reinforcement of a hierarchical social system based on low-wage employment among landlessness agricultural workers. The paper also explores the reasons for, and consequences of, the decline of this system. 
23280334|Interventions to conserve carbon stored in forests are central to the emerging global climate change regime. Widely referred to as REDD+, these interventions engage local resource holders in contracts to restrict their use of land and forests in exchange for conditional benefits, effectively creating a market for forest carbona new and intangible commodity. Delving into the social and material implications of this, three case studies (Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Cambodia) examine property relations in the early stages of forest carbon production in different tenure contexts. The case studies reveal that: (a) the risk of local exclusion from forest and lands under REDD+ is real, but is mediated by dynamic negotiations over knowledge and property; (b) the relationship between forest carbon and underlying property relations around land and forests is recursive and mutually constitutive; and (c) due to ongoing and entrenched property contests in REDD+ locations, there remains an unstable foundation for forest carbon markets.
23280268|It is well known that wild game provides a significant proportion of the dietary protein of the indigenous people of the eastern half of New Guinea (PNG), but almost nothing is known of its importance in the western half (the Indonesian province of Papua or Irian Jaya). We quantified hunting effort, harvest rates and wild meat consumption and sale in the Jayapura region of north-east Papua through interviews with 147 hunters from 21 villages and meal surveys in 93 households. Ten species of mammals, seven species of birds and at least two species of reptiles were harvested in our study area, but the introduced wild pig and rusa deer were the major target species. Hunting in our study area has shifted from a purely subsistence activity towards a more commercial form at least partly due to the emergence of markets created by Indonesian transmigrants. Although the hunting of non-indigenous and certain native species might be sustainable, the maintenance of populations of large threatened species will require sensitive management.
4603502|This paper assesses the impact of South Africa'a land reform program on land use change in rural areas of Limpopo Province. Land use change was examined on five Communal Property Associations using remotely sensed images and quantitative and qualitative survey techniques. Land was abandoned or used less productively after redistribution. The primary reason for the lack of land use change to more productive states was that the land redistribution policy was not sufficiently sensitive to the diversity of rural livelihoods. Other reasons include farm-level general disorganization, lack of capital and labor, gender inequities, and age distribution. Regional political diseconomies also hindered change, namely poor tenure relations and a persistent urban bias.
4602965|Existing transhumance practices in the Gredos Mountains are studied and the origin, destination, number of livestock, livestock raiser characteristics, and environmental variables of winter and summer pasture areas and drovers roads are analyzed. The important ecological, economic, and cultural role of transhumance is emphasized and attention is drawn to the need for its support and conservation.
4603142|Four predictions are made on the future of space age technologies in human and cultural ecology: first, remote sensing systems will generate a need for more fieldwork, not less; second, the services and skills of anthropologists will become essential to the interpretation of satellite data, especially as these relate to areas characterized by non-Western cultural practices; third, training in remote sensing and the use of geographic information systems will become a regular offering for anthropology students; and fourth, since these new systems and methods can be applied retrospectively to the re-analysis of earlier ethnographic works, space age technologies will be with us for some time to come.
4602800|How accurate international nutritional standards are for recommending and assessing adequate nutrient intake and nutritional status of different national populations has been debated by nutritionists, economists, and others. This paper reviews the assumptions and possible motivations behind the design and interpretation of standards in particular countries, with a special emphasis on India and Mexico. The analysis suggests that comparative studies of the "ethnonutrition" concepts of policy-makers are useful for understanding how standards are set, and their nutritional implications.
4603538|Throughout the arid regions of Africa formerly mobile pastoral populations are becoming sedentary. Although pastoral sedentarization is encouraged by international development agencies and national governments as solutions to food insecurity, poor health care, and problems of governance, it has not been demonstrated that abandoning the pastoral way of life, and particularly children's access to milk and other livestock products, is beneficial to the health and well-being of pastoral populations. This paper reports the results of a 3-year study of one pastoral and four settled Rendille communities of northern Kenya based on data from 17 repeated bimonthly surveys of childhood dietary, growth, and morbidity patterns and household level economic strata. Bivariate analysis of 5,535 measurements from 488 children from birth to 9 years revealed that age-specific height and weight measurements for the pastoral community are uniformly heavier and taller than children from the sedentary villages. Multivariate analysis using Generalized Estimating Equations methodology showed that the amount of milk consumed was always a statistically significant determinant of child weight and height growth, regardless of drought or non-drought times and breastfeeding status. Other significant determinants of child growth include morbidity and poverty, both associated with sedentary communities. These results indicate that international development assistance should not neglect improvements in livestock production and support of pastoral movements in Africa's arid lands.
40981185|Rattan cane is an important non-timber forest product (NTFP) harvested from Indonesian tropical forests. However, the extraction of NTFPs such as rattan cane may conflict with forest conservation efforts. A better understanding of harvesting practices can help assess the extent of this conflict and guide forest management decisions. This study assesses the accessibility factors that influence rattan cane harvesting levels in Lambusango Forest, Buton Island, Indonesia, and whether the harvesting of rattan cane is affected by the designation of conservation areas. To this end, the analysis adopts participatory mapping, Geographic Information Systems and a questionnaire survey and employs multiple regressions and analysis of covariance. The results show that accessibility, particularly slope and distance, can play a role in the quantity of rattan canes harvested. The presence of conservation forest does not significantly affect rattan cane harvesting levels. This could be due to limited awareness of the harvesters going to the vicinity of the designated conservation areas and mixed sentiments towards conservation efforts due to the long tradition of forest dwelling and harvesting activities. The study concludes that the successful establishment and management of conservation areas require consideration of the specificity of the local context such as the abundance of forest resources, accessibility and historical forest-people interactions, in addition to biological factors.
27654244|The actual evidence observed in studies of LEK (local environmental knowledge) is nearly always talk about the environment, or what we refer to as LET (local environmental talk), with the claim of studying LEK usually being built upon the implicit assumption that talk about the environment is the expression of knowledge about the environment. We suggest that it is critically important for researchers to question this assumption, especially when the distinction between LET and LEK is also emphasized by local people themselves. In the case we present here, residents of small fishing villages on the Northern Peninsula of Newfoundland are routinely skeptical about what other local residents say about the environment; that is, they engage in LES (local environmental skepticism). We suggest that paying explicit attention to LES can help distinguish LEK from LET.
27654160|Over the last two decades, demands by fish harvesters for greater input into policy-making, combined with government cutbacks to fisheries management agencies, have resulted in a proliferation of community-based fisheries comanagement projects in many countries. One such example is found on Newfoundland's Eastport Peninsula, where a group of lobster harvesters have formed a unique partnership with federal government bureaucrats and university researchers in an effort to protect local lobster stocks from increasing fishing pressure. This paper draws upon interviews with lobster harvesters and others with close ties to the Eastport project in exploring the reasons for the development of this initiative and identifying existing and potential obstacles to its long-term success.
27654241|Because social capital shapes many desirable socioeconomic outcomes, we ask what incentives drive private investments in social capital. We estimate the association between private investments in social capital (outcome variable) and the following explanatory variables: (a) individual-level variables from an optimal investment model, (b) spillovers from group social capital, (c) village income inequality, and (d) market openness. We draw on information from Tsimane', a native Amazonian society of foragers and farmers in Bolivia, and equate social capital with gifts, help given, and communal labor offered by the household. Age bore an inverted U-shaped and income bore a positive association with social capital, but geographic mobility, wealth, and schooling bore no significant association with social capital. We found strong group-level associations even after instrumenting social capital; the association probably stems from strong kinship ties which tend to blur the line between the group and the individual. Village measures of social capital were positively and significantly associated with private investments in social capital. We found some evidence that village income inequality and market openness were negatively associated with private investments in social capital.
41474665|A fundamental assumption in nearly all research on social adaptation to environmental change is that there is a concomitant and inverse relationship between human communities' dependence upon particular natural resources affected by environmental change and those communities or societies' resilience to disturbances. However, recent theoretical and empirical developments suggest resilience is a dynamic social process determined, in part, by the ability of communities to act collectively and solve common problems. The interactional approach to community is utilized to develop a framework whereby various patterns of social interaction define the process of social resilience. Data come from multiple mixed methods case studies of forest dependent communities within Southern Appalachia. The findings reveal varied processes of social resilience can occur in communities with similar levels of resource dependence; a community's composition of internal social ties and their cross-scale linkages to external agencies and organizations define these processes.
4603048|This article employs temporal and intracultural frames of reference to examine patterns of variation in fertility among the caste-Hindus of West Central Nepal. Before the onset of major socioeconomic development in the region, three groups, the large-farm high castes, the small-farm high castes, and the low castes, exhibited distinct patterns of reproductive behavior which have been traced over the course of 25 years. Analysis of age-specific fertility rates suggests that one group, the small farm high-caste, maintained relatively low fertility before major development of the region occurred, and, over time, began using modern contraception in order to keep fertility low. Evidence from the low castes suggests that they are beginning deliberately to reduce fertility, but the large-farm high castes continue to have high fertility.
4603054|Based on a representative sample of 449 different individuals, food avoidances are shown to be nutritionally insignificant on average for a population of horticulturalists and foragers living in the Ituri Forest of northeastern Zaire. However, due to variability in food-related beliefs, nutritional costs may be biologically significant for a few individuals. Less than 2% of potential dietary calories are restricted to horticulturalists on average due to food avoidances, while less than 1% is the average cost of these beliefs among foragers. When nutritional costs are calculated from reported avoidance rules rather than consumption practice, estimated costs are significantly inflated. These lower actual costs arise because individuals make use of rules that permit them to eat otherwise restricted foods. For example, eating specific plants is believed to prevent the illness that would otherwise follow the consumption of a tabooed food. Use of such exception rules significantly reduces the nutritional cost of food avoidances for many individuals in this population.
41474607|On the basis of two case studies in rural Morocco, one in a mountainous area of the Central High Atlas and the other in the argan tree area of the southwest Atlantic coast, we show how local Berber populations have actively shaped their forest areas through endogenous management systems at different scales: 1) at the individual tree level by differential cutting or trimming which lead to specific conformations of the tree, 2) at the tree stand level, by determining the type, structure and level of resources, and 3) at the landscape level in which complementary patches of forest areas with particular functions are consciously organized within the overall territory. These practices are strongly linked with the overall socioeconomic organization of the local communities, and mix individual with common rights of access and uses. Forests are viewed as part of the domestic sphere of local livelihoods. Hence, they typically constitute what we refer to as rural or domestic forests since they integrate production and conservation with social, political and spiritual dimensions. These features are of importance for considering foresterlocal community relationships, and for developing alternative forest management policies.
4603028| Risk-sensitive behavior can be defined as the active choosing among probability distributions in an attempt to maximize expected utility of returns. An analysis of human foraging behavior is examined in terms of risk sensitivity. Foraging data collected from Bar hunting and fishing trips were tested according to the prediction that future foraging behavior will be dependent on or at least be sensitive to the success of the previous day's trip. An analysis of protein foraging data yields statistically insignificant results, suggesting risk indifference on the part of the Bar. 
27654276|Access to seed is crucial for farming, though few studies investigate household-level access in the informal 'farmer seed systems' which still supply most seed in poor countries. This paper uses empirical data of seed exchange practices for sorghum in eastern Ethiopia to analyze how social relationships influence access to off-farm seed for a major crop. Seed shortfalls are common, and farmerfarmer exchange is important for providing locally-adapted seed to fill this gap, but access varies considerably among households, also affecting quantities supplied and terms of exchange. Preferred sources for off-farm seed (neighbors, government, market) also vary among farmers, reflecting agroecology and asset-ownership, but also differing access to these sources. Social network theories highlight the importance of reciprocal ties, and the cultural norms underpinning them, in accessing seed. These cultural norms are contested, with some claiming that commercial transactions are increasingly common. Implications for interventions supporting farmer seed systems, particularly emergency seed aid, are discussed in relation to the socially-mediated nature of seed access.
25652745|In many developing countries, conservation is regarded in a negative manner and this supports critical framings of conservation as a form of government or imperialism. This article examines debates about conservation and forests in Laos, and in particular, at the site of the World Bank supported Nam Theun 2 hydropower project that has featured prominently in international and national critiques of conservation. In Laos, foreign-driven conservation initiatives have at times challenged nationwide aspirations for development. But a fuller understanding of Lao concerns requires attention not only to international interventions, but also to perspectives of forests and management of these resources by the Lao state. Most significantly, a widely shared idea of foreign conservation as opposed to Lao development is used to elide the emergent competition between the state and rural villagers over forest resources. Anti-conservation sentiments, like their converse, can thus be used as strategies of government.
40343956|A major challenge for ecologists has long been to develop a model to explain the coexistence of grasses and trees in the savanna. The recent shift in emphasis to nonequilibrium-based theories has resulted in a rethinking of this problem. As resource allocation models have been replaced by demographic ones, the focus has shifted to plant life histories. The tree/grass ratio is now conceptualized as a function of disturbance history. Empirical studies demonstrate that repeat fires trap tree sprouts in perpetual juvenile states. Ecologists suggest natural pathways for juveniles to escape, reach maturity, and maintain tree/grass ratios. This study documents how long-fallow agriculture serves as an anthropogenic pathway. The study compares tree cover on longfallow and unfarmed savanna plots in southern Mali where burning is annual. Tree height, girth, and species were recorded for 29 quadrats. The results demonstrate a significant difference in the size, number, and species of trees; those on fallow plots were taller, more numerous, and more diverse.
4603425|Data are presented indicating a seasonal mosaic pattern of burning in the savanna of southern Mali. A seasonal mosaic is a landscape that is annually re-created by people, and which contains patches of unburned, early burned, and recently burned vegetation. A survey of over 100 farmers and in-depth interviews demonstrates that rural inhabitants of southern Mali begin an annual burning regime early in the dry season in order to fragment the landscape, with the goal of preventing later fires that can damage natural resources. The process of gradually burning off the driest vegetation creates a seasonal mosaic of habitat patches that increases the potential of the landscape for a variety of dry season land uses, including hunting, gathering of savanna products, and grazing. An analysis of a series of Landsat images shows that the practice of mosaic burning is widespread in the wooded savanna, in which burning usually begins early and large fires are rare. On the basis of recent developments in ecological theory and empirical evidence from similar burning regimes in parts of Australia, it is suggested that seasonal mosaic burning in Mali not only prevents damaging late-season fires but increases biodiversity. It is concluded that discourse on African savanna burning overemphasizes the ecologically detrimental aspects of fire, while neglecting the beneficial ones resulting in misguided policies that pose a threat to human livelihoods and savanna ecosystems.
4602448|The case study, located in the Kennett region of southeastern Pennsylvania, illustrates an approach to planning which uses ethnographic and ecological research. Here, information was gathered concerning local values with reference to land use in an effort to consider the consequences of the use of particular sets of values in the planning process. The approach is illustrated by reference to water resource use by different groups in the region.
27654144|Problems with studies, claims, and assumptions that have been made about the causes of fires in Indonesia's tropical moist forests are identified, and the kinds of concepts, methods, prioritizing, and data needed to resolve the problems are discussed. Separate sections are devoted to studying ignitions, studying fire susceptibility and fire behavior, and using the goal of causal explanation to guide interdisciplinary research.
40603015|While there is a general assumption that labor has a positive effect on pastoral production, studies that have tried to quantify this relationship have found no effects. This is most likely because these studies have been looking for effects only at the household level of social organization, although it is well documented that nomadic pastoralist households share and exchange labor in socalled cooperative herding groups. This study investigates possible labor related effects on production among Saami reindeer herders in northern Norway and whether these effects are scale dependent. Contrary to previous studies, we found both a general effect of labor on Saami reindeer husbandry production and the presence of a scale dependent effect, i. e., the more robust results were found on the level of social organization where cooperative herding is undertaken.
4603352|Labor productivity is a major component of agricultural development. Boserup is the scholar most associated with the view that labor productivity declines with intensification of agriculture. This paper reviews the theoretical argument and empirical support for the decline thesis. An empirical test is conducted by means of a comparative study of traditional rice agriculture in Southeast Asia. The decline thesis is rejected. The implications for agricultural development are discussed.
4602721|Based on a sample survey collected from randomly selected farmers inhabiting the Jamuna floodplain of Bangladesh, this study deals with the perception of and agricultural adjustments to both normal and abnormal floods. The study found that the respondents' perception of flood is conditioned by the key role played by floods in their lives. The study further observed that the respondents successfully cope with the normal floods. In cases of abnormal floods, they practiced several adjustments to reduce damages.
4603172| Many of the processed palm hearts consumed throughout the world are derived from the aa palm (Euterpe oleracea Mart.), which grows abundantly in floodplain forests of the Amazon estuary. Palm heart extraction began in the estuary in the 1970s and there are now hundreds of canning factories and some 50 distribution firms in this region. Annual profits of the canning factories range from $30,000 to $50,000 while profits for distribution firms frequently exceed $500,000/year. But there are several indications that this economic boon will be short-lived: factory closings are frequent, palm hearts are much smaller now than in the past, and mortality of palm trees is high in stands subjected to frequent palm heart harvest. However, the aa palm is well suited for management because of its abundance, rapid growth, and multistemmed life form. Under management, palm hearts can be harvested from the same clump over many years through controlled thinning. The management of aa stands could result in significant long-term savings for palm heart factories. Indeed, aa management may offer one of the best opportunities to date for sustained use of some Amazonian forests. 
41474667|By reconstructing the nutrient balance of a Catalan village circa 1861-65 we examine the sustainability of organic agricultural systems in the northwest Mediterranean bioregion prior to the green revolution and the question of whether the nutrients extracted from the soil were replenished. With a population density of 59 inhabitants per square km, similar to other northern European rural areas at that time, and a lower livestock density per cropland unit, this village experienced a manure shortage. The gap was filled by other labour-intensive ways of transferring nutrients from uncultivated areas into the cropland. Key elements in this agricultural system were vineyards because they have few nutrient requirements, and woodland and scrublands as sources of relevant amounts of nutrients collected in several ways.
27654280|This paper uses a variety of historical evidence from Indonesia to explore the conditions for sustainable management of natural resources. In the agricultural sphere, history gives reason for optimism regarding the ability of individuals to conserve and improve soil resources on an uncoordinated, anarchic basis under systems of intensive smallholder farming and agroforestry. It also suggests that this ability may be enhanced, rather than eroded, both by population growth and by the commercialization of agriculture. When it comes to the management of forests and fisheries and the conservation of nature, by contrast, there is less reason for optimism. If sustainable solutions are to be found in these spheres, the historical evidence suggests that they will involve political hierarchy, and will depend on the honouring of a social contract in which the state serves the public interest while retaining the powers of coercion which it needs in order to do just that.
4603435| This study focuses on knowledge of medicinal plants among the Caiaras (rural inhabitants of the Atlantic Forest coast, Brazil). In particular, we examine the use of medicinal plants according to sex and age to reveal general patterns of Caiara knowledge and use of plant resources. Data collected through 449 interviews at 12 Caiara communities (Rio de Janeiro and So Paulo coastal sites) include citations of 249 plants and identification of 227 species. We show the importance of introduced as opposed to native plants and of key individuals of the conservation of the Caiaras-Atlantic Forest. 
27654167|In Zambia's Southern Province, where a history of climatic and political fluctuation have played out in peoples livelihood choices and ecological impacts, the Gwembe Tonga people have learned to respond to uncertainty by expecting the worst. This outlook emerges from at least 50 years of experience. The building of the Kariba Dam on the Middle Zambezi River in the late 1950s resulted in the forced relocation of Gwembe people. Since resettlement in 1958, Gwembe people have lived under conditions of increasing uncertainty, both environmental and sociopolitical, that have enormous implications for environmental change. Understanding environmental change in this region demands an exploration of the social, political and economic context of Gwembe Tonga lives. In looking for broad patterns of adaptation and response, one point emerges clearly. For the Gwembe Tonga, the most recurrent pattern, and most reliable response to living in conditions of extreme uncertainty, is an increasingly opportunistic use of the environment and other resources. This article presents ethnographic data collected over more than 50 years (through the Gwembe Tonga Research Project) in Southern Zambia.
4603568|Homegardens are integral part of rural households in Bangladesh. The present study examines some physical, biological, and socioeconomic characteristics of 32 homegardens randomly selected from four villages representing different agro-ecological conditions, variable population densities, and market opportunities. The study results suggest that large numbers of plant and animal species occupy homegardens, and their composition and intensity of cultivation vary directly with the household physiologic density and access to urban markets, and inversely with environmental constraints to agriculture. Homegardens form the activity space for household women and children, who perform most homegarden farming tasks. Uses of home generated inputs at no or low cost make homegardens economically more efficient and sustainable compared to non-homegarden rice farming. In the context of the intensive subsistence agriculture patterns that dominate Bangladesh, homegardens contribute significantly to smallholder household income.
23280262|Literature on environmental change often highlights the importance of public policies as a key driver of land use and land cover change. However, demonstration of policy impacts in agricultural settings has been hampered by the lack of systematic analysis across landholders, who may not universally adopt government policy incentives, or time periods, which may be associated with differing policy regimes. This paper evaluates the importance of voluntary adoption of policy incentives offered by Peruvian government administrations over two decades for land-use among small farmers in the Peruvian Amazon. The analysis focuses on whether farmers adopted one or more policy incentives in order to observe the effects on land uses including mature forest, agricultural crops, cattle pasture, and secondary growth. We employ multivariate statistical models to estimate the effects of policy adoption while controlling for other factors. The findings show that distinct policies are associated with particular land-uses and largely follow expectations. Specifying policy incentives promulgated by governments and differentiating among adopters and non-adopters advances understanding of the impacts of public policies on land use.
27654275|This study focuses on community-based knowledge to analyze the impacts of range enclosures, crop farming, fire suppression and bush encroachment on the communal rangelands of Borana, southern Ethiopia. The knowledge of local herders is the basis for decision making in the utilization and management of grazing lands. We used Borana oral history associated with the period of the gada system to reconstruct environmental change that spans a period of 48 years. Our results show that the use of communities' perceptions as a basis for evaluating the impacts of land use change on the environment makes an important methodological contribution. Communities' responses to changing land use resulted in the development of range enclosures, the expansion of crop farming and the fragmentation of the communal rangelands, while the suppression of fire contributed to the expansion of bush encroachment. The overall impact was forage scarcity and greater vulnerability of stock during drought years. We conclude that policymakers could use communities' knowledge of environmental change to improve the use of the rangelands. We propose that sustainable use of the southern rangelands in the future will require a greater focus on regulating the expansion of enclosures, crop farming and ranching, as well as reintroducing fire where necessary, to control the expansion of bush cover.
4602926|BaMbuti of the Ituri Forest, Zaire, employ two primary hunting techniques: net hunting, in which women routinely participate, and bow hunting, in which women rarely participate. We hypothesize that the value of women's labor devoted to different subsistence activities, combined with the exchange value of meat, will determine whether women participate in hunts. Field observations were conducted in four different areas: two exploited by archers and two by net hunters. Results indicate that women in net-hunting areas earn more calories per unit time by hunting than by working in agriculturalists' gardens; whereas women in archer areas earn more calories by working for agriculturalists than by hunting. We found no significant difference in the composition or diversity of the forests exploited by net hunters and archers. The results are discussed in light of the long-standing debate concerning the factors that account for distribution of net hunting and archery in the Ituri Forest.
4603417|Mobile pastoralists are subject to potentially conflicting needs for secure resource tenure and socially and spatially flexible patterns of resource use. This paradox of pastoral land tenure poses problems for the application of common property theory to the management of pastoral commons. The vagueness, permeability, and overlap of boundaries around pastoral resources and user groups complicate the implementation of formal tenure regimes designed to address insecure pastoral tenures and unsustainable land use patterns. A case-study from postsocialist Mongolia is used to illustrate the problem of spatial and social boundaries for managing pastoral commons. Three solutions to the paradox are evaluated: tenure formalization, rangeland comanagement, and regulation of herders' seasonal movements. An approach that develops and tests institutions to coordinate pastoral movements is recommended over formal tenure for pasturelands, which should be approached with caution in Mongolia.
23280266|Environmental migration, in its different forms, is an aspiration toward stability domains amidst dynamic system change. This paper assesses critical system relationships that couple human and natural systems and change in due course of a regime shift affecting Garfuna villages in Northern Honduras. The specified resilience of these relationships influences the course that migration takes after a flooding event. In impacted villages, migration is a mechanism for demographic fragmentation, 'down-grades' livelihood chains, and reinforces a class divide. Villages systems that experience a shift to uninhabitable and unproductive state spaces become shallow stability domains and consequently, perpetual exporters of migrants over an extended period of time. In the end, migration itself is a cascading aspect of a regime shift that is both ecological and social, forced and chosen.
4602498|The monthly distribution of live births was analyzed over a 51-year period, 1926-1976, for a rural Taiwan fishing community. Unlike previous studies of birth seasonality, monthly distributions of births did not deviate from what would be expected by chance. This new case is shown to be consistent with the suggestion, developed by Pasternak during a study of birth seasonality in two Taiwan farming communities, that for peasant cultivators the annual cycle of production exerts a more decisive influence on birth seasonality than time of marriage or attributes of temperature, rainfall, or workload. An hypothesis that links the productive cycle to conceptions through the intervening variable of diet is presented and successfully tested using several sets of data on monthly births. A direct effect of nutrition on human fertility, suggested by recent studies of reproductive performance under conditions of nutritional stress, may largely explain seasonality of conceptions and births in populations that experience significant seasonal variation in diet.
40343964|Many of the world's forests are being destroyed at a rapid rate. This article analyzes the decisions of landowners in Maine, where forests have been heavily harvested and much land has been converted to non-forest use. Data on these landowners and their land were obtained from primary and secondary sources, satellite change detection analysis, and structured interviews. We found that there are several different landowner groups making different harvesting decisions in response to different incentives. In northern Maine, deforestation occurred at a rapid rate in the 1970s-1990s due to the activities of paper companies, which were harvesting heavily in the aftermath of a spruce budworm epidemic and which were doing liquidation harvesting preparatory to leaving Maine. In the southern area of the state, deforestation is due primarily to small landowners converting land for development and contractors doing "cut and run" forestry. The Maine case shows that even in a small area, there can be multiple causes for deforestation.
23353205|Swidden cultivation was observed to be under pressure but still persisting in many areas in Sarawak, Malaysia around 20002003. Since then rapid development of smallholder oil palm and rubber, continuing urbanization and rural to urban migration appear to have considerably reduced the area under swidden cultivation. With the aim of understanding the extent and impacts of this development, 55 households in three communities that were interviewed in 20022003 were re-interviewed in 2011. In an area with rapid oil palm development, the households engaged in smallholder oil palm production have experienced considerable improvements in income and wealth whereas the other households have experienced more limited wealth increases or even a decline in income. Many households have decreased or abandoned cultivation of upland rice, which used to be the core of the swidden cultivation system, and the upland soils in the area are now dominated by oil palm. In another area, where no oil palm development has taken place because of a hydroelectric dam, upland rice fields under swidden cultivation have also decreased and new high yielding rubber is now being planted because of the favorable rubber prices. Moreover, tourism has in this area gained further economic importance and overtaken agriculture as the main economic activity of households. The demise of swidden has not yet occurred in Sarawak, but a continued decline has been observed. However, there is a possibility that the new smallholder oil palm and rubber may provide an opportunity for a new type of 'productive fallow' that will allow continued cultivation of upland rice on a small scale.
4603318|This paper presents evidence of emerging waterfowl conservation practices and attitudes among certain groups of contemporary Yup'ik subsistence hunters in the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, a remote, wetlands dominated region of western Alaska crucial to several species of Pacific migratory birds. By examining what factors motivate hunters to follow restraint practices and evaluating how federal goose management policies impact these factors, I argue that recent policy has succeeded not by enforcement of regulations but by providing minimum necessary conditions for voluntary conservation to emerge as a cultural practice. This example of cooperative management may serve as a model for future, sustainable wildlife policies that involve indigenous resource users.
4603264|This study of a Vincentian community in the Eastern Caribbean explores the impacts of income on dietary quality and food import dependency. It finds that two forms of income -- total household income and the income that women control -- are positively correland with total dietary diversity as well as with frequency of consumption of numerous imported foods. However, no relation is evident between banana incomes and consumption of imported foods, thus questioning the general belief in the literature that the growth of banana production has been responsible for increasing dependence on food imports in the Windward Islands. The beneficial impacts of income on dietary quality that have been found in many other developing areas are more limited here because malnutrition is not a widespread problem. But income is closely linked to consumption of foods that contribute to overnutrition and obesity, growing concerns in the English-speaking Caribbean.
4602695| A human ecosystem model, NUOA, simulates the yearly energy balance of individuals, families, and extended families in a hypothetical farming and herding community of Quechua Indians in the high Andes. The yearly energy demand of each family, based on the caloric requirements of its members, is computed by simulation of agricultural and herding activities in response to stochastic environmental conditions. The family energy balance is used in determining births, deaths, marriages, and resource sharing. The model user has the opportunity to investigate the effect of changes in marriage patterns, resource sharing patterns, or subsistence activities on the ability of the human population to survive in the harsh Andean environment. Results from the model suggest that the substructuring of a population into extended families provides a mechanism for sheltering the population from control by exogenous influences. A population without substructures for resource sharing is shown to be unstable in such an unpredictable environment. 
24015695|When adult males are temporarily away from the household, observational evidence suggests cross-cultural and intra-cultural variation in the effects of their absence on the labor of other household members. In subsistence-based economies, we predict that other adolescent or older members will work more in essential production activities that otherwise would be performed by the missing men. We test this hypothesis using spot-check time allocation datasets from rural Nicaragua and Peru and the methodology of mixed-effects statistical models. In Nicaragua, we find that the absence of male household heads rarely necessitates substitute labor by household co-residents, apparently because men typically time their absences to coincide with the non-peak agricultural season. In Peru, the absence of male household heads results in increased men's work by co-residents only under unusual circumstances, as households apparently rely on other strategies to mitigate for the loss of labor. In addition to the comparative empirical analysis of the two cases, we show how mixed-effects models allow for individual heterogeneity and data structures that confound more familiar statistical techniques and occasionally produce spurious results. Mixed-effects modeling techniques will be necessary if we are to realize the analytic potential of the extensive, standardized time allocation datasets gathered by anthropologists.
27654294|We examine the ways both deforestation and conservation are viewed by people of two villages with different ethnic composition located within the biosphere reserve of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. The rain forest is considered to be important, since it provides many resources and environmental benefits. Residents do notice forest degradation, although deforestation is not one of their major concerns. In the "mestizo" village, 65% of interviewees indicated they felt responsible for deforestation, while only 30% of indigenous villagers felt the same. In both communities, nearly half the respondents see themselves as powerless to take actions to preserve the forest. We analyzed the management plan for the reserve in light of our results, and found authorities' perceptions differ from that of local communities. This study emphasizes the lack of factual data and common goals for biodiversity conservation. Our work points to the urgency to build conservation efforts that involve the different social actors, who diverge in interests and views, particularly in countries like Mexico, where rich biodiversity regions are also broadly inhabited.
40343990|The concept of the keystone species has a long history in ecological analysis, although its validity remains controversial. Anthropological researchers have recently coined the term cultural keystone species, but have not demonstrated any significant differences from existing treatments of culturally important species. We define cultural keystones according to their systemic function, as having essential roles in maintaining any level of complexity within a social-ecological system. Examples include bitter cassava consumption among lowland South American groups such as the Wapishana in Guyana, and commercial cultivation of carrots in Rurukan Village in Minahasa, Indonesia. These examples are both essential at one level of systemic reproduction: within the domestic and village economy in the cassava case, and carrots within regional markets. While each is centred upon a single biological species, the cultural keystone itself is not this species, but a complex incorporating several material and non-material system elements.
40343947|This paper presents the results of interviews and a questionnaire study on public knowledge of the concept of biodiversity and of plant species richness in Switzerland. Despite its extensive use in science and policy making, the concept of biodiversity is not widely recognized or known to people in Switzerland. Overall, 60% of all study participants (161 grammar school pupils, 110 non-graduates, and 96 graduates in the Canton of Zurich) had never heard the term biodiversity, while the others had come across it primarily in the media. Few study participants considered their school education a relevant source of information about biodiversity. Study participants most frequently referred to the diversity of plants and animals when defining biodiversity, but also quite often believed that biodiversity had something to do with ecological concepts such as the equilibrium between all components of nature. Both young people and adults held widely inaccurate ideas of the plant species richness of communities. Particularly for Switzerland, plant species richness was strongly overestimated.
4603428|The disease barrier hypothesis is one long-standing explanation of the temporal discrepancies between the initial colonization of North and South America. The model postulates an epidemiological barrier that prohibited or slowed the initial migration into South America during the Late Pleistocene. Using data from ethnographically documented hunter-gatherers, the theoretical foundations of the hypothesis are explored. In addition, likely demographic effects to colonizing populations are postulated and compared to disease-response mechanisms in foraging societies. Based on identified disease conditions deemed necessary to maintain a prohibitive barrier, it is suggested that disease transmission rates in the initial colonizing populations of the New World were likely extremely limited and insufficient to support the disease barrier concept.
4602422|Cree Indians of Fort George, James Bay, northern Canada, maintain a large and successful subsistence fishery. Methods used in the fishery, seasons and locations of catch, and yield levels were studied, together with the population biology two sea-run Coregonus species, cisco and whitefish, that dominate the catch. The fishery was characterized by a high degree of order, social regulation of the fishing effort and the gillnet mesh size, and practices that were identified as adaptations to the subarctic ecosystem. Fishing methods used permit the Cree to control the magnitude of the harvest and the species and size composition of the catch. There is evidence that fishers can alter the scarcity-abundance patterns of the fish stocks, and have a biologically measurable effect on the populations.
24013752|Households in China's Yunnan Province were surveyed to understand the impacts of hydropower development and resettlement on the agricultural livelihoods of rural villagers. Household-level data from this survey are analyzed to test whether income and landholdings vary by resettlement status. Independent sample t-tests and oneway ANOVAs are used to examine how resettlement status relates to income, land allotments, agricultural crops, and government subsides. Results showed that, contrary to predictions, resettlement corresponds to higher household incomes, while differences in landholdings were mixed. Results indicate that while productive landholdings are less for resettled households, new wage labor, government subsidies, and intensified agriculture may contribute to a higher annual mean income at the household level. However, the tradeoff of receiving wage income for reduced landholdings may be a significant vulnerability for the affected households of the Mekong River Basin, since this loss in productive land corresponds to a long-term loss in social security.
40603006|In this article we argue that in order to understand why some governance systems deliver while others do not, we need to assess contributions and limitations of governability. Here, governability refers to a measure of how governable a particular fisheries and coastal system is. Such a system is always comprised of two parts: a systemto-be-governed and a governing system. Governability also depends on the interactions between these two systems. We provide key variables that must be assessed in order to determine governability related to these systems and their interactions. A governability assessment framework is proposed here to suggest that governance performance can only be judged from what is in the potential of the governing system, given the limitations of the governabiltiy of the system-to-be governed, the governing system itself, and their interactions. Such an assessment helps identify what exactly governing systems can and should do in order to enhance their performance.
40343971|Swidden systems consisting of temporarily cultivated land and associated fallows often do not appear on land use maps or in statistical records. This is partly due to the fact that swidden is a diverse and dynamic land use system that is difficult to map and partly because of the practice of grouping land covers associated with swidden systems into land use or land cover categories that are not self-evidently linked to swiddening. Additionally, in many parts of Southeast Asia swidden systems have changed or are in the process of changing into other land use systems. This paper assesses the extent of swidden on the basis of regional and national sources for nine countries, and determines the pattern of changes of swidden on the basis of 151 cases culled from 67 articles. Findings include (1) a majority of the cases document swidden being replaced by other forms of agriculture or by other livelihood systems; (2) in cases where swiddening is still practiced, fallow lengths are usually, but not always, shorter; and (3) shortened fallow length does not necessarily indicate a trend away from swidden since it is observed that short fallow swidden is sometimes maintained along with other more intensive farming practices and not completely abandoned. The paper concludes that there is a surprising lack of conclusive data on the extent of swidden in Southeast Asia. In order to remedy this, methods are reviewed that may lead to more precise future assessments.
24017343|The Inter-Oceanic Highway is among the first wave of large infrastructure projects under the auspices of the Initiative for the Integration of Regional Infrastructure in South America, which proposes regional integration as a means of economic development. Such projects have reignited debates over infrastructure impacts, which in many ways center on the ramifications for natural resource management. We pursue an analysis of the implications of highway paving for local livelihoods by focusing on the effects of market connectivity on livelihood diversity. Given that infrastructure brings shocks to affected regions, we argue that livelihood diversity is usefully interpreted in terms of household resilience to such shocks. We draw on rural household surveys from the tri-national frontier where Bolivia, Brazil and Peru meet in the southwestern Amazon, where the Inter-Oceanic Highway has recently been paved. The findings show that households more connected to markets in terms of travel time and road paving have less diverse livelihoods. This confirms concerns about regional integration and rural household vulnerability.
24017349|The connection between religion, nature and conservation has become a prominent topic among scholars and conservation practitioners. Numerous studies have shown that spiritual beliefs have contributed to preserving important biodiversity in sacred areas around the world. In Western contexts, however, that link has been underexplored, perhaps due to a common view of Christianity as anti-naturalistic. Here, I rely on a literature review and first-hand observations to identify patterns and trends characterizing Catholic sacred sites in Central Italy. I show that a high proportion of the sites are located in natural areas, and that some types of sites and strands of Catholicism are associated with natural settings more frequently than others. Further, these natural sacred sites often display ecological features that highlight their important conservation role. Greater awareness and consideration of local spiritual heritages are recommended to guarantee more effective and integrated management of the sites.
4603334|Katarko village in the Sahel region of northeastern Nigeria relies entirely on natural sources of water such as rainfall and ground water. The latter is potentially the only constant source of water. This study is based on primary data collected in Katarko during a period of 8 months in 1996. Analysis indicates that per capita daily water consumption is higher (44.9 l) in the rainy season than in the dry season (26.1 l). The proportion of households who use less than 150 l per day, the minimum daily requirement recommended by the World Health Organization (Dieterich & Henderson, 1963) increases from 29% during the rainy season to 67% during the dry season. Most households prefer to use water of poor quality that is to be found closer to their homes to traveling long distances to or spending extra time at the water sources to obtain good quality water. Poor water quality, appalling sanitation, and unhygienic water-handling practices, particularly during the dry season, contribute to the high incidence of diarrhea in the village.
24015692|People's perceptions of the risk posed by wild animals to human lives and/or livelihoods can influence the rate at which people intentionally kill these species. Consequently, humanwildlife conflict (HWC) management strategies may benefit from the inclusion of actions which reduce risk perceptions. This study uses Participatory Risk Mapping (PRM) and semi-structured interviews to explore local perceptions and the wider socio-economic context of humantiger conflict (HTC) in the Bangladesh Sundarbans area. Of the 24 locally-relevant problems identified by the PRM process, tigers were the only problem to be cited by >50 % of respondents. The 'tiger problem' was also perceived by villagers to be of relatively high severity. Negative perceptions of tigers in the Sundarbans communities are exacerbated by other locally-experienced poverty-related problems, as well cyclones, floods and soil erosion. Interactions between the problems experienced by villagers, including HTC, result in a complex 'risk web' which detrimentally affects lives and livelihoods and ultimately perpetuates poverty levels in the Sundarbans communities. This research demonstrates that PRM and in-depth, qualitative research can enhance understanding of the perceived magnitude and wider socio-economic context of risks from wildlife and aid the identification of risk perception management actions which may help to reduce the number of animals killed by people.
4602548|Human evolution and ecology analyses argue that environment is a major factor influencing biological and sociocultural adaptation, but they rarely analyze environmental properties. Multiple problems of perspective and method can arise from the normative and nondynamic environmental description which pervade these analyses. This paper examines human adaptation frameworks to identify theoretical guidelines for environmental description in ways appropriate to available theories of biocultural evolution or congruent with known ecosystem qualities. Concepts and terminology are given for describing the spatial and temporal properties characteristic of ecosystems and central to hypotheses about ecological adaptation. These include: patchiness and grain; stability and resilience; persistence and recurrence; and predictability, constancy, and contingency. Field experience, theory, and the qualities of ecosystems themselves suggest that detailed, historical (long-term) environmental analysis is necessary to determine the role of ecological factors in human evolution and adapation.
41474669|A basic ecological and epidemiological question is why some women enter into commercial sex work while other women in the same socio-economic environment never do. To address this question respondent driven sampling principles were adopted to recruit and collect data for 161 female sex workers and 159 same aged women who never engaged in commercial sex in Kibera, a large informal settlement in Nairobi, Kenya. Univariate analysis indicated that basic kinship measures, including number of family members seen during adolescence and at present, not having a male guardian while growing up, and earlier times of ending relationships with both male and female guardians were associated with commercial sex work in Kibera. Multivariate analysis via logistic regression modeling showed that not having a male guardian during childhood, low education attainment and a small number of family members seen at adolescence were all significant predictors of entering sex work. By far the most important predictor of entering sex work was not having any male guardian, e.g., father, uncle, older brother, etc. during childhood. Results are interpreted in light of the historic pattern of sub-Saharan African child fostering and their relevance for young women in Kibera today.
41474652|Whaling remains one of the most contentious issues in global conservation. In South Korea, where commercial and subsistence whaling are both illegal, domestic sales of cetacean products such as skin, blubber and red meat are allowed if they are accidently caught. However, environmental groups have claimed that the high price of meat may be acting as an incentive for illegal hunting and 'deliberate by-catch' where whales are intentionally killed or left to die by fishermen when they become trapped in their nets. In this paper we investigate the issue of deliberate by-catch and illegal hunting of the protected Minke J-stock population in Korean waters using grounded theory, an approach that allows theories and understanding to emerge from the analysis of both qualitative and quantitative data. Our research suggests that deliberate bycatch is almost certainly taking place but that illegal hunting and/or illegal importation from Japan may be far more significant sources of Minke whale meat. We discuss possible measures to reduce incentives for deliberate bycatch and illegal hunting such as the introduction of mandatory reporting of quantities supplied and consumed in restaurants and a tax on meat sales at auction. More generally, our research illustrates how the analysis of price movements can shed light on the scale of illegal wildlife trade and how a combination of both qualitative and quantitative methodologies can provide understanding of a complex, multifaceted conservation issue.
4602730|This article tests the hypothesis that in the Nepal Himalayas the Tibetan sociocultural system (fraternal polyandry) reduces aggregate fertility whereas the Hindu system maximizes by early and virtually universal monogamous marriage. It is shown that while fraternal polyandry does reduce aggregate fertility, the hypothesis that it would lead to a substantially lower fertility rate is false because the effects of fraternal polyandry are roughly balanced by the effects of postwidowhood celibacy among the Hindus.
4602309|The history and nature of the new environmental movement in the United States are reviewed. Since understanding of a social movement is enhanced by learning the views and perceptions of outsiders, the continuing debate between the environmental movement and its critics is examined. First, disagreements over the nature and the severity of the so-called environmental crisis are described. Second, the ideological differences between environmentalists and their critics are reviewed, particularly their contrasting views of man, society, nature, and economic growth. Finally, the political critique of the movement is examined, with attention given to the composition of the membership, the alleged superficiality of its proposed solutions to environmental problems, and the alleged discrimination against both poor people in the United States and the poor nations.
4602446|This study questions the assumption that there is an immutably positive relationship between per capita GNP and per capita energy consumption among human societies. A ratio of per capita GNP to per capita energy consumption ($U.S./kg coal equivalent) is proposed as a measure of energy efficiency for a cross-national analysis of 118 world nation-states and a subset of 25 developed market economies. This ratio is found to vary considerably, between 0.19 and 9.80. A review of literature suggests possible relationships among several sociodemographic characteristics of nations and levels of efficiency with which energy is converted into goods and services. Among the total sample, level of production (measured in terms of per capita GNP) bears a substantial inverse association with energy efficiency. When per capita GNP is held constant, agricultural share of gross domestic product and percentage of labor force in agriculture continue to be positively associated with energy efficiency among the total sample. Variables measuring defense expenditure, urbanization, and population density exhibit somewhat smaller multivariate relationships with energy efficiency when per capita GNP is controlled, i.e., these variables have significant multivariate parameters, but are less closely related to energy efficiency than level of production and agricultural composition of the economy and labor force. Agricultural composition of the economy and labor force is the major predictor of energy efficiency among the subset of 25 developed market economies. The results suggest that among the developed industrial societies level of production is less important than the composition of production activities in determining aggregate energy efficiency.
40603011|This paper provides ethnographic and historical evidence for the existence, in time and space, of a network of well-established trails connecting most Inuit settlements and significant places across the Canadian Arctic. The geographic and environmental knowledge relating to trails (and place names associated with the trails) has been orally transmitted through many generations of Inuit. I use historical documents, ethnographic research, and new geographic tools such as GPS, GIS and Google Earth, to show the geographic extent of the network and its historical continuity. I particularly draw on a trip following Inuit along a traditional trail connecting the communities of Iglulik and Naujaat (Repulse Bay). Inuit have made systematic use of the Arctic environment as a whole and trails are, and have been, significant channels of communication and exchange across the Arctic. There are some types of oral history and knowledge that can be accurately transmitted through generations, and I propose that some aspects of Inuit culture are better understood in terms of moving as a way of living.
4603548| This article explores how anthropogenic modifications of soil condition human adaptive processes on the Amazonian uplands. The occurrence of black earth (a nutrient-rich anthrosol) in nutrient-poor blackwater environments and its cultivation by contemporary residents provide a unique opportunity for understanding the ecological praxis of Amazonian groups. Two years of ethnographic, ethnoscientific, and agronomic research among caboclo residents of the Lower Rio Negro and Rio Urub confirm that unique cognitive and behavioral orientations characterize black earth and adjacent environments. When compared with cognitive and behavioral orientations to these two environments in distant blackwater regions, data suggest that political-economic, technological, cultural, and ecological factors have had a strong influence on the trajectory of human-environmental interactions. Data in large part illustrate the utility of historical ecological models, yet point to an interactive role of diverse histories in shaping the range of human responses. 
4603267|Despite a global trend toward settlement, the incidence of pastoral nomadism is on the rise in the Marwar region of Rajasthan, India. Typical explanations for this change use models of population pressure; increasing herds and decreasing pasture are held to blame. This explanation, however intuitive, is unsatisfactory. Instead, changing institutional and economic patterns are creating new contexts for strategic movement. Bottlenecks in the yearly resource calendar, caused by the disintegration of obligatory social relationships, force migrations during periods of scarcity. Changes in the volume and pattern of the meat and wool markets have also created opportunities for migrating pastoralists. Producers increase their access to markets and the reproductive rate of their herd through long, annual, migration. While nomadism is a general adaptation to changes in the socioeconomic conditions of the region, differential resource endowments account for the range of strategies; wealthy herders have opportunities not enjoyed by more marginal producers.
41474587|Traditional resource management (TRM) is largely based on local ecological knowledge (LEK). In regions where formal institutional control of natural resources is limited due to a lack of coordination or stakeholder involvement, communities rely on TRM to manage common-pool resources. This paper examines TRM among the Sonjo in rural Northern Tanzania, with particular reference to catchment forest protection and water quality. We first document the ecological knowledge of traditional resource managers, and then describe the differences between traditionally managed water sources and formal, government managed resources. Using both qualitative and quantitative methods to examine water use, perceptions of water quality, and bacterial water quality, significant differences were detected among river basins within seasons and between seasons. Our findings indicate that the Sonjo, well known for their traditional forest conservation practices and irrigation management, may also benefit from TRM through improved water quality. The examination of traditional methods of water conservation provides insight into how communities in resource-stressed regions thrive despite seasonal droughts and flooding.
27654116|A cave system in the eolianite deposits of the Mh'ulep/P' area of Kaua'i, Hawai'i, contains a rich fossil record of prehuman Holocene conditions and also preserves a thousand-year record of human activity. Details concerning pre-Contact Polynesian life have been extracted from subaqueous middens and artifacts, including perishable materials such as wood, gourd, and cordage. Oral traditions concerning the cave and vicinity generally show good agreement with the archaeological and paleoecological record and provide rich stories said to derive from as early as the fourteenth century a.d. Fossil evidence highlights biotic and landscape changes before, during, and after initial Polynesian and subsequent European settlement. The approximate temporal coincidence of evidence for human arrival and last occurrence of some now-extinct species is too great to ignore the possibility that humans played a role in some extinctions of native taxa before European colonization. Old maps, an 1824 sketch, records of the Land Court Awards, and old photographs confirm stratigraphic inferences and oral accounts concerning demographic and ecological conditions of the early historical period. Feral livestock proliferated in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, with loss of vegetative cover to overgrazing, decline of most of the native flora, and subsequent dune reactivation. Sedimentation rates reach their peak later in the twentieth century after the establishment of agricultural and mining operations nearby.
4603155|A dynamic nonlinear optimization analysis of subsistence patterns of the Mountain Pima of Chihuahua, Mexico, included requirements for adequate amounts of calories, calcium, vitamin A, vitamin C, and balanced protein. Two methods of incorporating nonenergy nutritional needs into a time minimization program were compared. The first was a constraint model with sharp boundaries between adequacy and fatality. The second involved multiplying the total work time by a series of nutrient indexing factors. Each factor was calculated as a function of the ratio between the recommended and actual rates of intake for all months and nutrients considered. Oxalate composition of some resources and seasonal variation in resource availability were taken into account. Two sets of data were analyzed, one for a year of adequate rainfall, the other for a year of severe drought. The predictions of the indexing model agreed more closely with observed intake patterns than did the predictions of the constraint model.
27654243|This article compares how public protection of forests and common-property forest institutions serve to control outside encroachment into frontier forests in Honduras and Nicaragua. The article combines institutional analysis with ethnographically based fieldwork and analysis of land-cover images to evaluate how property-rights arrangements influence monitoring, enforcement, and compliance with rules to restrict agricultural expansion in two biosphere reserves in the Mosquitia Corridor. Findings show that territorial demarcation and common-property rights are important components for frontier forest conservation. In areas with weak enforcement mechanisms and heavy reliance on social norms over official regulatory measures, the findings suggest that the perceived legitimacy of tenure arrangements and their respective land-use rules are fundamental to controlling the agricultural frontier.
4602584|Five concurrent systems of agricultural resource management in the Viru Valley in Peru's arid northern coastal plain are discussed as adjustments to microenvironmental variations in soil humidity. Widespread dependence on canal irrigation in an environment characterized by uncertainty in the availability of river water affects the agrarian population in several ways. The upper socioeconomic class has adapted to uncertainty by implementing a deviation-counteracting mechanism (tubular wells) that provides water on demand, giving them flexibility in choice of agricultural activities. Another class of farmers is unable to introduce this mechanism, however, and consequently must depend on a repertoire of inflexible decisions to cope with uncertainty. Each group exploits different opportunity costs to increase economic gain. One pattern provides for expansion, whereas the other at best establishes stability and maintenance. Noncanal techniques permit expansion of cultivation in conditions where canal irrigation is not feasible, thereby improving the overall level of effectiveness of resource use. Alternative techniques do not involve regulatory mechanisms nor do they require complex, interlocking social, economic, and political components. Their presence and persistence in the agricultural system provide variation that may ultimately be amplified as the need to intensify resource exploitation increases in the future.
4603541|A comparative qualitative study of Norwegian and Newfoundland inshore fisheries revealed that compliance with the state's fisheries regulations was governed by a set of moral distinctions which were strikingly similar in the two cases. Violations of government regulations were followed by informal sanctions only in commercial fisheries. Illegal food fishery was generally accepted. A fisherman could also break the law in commercial fisheries without being met with significant sanctions provided that it was generally perceived to be the only way to ensure a necessary outcome. The empirical findings are connected to the moral meanings of money and food, and it is suggested that the economies of natural resource harvesters include two different moral spheres. One of these spheres is linked to subsistence, small-scale operations and local exchange, and is perceived as morally safe. The other sphere is connected with money, large-scale operations, and exchange with strangers, and is seen as morally perilous.
4603444|Early arable activity in Iceland, introduced in the late ninth century A.D., has been characterized as marginal and at a subsistence level, largely abandoned by the 1500s as a result of climatic deterioration. This view has been advanced without considering soils data, the medium in which crops are grown and in which evidence of early land management is retained. Soil thin section micromorphology together with soil total phosphorus values are used to assess land manuring and cultivation strategies at two sites in south-west Iceland, where place name and palynological evidence indicate that arable activity has taken place. Agro-ecosystem modeling, using the CENTURY model, is undertaken to predict grain yields at these sites, and to assess the significance of soil properties and soil management in determining yields. The results of these analyses demonstrate that manure application rates were low, and support the view that grain yields were at a subsistence level. The results also suggest soils, and the management of soils, rather than climate was the major limitation to arable production. Shortages of both available manure and labor are suggested as barriers to soils and grain productivity improvements in early Iceland. The paper highlights the need to include soils analyses in discussions of early agricultural economies.
27654224|Beluga whale hunting is one of the most social subsistence hunting activities to take place in the Canadian Arctic. Through the harvest, distribution and consumption of beluga whales, Inuit identity and social relationships are affirmed. The whale-hunting complex is influenced by beliefs that beluga whales are sentient beings who inhabit a shared social space with humans. Yet, across the region beluga whales are perceived by wildlife managers as scarce resources and as such require protection through the imposition of management plans. There is currently no management of whales on the west coast of Hudson Bay, in Nunavut. In 2002, Inuit there were requested to sell part of their whale harvest to Inuit in Nunavik, northern Quebec, where hunting quotas exist. The outcome of this event was concern in Nunavut for the future of the whale hunt, and a deepening sense of powerlessness in Nunavik due to the management of the whale harvest.
4602413|The spatial organization of economic production in contemporary subarctic Indian society is illustrated by an analysis of geographical mobility and commercial fur trapping among the English River Chipewyan of Patuanak, Saskatchewan. Quantitative comparison reveals the positive linear relationship between selected "performance" variable (numbers of animals captured and cash income) and "locational" variables (trapping area size, distances traveled between settlements and bush camps, and distances between neighboring trappers) for a population of 76 male trappers. At present, trapping performance varies positively with trapping area size and linear distance from the largest settlement. Variable social adaptations in the trapping work force are in part the result of complex compromises and adjustments between traditional familycamp organizations and emerging all-male partnerships. However, the relationship between size and structure of trapping teams, degree of team interaction, and economic efficiency requires further investigation. Finally, the formal analysis of productivity is reappraised in terms of community definitions of trapping success.
4602750| Cognitive models of natural decision making (Quinn, 1978; Gladwin, 1980; Gladwin and Murtaugh, 1980) work well for decision situations in which the decisions are made infrequently, the number of alternatives to be evaluated is small compared with the number of constraints that affect the decision, and the alternatives to be decided among are mutually exclusive of one another. However, it is difficult to apply these models to a decision-making situation that lacks any of these characteristics, such as in the case of Aguaruna Jvaro manioc selection. As an alternative to a cognitive model, this paper infers the process of Aguaruna manioc selection by comparing the properties attributed to the varieties with the actual frequency with which the varieties occur in Aguaruna gardens. It thereby reduces the possibility that the reasons elicited from informants for their choices are instead post hoc rationalizations of decisions reached on other grounds. Although more modest in its objectives than the cognitive approach, it is argued that this use of a linear model provides a more accurate description of a decision situation in which the diversity of alternatives is maintained for its own sake. 
4603187|Two fishing castes, Ambiga and Harikantra, of Karnataka employ different techniques for throwing cast nets in the same habitat. Ambigas throw the net from above the head, as opposed to the far easier Harikantra method of throwing at the waist level. These different techniques are described here as memes, transmitted through learning. A logico-deductive hypothesis is developed here to explain the origin and maintenance of the memetic difference between the castes, with the help of circumstantial semiotic and anthropological evidence.
4603082|Ecological aspects of traditional swidden cultivation by Bine-speaking groups in wetland areas of lowland southwest Papua New Guinea are examined. A notable feature of the area is the coexistence of extensive, polycultural forest cultivation and more intensive, specialized savanna cultivation. Both agrosystems occur on soils of inherently similar properties. The savanna vegetation is secondary in character and, once established, is better suited to more intensive swidden cultivation based on taro (Colocasia esculenta). The agrosystems in question represent stages in the local development of agriculture, and, although multiple causes of intensification may be involved, the study confirms that lowland, as well as highland, areas of New Guinea have provided development opportunities for traditional cultivators.
4603519|The ability to develop institutions is constrained by human capacity to cope with complexity. But complexity is multidimensional and it is not clear which forms of complexity present the greatest challenges for institutional development. In the context of natural resources, the predictability of resource availability affects expectations that an individual or group will be able to capture the benefits of management. In addition, incomplete understanding of cause-and-effect relationships creates uncertainty about the consequences of alternative management options. These features influence calculations about resource management. The importance of resource complexity relative to various social, political, and institutional factors known to influence collective choice remains an open question. We evaluate the relative importance of several forms of resource complexity and characteristics of resource users for the development of rules for management for forest products in Indiana.
4603557|In Indonesia, with the recent eruption of local struggles over resources and now with the new decentralization reforms, there is renewed interest in the role of customary adat institutional arrangements in village government, land tenure, and forest management. On the basis of research carried out in one locality in Sumatra over 1996-99, this article considers the nature of local institutional arrangements, how they have evolved under various conditions, their complex interaction with the parallel State order, their response to economic fluctuations, and how particular institutional patterns lead to certain environmental outcomes. This article finds that as farmers adjust to the economic and political dynamics and the changing scarcity and value of different resources in this site, the adat arrangements are constantly renegotiated. Adat customary orders are tied to local notions of identity and associated notions of appropriateness, and as such constitute patterns of social ordering associated with both implicit deeply held social norms and more explicit rules. Considering the institutional pluralism characteristic of this area, this article concludes that, while the State and adat regimes often compete to control the direction of social change, they also constantly make accommodations, and in some respects need to be considered as mutually adjusting, intertwined orders.
41474650|Interethnic marriage represents a major trend in the demographic history of American Indians. While the majority of these unions involved Indian women and Caucasian men, a sizeable number occurred between Indians and African Americans. The children of these bicultural marriages were "mixed bloods" who in turn typically married non-Indians or other mixed bloods. Using data from the 1910 Census on American Indians in the United States and Alaska, this article explores why American Indians with African ancestry enjoyed high fertility. Differential rates of fertility among American Indians in the past were due to a number of underlying genetic, cultural, and environmental factors. By identifying these factors, the paradox of why Indian women with African heritage did so well in terms of fertility largely disappears. African admixture, however, greatly complicates Indian social identity.
4603601|This landscape-scale study combines analysis of multitemporal satellite imagery spanning 30 years and information from field studies extending over 25 years to assess the extent and causes of land use and land cover change in the Loitokitok area, southeast Kajiado District, Kenya. Rain fed and irrigated agriculture, livestock herding, and wildlife and tourism have all experienced rapid change in their structure, extent, and interactions over the past 30 years in response to a variety of economic, cultural, political, institutional, and demographic processes. Land use patterns and processes are explored through a complementary application of interpreation of satellite imagery and case study analysis that explicitly addresses the local-national spatial scale over a time frame appropriate to the identification of fundamental causal processes. The results illustrate that this combination provides an effective basis for describing and explaining patterns of land use and land cover change and their root causes.
4603528|The impact of fire use and hazard in frontier settlement is a critical environmental concern that has been historically overshadowed by deforestation issues- and thus underexamined at local and regional scales by social scientists. Consequently, conceptual frameworks of LUCC change consider fire use as an outcome of land use decisions and neglect the capacity of burning choices to influence these decisions and subsequent land cover change. This paper examines the relationship of settlement, land use, and fire use. It considers recent LUCC frameworks, and then uses household surveys on fire use practices to discuss how the study of fire use can contribute to understanding frontier landscape change. Planting decisions, settlement history, location desires, and burning logistics work in combination to influence burning choices and thus LUCC.
41432983|Greenlandic governance institutions have been criticised for their colonial heritage of centralisation and lack of democratic participation. In the same manner, Greenlandic fisheries management is notorious in the academic literature for its centralised and locally illegitimate character. While recognising the lack of localised co-management fisheries governance institutions in Greenland, we argue that something has yet to be said about power and user participation in the centralised institutions that have developed. From a symbolic interactionist perspective we dissect the centralised institutions in terms of a differentiated cast of actors and their interaction and argue that participation and power come in many institutional guises as the complex cast of actors within the centralised system represent themselves and others. If we are to understand power and participation in Greenlandic fisheries governance, we need to understand the creation of alliances of the subject-positions that seek control of the self-rule fisheries governance decision-making.
4602680|Geertz's famous hypothesis that horticulturalists practicing shifting cultivation intercrop their plots to mimic the protective structure of the tropical forest is evaluated in view of data on the structural ecology of the tropical forest and swidden plots in Amazonian Ecuador. The cultivation practices of the Siona-Secoya Indians reveal a three-fold typology of cropping patterns (high-diversity intercropping, low-diversity intercropping, and monocropping), with variation among the types in terms of plot size and distribution, cultigen inventory, structural complexity, and function. These gardens and the tropical forest are compared and analyzed in terms of morphology, ecological characteristics, and human manipulation and utilization. Gardens with high-diversity intercropping show certain similarities to the tropical forest, as Geertz's model predicts, but their highly transient structure does not function as a mature ecosystem. Furthermore, plots with low-diversity intercropping and monocropping show few similarities to the forest. Garden structure is best understood in terms of the economic utilization of tropical cultigens displaying specific habits, rather than by analogy to tropical forest physiognomy and function.
4602973|Agricultural development projects in the fertile and most well-watered areas of arid and semi-arid Africa usually deny access to nomadic pastoralists whose production system and livelihood depend upon such areas in the dry season and during frequent droughts. The result can be degradation of range resources through overgrazing, and greater vulnerability of pastoralists. Recent calls for "compatible" land use schemes or "non-exclusionary" agricultural development projects in the context of pastoralist transhumance, suggest allowing pastoralists structured access to project sites in the dry season in order to utilize forage and water supplies. This paper examines the capacity of an irrigation scheme to support the seasonal influx of transhumant livestock in dry seasons of varying severity. The livestock carrying capacity of the existing mosaic of land use patterns and practices is used in the determination of the proportional areas of land use needed to absorb large seasonal concentrations of livestock.
4603265|Research concerning the value of communal resource management is limited in two respects. First, while many studies present evidence that communal management is common among traditional societies, a strong theoretical basis is lacking to explain why individuals participate in monitoring and sanctioning efforts. Second, few studies have actually demonstrated resource conservation. There are several ecological and economic reasons for thinking that groups may find it harder to design appropriate conservation measures than to prevent free-riding. However, if groups can surmount these problems, communal management may have advantages over privatization or government control. These arguments are illustrated using results from a pilot study of the communal management of mother-of-pearl shell (Trochus niloticus) in the Kei Islands of Eastern Indonesia. It is found that villagers successfully cooperate to defend access to, and regulate their own harvest of trochus. In doing so, they are able to prevent free-riding, and to provide themselves with a long-term source of cash income. However, it is here argued that their aim is "gain rather than restraint."
25652767|Attitudes towards the management of the natural environment have been described mainly as building on individuals' images of nature and the humannature relationship. However, in previous qualitative research I found strong evidence that in order to understand public views on environmental policies we also need to understand individuals' beliefs about their fellow humans. The present study tested the hypothesis that beliefs about human nature and preferences for certain governance approachessuch as regulations and collective actionare related to individuals' attitudes towards concrete management measures. Survey results (n = 155), analysed by means of structural equation modelling, suggest that effects of beliefs about human nature are discernible, but not significant. I could, however, identify generic preferences for particular approaches to environmental governance. These significantly explained variation in attitudes towards environmental governance in an applied context, suggesting a strong need for further research in this politically highly relevant field.
4602742|The introduction of steel tools and new crops radically transformed the Yanoama Indians' pre-Columbian economy. A consideration of the impact of these innovations allows for the reconstruction of that economy which suggests a higher dependence upon foraging, a lower population density, more mobile settlement pattern, and heavier workload, than today. This reconstruction challenges both current speculations about pre-Columbian Amazonian economic systems which apply Sahlins' concept of "aboriginal affluence" and those concerning the relationship between Amazonian environment and "cultural development." This reconstruction, confirmed in part by fragmentary historical sources, explores some of the dramatic changes which must have taken place since contact. The Yanoama's agricultural subsistence base is a recent innovation, made possible since contact by new tools and new crops.
4603018|This paper presents a case study of the relationship between farmers' knowledge of maize varieties and their selection and management of these varieties under conditions of technological change. Research for this paper was done among Spanish-speaking small farmers in an ejido of central Chiapas, Mexico. This ejido is well integrated into the market, and the use of modern technologies is widespread. This research demonstrates that farmers have an extensive and widely shared knowledge of their maize varieties. This knowledge reflects objective maize characteristics. Variation occurs in the farmers' selection and management of maize varieties, but on average the variation deviates from a random pattern in the direction predicted by the farmers' knowledge base. They have incorporated the technological changes brought about by development into their knowledge base. Farmers maintain maize varieties with contrasting traits, and their knowledge base provides important information about which traits and constraints are important to them.
4602357|Shepherding among the highland Gurungs of Nepal is examined in its historical and contemporary settings. Change from pastoral nomadism augmented by hunting, swidden agriculture, and trade to sedentary rice agriculture augmented by transhumance and migrant labor (soldiery) is considered in terms of adaptive response to change in cultural and physical environments. A brief examination of adaptive strategies in one village is presented to highlight the interplay of ecological, economic, and social variables. Data from Gurungs studies are compared with recent Magar village studies in the Himalaya by John Hitchcock. Throughout the article, a methodological stance is pursued by which many dynamic adaptations, such as those of the Gurungs, can be understood by comparing past and present ecological-cultural processes.
23353208|To analyze the relationships between local livelihoods and vulnerability to food insecurity, using a resilience approach, we interviewed 350 households from seven mixed-heritage Caiara communities in Paraty, Brazil. Fishing was a livelihood activity for 70 % of the households, and the main declared activity for 16 %. Fishing was combined with other activities such as day-wage jobs, tourism, agriculture, and commerce. Livelihood activities were not homogeneously distributed among communities, and a higher proportion of fishing households were found in generalist communities. Food insecurity appeared to be transitory (and not chronic), and fishing is central to food security. Small-scale fisheries cannot be seen in isolation from the diversity of activities that make up the livelihood portfolios of coastal communities. In view of rapid change in the area, pressures from protected areas, large-scale fisheries, tourism development and economic change in general, threaten the resilience of Caiara livelihoods, with implications for future food insecurity.
4602923|The paper presents a study of settlement processes in western Nepal. It emphasizes the linkages between settlement history, cultural ecology, and political economy as these relate to resources, marginality, and territory. Regional settlement trends are examined in accordance with land occupancy and tenure arrangements. Village settlement strategies are analyzed within a micro-processual framework that incorporates political economic perspectives on village land use and resource distributions. The past, present, and future roles of settlement in the human adaptation process of west Nepal's mountain populations is critically examined in the contexts of historical land policies and current rural political and environmental systems.
4603240|Scholars have rarely reflected upon dune sand in any context other than that of environmental hazard. Yet recent anthropological research conducted among ethnic Mongol herders in the Keerqin Sandy Lands of Northeast China indicates that native inhabitants exhibit a surprising degree of tolerance, appreciation, and even preference for dune sand at specific spatio-temporal scales. Survey data, gathered primarily through the use of photographic prompts and pile sort exercises during household interviews, reveal that many residents even regard dune sand as the constituent element of a distinctive home environment and cherished way of life. This research underscores the relevance of perception to the policies and practices of human resource management. It also calls into question the authority with which officials and scholars in China and elsewhere indiscriminantly depreciate the various social utilities of dune sand in stock-herding populations.
24015693|This study evaluates the introduction of quotas on narwhal hunting in East Greenland with respect to effects on Inuit culture and based on trends in narwhal killed per hunter and assessment of migration patterns. Cultural aspects were assessed through group discussions and comparison between East and Northwest Greenland. Trends in narwhal killed/hunter were modeled from catch statistics using information on number of hunters and climate and ice cover data for the period 19932004. Results indicate negative impacts of quotas on Inuit culture; did not detect negative trends in narwhal killed/hunter; and suggest southwest-bound migration, implying potential immigration from non-hunted populations that was not considered in quota setting. The implementation of quotas without local consultations and legal basis in the relevant executive order is therefore in our opinion inappropriate. Conservation and sustainable use of narwhal stocks may be more likely to succeed if local communities are involved through comanagement agreements.
27654255|Should pastoralists in dryland Africa diversify or specialize in their productive activities? To investigate this question, we analyze data from a consumption survey and two surveys of the nutritional status of children in addition to qualitative interviews comparing nomadic and sedentary population groups in the Gourma area in northern Mali. We show how the children of pastoralists seem to be better nourished than children of sedentary farmers and that the children of the sedentarized nomads seem to be the worst off. Based on these findings, we first argue that sedentary farming appears to be a poorer adaptation than nomadic pastoralism in arid environments such as the northern Sahel. Secondly, we argue that the diversification argument (better to stand on two legs than one) is flawed for mobile pastoralists in the northern Sahel because the logistical and organizational costs of combining different modes of livelihood are large and easily become insurmountable for a single household.
4602306|A model of the subsistence economy of an insular population is proposed in which the various factors that might influence the potential carrying capacity of the environment are made explicit as a set of ecological and cultural constraints on subsistence production. The application of the model to the Polynesian Outlier Atolls is discussed, and a formula is suggested whereby the population potential of any stable and bounded ecosystem can be calculated, using data on agricultural area, productivity, and diets. The actual size of precontact populations of the Outliers and other atolls appears to have been 70-80% of the predicted carrying capacity, which accords well with ethnographic evidence for population homeostasis.
4602806|Peasant and state perceptions of two common weeds, Imperata cylindrica and Chromolaena odorata, are compared in four case study areas in Indonesia. Peasant perceptions are found to vary according to the similarity between these weeds plants and the fallow period vegetation in any given system of cultivation. All peasants attribute the origins of these weeds to external political authorities. State perceptions of both weeds are unvaryingly negative, based on its generally negative perception of systems of cultivation that employ fallow periods, and on its self-interest in expensive eradication programs and the alternate use of weed-covered lands. Both peasant and state perceptions of the two weeds are seen to be part of a broader structure of beliefs concerning not only plants and land, but also the relations between peasants and states themselves. This analysis demonstration that functional/ecological analysis is not restricted to local level relations, but can with equal validity be applied at the level of the state.
4603460|Despite new research on agricultural intensification, we still have limited knowledge of the determinants of technology adoption in low-density, limited-market regions, particularly in humid tropical forests. This lacuna has led to divergent opinions about the impacts of intensification on land use in the Brazilian Amazon, well-known for deforestation of fragile tropical ecosystems. This paper takes up the case of the Amazon to address two questions concerning the adoption of agricultural technologies: 1) what are its social determinants, and 2) what are its land use correlates. Empirical data come from a recent survey of smallholders along the Transamazon highway. The first part of the analysis, consisting of models of eight agricultural technologies, shows that households with more labor and capital are more likely to adopt technologies. The second part shows that for all technologies, adopters have more land cleared than do non-adopters. These findings raise questions for further research on intensification while also suggesting policy prescriptions to mitigate deforestation.
4602857|Recent theories of socio-economic change in hunter-gatherer societies have referred to associated changes in intensity and mode of resource exploitation. These ideas are examined in the light of pollen and charcoal analyses of an Australian coastal wetland system which allow, at the local scale, (1) documentation of resource availability, (2) identification of resource use, particularly where fire technology is involved, and (3) examination of the effect of environmental change on the archeological record. Evidence of plant food management through fire around 6800 BP suggests a longer history of deliberate swamp exploitation than indicated by the archeological record, and lends support to models which propose long-term gradual change in zones of high productivity.
4603174|Recent studies suggest that wild agave (Agave spp.) plants in Sonora, Mexico, are being over-harvested by mescal makers on communal lands. Using the conceptual framework of regional political ecology (Blaikie and Brookfield, 1987), I discuss the ecological processes of agave depletion, and investigate the social, economic, and political contexts in which unsustainable harvest practices arise. Whereas all the mescal makers have knowledge of sustainable harvest methods, population growth, expansion of agriculture onto ecologically marginal lands, and increasing dependence on wild harvested products from communal lands created the socioeconomic context for increased demand for mescal income. The ideology of household autonomy, and the belief that the village has no right to internally regulate use of the commons, created the political context for rapid, unsustainable harvesting--a tragedy of the commons. However, recent cultural changes have caused a reversal of this trend, and some wild agave populations may be recovering.
4602723|From 1972 to 1976 rainfall in Kajiado District of Kenya was below normal. The capacity of the farming and herding systems to cope with the consequent reduction in production is discussed within a context of changing land-use patterns and altered resource availability. It is concluded that land-use planning to allocate the available land and water resources and to promote off-farm employment is required to reduce the vulnerability of the population to future drought conditions.
4602379|International research and practices are reviewed with regard to cultural, social, economic, health, and physical-technological features of needs, standards, and codes regulating the residential environment. Housing and building codes, as well as zoning and subdivision ordinances, are influenced by nonscientific considerations that have significant cost and other policy implications. Noxious and promotive influences are examined for public health codes regulating potable water, waste disposal, and safety in the home, as well as density and congestion for cities, neighborhoods, and individual dwelling units. Density is distinguished from congestion, and the policy implications of both are examined. Cost-benefit ratios indicate that many standards can be appreciably lowered. Vague definitions of health, as adopted by WHO, also invite cost-inducing moral judgments.
27654136|Lessons in conservation are often seen as resulting from cycles of overexploitation and subsequent depletion of resources, followed by catastrophic consequences of shortage and starvation, and finally, development of various strategies, including privatization of the commons, to conserve remaining resource stocks. While such scenarios have undoubtedly occurred on many occasions, we suggest that they are not the only means by which people develop conservation practices and concepts. There are other pathways leading to ecological understanding and conservation, which act at a range of scales and levels of complexity. These include: lessons from the past and from other places, perpetuated and strengthened through oral history and discourse; lessons from animals, learned through observation of migration and population cycles, predator effects, and social dynamics; monitoring resources and human effects on resources (positive and negative), building on experiences and expectations; observing changes in ecosystem cycles and natural disturbance events; trial and error experimentation and incremental modification of habitats and populations. Humans, we believe, are capable of building a sophisticated conservation ethic that transcends individual species and resources. A combination of conservation knowledge, practices, and beliefs can lead to increasingly greater sophistication of ecological understanding and the continued encoding of such knowledge in social institutions and worldview.
4603289|Kombu is a kind of seaweed growing in northern Japan. In Hidaka District, Hokkaido Island, it comprises an important source of income. In the harvest of wild kombu, competition among the harvesters tends to be intense because of its high price and the fact that it is a limited resource. About a century ago, severe competition caused resource depletion and decline of kombu quality. Today, however, the resource is used sustainably by the villagers, who observe complex communal regulations for the use of common property. This study examines the ecological role of these regulations in the management of kombu as common property, and demonstrates that these regulations facilitate equal access to the resource, maintaining the unity of the local community, as well as efficient resource use.
4602288|The significance of economic stratification in several highland Guatemalan Indian peasant communities is investigated in terms of its impact on physical growth of the inhabitants. Studies are mentioned from more industrialized countries which associate differences in growth with wealth. The question of whether richer people in such poor communities eat significantly better diets and so achieve larger size is explored by correlating economic status with the height and weight of children. The lack of a positive association in this case leads to a consideration of factors which might militate against it.
4603007|It has often been assumed that peoples living today as foragers in tropical rain forests are remnants of paleolithic populations that have been subsisting in their forest habitats for millennia and have only recently come into contact with sources of domesticated plants and animals. Independently, the two of us have published articles that challenge this view and propose the hypothesis that hunter-gatherers could never have lived in tropical rain forest without direct or indirect access to cultivated foods. This article serves as an introduction to six articles in this issue of Human Ecology, all devoted to this hypothesis. To provide background for this journal's readers, we summarize here our original articles.
4602752|Rappaport's (1968) study of self-regulation in the Tsembaga Maring ecosystem is an important substantive contribution to human ecology. Rappaport hypothesized that the Maring pig festival cycle is the dominant mechanism by which the quality of the Tsembaga ecosystem is maintained. In this paper, we demonstrate that the pig festival cannot serve this function. Simulation models of the Tsembaga ecosystem show that a stable, self-regulating equilibrium of the kind proposed by Rappaport is highly dependent upon a carefully chosen set of parameters which do not represent the most accurate choice from the available data. In the simulation model of Rappaport's hypothesis constructed by Shantzis and Behrens, equilibrium depends upon fixed population growth rates that lead to regularly scheduled pig festivals, whose timing insures that a fixed rate of removal of Tsembaga individuals in warfare prevents net population growth. More realistic models uniformly suggest that the pig festival plays no essential role in ecosystem regulation. We conclude that the evidence provided does not support the hypothesis.
4602869|Ethnographic studies have established that, until shortly after World War II, Indians in northern Alberta regularly and systematically fired habitats to influence the local distribution and relative abundance of plant and animal resources. In ways similar to what has been reported for hunter-gatherers in other regions, this pyrotechnology contributed to an overall fire mosaic that, in this case, formerly characterized northern boreal forests. Crosscultural comparisons of these practices with those in other parts of North America, as well as in several parts of Australia, illustrate functionally parallel strategies in the ways that hunter-gatherers employed habitat fires, specifically in the maintenance of "fire yards" and "fire corridors" in widely separated and different kinds of biological zones.
25652758|This study tests the hypothesis that herd accumulation can be a risk reducing strategy aimed at increasing security in an unpredictable environment. Saami reindeer husbandry in Norway is characterized by environmental unpredictability and occasionally harsh winters can have dramatic negative effects on reindeer population densities. While herd accumulation has been found to be an adaptive risk reducing strategy in stochastic environments (i.e., individually rational), the accumulation of large herds may also result in collectively negative density dependent effects, which may negatively affect individual herders (i.e., collectively irrational). We found that individual husbandry units' strategies, such as accumulating reindeer, have a larger effect on individual husbandry units' herd size than a negative density-dependent effect.
23280336|Several Southeast Asian states have been working feverishly to design and implement REDD policy frameworks to fulfil their commitment to global climate change mitigation. In doing so, state agencies will be challenged to design REDD plus policies that value and conserve forest carbon in ways that align with national policies and local priorities for managing forest landscapes defined by complex property rights regimes. However, as with other market-based policies, the expeditious delivery of REDD could bypass critical analysis of potential interactions with national tenure regimes, customary property rights, and local livelihoods. Drawing on the case of Palawan Islanda forested frontier island in the Philippineswe examine how nascent REDD policies can articulate with state sanctioned tenure, customary tenure, and forest uses in changing livelihood contexts. This paper draws on research among Tagbanua and Pala'wan people to illustrate how complex and changing tenure structures, commodity markets and livelihood dynamics may influence how REDD plus interventions affect indigenous customary lands and forest use. We argue that the ability of indigenous forest users to maintain stored carbon and improve livelihoods is contingent upon the 'socio-material' form of carbona commodity defined in relation to the resources and social processes of which it is part.
4602647|It has been suggested that indigenous tropical forest agriculture, in contrast with other agricultural systems, is characterized by a high degree of polyculture, and, being similar in diversity to the forest itself, has little disturbing effect on the generalized ecosystem that surrounds native gardens. Our comparative study of four Central Brazilian Indian groups shows, however, that while each of these groups practices polyculture to some extent, the crop mix found in their swidden plots is highly patterned, and includes single crop stands at certain stages of garden life. Different crops are planted in the same swidden plot from year to year, in accordance with variation in soil fertility within the swidden cycle. None of the swiddens we observed compares in complexity to the surrounding forest. We suggest that polyculture, rather than being regarded as the distinguishing characteristic of swidden cultivation, should be considered as a varying dimension -- along with other variables such as use of wild plants, soil fertility and exhaustion, tillage practices, the introduction of novel crops, and production for the market -- within the overall subsistence strategy of a group.
4603279|In the early 1960s, Robert Netting described households in the Kofyar homeland in Nigeria and explained their size, composition, and other characteristics as adjustments to agrarian ecology. Household changes attending movement to a frontier were analyzed in the same framework. By the 1980s, the economic rationale for homeland farming had all but disappeared, and some villages seemed on the verge of abandonment. Yet deliberate strategies for preserving homeland settlements had prevented abandonment. The demographic characteristics and household composition in the homeland now provide a window into a wholly different set of processes than what Netting described 30 years ago. Home settlement is kept viable as a facility to support ethnic identity and to attract government resources. Beneath superficial similarities are profound changes in the nature of the household and factors shaping it, reflecting the changed rationale for keeping the home fires burning.
25652762|This paper describes a participatory mapping method field tested with agro-extractive settlements in the Bolivian Amazon. A regional transition from customary to formal property rights resulting from sweeping 1996 land tenure reforms has led to confusion and conflicts over resource rights, a problem compounded by recent high market prices for Brazil nuts. In response to community requests to clarify resource rights to Brazil nut trees, CIFOR offered to train community members to map trees, trails and other key features themselves. This experience indicates that local residents can map their resources in an effective and efficient way and in the process gather necessary information to mediate competing claims, demonstrate their legitimate resource claims to external stakeholders and make management decisions. We argue that maps and properties are more likely to be seen as legitimate reflections of de facto rights if local stakeholders are involved as a group from the outset.
4602343|The energy crisis is an aspect of the larger approaching crisis of expanding industrial society in a world in which certain critical parameters are finite. This megacrisis involves the role of growth in population, production, consumption, and waste. The insitutions of modern industrial society have been better adapted to promote this growth than to control or direct it. Even in societies where mechanisms of state planning should, in theory, enable government to deal rationally with the growth problem, ideological commitments to general growth have, in effect, prevented the problem from being addressed. In the United States, the pervasive commitment to growth has been built into institutional arrangements to a degree that handicaps efforts to consider the energy problem in its full context. Energy policy therefore tends to be reactive to events rather than the result of a comprehensive long-range assessment of needs and priorities.
25652744|While much research on forest partnerships hitherto has been focused mainly on the drivers behind their formation, the kind of actors and deals involved, and the factors that promote or hinder their success, much less attention has been paid to the dynamic relationships and processes inherent in these partnerships. Based on the study of a partnership process in an indigenous reservation in Colombian Amazonia covering a variety of projects, this paper seeks to fill part of this lacuna by analyzing the partnership as a dynamic 'discursive battlefield,' in which objectives and actions are being constantly negotiated. Actors in the Matavn partnership strategically incorporate discursive elements in order to pursue their own interests while also endorsing those that ensure the continuation of collaboration. We conclude that discourses are embedded in partnership micro-politics. On the one hand, discursive shifts occur as a reflection of power balances at given moments. On the other hand, discourses constitute indispensable resources with the potential to both enhance individual actor's negotiating power and to create opportunities for compromise. Within an ongoing discursive tension between 'conservation' and 'indigenous autonomy,' flexible notions such as 'territorial ordering' prove to be successful in allowing space for manoeuvre and granting conceptual coherence to shifts occurring 'on the ground.'
4602831|This paper inquires into the reasons for the comparatively lower fertility and population growth among the Maasai (than among other Kenyan communities, particularly cultivators). It hypothesizes that a number of factors including male elder control of society, sexually transmitted diseases, seasonal food shortages, and general environmental health hazards all act together to suppress fertility. This situation must certainly change with further socioeconomic progress.
41474625|This paper analyzes the material, discursive, and biophysical dimensions of fuelscapes, or energy landscapes. Ethnographic and ecological fieldwork was conducted in the Machu Picchu Historic Sanctuary, Peru. Andean land use studies have focused on agricultural patterns such as vertical production zones. Fuelscapes are an important, energy-based means of producing and representing landscape. They show how uncultivated lands fit into livelihood strategies and reflect historic sedimentation of landscape. Fuelscapes are shaped by ecological characteristics, historic settlement patterns and property rights, gendered and intergenerational divisions in household labor, and state conservation policies. Conservation policies delimit fuelscapes to privilege live trees, but the resultant denudation of dead wood may carry implications for ecosystem health. This study elucidates how official policies intersect with household and communal resource use strategies to produce Andean fuelscapes. It provides insight into how uncultivated ecosystems fit into land use politics, practices, and representation.
4602840|The primary components of Tlaxcalan corn agriculture are described, including cropping patterns employed, resource management strategies, and interactions of human and biological factors. Tlaxcalan farmers grow corn in an array of polyculture and agroforestry designs that result in a series of ecological processes important for insect pest and soil fertility management. Measurements derived from a few selected fields show that trees integrated into cropping systems modify the aerial and soil environment of associated understory corn plants, influencing their growth and yields. With decreasing distance from trees, surface concentrations of most soil nutrients increase. Certain tree species affect corn yields more than others. Arthropod abundance also varies depending on their degree of association with one or more of the vegetational components of the system. Densities of predators and the corn pest Macrodactylus sp. depend greatly on the presence and phenology of adjacent alfalfa strips. Although the data were derived from nonreplicated fields, they nevertheless point out some important trends, information that can be used to design new crop associations that will achieve sustained soil fertility and low pest potentials.
4602521|Under certain environmental and social conditions, intensive dialect borrowing can yield situations in which alternate phonemes may occur with such frequency in items elicited within a single speech community as to give the appearance of free variation. Such "social variation," in which members of a single speech community utilize different reflexes of the same historic phoneme within their own vocabulary -- thereby creating a superficial impression of free variation within the community -- occurs within Shoshoni phonology.
4603412|Changes in prehistoric Southwestern architecture have been interpreted as the result of increasing dependence on agriculture through time which promoted greater sedentism. Recent archaeological research has produced data that point to changes in labor organization rather than agricultural productivity as the factors that most likely favored new forms of domestic architecture. In fact, some of the most striking temporal shifts in residential architecture may have been associated with declining agricultural productivity.
4603033|Very little explicit attention has been paid to the determinants of political borders and why they from at one location rather than another. With a statistically significant frequency, the political borders on the island of Tahiti at contact coincided with ridge formations that radiated from the island's interior and crossed the coastal plain to meet the sea in steep cliffs or bluffs. Since warfare had become the primary means of political expansion by contact, the determinants of this striking correlation appear to have been the strategic problems these features posed to the extension of armed might. These same processes were at work on many other Polynesian islands with the result that contact-era variations in the degree of political unification and even sociopolitical development can be traced in considerable part to variations in island topography.
4602998|Surveys of pastoral households in a semi-nomadic Borana community during 1987-1988 were used to test the hypothesis that poorer families living closest to a market town would be most affected by the enhanced opportunity to sell dairy products, which would intensify competition between people and calves for milk and have negative implications for calf management. These poorer families indeed reported the highest rates of milk offtake per cow, and the milk increment was probably sold to purchase more grain for human consumption at the expense of milk intake for the calf. Consequently, this strategy may increase the susceptibility of malnourished calves to disease, especially those from lower-producing dams. Benefits of improved human energy intake from grain and retention of livestock capital must be weighed against risks of calf death and possible malnutrition of people from milk restriction when assessing dairy marketing trade-offs that are most acute for the poor. Opportunity to sell dairy products at favorable terms of trade helps the poorest people survive, and their risks could be mitigated by policies that facilitate grain marketing in the rangelands and interventions that improve calf feeding management, diversify human diets, and create alternative opportunities for women to generate income. The households postulated to be most at risk were identified from a complex, but logical, interaction among factors of distance to market, household wealth, and the quality of milking cows held. This indicates that targeting such needy groups for development assistance may require a more detailed and interdisciplinary analysis of production systems than is commonly practiced.
4602987|Fieldwork done in the late 1980s shows that !Kung San are living in settled villages with subsistence based on stock keeping, gardening, government distribution of surplus foods, foraging, and in some cases, employment by neighboring cattle-keeping groups. The !Kung villages differ in the degree of dependence on Bantu neighbors. Four village types are distinguished. The least and most dependent villages contrast on several measures including size of the ethnic !Kung population, adult sex ratio, percent of individuals of mixed parentage, and the availability of primary kin.
4603013|A recent debate in ecological anthropology concerns the availability of wild foods for human foragers in tropical forests. This article is a response to the five essays in this same issue of Human Ecology that examine the hypothesis that hunter-gatherers could never have lived in tropical rain forest without direct or indirect access to cultivated foods. We clarify the hypothesis and assess the evidence offered to date. Archeological evidence suggests foraging without cultivation in Malaysia. We propose a program of ecological studies and archeological research which, if undertaken, should provide the evidence necessary to falsify the hypothesis.
27654123|In recent decades, approaches to evaluating irrigation efficiency have undergone a radical reevaluation. Classical models considered drainage water "lost" to irrigation by flowing out of the system. The recognition that drainage water can remain in the system and become available for use by downstream irrigators has forced the reassessment. Irrigation may be relatively inefficient at the irrigation system and field levels but quite efficient at the basin level. The implications for small-scale, gravity-flow canal systems managed by farmers, which constitute 85% of the world's irrigated area, are significant. These implications are explored in an historic and ethnographic analysis of the chain irrigation system of the Orbigo valley of northwestern Spain. This system of drainage and reuse helps to account for high and sustained agricultural productivity by farmers in the region over several centuries. The property rights institutions devised by farmers to manage this system are discussed and its internal organization compared with south Asian cascade irrigation.
4603016| It has been widely argued that children and females are most severely affected during periods of food scarcity. This proposition is tested using dietary and anthropometric data from the Andean community of Nuoa, Peru. Contrary to expectation, children (ages 12 years and under) are relatively protected from seasonal food scarcity while adults experience severe caloric stress. Anthropometric measures of nutritional status corroborate the dietary analysis, indicating significantly better nutritional status in children. Sex differences in dietary adequacy are not evident. Adult males, however, have significantly poorer measures of nutritional status than adult females. These differences in dietary adequacy and nutritional status reflect adaptations to marked seasonality in work demands and energy availability. 
4603242| This is an ethnobotanical study of Atlantic Forest coastal communities located at Sepetiba Bay, Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil. Atlantic Forest remnants are top priority conservation areas, and include native communities that depend on fish and small-scale agriculture. We conducted fieldwork in the community of Calhaus (Jaguanum Island) from 1989 to 1991, and interviewed adults on their use of plants. We examined the diversity of medicinal plants used among communities of different islands and found results similar to previous research at Gamboa (Itacuru Island); communities living in smaller islands and on islands further from the coast use a lower diversity of plants. Also, older islanders show a deeper knowledge of medicinal plants than younger islanders. 
4602366|The manner in which cultural factors affect fertility has become an important area of anthropological concern. In this article, it will be shown that while fraternal polyandry does not affect individual fertility it does have a significant depressing effect on aggregate fertility and functions, unperceived and unintended, as an important mechanism for reducing population growth.
4603252|Recent research in the western Aleutians addresses two primary issues: the nature and extent of cultural exchange along the Aleutian chain, and Holocene environmental change and its effects on the development of Aleut culture. Cultural isolation is a major paradigm of researchers working in the Aleutians. Review of the distribution of several cultural traits suggests the Aleuts adopted many cultural elements originating outside the chain, but the distribution of these to the western islands was uneven.
4603166|Today, the search for new energy sources continues unabated throughout the North. At the same time, scientists are increasingly concerned over the degradation of the Arctic and sub-Arctic environment stemming from fossil fuel and other large-scale energy projects already underway. Similar apprehensions are expressed by indigenous peoples who have often suffered from the impact of such development. While the most dramatic evidence of environmental devastation and social disruption is found in the Russian North, serious problems are by no means confined to that area alone. Nor are these negative effects necessarily limited to the borders of the country in which they originated. Indeed, the deleterious environmental impact of our global industrial economy has become sufficiently profound that social analysts are beginning to ask whether development strategies that cause such harm to the Arctic and sub-Arctic region should continue; and if not, what should replace them. This article addresses these issues as they relate to questions of sustainability, equity, political empowerment, and human rights in northwest Siberia and northern North America.
4602846|Women's fishing in Oceania has been overlooked in most subsistence studies in the region and, as a consequence, there are few quantitative data available upon which to base an assessment of its importance. However, in the present study, the few data available on women's fishing in Oceania are examined, and these show that women contribute significantly to marine food yields in the region. Also, it is suggested that the highly regular nature of women's fishing makes women more reliable, and therefore more effective than men as suppliers of protein for subsistence. The implications of these findings for future development policies in the region are then discussed.
4603290|The relationship between Native Americans and the Euro-American settlers has evolved from the latter seeking to end the separate identity of the former to one in which the U.S. government uses Native rights to control large-scale resource problems. This new relationship arose out of a need to control water in Western states for irrigation, but has expanded into other areas. The Navajo sheep reductions of the 1930s and 1940s may be seen as an instance of this relationship. Concerns about siltation behind the Hoover Dam justified a program that dramatically transformed the Navajo economy. A second case concerns conflict over a caribou herd in northwestern Alaska. The conflict eventually led to the Federal government taking management of fish and game on Federal lands back from the state government. Both these cases show the development of a technocracy, based on Federal trusteeship over Native resources, concerned with the control of nature similar to that observed in Wittfogel's writings on Chinese irrigation.
4603511|Recent environmental "narratives" suggest that local people are effective stewards of forest resources. Local restoration and management of mangrove forests, in particular, are now widely advocated as a solution to achieve both economic and environmental conservation goals. This paper presents findings from a study of 2 coastal sites in the Philippines that are renowned and often showcased as success stories in community-based, mangrove reforestation and management. These cases are especially intriguing because local tree planting and management emerged in both areas long before governments and nongovernment organizations began to promote such activities. These management systems are a successful economic innovation in that planted mangroves protect homes and fish pond dykes from wave and wind damage, and the production of high-value construction wood is dramatically enhanced through intensive plantation management. Mangrove plantations are an efficient alternative to harvesting from unplanted, natural mangroves and their spread may reduce harvesting pressures on existing forests. However, mangrove plantations are structurally and compositionaly very different from unplanted forests, a finding of particular concern given that such plantations are increasingly encroaching into and replacing natural forests. Furthermore, planted forests are not typically viewed by planters in terms of their environmental conservation values and are frequently cut and cleared to make space for alternative uses, especially fish farming and residential settlement. The suggestion that these local mangrove management systems are successful for conservation thus needs to be qualified.
40928136|The ability to transform historical learning into institutional reform is a key to success in the management of common pool natural resources. Based on a model of institutional inertia and a comparative analysis of Northeast Atlantic fisheries management from 1945 to the present, the paper aims to identify drivers and obstacles to learning-based institutional reform. We argue that the ineffectiveness of implementation systems has been a key driver of reform requirements, but that the need for agreement amongst a large number of interdependent decision makers has been an obstacle to required reform. In such situations, distribution systems, especially, tend to become important obstacles to reform. Institutional inertia tends to be reinforced by tacit discourse frames: however, strong tensions between institutional inertia and needs for reform may also create room for innovation. Institutional inertia entails that large-scale management reform tends to be crisis driven.
40343989|Social learning approaches have become a prominent focus in studies related to sustainable agriculture. In order to better understand the potential of social learning for more sustainable development, the present study assessed the processes, effects and facilitating elements of interaction related to social learning in the context of Swiss soil protection and the innovative 'From Farmer - To Farmer' project. The study reveals that social learning contributes to fundamental transformations of patterns of interactions. However, the study also demonstrates that a learning-oriented understanding of sustainable development implies including analysis of the institutional environments in which the organizations of the individual representatives of face-to-face-based social learning processes are operating. This has shown to be a decisive element when face-to-face-based learning processes of the organisations' representatives are translated into organisational learning. Moreover, the study revealed that this was achieved not directly through formalisation of new lines of institutionalised cooperation but by establishing links in a 'boundary space' trying out new forms of collaboration, aiming at social learning and co-production of knowledge. It is argued that further research on social learning processes should give greater emphasis to this intermediary level of 'boundary spaces'.
40343977|The hydrological and geomorphological impacts of traditional swidden cultivation in Montane Mainland Southeast Asia are virtually inconsequential, whereas the impacts associated with intensified replacement agricultural systems are often much more substantial. Negative perceptions toward swiddening in general by governments in the region beginning half a decade ago have largely been based on cases of forest conversion and land degradation associated with (a) intensified swidden systems, characterized by shortened fallow and extended cropping periods and/or (b) the widespread cultivation of opium for cash after the Second World War. Neither of these practices should be viewed as traditional, subsistence-based swiddening. Other types of intensive agriculture systems are now replacing swiddening throughout the region, including semi-permanent and permanent cash cropping, monoculture plantations, and greenhouse complexes. The negative impacts associated with these systems include changes in streamflow response, increased surface erosion, a higher probability of landslides, and the declination in stream water quality. Unlike the case for traditional swiddening, these impacts result because of several factors: (1) large portions of upland catchments are cultivated simultaneously; (2) accelerated hydraulic and tillage erosion occurs on plots that are cultivated repetitively with limited or no fallowing to allow recovery of key soil properties, including infiltration; (3) concentrated overland flow and erosion sources are often directly connected with the stream network; (4) root strength is reduced on permanently converted hillslopes; (5) surface and ground water extraction is frequently used for irrigation; and (6) and pesticides and herbicides are used. Furthermore, the commercial success of these systems relies on the existence of dense networks of roads, which are linear landscape features renowned for disrupting hydrological and geomorphological systems. A new conservation focus is needed to reduce the impacts of these intensified upland agricultural practices.
4603401|Development of extension in agroforestry draws on the application of the innovation-diffusion process in agriculture. To be effective, agroforestry extension needs to fit the dynamics of the target farming system, the local socioeconomic and technological systems, and land use constraints. Failure of agroforestry extension has been blamed on inadequate and inappropriate methods, but there have been few studies to identify those factors that determine a farmer's awareness of, or attitude to, agroforestry. The present study focused on the modes of communication used in extension and how they affected adoption of agroforestry in a subsistence farming region of eastern India. The decision to adopt agroforestry was found to be determined by the farmers' attitude to agroforestry, which in turn was shaped by information received through farmer-to-farmer and farmer-to-extension contact. The mode of communication was important and, to be effective, needs to be customized for each target group.
25652746|Bushmeat hunting plays an important role in many rural African households; however, hunting pressures are growing, threatening the survival of many bushmeat species. Wildlife resources are rapidly dwindling; yet effective conservation strategies have been difficult to develop and implement. Many dimensions of bushmeat resource use have not been sufficiently explored and are consequently ignored in conservation interventions. To improve understanding of hunting practice, we conducted semistructured interviews with 74 hunters in three Malink villages in Guinea, West Africa regarding motivations to hunt and hunting processes. In addition, we investigated the local bushmeat trade in a nearby city. Using data from previous studies, and Robinson and Redford's (1991) model, we find that Red-flanked duiker, bushbuck and buffalo are unsustainably harvested. Malink hunters' perspectives offer both opportunities and obstacles for conservation which will be valuable for the development of conservation strategies in this area.
4603319| The relationship between investments of labor to agricultural production and environmental degradation in rural areas of the developing world is complex. This paper reports on qualitative and quantitative research focused on the effects of labor availability and its compensation on the way in which cattle are herded in the Maasina region of Central Mali. Within this particular region, two social relationships determine the level and form of herder compensation: that between herd patriarch and cattle owner, and that between herd patriarch and herder. Both the nature of these relationships and variations in herding practice are described prior to a presentation of statistical analyses of the effects of household labor availability and cattle wealth on travel and grazing management decisions. Reductions in both the availability of herding labor and in the economic security of Fule households are shown to lead to reduced herd mobility and more constricted grazing patterns with significant environmental implications. 
4603193|As livestock disease control programs in Africa begin to rely more upon para-professionals and livestock producers as deliverers of animal health care services, understanding the role different household members play in providing animal health care becomes increasingly important. This paper presents a framework for the analysis of gender aspects of livestock disease control based on a similar framework developed by Feldstein and Poats (1989). The utility of this framework is illustrated using household-level data collected from a district in central Kenya. Adult women and elderly men in the sample have primary responsibility for livestock care, and are therefore well placed to diagnose illness. Dipping and spraying of animals to prevent tick-borne and other diseases is the primary responsibility of adult males. Decisions regarding use of milk from the morning milking are more likely to be made by adult men. It is morning milk that is most often sold. Adult women, however, make decisions about use of evening milk, which is most often kept for household consumption. Knowledge of livestock diseases did not appear to vary significantly by gender, although some elderly men did possess extensive knowledge of indigenous disease categories and traditional remedies. The importance of recognizing gender issues in planning and implementing livestock disease control programs is discussed.
27654225|While economic literature inspired by the "tragedy of the commons" has emphasised people's tendency to increase fishing effort beyond desirable levels, sociologists and anthropologists who have studied the social aspects of fishing have often emphasised the capacity of these factors to restrict fishing effort. The article addresses the influence of social norms and communication on fishing effort in an empirical study of the Atlantic blue whiting fishery. The data were generated at a time when this fishery had yet to see efficient quota regulations, and had been subject to a rapid growth in fishing effort, making it the largest fishery in the Atlantic. The article argues that social norms and communication patterns in the fishing fleet create a synergic effect of co-operation and competition on fishing effort. The article questions the view that social norms and communication necessarily represent a solution to the tragedy of the commons.
4603494|We describe the diversity and dynamism of social, agricultural, and livestock husbandry practices in a traditional mountain production system in the Indian Trans-Himalaya. These are interpreted in the context of their role in mediating environmental risk. The production system is a little known Buddhist agropastoral system in the high altitude Spiti Valley (agriculture up to 4450 m, livestock grazing 4900 m, total area ca. 12,000 km
27654254|In the context of development and changes in two small-boat fisheries on the eastern Black Sea coast of Turkey, this article discusses how institutions are embedded in tradition, and what is "traditional" in "traditional knowledge". Taking new institutional economics' focus on institutions and approaches to traditional ecological knowledge as vantage points for discussion I compare systems of informal management in one discontinued and one new fishery to address questions such as: What kinds of knowledges and rules are involved in these kinds of fishing? What constitutes a tradition of knowledge? What is the role of tradition in working out new rules? I couple theories of situated knowledge (Ingold) and embeddedness of rules (Varela), both of which are inspired by Merleau-Ponty's phenomenological approach, to show how institutions and traditional ecological knowledge are embedded and come together in practice.
4602911|While optimal foraging theory has been of considerable value for understanding hunter-gatherer subsistence patterns, there is a need for a complementary approach to human foraging behavior which focuses on decision-making processes. Having made this argument, the paper proposes the type of modeling approach that should be developed, using decision making during encounter foraging as an example. This model concerns the individual decision maker attempting to improve his foraging efficiency, rather than maximize it, under the constraint of limited information and with conflicting goals. This is illustrated by applying it to the Valley Bisa hunters using computer simulation.
4603429|At least 42 insects have been reported as used in folk medicine in the state of Bahia, northeastern Brazil. These resources are distributed in nine orders, with Hymenopterans the most prevalent with 22 specimens. Medicinal insects, which are used live, cooked, ground, in infusions, in plasters, or as ointments, provide honey, nests, eggs, cocoons, sting, wax, and parts of their bodies for the elaboration of folk remedies to treat a great variety of locally diagnosed ailments. Most of the folk remedies are administered in the form of teas made using the powder produced by grinding the toasted or scraped part of the body of the insects or the whole toasted animal. Traditional knowledge concerning entomotherapy in the state of Bahia is very important since folk medicine is still one of the most important resources for discovery of unknown natural drug resources.
27654194|There is a continuing controversy over Native American fishing and hunting rights. We show that Native American (Menominee) and European American fish experts have a common knowledge base and share values and attitudes associated with fishing practices (though organized around different ethical principles). Nonetheless, perceived group differences are dramatic (especially European American perceptions of Native Americans). Cultural differences in models of nature and associated inference processes appear to mediate these stereotypes and may hold the key to reducing intergroup conflict over resources.
40343972|Swidden cultivators are often found as a distinct category of farmers in the literature, but rarely appear in population censuses or other national and regional classifications. This has led to a worldwide confusion on how many people are dependent on this form of agriculture. The most often cited number of 200-300 million dates back to the early 1970s, but the source is obscure. We assess available, published data from nine countries in Southeast Asia and conclude that on this basis it is not possible to provide a firm estimate of the number of swidden cultivators in the region. A conservative range of 14-34 million people engaged in swidden cultivation in the region is suggested, however. We argue that along with improved knowledge of swidden livelihoods, there is an urgent need to develop techniques that will allow for better estimates of swidden populations in order to secure appropriate rural development and poverty reduction in swidden areas. is suggested, however. We argue that along with improved knowledge of swidden livelihoods, there is an urgent need to develop techniques that will allow for better estimates of swidden populations in order to secure appropriate rural development and poverty reduction in swidden areas.
4603159|There is continuing uncertainty surrounding the safety of nuclear power stations in Eastern Europe, among them the one at Kozlodui, Bulgaria. It is argued in this paper that attempts on the part of the state to assert the safety of nuclear power stations are expressed in terms of an official "nuclear-safe" discourse, while the local inhabitants near the Kozlodui nuclear power station employ a vernacular mode of expression to explain possible radioactive pollution.
4603112|The articles in this special issue range across such influences on climate as solar emissions, orbital precession, atmosphere, oceans, and precipitation, and generally approach, each in some context, human implications of these phenomena. The common underlying theme of all of the papers is the effect the phenomena have on radiation balance as measured by global average temperature. This introductory paper undertakes a formulation of radiation balance theory that makes it serviceable to students of regional science. The objective is to go beyond inference of cause and effect by correlation to causal accounts of cause and effect through regional climatic and cultural processes. This is accomplished primarily by revisualization of the energy system with regions as dependent spatiotemporal entities, and temporally through a protocol for regional episode definition.
4603457|Conceptualizing environmental problems as sustainability problems contributing to local and global environmental change requires an understanding of how societies cope with their natural environment. Indicators for society-nature interactions are fairly well developed for national-level analyses. This study adapts some of these indicators to the local level and relates them to a qualitative assessment of economic and cultural change in a single community. Indicators are derived from material and energy flow accounting methods and address two major objectives: Firstly, to identify mutual influences between the global and the local level. Secondly, to assess future potentials of environmental pressures and impacts that can be expected to occur as such communities follow a path of further modernization. This study of a small rice-farming community in Northeast Thailand deals with physical as well as sociocultural aspects in order to produce a broad picture of society-nature relations. The indicators developed portray a society in the midst of transition and rapid modernization. This becomes apparent when comparing the results to those of similar studies in traditional and industrial societies. What we see is a community struggling to adapt to global influences, while at the same time maintaining subsistence with traditional coping mechanisms.
4603439|In the past few decades, Latin America has encountered two related developments that are transforming indigenous peoples' ownership, use, and management of land and resources. The first has been a wave of political organizing among indigenous communities. International linkages, national and regional confederations, and local, intercommunal organizations have proliferated across Central and South America. Secondly, there has been a swift rise in the number and influence of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), which have brought unprecedented financial support and political leverage to the struggles of indigenous people. This paper examines development, natural resource management, and ecopolitics in the Chiquitano communities of Lomerio in the Bolivian lowlands. I discuss the impact of NGO and government policies and practices on Chiquitano political organization, and present examples of political agency on the part of the Chiquitanos, and features of the structural conditions that frame relations among the different groups.
41474599|Management of plant resources is a complex process that involves the interaction of numerous cultural, environmental, economic, and ecological factors Therefore, understanding factors influencing management decisions requires multidisciplinary approaches, including both quantitative and qualitative perspectives. This study explores quantitative approaches as methodological tools with which to identify patterns underlying more intensive management of plant resources. The research was conducted in the village of Santa Mara Tecomavaca, Oaxaca, in south-central Mxico, within the semiarid Tehuacn-Cuicatln Biosphere Reserve. Three models explaining the management intensity tendencies were identified, consistent with the pattern of multiple variables influencing plant management.
4603197|The system of rights in cattle among the Nandi of western Kenya is built on a paradox: wives' predominant rights in certain categories of cattle vs. a strong public ideology assigning cattle control to men. Various Nandi categories of cattle and the structure of rights in them are described. Husbands' and wives' interests at times conflict; the negotiation of such conflicts is explored through analysis of several case studies. These studies show that it is possible, though not common, for wives to use traditional legal processes to counter husbands' herd management decisions. It is suggested that this possibility, and the potential loss of face it entails, explains why husbands rarely take actions contrary to wives' rights in livestock. Different rhetorical strategies of men and women in talking about rights in cattle, and emphasis on different aspects of customary law, are also discussed. This discussion is related to the emerging theory of "customary law" as the result of conflicts negotiated in the political context of colonialism. Ongoing economic changes are eroding wives' positions in negotiations over cattle "ownership." Literature on other African societies is reviewed, showing similar patterns of erosion of women's property rights, and differing interpretations of customary rights from those formalized in customary law.
4602672|Archaeological evidence for prehistoric strategies of marine exploitation in Oceania may be profitably analyzed from an ecological perspective, in which individual sites and assemblages are viewed in the context of adaptation to local environmental constraints. This perspective is illustrated through the contrastive analysis of environment, technology, and faunal remains at three prehistoric Hawaiian sites. Differing strategies of marine exploitation evidenced for each site are shown to reflect local marine environmental conditions. An ecological approach shows greater promise for an understanding of prehistoric adaptation to marine environment than the typological analyses current in much archaeological work on fishing.
27654204|During the last millennium in the Pacific Basin (islands and continental rim) there was a marked contrast between 'times of plenty' and 'times of less' for its human societies. This contrast is attributable to climate and sea-level variations, notably the Medieval Warm Period (a.d. 7001250) and the Little Ice Age (a.d. 13501800) separated by a time of rapid cooling and sea-level fall called 'a.d. 1300 Event.' Outlines of the times of plenty during the Medieval Warm Period and the times of less during the Little Ice Age are given, supported by a number of examples. These confirm a general picture of societal collapse as a result of the a.d. 1300 Event. Well-dated human responses to the a.d. 1300 Event (establishment of fortified settlements, end of ocean voyaging) allow links to potential nonhuman causes to be strengthened. Although more data referring to both (natural) changes and their human effects are needed, a conclusion involving environmental determinism is inescapable.
27654222|Littorals in the in the Exuma Cays, Bahamas and the Bath Plantation, Barbados are comparative in many ways. These edges of the sea have provided critical services to local people during the time of slavery and since. More than food and medicine, the littoral is the nightly sea bath, where children are instructed, and the last ecosystem effectively used by the elderly. Independence and self-respect derive from use and protection of these littoral by individuals and communities. Local patterns of conservation and use are argued to be essential in the ecological structure and functions of the littoral. Development projects and marine protected areas alike are seen as potentially breaking local ties with the littoral causing trophic skew and damaging local society. If development occurs, mitigation solutions potentially derive from legally recognizing local people as partners in the co-management of their traditional littoral.
4602582|Data on hunting success, game habits, and vegetational cover in one area of the Philippines indicate that as farmers expand the area under cultivation, they create on the growing forest-field ecotone the biotope upon which some game animals are dependent. This accounts in part for the distribution of hunting populations on the peripheries of farming settlement. Contrary to the usual interpretations of Southeast Asian prehistory and of the distribution of contemporary populations, agricultural expansion may, because of edge effect, support a higher density of game, and consequently may be conducive to the persistence of a hunting-gathering way of life.
4602674|This article examines birth seasonality in two environmentally and ethnographically distinct societies: the Copper Inuit of the Central Canadian Arctic and the Samukundi Abelam of Papua New Guinea. Although the regions inhabited by these societies differ dramatically in degrees of seasonal variation, both populations display significant seasonality in conceptions and births. For the Copper Inuit, such seasonal variation was found to be the consequence of social and economic responses to extreme environmental change. Birth seasonality for the Samukundi Abelam is also pronounced and was determined to be the result of social ideologies which are only indirectly linked to environmental factors. The article also proposes a research paradigm designed to facilitate the cross-cultural investigation of birth seasonality in human populations.
4603336|This paper uses a political ecology approach to examine whether ecotourism along the Pacific Coast of the Baja California peninsula in Mexico promotes stewardship of marine resources, which have been devastated in recent years by uncontrolled commercial harvesting. This case illustrates how conflicts over access to common-pool resources that fueled the demise of area fisheries are now emerging in the rapidly growing industry of recreational whale watching. Even if ecotourism provides a significant new source of income through environmentally friendly, nonconsumptive resource use, it may not be sufficient to discourage local people from engaging in other, more destructive forms of consumptive resource use. But resource conflicts may not preclude efforts to promote conservation through ecotourism. Along the shores of Baja's gray whale calving lagoons there are nascent, community-based organizations that could serve as vehicles for mobilizing local people into conservation efforts, if local access rights to marine resources were both secure and accorded preference over outside claims to the same.
4602599|It is argued that the Shipibo Indians follow a meat-procurement strategy that (1) takes into account seasonally variable exploitation costs of fishing and hunting, and (2) helps them satisfy their nutritional requirements for meat in a way which minimizes the amount of time they must allocate to meat procurement. To test this idea, linear programming theory is linked with Bergman's ethnographic description of the Shipibo system in order to construct a mathematical model of the Shipibo meat-procurement strategy. Statistical procedures and Bergman's data are used to estimate parameters in the model and the predictions of the model are then compared to observed values. This paper concludes by proposing a conceptual approach to human adaptation which distinguishes cognition from behavior, but interconnects the two in indigenous decision-making.
27654238|Shifting cultivation practiced by indigenous peoples living at low population densities in tropical forests has often been described as sustainable and compatible with conservation. However, shifting cultivation at increasing population densities has historically been, and still is, a main cause of deforestation worldwide. As many indigenous peoples in tropical forests currently experience rapid demographic growth, this raises the question to what extent their agricultural activities actually contribute to deforestation. This paper examines land use change in an indigenous community in the Ecuadorian Amazon which is only loosely connected to the market economy, and where agriculture is almost exclusively subsistence oriented. During the last seven decades, people have increasingly begun to clear fallows instead of old-growth forest to farm. Although the population was growing at an estimated 1.6% per year, the expansion of the area of land used for agriculture was only 0.4% per year, corresponding to an annual deforestation rate of only 0.015%. Whereas these changes may seem negligible in terms of deforestation, they do cause hardships to the local people, because of increasing walking distance to old-growth forest, and problems with weeds, pests, and decreasing soil productivity when farming after reclearing fallows.
4602460|This article describes the recent transition from subsistence to market hunting of some net-hunting Mbuti, a nomadic society of the Ituri Forest of Zaire. The history of this development dates to the late 1950s, as the Mbuti began to have increasing contact with commercial meat traders, called bachuuzi, from outside markets. Before this, the Mbuti had a long history of contact with local swidden agriculturalists, called bakbala, a relationship that continues today. It is sanctioned by religious beliefs, but material exchanges are also important. The Mbuti provide bakbala with meat and other forest resources and receive in return iron implements, tobacco, and cultivated food. The Mbuti view such items now as necessities; however, this does not allow the bakbala to subjugate or control them. Most exchanges take place in the bakbala's village at the Mbuti's discretion, and exchange rates are not fixed. Finally it appears that such trade does not undermine the resource base of either group. The Mbuti's commercial exchanges contrast with this subsistence-oriented system. Unlike the bakbala, the bachuuzi traders establish themselves in the Mbuti's forest camps, where they can promote intensified net hunting and monopolize trade of meat. The Mbuti tolerate the alien traders in camp because they are often a convenient source of food and other desired material goods; however, they do not share the traders' commercial motives. The Mbuti freely manipulate credit to their own advantage and they are often able to evade the traders' efforts at economic control. The future of market hunting is uncertain. Mbuti material needs are changing and the antelope fauna (Cephalophinae) upon which commercial trade depends is being reduced in some areas.
4602741|A basic assumption of the Pleistocene extinction, or "overkill" hypothesis, is that rates of human predation on numerous genera of megafauna exceeded prey replacement rates. Previous assessments of this hypothesis have often stressed the technological or organizational capabilities of Paleolithic hunters to harvest prey in sufficient numbers to threaten extinction. Optimal foraging models and ethnographic observations of modern hunters-gatherers provide a logical basis for assessing the feasibility of alternative reconstructions of Paleolithic hunting strategies as well as their compatibility with the concept of critically high rates of predation sufficient to cause extinction.
27654127|Effective biodiversity conservation in national parks depends to a large extent on adjacent forest cover. While deforestation and forest fragmentation as a result of colonization and agriculture have been widespread in neotropical countries over the past few decades, in some places agricultural intensification, wage labor, and rural to urban migration are becoming the most important emerging trends. Changes like this have resulted in forest recovery in other places, mostly in temperate zones, but there have been few studies of this phenomenon in the tropics. This paper presents a case study from a national park buffer zone in Costa Rica. An expansion of Braulio Carrillo National Park (BCNP) in 1986 forced the closing of a frontier that had been characterized by spontaneous colonization and widespread forest-to-pasture conversion. After that time, the Sarapiqu region surrounding the northern sector of BCNP underwent a dramatic social and economic transformation. Population more than doubled, new roads created easy access to a coastal port and the capital city (San Jos), industrial agriculture and ecotourism enterprises expanded, and population and urbanization along major highways increased. In spite of government reforestation and forest protection programs and changes in rural people's attitudes favoring forest conservation, we find that there has been only slight detectable forest recovery in satellite imagery and that forest fragmentation continued, even in remote rural areas near BCNP with stable or shrinking population. We attribute this to the consolidation of landholdings into large cattle ranches and smaller hobby ranches, driven by an inflow of capital from urban areas and developed countries. This pattern has important implications for the management of this and other national park buffer zones. We suggest that strategies focused only on sustainable land use inside buffer zones are unlikely to succeed when carried out in a context of certain macro-level changes. Conservation of endangered biological resources will only be possible if we broaden our thinking about national parks and adjacent lands in the tropics to address new land ownership and use patterns that are occurring as a result of globalization, urbanization, and expanding wage labor employment.
4602500|Klausner has hypothesized that female-headed households are less efficient in the use of energy than male-headed households because they are less "disciplined" and "ordered." The present study used multivariate analyses to determine whether female-headed households were less efficient in the use of electrical energy than male-headed households in a representative sample of 4638 Anglo, Spanish-speaking, and black homeowning Texas households. The results indicated that, after controlling for the effects of other variables known to affect the use of electricity, sex of household head had no statistically significant independent effect on electricity consumption in any ethnic or marital status group. The authors compare their results to those obtained by Klausner and discuss implications for social organizational theory of household energy consumption.
4603408|This paper explores local perceptions of internationally financed conservation and development projects in Madagascar and the success of these projects at influencing perceptions. Interviews, surveys, and focus group sessions were conducted in the peripheral zones of three Malagasy national parks: Ranomafana, Andohahela, and Masoala. Relevant questions explored community demographics, socioeconomic status, and local perceptions of the parks. The principal finding is that while a majority of people living in the peripheral zones do find conservation a valuable goal, they see it as a luxury they cannot afford. Despite their efforts and innovation, conservation and development projects have had a minimal impact on socioeconomic or associational life in the Ranomafana and Andohahela peripheral zones, and a significant but modest impact in the Masoala peripheral zone, by providing economic alternatives to destructive resource use. As a result, they are limited in their success at promoting conservation outcomes.
41433093|Establishing private property in land through registration and titling has been promoted in developing countries due to the anticipated benefits of private ownership in access to credit, productivity enhancing investments, and productivity gains. Evidence of such benefits is limited, however. In this paper, we examine a related question: What is the impact of privatization on cooperation in farm labor? Data collected in 2005 from Samburu District in Kenya is analyzed, comparing one community where land has been privatized to a second where land is communally held in a group ranch. It is hypothesized that households with title deeds are less likely to cooperate in farm labor than households without deeds. The hypothesis was confirmed, as the odds of cooperating in communal farm labor are 93.0% lower for households with deeds compared to those without. This effect has negative implications for collective action efforts in Siambu.
41432985|A transition to programmes adopting a governancebased approach in encouraging value-added and innovation in rural economies is often described as offering new opportunities for marginalised rural communities that have not benefited from top-down development policies. In practice, however, it is noted in Ireland and elsewhere in the EU that traditional fishers and farmers have been slow to engage in economic activities favoured by contemporary policies. I discuss how traditional small-scale fishing communities can be estranged from contemporary rural development policies that are focused primarily on providing high value-added serviceoriented and processed goods. I approach the problem of poor integration of fishing communities by focusing on how contemporary rural development programmes -though shrouded in language of local participation, governance, and indigenisation -can fail to actively engage with indigenous socio-cultural identity and resources. Exploring how intricate human ecological relationships involving custom and local knowledge of physical resources are not readily commoditised, I raise questions in relation to some of the central claims of the governance and rural development model, such as that it has the capacity to empower and generate confidence through locally appropriate economic activity.
40603029|Inuit in Canada's Arctic conceptualize both human hunters and their polar bear prey as active participants in the hunt and as part of a larger socio-economic system requiring the involvement of both humans and animals. Although often treated through the lens of common-pool resource theory, the Inuit viewpoint conflicts with Western wildlife management systems that typically treat animals, and nature in general, as passive. When polar bears are understood as active participants in the hunt, the rights associated with common property regimes and assumptions about collective-choice decisions in common-pool resource management require significant revision.In this paper we argue that common-pool resource theories which assume natural resources are inherently passive cannot adequately account for the system of active relationships operating among Inuit in Arctic Canada. The comanagement system of Nunavut Territory, Canada, uses a flexible quota approach, which, while following conservation guidelines, allows some space for the traditional Inuit-polar bear system to operate. This example shows how commonpool resources may be managed sustainably without the attendant assumption that natural resources exist passively outside of common-pool resource regimes.
4602282|This paper examines the question of the nutritional value of cannibalism. Although other authors have concluded that the practice does not have such value, we argue that this cannot properly be determined except in the context of the total subsistence economy and local human ecology. The paper also presents a format for the empirical investigation of food-getting and new ethnographic information about New Guinea cannibalism. Our major conclusion is that this practice does have nutritional value for certain human groups, specifically tropical peoples living at low-medium population densities and exploiting a diverse range of animal foods.
4603481|Land tenure has been considered one of the key factors that define patterns and change in land-use systems. This paper examines the implications of land reform for household decisions regarding patterns of land use, agricultural intensification, and forest conservation. We look at an Amazonian caboclo settlement in the Lower Amazon that had experienced land reform by the end of the 1980s. Results show that defined land tenure is not enough to guarantee agricultural intensification and forest conservation. In fact, several factors working at different scales are affecting land-use change in the region. At the settlement level, privatization of upland forest has led to an overall increase in cultivated land--pasture and annual crops--and increasing deforestation rates. However, at the farm-property level, different systems of agricultural production--intensive, extensive, or abandonment of land--occur according to availability of labor, and capital, and access to different natural resources.
4603354| The Gitksan of northwestern British Columbia live in a mountainous, densely forested environment. In Western ecology, plant communities are based on the dominant species or geomorphic features (e.g., floodplain cottonwood forest, sphagnum bog). Gitksan landscape perception is organized with reference to mountains and rivers, to drainage basins and divides. These orienting perceptions are bound up with the territory system, where the landscape, including drainage basins, slopes of mountains, and river fishing sites, are delimited as owned properties of House groups. Boundary landmarks and significant places within the territory are named. Places are most frequently discussed by name. Vegetation is usually discussed from the perspective of individual plant species. Gitksan terms collected for habitat types include swamp, laalaxu; meadow or treeless area, lax 'amaaxws or lax'aamit; and a generalized bush/forest term, sbagaytgan, 'among the trees'. Generalized habitat descriptions such as 'in the swamp' or halfway up the mountain indicate ecological setting. 
4603521|Integration into a market economy or economic development can erode the quality of life of indigenous people by, for example, increasing income inequalities. The Kuznets hypothesis predicts that the link between income inequality and income (a proxy for economic development) resembles an inverted U. We test the hypothesis using a survey of 511 households from 59 villages of Tsimane' Amerindians, a horticultural-foraging society in the tropical rain forest of Bolivia. We measure village inequalities of three economic outcomes: income, imputed annual value of rice production, and wealth. We used three indices of inequality: the coefficient of variation, the standard deviation of the logarithm, and the Gini coefficient. Explanatory variables include either income and income squared, wealth and wealth squared, or imputed annual rice production and production squared. We used village-to-town distance as a control. We find little evidence that integration to the market increases inequalities of economic outcomes, with two exceptions: Wealth bore the predicted inverted U-shaped relation with wealth inequalities, and imputed rice production bore a U-shaped relation to inequality, but only when (a) using adult equivalents to express household size and (b) the Gini coefficient and the coefficient of variation to measure inequality; in no case were results robust to different econometric specifications. We advance several explanations for why economic development might not accentuate economic inequalities among relatively autarkic rural economies.
4603320|Anthropologists have described, but seldom explained, the existence and persistence of common pool resource systems among hunting and gathering populations. Land tenure practices in the Fort Irwin area of the Mojave desert, California are explored. Ecological, ethnographic, archeological, and ethnohistoric information suggests that this area was jointly owned and intermittently used by several distinct ethnic groups. Although the region was important as a buffer against resource shortfall during certain seasons, sporadic use and meager and variable resource yield may have made exclusive ownership difficult and costly. A jointly managed region with common pool resources better served surrounding groups, while simultaneously creating a spatial buffer to diffuse social tensions. Following presentation of the Fort Irwin case, the paper considers the formation of such land tenure practices among hunting and gathering populations.
27654258|Among the remaining tropical forests of lowland Latin America, many are inhabited by indigenous peoples, and the sustainability of their land uses is a point of heated debate in the conservation community. Numerous smallscale studies have documented changes in indigenous land use in individual communities in the context of expanding frontier settlements and markets, but few studies have included larger populations or multiple ethnic groups. In this paper we use data from a regional-scale survey of five indigenous populations in the Northern Ecuadorian Amazon to describe their agricultural land use practices and investigate the factors that affect those practices. We find the areas cultivated by indigenous households to be small compared to those of nearby mestizo colonists, but a large proportion of indigenous cultivated area is in commercial land uses. We also construct multilevel statistical models to investigate the household and community-level factors that affect indigenous land use. The results reveal significant influences on cultivated area from contextual factors such as access to markets, oil company activities, and the land tenure regime, as well as from household characteristics such as demographic composition, participation in alternative livelihood activities, and human, social and physical capitals. Overall the results are most consistent with market integration as an underlying driver of land use change in indigenous territories of the study area.
41474586|This paper examines villagers' efforts to secure a reliable supply of drinking water in Ten Mile Inn, a rural community in North China. For most village residents, the Maoist era was a period of attacks on their religious beliefs and practices. It was also a time of often costly attempts to secure a more reliable supply of water. Village politics and factional disputes attended all these efforts and closely track the rise, fall, and ultimate reinstatement of the Ninth Dragon God, an important deity in Chinese pantheon, who many believe has full charge of rainwater, rivers, lakes, and seas. Those associated with the god constitute a source of authority and respect in addition to that of local state sanctioned leaders.
4603269|This paper examines the regional dynamics and natural resource use strategies related to the deforestation of tropical rain forests west of the Ecuadorian Andes for the period 1983-1995. Research was based on regional level analysis of remotely sensed and secondary data and local level analysis of the ways local populations use the resources at their disposal. The process observed departs significantly from what has been described in the literature for Latin America and should be seen as a window into a broader environmental process occurring in most tropical forests on the Pacific side of northern South America. Deforestation in the Northwest Ecuador is primarily related to a complex productive structure, made up a countless number of timber producers and middlemen, ranging from fully informal to fully formal, and from small scale to large scale. A key finding is that local traditional populations play a critical role through productive coalitions between small primary producers and large timber firms. These have been shaped by the articulation of local conditions with external markets, settlement processes, and the convergence of local populations in an economic system which relies on the unsustainable exploitation of natural resources. If deforestation rates in Northwest Ecuador remain at current levels, forests in the region will disappear completely within 30-35 years, a fate that is likely to be the same for most tropical rain forests west of the tropical Andes.
24015747|Amenity transition, a major socio demographic trend in areas rich in natural resources, is characterized by economic and population growth as a result of retirement inmigration, increased rates of second home ownership, and increases in the number of industries that do not need to be proximate to a specific geographic location. Amenity transition is also characterized by increased intra-community conflict between long-term residents and in-migrants. This research analyzes whether the population growth accompanying amenity transition is associated with variations in the structure and characteristics of intra-community informational networks, as sociological theory would suggest. Methodologically, this is accomplished through a comparative analysis of the structure and characteristics of informational networks in three communities undergoing amenity transition. The analyses suggest population density is not related to either the structure of informational networks or the concentration of trust/distrust within them. When considered in conjunction with previous empirical work, these findings suggest the conflicts associated with amenity transition are more likely to arise because of conflicting value systems and ideologies as opposed to social structural changes in the communities themselves.
4603496|The sustainable harvest of aquatic vegetation is not accounted for in the national economy, in decision-making, and environmental policy in the Kizilirmak Delta, a Ramsar wetland of international importance and a major agricultural area on the Black Sea coast of Turkey. This paper describes the harvesting and marketing of sharp-pointed rush (Juncus acutus) using information obtained from interviews with villagers who were harvesting rush, wholesalers and retailers, government officials, and NGOs. The gross market value of the harvested rush amounts up to U.S. $494,000 annually in 1998 prices, of which U.S. $217,000 is retained by villagers. The economic contribution of the harvest and especially its livelihood for the villagers must be accounted for in projects and policy-making. Encouragement and continuity of the conditions of economic, social, and ecological sustainability of the harvest is essential for the conservation of the delta and its biodiversity.
4603445|The ecological impacts of early agriculture in the Near East remained localized prior to the intensified production of derivative plant and animal products, beginning in the fourth millennium B. C. One aspect of this "secondary products revolution" (Sherratt, 1980a, 1983) involved the adoption of animal traction and increased production of rendered animal commodities (e.g., wool and dairy). However, most of the pervasive regional effects of this revolution followed from the domestication and increasingly intensive cultivation of orchard crops that generated marketable secondary products (e.g., olive oil, wine, and dried fruits) and encouraged widespread deforestation. In the southern Levant this revolution encouraged, and was encouraged by, the rise and fall of Bronze Age towns and their mercantile influences. Botanical and palynological data from the Jordan Rift reveal a complex discontinuous legacy of changes wrought by the secondary products revolution that have molded the agrarian ecology and anthropogenic landscapes characteristic of the region today.
27654271|Native Amazonians traditionally use two methods to feather, or fletch, arrowsthey either tie feathers to the shaft or use an adhesive. This paper discusses the latter method, analyzing the use of "black beeswax" arrow cement, derived from an insect product, the waxresin cerumen of native stingless bees (Meliponini). Such mixtures of beeswax and plant resins, prepared by cooking, have a long history of human use in the Old World: in encaustic painting, beaumontage for furniture repair, sealing waxes, and varnishes for fine musical instruments. This study explores the special properties of meliponine cerumen, containing a resin compound, geopropolis, which makes an excellent arrow cement. Like their Old World counterparts, native Amazonians discovered that cooking a mixture of cerumen and plant resins from bee nests produces an adhesive that dries to a hard finish. We compare both raw and cooked samples of cerumen with infra-red spectroscopy. The waxresin compound yields adhesive material that is tough, flexible, and has many qualities of both sealing wax and varnish. The Yuqu of the Bolivian Amazon provided the cerumen samples for this analysis, and we describe their methods of preparing and applying arrow cement. We also discuss how social change and globalization negatively affect Yuqu traditional knowledge, which survives, in this case, largely because there is a modest market for bows and arrows in the tourist trade.
4602660|Our study of cultural transmission in Taiwan is based on a survey of 1000 students, their families, and friends, for characters ranging from religion to various customs and beliefs, as well as entertainment and hygienic habits. The effects of father, mother, and an older sib on a propositus are tested by an additive model of transmission, using a novel statistical procedure, and compared with correlations with friends. For many traits there exist significant influences; older sibs are almost as important as father and mother, with effects differing somewhat with their sex. Formulas for recurrences and equilibrium frequency of a cultural character for which father, mother, and sib are active in transmission are given in the appendices along with formulas for estimation of their effects from real data.
4602620|The Huastec have interacted with elements of a diverse flora in northeastern Mexico for 30 centuries. A Huastec plant-management model is derived from patterns reflected in all anthropogenic vegetation zones, from the dooryard to the forest, and used to discuss the possible effects of human activities upon the prehistoric rain forest. Huastec plant management is discussed from an analytical perspective which views plant management as resulting from the integration of two types of plant manipulation: the manipulation of vegetation en masse and the manipulation of individual plants. Decisions about plant manipulation reflect a concern for minimal labor investment to place the resource at hand. Noncrop plant manipulation practices potentially influence the evolution of individual plants and plant communities primarily by affecting species' distribution and population parameters. Since the impact of plant-management practices clearly goes beyond domestication, ways of evaluating such practices in order to expand our understanding of ethnobotanical interactions and their impact are suggested.
4603117|The Arizona monsoon, a major source of precipitation in the Southwest, shares many features with the monsoons of other continents. Computer modeling and fossil data indicate maximum extent of the African and Asian monsoons 9000 years ago. Fossil data indicate increased summer precipitation 9000 years ago, synchronous with the maxima of the African and Asian monsoons and, paradoxically, with the early-Holocene xerothermic of the Pacific Northwest. Climate model runs for 6000, 9000, 11,500, 13,000, and 18,000 years ago indicate increased summer precipitation 9000 years ago and a reciprocal relationship between precipitation in the Northwest and Southwest, but they relegate insolation to a role secondary to the North American ice sheet in regulating climate, and suggest a non-monsoon source for much of the summer precipitation in the Southwest prior to 9000 years ago.
40343942|Caribbean archaeologists have tended to focus exclusively on the prehistory of the largest islands, perhaps because large islands are believed to provide the landmass necessary to support long-term population growth and cultural development. Yet, as research here and elsewhere, e.g., the Pacific, is showing, small islands provided access to resources and landscapes that were not always readily available on the larger islands. Small islands often have superior terrestrial and, especially, marine resources; isolated ritual spaces; and more easily defended locations; although they are susceptible to more rapid overexploitation. This paper examines in detail human needs with regard to island size, demonstrating that small islands were crucial in the development of pre-Columbian Caribbean societies. Four case studies are presented to illustrate that small islands often were preferred over large islands throughout the Caribbean archipelagoes. Finally, these studies show that the prehistoric exploitation and overexploitation of small islands can provide significant insights for establishing baselines that can be used for modern management and conservation efforts.
4602663|In a recent article Alexander et al. (1979) argue that intersocietal variation in human sexual dimorphism of stature can be explained by differing degrees of male-male competition for mates found in different types of societal marriage systems. In this paper we reexamine their data and suggest that their results may be more simply explained by reference to the latitude of the societies in their sample. Our investigation indicates that latitude has a significant influence on the degree of societal sexual dimorphism of stature. Peoples of the arctic region and the short peoples of the equatorial regions are less dimorphic in stature than midlatitude peoples. Thus, we conclude that the sociobiological hypothesis presented by Alexander et al. cannot alone explain the intersocietal variation in sexual dimorphism of stature and that environmental factors must be taken into account in the explanation of such variation.
4603392|In this paper we analyze the fishing effort allocation of fishermen in the artisanal fisheries of the Turks and Caicos Islands (British West Indies). These fishermen use a free-diving technique to simultaneously exploit the local stocks of queen conch and spiny lobster. Using an integrated framework combining a set of analytical tools within a multi-disciplinary holistic approach, we attempt to identify the biological, economic, and social mechanisms which govern the fishermen's effort allocation between the two targeted stocks. The analysis shows that the seasonal dynamics of the whole system are essentially dictated by the very remunerative lobster fishery. Although this result tends to espouse the predictions of classical economic theory, a closer analysis reveals that the economic rationality approach does not entirely explain the observed fishermen behavior. Information from a series of socio-anthropological surveys shows that the fishermen's decision making is further influenced by collective and individual constraints related to the specific diving abilities required to operate in the two fisheries and by the socio-historico-cultural environment within which the fishing community has been evolving over the last century.
4603393|This paper examines the role of traditional religious beliefs and traditional leaders in conserving remnant patches of a unique type of dry forest in the Zambezi Valley of northern Zimbabwe. We examined aerial photographs spanning more than three decades, interviewed and surveyed local residents, and met with communities to learn about the environmental history of the forests and the factors that have affected land use in the area. Our results show that forest loss is dramatically less in forests that are now considered sacred, or were in the past connected to sacred forests. This supports our hypothesis that traditional spiritual values have influenced human behavior affecting the forests, and have played a role in protecting them until now. We also found that rates of forest loss have been much higher in an area where traditional leaders are relatively disempowered within the post-independence political system compared to an area where traditional leaders have more power. These findings lead us to conclude that a strategy that links the conservation of culture and nature is likely to be more effective in conserving forests than a strategy that ignores traditional beliefs, values, and institutions.
27654192|Over the last decade, historically low market prices for Coffea arabica have affected smallholder shade coffee-growing households throughout northern Latin America. In an effort to better understand household response to the coffee crisis and associated landscape changes, this paper examines agricultural production choices and land use patterns among Huastec Maya coffee-growing households. Using data compiled from 47 household interviews, I describe the cultural-geographical landscape in which the Huastec Maya land use system is embedded. In addition, I examine the economics of household production through a financial cost-benefit analysis and through an exploration of the relationship between land availability and land use patterns. Results show that economic inputs and returns from agriculture are highly variable, and that, in 2001, coffee cultivation was not a viable cash-generating strategy for most households. Land availability was found to have a significant effect on land use decisions, especially the proportion of land area devoted to fallow. Most importantly, however, the case study suggests that a purely economic approach does not suffice in explaining why the Huastec Maya continued to grow coffee in 2001, after years of low prices. Household production choices and livelihood strategies must also be viewed within a cultural context.
27654117|This paper explores social arrangements associated with seed transactions among small-scale maize farmers in the Central Valleys of Oaxaca, Mexico, where no formal seed supply system exists. We test the hypothesis that individual farmers have strong incentives to participate in some form of collective action to ensure their access to seed. Six communities were studied, three of them in detail, using in-depth, semistructured interviews with key informants; focus group discussions; and a tracer study that followed seed flows among farmers. Farmers mostly saved seed and only occasionally acquired seed from outside sources. We found no evidence of a specialized social organization based on collective action to mediate seed flows. Seed transactions are infrequent, bilateral, and ad hoc, although trust is an important component, as it ensures reliable information about the seed is provided. Implications of these findings are discussed, especially for genetic diversity if the current supply system breaks down.
4602469|A resource management simulation was devised in which players could harvest points for individual short-term gain, causing the premature destruction of the resource pool, or they could curb their own individual harvesting to preserve the pool for a longer overall supply. Although the first strategy was explained to be self-defeating, most groups opted for it, as they did even when an optimal harvesting strategy was provided that would avoid pool destruction. Groups whose members were allowed to communicate generally made better resource managers and achieved larger individual harvests.
4602496|A quantitative analysis of major rural energy flows in the People's Republic of China shows that the nation's countryside still depends predominantly on solar radiation transformed by green plants through photosynthesis into food, feed, fuel, and raw materials, Although a large-scale modernization effort currently under way aims to greatly increase the consumption of fossil fuels and electricity, it is argued that the country should not completely abandon its renewable rural energetics.
23353263|We explored how the forest-dwelling Soliga community of South India views and explains biological invasions, and how local knowledge can inform scientific knowledge on biological invasions. We used an interview schedule with open-ended questions to solicit Soliga opinion on Lantana camara (lantana) invasion. The Soliga cited three reasons for lantana spread: its prolific fruit output and wide seed dispersal, change in fire management, and historical extraction of grass and bamboo. The Soliga believe that lantana invasion has had negative effects on the ecosystem and their livelihoods. Tabling scientific knowledge with local knowledge has improved our understanding of lantana invasion. The role of existing lantana in colonizing neighboring areas, and the response of native tree communities to lantana were common to both local and scientific sources. However, the Soliga view provides a more nuanced perspective of the lantana-fire relationship (contextually based on lantana density) with fires suppressing lantana when lantana density was low. This is contrary to views held by foresters and biologists, that fires are uniformly detrimental and promote lantana. Our study shows that examining Soliga observations has improved understanding of the invasion process and presents avenues for future lantana management.
4602425|The relation between fertility and cultural change in a Peruvian Amazon Indian village was studied initially in 1964 and in more detail in 1969. The 1969 study included observations concerning social, economic, environmental, cultural, and health changes. Population growth in the village is nearly 5% per year, and fertility appears to exceed that previously recorded for other groups. The factors that may be contributing to the high fertility are explored. They are thought to include early and prolonged parity, nearly universal marriage and fertility, high reproductive efficiency, short birth intervals, Western health intervention lowering both infant and maternal mortality rates, and a decline in the prevalence of polygyny.
27654256|The broader ecological and social contexts within which livestock husbandry of Sudano-Sahelian West Africa operates have changed significantly over the past thirty years. This study concerns how: (1) these broader trends have affected the quantity and quality of labor investments into livestock herding; and (2) the ecological and animal nutritional implications of observed variation in labor investments into herding. The study was conducted in a 500 km2 area of western Niger using a combination of qualitative interviews of herders and herd managers, household composition surveys, herd composition monitoring, grazing management monitoring and georeferenced vegetation and livestock grazing itinerary data. Statistical analyses were performed using a two-staged approach: (1) analysis of the factors affecting the allocation of labor to herding at the level of the managing household; and (2) analysis of the effect of herd characteristics, season, microgeography and herders' social position on herders' effort and the nutritional and ecological impacts of these efforts. The results of these analyses support the conclusion that the changing regional context of livestock husbandry leads to a reduction in labor (quantity and quality) investment or an "extensification" of herding with significant implications for livestock productivity and the environment.
4602950|Hardin's Tragedy of the Commons model predicts the eventual overexploitation or degradation of all resources used in common. Given this unambiguous prediction, a surprising number of cases exist in which users have been able to restrict access to the resource and establish rules among themselves for its sustainable use. To assess the evidence, we first define commonproperty resources and present a taxonomy of property-rights regimes in which such resources may be held. Evidence accumulated over the last twenty-two years indicates that private, state, and communal property are all potentially viable resource management options. A more complete theory than Hardin's should incorporate institutional arrangements and cultural factors to provide for better analysis and prediction.
4602913|Cultural theory utilizes concepts drawn from social anthropology, sociology, and organization theory to explain the social and cultural biases of policy actors and interest groups. Certain ideas of nature are associated with each cultural bias; these ideas of nature are in turn associated with types of resource management institutions. By identifying an actor or group's culture bias, analysts can explain the success or failure of different management activities. This paper explains the evolution of cultural theory from its anthropological roots to its applications in ecological management. It then applies cultural theory to a typology of common property resources and illustrates its usefulness by examining grazing subsidies in the American southwest.
40603019|The influence of local actors and socioeconomic constraints on biological invasions is often ignored. Wetland plant harvesters appeared to intentionally influence cattail (Typha domingensis) invasion around Lake Ptzcuaro, Mxico, by altering their harvesting regimes, according to interviews with 44 expert respondents and botanical surveys. The oldest and most experienced harvesters reported controlling Typha initially, sometimes through organized eradication efforts, in order to protect Schoenoplectus californiens, an economically and culturally valuable wetland plant. Later, outsiders commoditized Typha by introducing new weaving designs popular with tourists, while industrial products and new livelihood activities reduced Schoenoplectus harvest. Harvesters from several communities began to promote Typha re-growth. Some harvesters, however, continued to combat Typha to maintain Schoenoplectus production, especially where supply was limited. Interviews suggested novel ecological cause-effect mechanisms and restoration strategies; some local harvesting regimes could efficiently conserve rare plants. An understanding of local ecological knowledge and incentives can inform invasive species control and conservation policy at a broader scale.
4603012| Questions concerning the availability of resources in tropical rain forests have given rise to the current debate centering on whether human subsistence based solely on foraging is possible in these biomes without agricultural subsidies. This paper takes the position that changing perspectives on ecological pattern and process in tropical forests and the significant variation among tropical forests on a worldwide as well as regional scale must be taken into consideration. Human disturbance is also proposed as a cause of dependence on agriculture by modern human foragers rather than as a necessary precondition for successful exploitation of the tropical forest. These issues are discussed against the background of a case study of the Yuqu, who, until very recently, were true foragers in the Bolivian Amazon. For the Yuqu, the sustainability of their subsistence system depended on a fine-grained knowledge of their environment and the freedom of movement over a large territory to access resources within it. 
4602823|Quality of Life (QOL) is a difficult yet valuable concept to use in regional analysis. It is more telling than purely economic measures, such as per capita GNP, but requires caution in the choice of indicators. The Physical Quality of Life Index (PQLI) is used to evaluate the small island developing countries (SIDCs) of the Indian Ocean. It employs infant mortality, life expectancy at age one, and literacy, which are broadly indicative of a wider range of social and physical attributes. In the Indian Ocean, a bimodalism of results is seen, with Reunion, Mauritius, and Seychelles consistently performing very well, while Maldives and Comoros perform poorly. Other QOL measures are examined as supplementary indicators. The PQLI is seen as an excellent comprehensive device for regional QOL analysis.
40603005|Overintensification and subsidies have long made American commodity farmers the enemy of conservationists. Yet, environmental conditions are improving in the Mississippi Delta where farmer-based groups, water management districts and conservation organizations have improved environmental quality and redefined the role of agriculture in environmental preservation. This work is all the more remarkable given the region's deeply conservative politics that discourage regulation. This paper examines this mainstreaming of environmental values in light of debates on the role of the state in fostering environmental subjectivities. Following cultural examinations of the state, we caution that the presence or retreat of the state is insufficient to understanding environmental subjectivities. Instead, an ethnographic focus is necessary to identify connections between the state and particular humanenvironment relations. In the Delta, this focus shows that local environmentalism is consonant with a politics of unsustainability, one that simultaneously advances radical ecological change and defense of the region's social hierarchies.
4602739|What are famines, what causes them, and how can they be controlled or prevented? How extensively have they been studied by social scientists? Some of the theoretical and policy implications of these issues are considered, and pressing needs for future research are discussed.
41474644|Despite improved national censuses and "microdemographic" studies, demographic processes and health conditions among indigenous populations in Amazonia and elsewhere in lowland Latin America are not well understood. A new source of demographic and health data has emerged in the past decade, namely meso-scale surveys initiated and administered by indigenous organizations. These surveys offer the potential for filling information gaps, shedding light on culturally specific factors that shape demographic processes and health, and empowering indigenous organizations with data that could inform health initiatives. This article assesses the indigenous-run survey "2005 Health Analysis of the Shuar and Achuar Nations" of eastern Ecuador in which the authors were involved, which reached 1,943 households in 257 communities in Morona-Santiago Province. We present findings on fertility, migration, sanitation, and health, and assess the strengths and weaknesses of the survey. We argue that despite flaws in the survey design and implementation, this survey revealed important linkages among fertility, migration, and health. Such surveys have the potential to provide much needed detail, representativeness, and cultural specificity that macro and micro data sources cannot provide. We conclude with recommendations to improve surveys of this type.
4603144|Aspects of the culture, resource exploitation and beliefs of the Gitksan and Wet'suwet'en peoples of northwestern British Columbia are examined to explore the relationship of their cultural practices, land tenure, and beliefs to resource conservation. Traditional Gitksan and Wet'suwet'en practices and beliefs contain a number of elements which acted to promote conservation, including territoriality, prescribed burning, and proscription of waste, and other elements which are more difficult to reconcile with a biological model of conservation. The concept of humans as part of the natural world, and the requirement for respect for all natural entities are the fundamental to mediating human interactions with other species in the Gitksan and Wet'suwet'en cultures.
4602609|The belief that high density is stressful and unhealthy has contributed to a decline in urban density in many countries, particularly North America and Australia. Yet many physical planners are calling for an increase in urban density. Many human or individual-oriented studies (which involve ethological models, sociological models, and psychological models) have been used to suggest negative effects of urban density. This article raises questions about these conclusions and presents evidence from recent studies which suggests more positive human aspects of urban density. The physical or systems-oriented studies (which involve economic, ecological, historical, and engineering models) suggest advantages in costs, energy, environment, and transport from increasing urban density. The resolution of the conflict between populace and planner is suggested to include greater awareness of mutual benefits from increased density, better planning and design, and encouragement of the more positive human aspects of higher urban density.
4603587| Depending on quantity and composition of food as well as on production conditions and techniques, the space needed to sustain an individual's nourishment varies. The amount of space needed also depends on the use of resources such as energy, water, and fertilizers, as well as potential land degradation and water pollution. Our study focuses on the changing spatial imprint of an average inhabitant of an expanding Swedish city, Linkping, from 1870 to 2000 taking into account both shifts in consumption as well as agricultural productivity and practices. Despite the distinctly larger amount of animal food products, such as meat and fish, consumed in 2000, we calculate the area needed to sustain an individual's annual food consumption could be less than one fourth of that needed in 1870. However, if the import of various globally produced foods is included in our calculations, the land needed to sustain the consumption of an inhabitant of Linkping in 2000 doubles. We also argue that an examination of this regional imprint can be used to explore and evaluate possibilities for regional development. 
4603196|Welfare impacts of an intensive dairy technology package on women and their families are investigated on 32 smallholder crop-livestock farms in the sub-humid zone of Kilifi District, Coast Province, Kenya. Farms were stratified according to male or female extension contact. A female enumerator interviewed the wife or female head of household on each farm regarding her present and past household responsibilities and the affects of the intensive dairy enterprise on these duties and upon the welfare of the household. On three-quarters of the male contact farms, dairy operators were women. Across all farms, women performed half of all dairy-related activities, but only on female contact farms did income from the dairy enterprise accrue to women in proportion to their labor input. The equitable return of benefits to labor corresponded with better dairy unit performance on female contact farms, where women also indicated greater access to and autonomy over household resources and decision-making. Irrespective of extension contact, there was broad consensus among the women interviewed that intensive dairying has led to improved household welfare, primarily through increased household income and milk consumption. There was also wide agreement, however, that these gains have been achieved at the expense of more work for women. Women on female contact farms were observed spending dairy income on food for the household and childrens' schooling more often than their counterparts on male contact farms. Based on these and other findings, the study concludes that gender of the extension contact, dairy operator and farm owner were determinants of the intra-household impacts of intensive dairying on the smallholder farms in this study. Recommendations for design and delivery of livestock technologies for crop-based farming systems, with special emphasis on how to minimize negative impact on vulnerable household members, are inferred from study findings.
4602622|Empirical measures of fire-service quality and efficiency are examined for New York City in the period 1968-1979. Marked decreases in the ability to control and contain structural fires are found to result from a program of fire-service reductions begun in 1972. Exacerbated by the New York City "fiscal crisis" of 1975, decreases in fire-service efficiency since 1972 appear to have initiated a geographically spreading and apparently recurrent fire epidemic. The decreases have accelerated since 1976, implying that recurring epidemic episodes could be more severe than the 1974-1977 crisis, which destroyed large areas in some neighborhoods of the city, including the South Bronx, Bushwick, Brownsville, East New York, East Harlem, and others. The results of an extensive data analysis are contrasted with the methods and conclusions of a widely circulated study entitled Setting Municipal Priorities 1981.
4602713|In this article, comparison is made between the two major types of water allocation systems in Yemen: seasonal flood (sayl) and highland spring flow (ghayl). Constraints in the nature of water as a flowing resource are defined for each system. The major distinctions between the two types of systems are variability in water flow (which influences the determination of access rights), techniques of water control, measurement of water turns, the need for supervision of irrigation activities, and the potential for economic expansion of the production system. It is argued that tribal political organization is an adaptive response to highland spring flow allocation in Yemen, but undergoes stress in coastal flood systems where competition for the same water source extends across tribal boundaries in upstream-downstream conflict.
4603282|Robert Netting had a central role in establishing agricultural anthropology. Many people rightly remember him as an astute ethnographer of farming communities, focused on analyzing the empirical details of changing patterns of household composition, land holding size and labor use. Yet, during his career he was increasingly concerned about the sustainability of smallholder vs. conventional industrial agriculture models on a global scale. Thus, Netting also had an important role in laying the foundation for the development of an agricultural anthropology for the twenty-first century, an anthropology that shows how smallholders "balancing on an Alp" can help us to understand how we might balance on this planet. This paper analyzes Netting's contribution to the future of agricultural anthropology in three key areas: the environment, population, and agriculture relationship; farmer knowledge and epistemology; and models for global sustainability.
4602704|Theoretically or practically significant research results concerning transitory as well as persistent phenomena can be obtained by human ecologists while avoiding commitment to long-term, expensive projects, rigid frameworks, traditional disciplinary goals, and unwarranted assumptions about the stability and purposiveness of units or systems. The procedures to be followed, as illustrated by research on people-forest interactions in East Kalimantan, involve a focus on significant human activities or people-environment interactions and the explanation of these by their placement within progressively wider or denser contexts. Guides for progressively contextualizing activities or interactions include a rationality principle, comparative knowledge of contexts, and the principle of pursuing the surprising.
4602638|The Gavlis are a pastoral caste of the forested hill tracts of India's Western Ghats region. This paper examines their shift under British colonial rule from buffalo-keepers to goatherds to cultivators of increasingly marginal hill tracts, the context of forest exploitation and malaria control as well as more recent dairy development programs of the Indian government. It concludes that if present trends continue Gavlis everywhere will follow the same progression, eventually becoming landless migrants.
4603597|The introduction of domestic livestock, particularly sheep, and rangeland grazing by Norse settlers to Faroe during the ninth century has generally been described as a major pressure on a sensitive landscape, leading to rapid and widespread vegetation change and contributing to land degradation. This view has, however, been developed without consideration of Norse grazing management practices which may have served to minimize grazing impacts on landscapes as well as sustaining and enhancing vegetation and livestock productivity. These alternative scenarios are considered using a historical grazing management simulation model with Faroese climate and vegetation inputs and given archaeological, historical and palaeoenvironmental parameters. Three contrasting rangeland areas are investigated and, based on the maximum number of ewe/lamb pairs the rangeland could sustain, modeling suggests that utilizable biomass declined with the onset of grazing activity, but not to a level that would cause major changes in vegetation cover or contribute to soil erosion even under climatically determined poor growth conditions. When rangeland areas partitioned into what are termed hagi and partir are modeled, grazing levels are still within rangeland carrying capacities, but productivities are variable. Some rangeland areas increase biomass and livestock productivities and biomass utilization rates while other rangeland areas that were too finely partitioned were likely to suffer substantial decline in livestock productivity. Partitioning of rangeland is a likely contributor to long-term differentiation of landscapes and the relative success of settlements across Faroe beyond the Norse period.
4603055|This paper examines the contrasting responses to short- and long-term droughts shown by cattle populations in two different savanna ecosystems in a communal area in southern Zimbabwe. It illustrates how ecological responses are modified by differential management inputs-herding, transhumant movement, and supplementary feeding. The impacts of drought on cattle herds can thus be understood only with insight into this interaction of ecological and socio-economic factors. Such detailed study of drought response can most effectively inform development planning.
4603321| Farmers in the Upper Caete valley have both disintensified and intensified land use. The direction of land use change depends on the production zone in which it takes place. Although land in the distant rainfed agropastoral zone is disintensified through land abandonment and an increase of the fallow period, land in the nearby irrigated agropastoral zone is intensified through more frequent cropping, and the use of high-yielding potato varieties, fertilizers, and pesticides. Simultaneous intensification and disintensification contradicts Boserup's theory of agricultural intensification, which predicts unilinear change for all land use systems within a village territory. Population has decreased in the Upper Caete valley, but this factor alone cannot explain the dynamics of land use. Land use change is also driven by differences and complementarity between production zones, their distance from the villages, and social, economic, and technological change. 
40981188|The discussion about the impact of pastoral systems on ecosystems has been profoundly shaped by Hardin's "tragedy of the commons" argument that held pastoralists responsible for overgrazing the range. Recent studies have shown that grazing ecosystems are much more complex and dynamic than was previously assumed and that pastoralists adaptively manage these systems. However, we still have little understanding how everyday herding affects ecosystems at the landscape level. We conducted a study of daily herd movements and grazing strategies in a mobile pastoral system in the Logone floodplain, Cameroon. We integrated GPS/GIS technology, video recordings of animal behavior, and ethnographic methods to develop a more accurate measurement of grazing pressure that takes into account both livestock densities and grazing behavior. We used the resulting grazing pressure data to evaluate existing conceptual models of grazing pressure at a landscape level. We found that models that predict that grazing pressure is skewed towards the direction of water most accurately reflect the situation in the Logone floodplain in the dry season. However, we found that the higher grazing pressure is not only the result of a higher density of cattle but also a change in the grazing behavior of animals after watering. Finally, we caution that the models of grazing pressure in the dry season cannot simply be extrapolated to the landscape level because mobile pastoralists do not remain in one central place.
40343943|Understanding the factors that influence the adoption of synthetic pesticides has to date overshadowed explanations of variation in pesticide intensity. I conducted a survey of vegetable farmers in Northern Cartago and the Ujarrs Valley, Costa Rica, in 2003-2004 with the goal of explaining differences in pesticide intensity with reference to socioeconomic, political economic, and agroecological characteristics and relationships. Using ordinary least squares regression models, this paper explores the factors that influence pesticide use intensity in potato and squash production. Results indicate that many variables strongly influence pesticide intensity, including variables related to the farmer, farm household, political-economic relationships, the biophysical environment, and agroecological relationships. Conclusions discuss the need for an integrated approach to adequately understand pesticide intensity and potential policy interventions including agroecological education and extension, increased enforcement of pesticide residue limits in the national market, and land reform to allow for longer fallow periods.
4602289|The present paper examines the use of dung for two essential human resources, fuel and fertilizer, in a highland community of southern Peru. The limited energy availability and the poor soils of the region, primarily the result of high-altitude climate and topography, necessitate this practice. Alternatives to dung use are costly or unavailable. Grazing herbivores transform the widely dispersed puna grasses into a compact and easily gathered source of energy and nutrients. Native choice among available dungs corresponds to their qualities: sheep dung, richest in nutrients, is applied as fertilizer; llama and cattle dungs, each with a high caloric value, are burned as fuels. Dung use is interpreted as an energetically efficient response to the highland environment and as central to the subsistence pattern in the area.
27654309|Conflict is inherent to development, but the intensity of conflicts over small-scale projects is often severely underestimated. Effectively managed conflict can strengthen relationships and enhance productivity, but unresolved conflict undermines relationships, morale and projects. This paper examines conflict management during the development of ten South African outreach nurseries situated within communities experiencing high levels of poverty. Sources of conflict included: (1) Contestations over scarce or limited resources, or (2) ownership; (3) Disputes over accountability; (4) Struggles over social boundaries or (5) individual or collective identities; (6) Deteriorating interpersonal relationships; (7) Power struggles between community participants and (8) Structural imbalances between implementing organisations and community stakeholders. Conflicts spiraled into violence or near-violence in two cases, with threats of violence in two others. Fostering cooperative relationships and operational environments requires concerted effort from the outset, including the development of effective institutions. Development fundamentals cannot be exchanged for expediency; adequate time, staff, and resources have to be allocated to projects.
40928142|This paper explores institutional arrangements governing reciprocal grazing resource sharing among different pastoral and agropastoral clans in eastern Ethiopia. It describes and compares multiple institutional arrangements that define non-exclusive property rights in order to increase the social and economic efficiency of grazing resource uses in a risky environment. Results indicate that social capital, explained using lineage as a proxy, plays a crucial role in facilitating the establishment of and negotiation for non-exclusive forms of rights to grazing resources. Nonetheless, socio-political factors, such as clan politics and regulations restricting cross-border herd mobility, limit the role of customary institutional arrangements in sustaining interclan cooperation. Increased threat from climate change (rainfall variability) and the absence of insurance for the livestock increase the necessity to sustain interclan cooperation over the reciprocal sharing of the grazing commons. This suggests the need for a policy shift in favor of reinforcing customary systems of resource governance to ameliorate interclan cooperation to respond to these challenges.
23353204|Over the last decades, political, economic and environmental pressures have encouraged changes from swidden to more intensive agricultural practices, resulting in the hypothesis that swidden cultivation systems are disappearing. In Calakmul, southeastern Mexico, communities decreased the area under milpa, the traditional maize swidden system, but a collapse did not occur. To document and explain the persistence of swidden we employ a variety of data: (1) 59 standardized household surveys from 2003 and 2010 in five villages, (2) in-depth interviews in one village, and (3) coupled humanenvironmental timelines in this same village. Droughts, hurricanes, and remittances were important drivers of decreases in milpa cultivation. Market crop profitability and conservation programs were also reported to affect the area under milpa. Off-farm employment and governmental transfers have tended to stabilize household economies and decrease dependency on agricultural production, but have also allowed households to maintain their milpas for subsistence and cultural reproduction. Findings in Calakmul point to the need to consider swidden as an evolving and active response to changing policy, economic, and environmental conditions.
4602841|Shifting cultivation has traditionally been characterized as a highly productive system in terms of the ratio of energy outputs to inputs. This characterization, however, does not take into account the energy contribution of the natural vegetation cleared in preparing the field for cultivation. As a result, the central feature of shifting cultivation, the exploitation of the natural vegetation-soil complex as a substitute for human labor, has been ignored. The omission of the biomass contribution can be attributed to both a focus on the practices involved rather than the underlying strategy of the shifting cultivator, and an excessive preoccupation with the renewability of the energy sources involved in different agricultural systems. A definition of shifting cultivation is proposed that focuses attention on the relationship between the natural vegetation-soil complex and the shifting cultivator. Two methods of including the energy contribution of forest biomass in calculating the productivity of shifting cultivation systems are compared. When the biomass contribution is included, shifting cultivation appears to be an extremely unproductive system of agriculture.
4602482|Some of the behavioral-ecological variation in the primate order can be explained by reference to a general model known as the Jarman/Bell principle. This principle involves a scaling relationship between metabolism and body size which suggests that body size is a fundamental tactic in an animal's feeding strategy. Relatively accurate predictions regarding the diets of primates of known body weight follow from this model. In addition, it can be expanded to predict the kinds of adaptations that would appear in animals that deviate from the expected size/diet pattern. The model is general enough such that, when joined with feeding strategy theory, it can be applied to extinct organisms. In this context it is suggested that Pleistocene hominid ecology was characterized more by omnivory than carnivory.
23353202|This study investigates four decades of socio-economic and environmental change in a shifting cultivation landscape in the northern uplands of Laos. Historical changes in land cover and land use were analyzed using a chronological series of remote sensing data. Impacts of landscape change on local livelihoods were investigated in seven villages through interviews with various stakeholders. The study reveals that the complex mosaics of agriculture and forest patches observed in the study area have long constituted key assets for the resilience of local livelihood systems in the face of environmental and socio-economic risks. However, over the past 20 years, a process of segregating agricultural and forest spaces has increased the vulnerability of local land users. This process is a direct outcome of policies aimed at increasing national forest cover, eradicating shifting cultivation and fostering the emergence of more intensive and commercial agricultural practices. We argue that agriculture-forest segregation should be buffered in such a way that a diversity of livelihood opportunities and economic development pathways can be maintained.
4603353|The Huerta de Murcia is a traditionally irrigated land located in the middle lowland area of the Segura River around the city of Murcia, Southeast Spain. During the twentieth century several factors, such as the creation of new irrigated lands and the urbanization of traditionally irrigated lands, have changed the use of natural resources, giving rise to a growing imbalance between water resources and irrigation demands and a loss of fertile soil and other environmental and cultural values of this traditionally agricultural area. Such factors constitute environmental problems that will need to be controlled if more sustainable conditions for agriculture are to be achieved. The objectives of the present work are to develop a dynamic system model containing the main social, economic, and environmental and to use this model to explore the long-term effects of several policies designed to promote the sustainability of this agrolandscape. Some preliminary conclusions suggest that regulation and agricultural policy are not enough to stop the loss of traditionally irrigated lands and that additional water management and environmental policies are necessary.
4602242|The amounts of native animals taken in hunting and fishing by Amerind peoples are almost unknown. The interrelationships of cultural and ecological systems determine to a large extent hunting and fishing returns, focus, and strategies. This study presents data obtained in a coastal Miskito Indian village in eastern Nicaragua. Measurements were made of meat yields by species and of the time and distance inputs involved in securing fish and game. Hunting and fishing focus and strategies are adaptive mechanisms enabling the Miskito to achieve high and dependable returns from a limited number of species. Several factors are examined which influence hunting and fishing focus: dietary preferences and prohibitions, costs involved, differential productivity and dependability of particular species, seasonality and scheduling, and the impact of cash market opportunities for faunal resources. Under the impetus of population growth and rising aspirations, the Miskito's efforts to secure increasing numbers of animals for both subsistence and market are leading to severe pressures on selected species and to cultural and ecological disruptions.
4603171|The past failure of large-scale, rural development in Amazonia has emphasized the value of small-scale, swidden-fallow management practices. The management strategies used by indigenous cultivators are well-documented, but few studies have examined how absorption by market-based economies may affect the economic and ecological stability of the agricultural system. In this study, we provide a detailed account of swidden-fallow management as it is practiced at Las Palmeras, Amazonas, Colombia; moreover, we assessed the effect of a shift from subsistence to market-directed production. A total of 68 species were selectively managed in the swidden/fallow system. Seventy-seven percent of species at the site were managed for subsistence only, 22% were managed with a view to selling surplus at market. Only one species, Cedrela odorata, was managed solely for market production. A shift from subsistence-based to market-directed production may lower the ecological and economic stability of the system at Las Palmeras. Nonperishable production strategies, such as for timber production, appear to provide the most secure approach toward market integration.
4603057| The current interest in non-timber forest products as an economic option for the Brazilian Amazon represents a radical departure from the policies that have guided development in the region during recent decades. Despite this interest, little is currently known about the forms of resource management or economic strategies practiced by populations dependent on such resources. In this study, we measured the annual income and expenditures of ten households on Combu Island, located in the Amazon estuary near the major port city of Belm; in addition, we documented local uses and management of natural resources on the island. Average annual income per household was found to be over U.S. $4000, derived primarily from the harvest and sale of non-timber forest products. The results of this study show that the combination of proximity to a major market and appropriate resource management can lead to high and apparently sustainable economic returns. 
27654193|Previous studies have shown there is a wide spectrum of incipient management practices between gathering and agriculture, that include resources commonly considered "wild." Based on the study of 20 species used as foodstuffs in the community of Santa Mara Tecomavaca (Mexico), we evaluated nonagricultural management forms such as gathering, incipient nonselective management, incipient selective management and occasional ex situ cultivation to learn if they represent a gradient in the intensity of manipulation of a resource. The way in which the intensity of manipulation of a resource can vary as a function of cultural importance and the species' biology was also analyzed. Using an index that measures the intensity of management of a resource, it has been established that the degree of intensity depends on: the specialization of the practices directed to the environment as well as to the individuals; the number of persons performing these practices; and the number of different practices taking place. The degree of management intensity is also a consequence of the joint action of cultural importance and of species' biology.
40343961|This paper examines the relationship between plant use and plant diversity in 36 transects of 50x2 m laid out in the surroundings of Apillapampa, a community of Quechua subsistence farmers in the Bolivian Andes. Use data were obtained through individual interviews with 13 local key participants and were organized in eight plant use categories. Regression slope analysis showed that for nearly all plant use categories the proportion of used species to available species decreased with increasing plant diversity in transects. Two main groups of plant use categories could be distinguished: diversity followers, for which the number of useful plant species in transects keeps abreast with increasing plant diversity (e.g. medicine) and diversity laggards, for which the number of useful plant species increases only moderately with increasing diversity (e.g., food). We hypothesize that the main difference between both groups is related to the human process of plant selection. In categories that are diversity followers, plants are partly selected and used in an immediacy context, whereby emic perception of efficacy may be of secondary importance. By contrast, plant use in categories of diversity laggards is strongly guided by emic perception of efficacy because plant use takes place in a context in which plants are generally not needed on a short notice.
4602678|Results of recent ethnographic research in indigenous agricultural systems in the South American tropical forests indicate that the Geertzian model of the highly intercropped swidden that mimics the tropical forest it replaces is not the appropriate description of the agricultural regimes of several rainforest peoples. A model is proposed relating degree of intercropping to amount of agricultural labor.
4603351|This study of a rural Malian community in West Africa investigates food procurement patterns that combine subsistence grain production with a variety of income generating activities. It finds dependence on food purchases widespread and revenue from the own-account activities of nonhousehold heads essential to food security. Gender and the wealth of households are found to influence some, but not all, income generating activities and expenditures. Three household food procurement profiles are identified: investment in cattle, market gardens and bush extraction, and remittances. The case study village has agroecological characteristics and market proximity, which set it and other urban hinterland villages apart from the more cotton- and cattle-based zones of southern Mali. Own-account income generating activities may be able to increase revenue for women and junior men through a reallocation of household resources without entirely undermining the basis for a larger subsistence-oriented household.
40343958|The concept of common-pool resources (CPRs) has evolved from consideration of single-use to multipleuse resources, though the focus remains predominantly on single natural resources such as water. However, both ecological connections and human actions mean that one CPR can exist interdependently rather than in isolation from others. This article investigates this interdependence with a case study of a set of nested CPRs in the Lockyer, the Brisbane River, and Moretn Bay catchments in Southeast Queensland, Australia. An in-depth case study involving a review of relevant literature, conceptual analysis and 6 years of participant observation by one of the authors, shows that the catchment has several interdependent CPRs, linked through ecological processes and mediated by human actions that create positive or negative externalities for many resource users. We argue that the concept of "externality" can enhance our understanding of, and ability to recognize, the socioecological interdependence among CPRs and their users in a catchment, which is critical to clarify the extent of shared interests needed to underpin the design and use of appropriate collaborative management approaches.
4603266|Using a political ecology framework, this research analyzes the recent entry of recent Latino and Southeast Asian immigrants into the harvesting of non-timber forest products in the Pacific Northwest. Using both permit data and interviewing, it suggests that a world market for these products, government policy, and environmental conditions have the potential for driving harvests to unsustainable levels and exacerbating incipient conflicts.
4602833|Vital statistics on pastoral nomadic and sedentarizing nomadic societies are by-and-large non-existent. Such information is highly important for both academic and policy-making reasons as pastoral nomadism as a mode of life is disappearing. This paper attempts to gather and present as much information as possible on crude birth and death rates and natural increase rates for various pastoral nomadic societies in different African and Middle Eastern countries. The information is arranged by a subdivision into nomads, seminomads, and sedentarized nomads. A summarization of this information suggests a possible pattern by which birth rates rise, death rates fall (but may rise in certain circumstances), and natural increase rates rise along the nomadism-sedentarism continuum. Such a possible pattern has several policy implications for governments assessing the needs of a nomadic society undergoing a process of change in its socio-ecological relationships.
4603219|Sri Lanka has a long tradition of forest product use. The relationship of people with a dry zone forest was studied using a sample of 48 households in two villages that varied in distance to the forest and access to the market. All households interviewed collected subsistence forest products and a majority of them also collected commercial products. The daily peak-season income from commercial gathering was 4.5 to 7.7 times the daily labor wage. There is a strong gender specialization, with commercial gathering dominated by men whereas subsistence gathering is almost exclusively the task of women. The average forest-derived household income in the village closer to the forest and with better market access was nearly double that of the other village. Family size as a proxy of labor availability was the main discriminating factor between those households who did and those who did not gather commercial products. A small inverse relationship between forest gathering and size of household agricultural land (particularly paddy rice) was observed. No clear relationship was found between total household income and forest derived income, contradicting the view that commercial forest gathering is an exclusive activity of the poorest households.
4603139|Satellite images were used to determine rates of deforestation over the past 35 years and to identify current deforestation "hotspots" in the eastern rainforests and in the dry endemic forests of southern Madagascar. The analysis of population trends, topography, and coincident ethnographic research points to a number of different factors influencing deforestation in these regions. Each of these factors generates different problems for conservation and development, most of which are not being dealt with adequately.
4602368|The tactics of shifting cultivation are reviewed with particular reference given to techniques of forest regeneration. The desirability of a forest-fallow system of agriculture is explained. Also discussed are the causes, indicators, and consequences of a breakdown of forest-fallow cultivation. In conclusion, the future of tropical forests for agriculture and habitats for man is considered.
27654172|This paper explores the grazing management systems in operation in communal areas of central Eastern Cape Province, South Africa, through two contrasting case studies from the region. Considerable differences in current management systems are identified and are shown to depend primarily on the degree of control that can be exercised by communities over communal grazing resources. This in turn can be related to the social and ecological heterogeneity that characterises the region and how this influences pressure on grazing resources at the local level. On the basis of this study three broad levels of grazing management system are identified in these communal areas. These are: complete lack of management with grazing taking place in an 'open-access' manner; grazing being controlled on a community basis and grazing taking place on private land and being controlled entirely by the landowner. Many aspects of these scenarios find reflection in struggles over common property which are taking place in other parts of Africa. Understanding the variation in these systems from both a social and ecological perspective will be fundamental in challenging previous management paradigms, and facilitating the development of effective common property institutions for grazing management systems in communal areas of South Africa.
27654170|This article contributes to the encouraging recent trend toward more critical examination of the linkages between remote sensing and social analysis of environmental change. Using two case studies from Malawi, we explain the importance of thinking about temporal scale when using remote sensing data. Specifically, from our on-the-ground research, we came to appreciate three important issues: (1) multiple causation and multiple temporal scales operating simultaneouslymaking inference of casual relations between particular social factors and observed land use changes difficult; (2) 'visible' vs. 'invisible' processes and events; and (3) 'continuous' vs. 'punctuated' social and environmental processes. We observe that in each case, social differentiation is key to understanding which temporal frames are most relevant in understanding observed land use dynamics. We conclude that, while these are not entirely new observations, research on the applications of remote sensing in social analysis of environmental change could be enriched by more rigorous examination of linkages between environmental change, temporal scale, and the social relations (including social differentiation) that can help to explain how and why particular temporal frames are most salient.
4602658|Sociobiological theory predicts that humans should not cooperate with large groups of unrelated individuals. This prediction is based on genetic models that show that selection acting on variation between large unrelated groups will generally be much weaker than selection acting on variation between individuals. Recently, several authors have presented related models of human evolution that integrate cultural and genetic transmission of behavior. We show that in such models group selection is potentially a strong force. Data on ethnocentrism is examined in the context of these results.
40603032|Research on agrarian changes in Southeast Asia has paid comparatively less attention to the processes of livelihood change in coastal regions. In the context of declining profitability in the fishing industry due to environmental degradation and overfishing, governments at multiple levels are heavily promoting tourism in the Philippines. This paper considers the ways in which coastal residents in the Calamianes Islands, Palawan province, negotiate these changes in the fishing and tourism industries. Despite the push for tourism as a more sustainable alternative to fishing, the experiences and priorities of coastal residents complicate this shift. The paper demonstrates that fishing is marked by increasing levels of intensification, and that tourism has the potential to exclude fishers from many of its purported benefits. These are two important trends that need to be taken into account when analysing livelihood change in coastal regions of Southeast Asia.
4602887|Between ca. 790 and 1000 AD, Scandinavian settlers occupied the islands of the North Atlantic: Shetland, the Orkneys, the Hebrides, the Faroes, Iceland, and Greenland. These offshore islands initially supported stands of willow, alder, and birch, and a range of non-arboreal species suitable for pasture for the imported Norse domestic animals. Overstocking of domestic animals, fuel collection, ironworking, and construction activity seems to have rapidly depleted the dwarf trees, and several scholars argue that soil erosion and other forms of environmental degradation also resulted from Norse landuse practices in the region. Such degradation of pasture communities may have played a significant role in changing social relationships and late medieval economic decline in the western tier colonies of Iceland and Greenland. This paper presents simple quantified models for Scandinavian environmental impact in the region, and suggests some sociopolitical causes for ultimately maladaptive floral degradation.
24013718|Mexico's 1992 agrarian counter-reforms opened up the country's vast network of common property regimes, known as ejidos, to the possibility of privatization. This study investigates the relationship between dynamic common property regimes and deforestation in the wake of policy reform among eight ejidos in southeastern Mexico. Using institutional analyses, land use/land cover change (LULCC) analyses and a Forest Dependency Index, we examine how land tenure arrangements relate to land use and forest cover change patterns. We demonstrate that informally privatized ejidos had larger individual landholdings, more land in use, and higher rates of deforestation. Commonly-held ejidos exhibited lower deforestation rates and, in some cases, forests provided economic benefits via community forest management. However, forest dependency did not correlate with low deforestation rates, suggesting alternative pathways for conservation.
27654277|This paper employs cross-tabular analysis, and multivariate and logistic regression to explore demographic, political-economic, socioeconomic, and ecological patterns of farm households and land use outcomes in an emergent agricultural frontier: the Sierra de Lacandn National Park (SLNP)-a core conservation zone of the Maya Biosphere Reserve (MBR), Petn, Guatemala. Data were obtained from a 1998 probability sample of 241 farm households, the first large detailed household land use survey in Guatemala's Selva Maya-the largest lowland tropical forest in Central America. Virtually all settler households were poor maize farmers who colonized the SLNP in search of land for subsistence. While they faced similar ecological and economic conditions, land use strategies and patterns of forest clearing varied with demographic, household, and farm characteristics. Findings support and refute elements from previous frontier land use theory and offer policy implications for conservation and development initiatives in the Maya Forest specifically, and in tropical agricultural frontiers in general.
40603033|This study investigates ethnobotanical uses of wild plants found on Honaz Mountain and its vicinity in Denizli Province in the middle Aegean region of Turkey. Eighty-one persons from 13 villages and six townships were interviewed. Nine hundred and sixty-four species, belonging to 60 plant families, were identified for which 381 different uses were recorded. Informants reported ethnobotanical uses for 19% of the identified species (184 out of 964): food (65), fodder (111), medicinal (119), firewood (28), handicrafts (16) and various other purposes (26). Medicinal tar production was particularly noted.
27654223|This paper examines small-scale fish vending in a southern African floodplain from two perspectives: as a link between natural resource use and consumption, and as a livelihood in itself. We used a combination of observation, surveys and semistructured interviews in a market in Katima Mulilo, Namibia, to determine sources of fish, preferences and constraints to vending, average investment and profit, as well different routes into fish vending and perceptions regarding vending. Most vendors come from fishing households, but their stock is often an accumulation of purchases from other fishers. There is little evidence of formal arrangements between fishers and vendors, yet most adapt to the highly variable natural and social environments of the region. Although all vendors ranked selling fish as their most important livelihood activity, a wide range of investment and profit exists among individuals. Our findings indicate that fisheries management proposed for the area must be developed with a careful understanding of how changes in access and use will affect vending livelihoods.
4602990|We describe details of Herero residential units and discuss the meaning of household among Herero ranchers of northwestern Botswana and conclude that there is no single meaningful household. Rather there is a dual system of local social units. From the male perspective, a household is a hamlet with the associated herd and huts or hut clusters within it. From the female perspective, a household is a hut or hut cluster with dependent children that she maintains and manages. There have been dramatic social and economic changes in this century. Herero were destitute refugees from a genocidal war in 1904, while today they are one of the wealthiest groups in the region. They suffered from infertility before antibiotics became available around 1960, so that the TFR has changed from about 2.7 to 7.0 in the last three decades. We discuss the effects of these changes on local organization.
40928153|This study addresses whether or not crop cultivation by Borana herders in southern Ethiopia is motivated by poverty since 80% of the households belong to poor wealth classes (i.e., poor, very poor and destitute). Yet our findings showed little evidence that Borana communities have become self-sufficient in grain production. Compared to wealthy households, poor households generally cultivated the least land and sampled households, producing yields only 31% of the Ethiopian national average. Grain per capita met only 26% of the annual requirement per person, equivalent to three to four months of self-sufficiency per household. The livelihood response model (LRM) developed for testing the relationship between extent of croplands and household wealth showed that poverty alone cannot be motivating herders to cultivate crops. Factors such as shortage of labor, lack of sufficient traction animals, and unreliable rainfall also need to be considered. Crop cultivation has not enabled selfsufficiency, but it has resulted in fragmented grazing lands. Future policies address changes in land use, including improving soil fertility through manure-nutrient transfers, by promoting better integration of crop cultivation and pastoralism. Research is needed to (a) understand household time allocation between crop cultivation and livestock management, (b) improve the LRM by considering temporal variability in the wealth of households and extent of cultivated lands, and (c) understand the role of poverty in motivating the adoption of alternative livelihood coping strategies.
4603209| This study is an ecological analysis of the use of resources by two potentially competitive groups, the commercial and recreational fishermen of Rio Grande, located on the border of the States of So Paulo and Minas Gerais. Tourism at Rio Grande was intensified after the construction of the hydroeletric plant of Marimbondo in 1974, and local fishermen have complained about its interference. Values of niche dimensions, such as fishing periods, grounds, and prey caught were obtained through data gathered at landing points. Local and recreational fishermen usually fish in different parts of the river and catch different fish, because they use different gear. However, in transition months between the wet and dry seasons, when fish are less abundant, there is conflict or competition related to fishing grounds, reinforced by the territorial fishing rights of local longline fishermen in this period. We show how ecological concepts, such as niche and competition, may help to understand strategies of exploitation by human groups, fundamental information for the management of tropical areas. 
4603391|Contractual national parks in South Africa are established on land owned either by the state or by a group of private individuals, but managed by South African National Parks (SANP) according to the terms of a joint management agreement drawn up by a joint management committee consisting of representatives from SANP and the landowners. Since majority rule in 1994, contractual national parks have been seen as a model through which the country's conservation as well as development objectives can be met, particularly where landowners are previously disadvantaged communites. This study looks at the Makueleke region of Kruger National Park in order to ascertain how successful the contractual national park model is in meeting conservation, social, and economic objectives for the area.
27654291|As neoliberalism continues to influence environmental governance, it affects notions about the appropriate level of community involvement in resource management. Under more recent iterations, hybrid forms of governance are emphasized, including governmentcivil society partnerships and approaches geared towards harnessing the strengths of local communities. Here we explore the characteristics of different resource management rights, strategies, and tools through which communities can find political space to assert their own agendas within a neoliberalized policy environment. We examine the successful use of some of these approaches by communities during the initial development of community forests policy and practice in British Columbia, Canada. While we confirm the complex, contingent and case-specific nature of opportunities for comanagement created through neoliberal policy elements, we suggest that space does exist for community forest bodies to assert local values, goals and strategies, demonstrating the creativity, ingenuity and determination of communities to attain a real voice in management.
4602284|Archeological findings provide the basis for analyzing the exploitation of deer by Powers Phase Indian hunters in the southeastern Ozarks circa A.D. 1300. Predatory patterns of wolves have been documented. It is hypothesized that men and wolves were complementary, noncompetitive predators and that their predation functioned to keep the deer population within the carrying capacity of the southeastern Ozarks. A model is developed to illustrate the predator-prey relationships in the area.
4602991|Previous analysis of Rendille household herd composition revealed a transition from camel to cattle ownership for sedentary impoverished Rendille pastoralists of northern Kenya. In an attempt to delineate determinants of livestock holdings, logistic regression analysis of 112 household herds from the Rendille settlement of Korr, Marsabit District, Kenya was undertaken. Results indicated that household wealth, measured in present livestock holdings, past drought losses, and livestock sales, formed better predictors of cattle ownership than did household characteristics pertaining to labor supply, wage earners, age-set membership, and birth order of household head. These results are discussed in light of pastoral strategies designed to minimize risk.
4603164|The colonial and post-colonial governments of Botswana and Zimbabwe pursued policies toward their indigenous minority populations which included the establishment of settlement schemes, removals of people from national parks and game reserves, and the imposition of restrictions on hunting by local people. These polices had the effect of dispossessing indigenous groups and reducing their access to resources crucial to their adaptive success. The impacts of these polices are examined using data on Tyua Bushmen in the Nata river region of northern Botswana and western Zimbabwe. It demonstrates that the kinds of conservation and development programs employed resulted in greater resource depletion, increased poverty, and social stratification. There is evidence that resource conservation programs can sometimes do more harm than good.
41433090|The Bay of Fundy along the southwest coast of New Brunswick, Canada is one of the most densely stocked finfish aquaculture areas in the world. An inshore multispecies fishery that dates back to the earliest European settlement shares these waters, and has been the economic mainstay of coastal communities. These inshore fishermen are increasingly displaced by the expanding aquaculture industry. A recent study conducted among fishermen in Southwest New Brunswick recorded their observations about the environmental impact of finfish aquaculture and the consequences for their commercial fishery. Fishermen all reported significant environmental degradation around aquaculture sites. Within 2 years of an operation being established, fishermen reported that gravid female lobsters as well as herring avoid the area, scallop and sea urchin shells become brittle, scallop meat and sea urchin roe becomes discolored. The use of chemicals to control sea lice on farmed salmon has also caused lobster, crab and shrimp kills. These and other concerns suggest that more comprehensive and detailed studies are required to establish the environmental and economic interactions of aquaculture and the inshore fishery, as well as on the stocks on which that fishery rely. The study also points to the need for more effective use of fishermen's knowledge in designing such studies.
41474585|The overexploitation of water resources in the region of South Bali, near one of the island's tourist centres, is exemplified by a subak in Sanur at the tail end of an irrigation system. Tensions between the social institutions for local water management and powerful, state-backed stakeholders in water distribution from the river Ayung have caused rural-urban water conflicts for the last 10-15 years. The case presented here illustrates how water shortages are ascribed to the dominance of the tourism industry, private companies selling bottled drinking water and regional water delivery services, all of which peasants hold responsible for crop failure in dry years. I focus on the emic perspective of the subak members on water scarcity caused by a lack of coordination between privatized and previously centralized water resource management based on economic priorities for the tourism sector and urban regions and water use for agriculture.
4602778|Traditional explanations of extensive land use on large unproductive estates in Latin American have failed to understand important aspects of the economic and political logic behind such enterprises. This article examines the reasons for the low productivity of cattle ranches over a period which spans the consolidation of haciendas in a frontier zone and their subsequent integration into the international beef market. The persistence of extensive land use in a modern export economy is explained as resulting from characteristics of the world beef market, local ecology, the Costa Rican credit and tax systems, and the social composition and political power of the landowning class.
4602533|An attempt is made to reconcile a popular view of the Bushmen or San of southern Africa with reality. Following an analysis of the assumed relationships of living hunter-gatherers with their Pleistocene forebears and modern neighbors, the identity of the San is explored using archaeological and historical evidence. Finally an alternative view of modern San, consistent with this evidence, is proposed.
4602559|The extinction of the Norse colony in West Greenland (ca A.D. 985-1500) has intrigued generations of historians, medieval archaeologists, and climatologists. This longstanding interest has generated a considerable body of basic paleoclimatic and paleoecological data, as well as a number of largely monocausal explanations for the communities' end. The 1976-1977 Inuit-Norse Project and a variety of recent geophysical and palynological studies have provided the greater detail necessary for a more systematic analysis of cultural adaptation and extinction in Norse Greenland. A dual maritime/terrestrial Norse subsistence economy, combined with a transatlantic trade and long-range arctic hunting, supported a hierarchical social organization and elaborate ceremonial architecture. Elite information management and economic decision-making seems to have been a source of ultimately fatal Norse conservatism in the face of fluctuating resources and Inuit competition.
4603263|The change from swidden to sawah cultivation in Tara'n Dayak villages in West Kalimantan, Indonesia, is presented as a long-term, complex incremental process in which distinct, unstable, and often confusing production technologies figure as transitional forms. The transitional phases are discussed in terms of their efficiency and sustainability. It is argued that the failure to perceive and understand long-term processes of agricultural change may result in both misinterpretation of technological patterns and environmental variables, as well as of rules of labor and resource sharing.
4603383| Efforts to stimulate more intensive land use must be based on a solid understanding of current farmer strategies and the factors that drive them. This paper discusses the influences on agricultural strategy among farmers in Petn, Guatemala, and more specifically, their adoption of more intensive practices. Existing theoretical frameworks pertaining to agricultural intensification are based on a limited number of explanatory variables and thus provide an incomplete understanding of farmer strategy and of how and why it varies among farmers and communities. A more useful analytical approach is to consider the wide range of factors at both the regional/community scale and the farm/household scale that influence farmers' need, desire, and ability to alter their production strategies. An analysis based on this approach indicates that conservation and development organizations in Petn should place greater emphasis on the rural economy and on fostering the conditions that would stimulate more intensive, sustainable land use. 
4602445|In a recent work on the Tzotzil (Maya) of Chiapas, Mexico, George Collier has suggested that indigenous groups frequently employ agricultural practices which are in "obvious disequilibrium" with their environment. As a result, he claims, such groups bring about the permanent destruction of their lands and forests. In this article, historical and demographic evidence is presented to demonstrate that the development of commerical agriculture outside of native communities, not overpopulation or technological conservatism within them, lies at the heart of such destruction. Finally, it is argued that anthropologists must consider the evolution of social classes in rural areas if they are to understand the difficulties which economic development entails.
4602787|Research on visual blight has been predominantly qualitative and has pointed out salient attributes of blight: that it is durable, visually demeaning, and somehow aesthetically depressing. Data from a national sample (n = 3005) are used in this study to measure the effect of demographic variation on the perception of visual blight. The perception of blight shows marked and regular variation with socioeconomic status, marital status, and religiosity.
4602344|This article reviews research concerning interpersonal distance as a function of interpersonal relationships, attraction, and reactions to spatial invasion. To integrate research findings, we propose a simple model, based on the idea that people seek an optimal distance from others that becomes smaller with friends and larger for individuals who do not expect to interact. The model describes comfort-discomfort as a function of interaction distance in three situations: interacting friends, interacting strangers, and strangers who do not expect interaction. These three personal space profiles are discussed in terms of qualifying variables, such as seated vs. standing interaction, sex composition of the dyad, intimacy of conversation topics, and situational variables.
40928137|Market-based economic incentives are increasingly perceived as a cost-effective approach to biodiversity conservation but empirical evidence to substantiate this claim is lacking. Using both qualitative and quantitative data analysis this paper investigates the potential role of market incentives to increase venison production as a mechanism to resolve conflicts over wild red deer management in the Scottish Highlands. Our analysis suggests the approach is unlikely to be effective because investments in venison production would bring conflict with more important non-pecuniary objectives of landownership such as 'sporting quality' and 'exclusivity'. At a broader level we urge caution when considering the deployment of economic instruments to resolve contemporary conservation conflicts where profit maximisation is not the dominant objective and/or where the target group is extremely wealthy.
23280265|Environmental governance research has paid insufficient attention to scholarship on values even though environmental values is a well-studied field. This paper begins to unpack the relationship between values and governance with a particular focus on protected areas governance and in light of ideas such as the distinction between held values and assigned values. We report on research from four case studies in Canada, Ghana and Tanzania, each of which investigated the values, interests and objectives of people in a rural community and ways in which these are reflected, or not, in governance arrangements for an adjacent protected area. Despite very diverse contexts, two held values that were encountered in each of the four case studies could be described as responsibility toward future generations and respect for and appreciation of nature. The existence of what may be universal values does not negate the importance of culture and place: similar held values are translated, through the particular circumstances of different individuals, communities and cultures, into a diversity of assigned values, interests and positions. The attention that governance processes have given to local people's fundamental held values in three of the cases, and the ignoring of such values in the fourth, have had important implications for the relationship between community members and the adjacent protected area. We argue that systems for governance would do well to explicitly engage with values by supporting local articulation of values and by facilitating dialogue and deliberation amongst diverse stakeholders around their values.
4602412|It is proposed, on the basis of evidence from geological history and paleoclimatology, that annual grasses and legumes did not appear as significant components of the vegetation of Asia until the Neothermal, some 11,000 years B.P. The new combination of environmental factors which then became operative induced a widespread physiological and genetic change from a perennial to an annual habit in ecoclimatic zones in which annual types of ancestral perennials had not earlier occurred in any number. The annual prototypes of the Asian cereals and grain legumes therefore became rather suddenly and abundantly available to primitive man in his still biological ecosystems. Once this botanical revolution had occurred throughout the isoxerothermic zones around the inner cores of Asia, progress towards what came to be called civilizations, based on increasingly economic agricultural ecosystems involving cultivation and domestication of crops, followed in a gradual step-by-step manner.
4602623|The cultural coefficient of similarity, or probability that two individuals learn the same idea from a common ancestor, is offered as an explanation for patterns of helping behavior in human societies. A cultural-transmission model predicts that when maternal influence in offspring learning is predominant, matrilineality will evolve in a culture. Other predictions about the form of matrilineal and patrilineal societies are made from the model and contrasted to a sociobiological explanation of matrilineality.
23353198|Shifting cultivation is a dominant land-use system in Laos, and fire is the tool commonly used to clear fallow vegetation for subsequent cultivation. We assessed the feasibility of active fire data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) for monitoring fires in Laos. Specifically, we investigated the potential of the active fire data as input into monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) systems to assess the effectiveness of measures related to Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation plus the enhancement of forest carbon stocks (REDD+). Our qualitative and quantitative accuracy assessments of the fire data yielded mixed results with varying degrees of undetected fires and false detections. Hence, at IPCC Tier 3, the uncertainties inherent in the detection accuracy become too large. Active fire data can be valuable for supporting national-level MRV at Tier 2 in combination with auxiliary data for characterizing fire-dependent local land-use systems, such as shifting cultivation.
24015749|Identifying and interpreting the heterogeneity of farmer behaviour is becoming increasingly important in support of policy- and decision-making goals. This paper explores whether observed differences in farming practices can be interpreted from the heterogeneity of farmer behaviour. Farmer attitudes and objectives were analysed using a combination of principal components and cluster analysis applied to responses to statements in a telephone-based survey. Respondents were classified into four profiles; business-oriented, lifestylers, multifunctionalists and traditionalists. Each profile differed in terms of farm management practices, the amount of land farmers either managed or owned, the existence of successors and the importance placed on household members in providing information. The results suggest that knowledge of farmer behavioural profiles could support more targeted policy development that accounts for alternative farmer goals. However, similarities were also found between the profiles, suggesting that farmer behaviour would be better interpreted as a dynamic set of identities, rather than as static profiles.
4603542|Trade theory predicts that the expansion of markets induces households to specialize and intensify production. We use plot-level data (n = 64) from a panel study of 2 village and cross-sectional data from 511 households in 59 villages of Tsimane' Amerindians (Bolivia) to test the predictions. Results of bivariate analyses using both data sets suggest that as households integrate into the market economy they: (1) deforest more, (2) expand the area under rice cultivation, the principal cash crop, (3) sell more rice, and (4) intensify production by replanting more and by replanting newly cleared plots with maize, another cash crop. Results mesh with predictions about production specialization and intensification of trade theory. The analysis also produced results running counter to predictions from trade theory. For example, households and villages more integrated into the market planted more cassava and rice varieties, intercropped more, and put more crops in new fields than more autarkic households. Although the expansion of markets induces specialization and intensification in selected cash crops, it does not erase completely agricultural diversity. We hypothesize that despite the expansion of markets, households retain agricultural diversity because the market does not yet provide modern forms of self-insurance or well-functioning labor, credit, and product markets that would allow households to protect food consumption when faced with shocks. Without better insurance mechanisms, some agricultural diversity might still allow households to smooth consumption.
4602290|A historical review of human ecology as it developed in geography, anthropology, sociology, and psychology indicates that this science's ambiguity has been perpetuated by the reluctance of academicians in specialized disciplines to work collaboratively. While human ecology is considered a unifying science, few attempts have been made to reconcile differences among disciplinary self-interests, thereby preventing interdisciplinary approaches to contemporary man-environment problem solving. Human ecology will remain a debatable, ambiguous, and fragmented science unless present barriers to cooperative effort are overcome and the various disciplines unite in seeking solutions to current societal problems.
4602848|An ancient, sustainable, and low risk Colocasia taro monoculture has persisted until modern times among the Mountain Ok peoples of central New Guinea. There is a monoculture-polyculture axis in the region with taro monocultures predominant in the rain forests of the mid-altitude fringe. We argue that when examined from the standpoint of ecosystem simplification, biological variability, and subsistence vulnerability, the taro monocultures exhibit many ecological and systemic properties commonly attributed to polycultures. Monoculture is not an exclusive category; specific cases must be placed in a broader context of the larger ecosystem and the options people have at their disposal. Reduction of the taro monoculture is occurring in response to modernization pressures.
27654178|Defining historic grazing pressures and rangeland management is vital if early landscape threshold crossing and longterm trajectories of landscape change are to be properly understood. In this paper we use a new environmental simulation model, Bmodel, to assess two contrasting historical grazing landscapes in Mvatnssveit Iceland for two key periodsthe colonization period (ca. Landnm, A.D. 8721000) and the early eighteenth century A.D. Results suggest that there were spatial and temporal variations in productivity and grazing pressure within and between historic grazing areas and indicate that land degradation was not an inevitable consequence of the livestock grazing introduced with settlement. The results also demonstrate the significance of grazing and livestock management strategies in preventing overgrazing, particularly under cooler climatic conditions. The model enables detailed consideration of historic grazing management scenarios and their associated landscape pressures.
25652759|This article investigates the impact of transnational environmental organizations on rural people involved in conservation by exploring the impacts of the Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species of Flora and Fauna (CITES) ivory trade ban on Namibia's elephant conservation policy. This case study examines how rural African people are put into categories of 'conservation heroes' or 'environmental villains' by local conservation practitioners, government officials in Namibia and transnational conservation actors. Findings indicate that the approach of state officials and conservation organizations (CO) results in incomplete representations of both rural African people and the cultural importance these people attach to elephants. The article concludes that current environmental narratives associated with rural African people have been used as powerful 'tools of persuasion' at the state and international level to support and legitimate conservation policy and resource use in relation to the concerns of transnational environmental actors to the exclusion of rural African people.
4603578|The limitations of Community Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM) with respect to the difficulties of comparing local versus scientific knowledge categories within a bounded definition of 'community' were investigated by means of a study exploring local indigenous knowledge pertaining to harvesting technique, and the impact of soil and species type on the post-harvest coppice response of popular savanna fuelwood species, among rural inhabitants of the Bushbuckridge region of the Limpopo Province, South Africa. Soils and plants were evaluated chiefly in terms of their perceived ability to retain precipitation, making rainfall a driving force in local understanding of environmental productivity. Some indigenous knowledge showed an agreement with biological data, but overall the variability in responses, as well as the diverse scales at which indigenous and scientific knowledge is directed, were too great to allow for simplistic parallels between local ecological indices to be made. Indigenous environmental knowledge was underscored by the perceived symbolic link between environmental and social degradation. It is recommended that environmental managers incorporate indigenous knowledge as a component of a systems-level approach to natural resource management, where biological, cultural, economic, and symbolic aspects of natural resource use are nested within a broader ecosocial system. This approach to indigenous knowledge is offered as an alternative to the simple scientific evaluation that so often characterizes environmental management.
4603136|Landsat TM scenes for 1985 and 1991 are used to produce a georeferenced map of land cover and land use for an area of the Amazon estuary inhabited by three populations of caboclos with distinct patterns of land use. This information is combined in a geographic information system with ethnographic and survey research carried out over the past 5 years to develop representative spectral "signatures" which permit measurement and differentiation of land uses and the detection of change even between small areas of managed floodplain forest and unmanaged forest, and between three distinct age/growth classes of secondary succession following deforestation. Implementation of these procedures permit the scaling up or down of research at different resolutions. Three distinct patterns of land use are examined with differential impact on the environment. Mechanized agriculture at one site has eliminated virtually all the mature upland forest and is now dominated by secondary successional vegetation. The more traditional system of diversified land use at the next site shows a subtle cycling of flooded forest to managed palm forest through time in response to the price of palm fruit and cycling in the use of fallow land. A third site, based on palm fruit extractivism, shows minimal changes in land cover due to persistent specialization on management of flooded forest extraction. There is little evidence that the community with the greatest impact on forest cover is any better off economically than the two communities which have minimal impact on the landscape. This study suggests how a balance between use and conservation in Amazonia may be achieved in floodplain and estuarine areas, and the effectiveness of monitoring these types of land cover from satellite platforms.
41474593|This research is an empirical examination of institutional developments in Afro-Colombian communities that have occurred since the change in the property rights regime in 1991.1 surveyed 82 local leaders of 42 communities to understand whether these communities have succeeded in designing and implementing rules to manage their collective land and its resources. I found that the new property regime has not replaced individuals' informal land holdings, which are still managed as de facto individual private property and are traded in the informal land market. However, the process of collective titling has changed local environmental governance by creating local rules and legal tools to guard against encroachment by intruders. Beyond the establishment of formal property rights, the process of community and authority building based on the expectation of collective titling has begun to formalize the management of the territory. Communities with and without collective titles have promoted new rules and procedures to manage their resources. However, monitoring and enforcement of the rules are weaker than expected.
4603514|Previous studies have shown that shade trees in cacao and coffee are important habitats for inter-American migratory birds. A survey of 21 cacao farmers along the northern, central, and southern Pacific Coast of Ecuador found that shade trees are associated with unirrigated, traditional cacao varieties and low levels of chemical inputs. Farmers stressed the importance of shade for managing soil moisture and soil fertility, and for managing some weeds and diseases. Most of the shade trees were not wild forest trees, but had been planted and protected by the farm families. Many other trees are intercropped with cacao for economic reasons, not related to shade. Chocolate manufacturers, consumers, and environmental activists can encourage farmers to maintain shade canopies by paying a premium for the traditional, shade-loving, highquality aromatic cocoa varieties.
4603565|This study explores the individual and collective rationality of livestock accumulation in pastoral production using data gathered in northern Kenya. Results suggest accumulating wealth in livestock even when facing the prospect of sudden dramatic loss makes sense at the household level, and that there is limited empirical support to the contention that herd accumulation at the household level imposes a cost on other households. I conclude by arguing the record of failure in pastoral development may be at least partially due to a faulty conceptual foundation, and suggest facilitating herd accumulation may offer more promise than discouraging it.
25652769|Brazil has one of the greatest bird diversities in the world, with around 1,800 species. However, many species are now threatened by illegal capture and trade that is largely driven by the culture of keeping wild birds as pets. This study documents the nature and purpose of bird capture and trade in the semi-arid Caatinga biome in northeastern Brazil, which has around 510 bird species and a population of around 25 million people. Data were obtained through observation in the homes of bird keepers and at open air markets, as well as through semi-structured and open-ended interviews and informal conversations with 52 wild bird keepers. We recorded 38 species of birds kept as pets in this study. The family with the largest number of species recorded was the Emberizidae (29%), followed by the Columbidae (16%) and the Psittacidae (16%). The most frequently kept species were: Paroaria dominicana, Aratinga cactorum, Icterus jamacaii, Sporophila albogularis, Turdus rufiventris and Cyanocompsa brissonii, which are all native to this region. Among the recorded species, only Pintassilgo (Carduelis yarrellii) is listed as an endangered species in Brazil. Of the people interviewed, 32% observed a reduction in abundance, or disappearance, of several bird species in the region. The need for measures aimed at the sustainability of wild avifauna use is therefore evident. These include law enforcement, commercial breeding and environmental education, of which the last is considered the most likely to be effective.
4603103| Local plants are a very important resource for the community of Gamboa, located at Itacuru Island, Sepetiba Bay, State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Ninety species of plants, belonging to 40 families, are used for a variety of purposes, such as food, construction, handicraft, and medicine. In a survey medicinal uses for plants were the most quoted by the community. Uses of medicinal plants within Gamboa and with other coastal communities are analyzed using diversity indices. Use by different categories of people based on sex, age, and economic activity was compared and significant differences were found among the groups compared, except for economic categories (fishermen and non-fishermen). The theory of island biogeography is shown to be useful for analyzing different levels of resource uses on different islands. 
4603360|Modeling of soil systems is an essential approach to discussions of the historical dimensions of soil sustainability, but as yet there has been no formal testing and application of such models. In this paper we first test the ability of the CENTURY agroecosystem model to predict soil organic carbon levels in anthropogenic plaggen soils from ethnographic and historical land management information of manuring practices on the Shetland island of Papa Stour. Observations suggest that the model makes accurate predictions and can be used to develop and test hypothetical land management scenarios. Results suggest that within historic time the arable areas of Papa Stour were manured at a level above that required to maintain soil organic carbon levels, and consequently the hill-land source of organic material was overexploited with no real apparent gain. Modeled evidence suggests that short-term observations of soil organic carbon levels would indicate a greater degree of manure application than was actually required over the longer term. Successful use of the CENTURY model in this historic context suggests that it may be applicable to questions of soil sustainability in other areas of the North Atlantic region.
27654180|Focusing on contemporary shellfish exploitation among several atoll communities in Kiribati, Micronesia, this paper examines the relationship between human foragers and their invertebrate prey via the prey choice or diet breadth model derived from optimal foraging theory. Shellfish, like many other reef organisms, are relatively sedentary and predictable, but these characteristics make them susceptible to over-harvesting. The research reveals that shellfish gatherers are foraging in a manner that matches the predictions of optimal foraging theory. The work adds to our understanding of optimal foraging decisions in atoll settings by critically evaluating the depiction of atoll dwellers as conservationists.
4603350|Although food sharing has been observed in many traditional societies, we still do not have a deep understanding of how various ecological conditions produce variation in who gives and who receives specific resources. To understand better the behavioral ecology of food sharing, we present data collected with the Hiwi of Venezuela and focus on two questions: (a) How do characteristics of food resources and acquirers determine how much is transfered to others? (b) How do characteristics of nuclear families A and B influence how much is transferred between A and B? We use path modeling in an attempt to tease apart the relative contribution of biological kinship, geographical proximity between households, family size, and quantities family B gave to family A on the expected quantities that family A gives to family B. Reciprocal altruism is shown to be an important link in the chain of factors, but not in the tit-for-tat form common in theoretical treatments of reciprocity.
4603093|High population growth and deteriorating economic conditions imperil Africa's natural environment. Conservationists are trying to cope with the threat by working in rural communities. Yet it is unclear whether they can be effective when social and economic change in rural areas is so rapid. Northeast Swaziland provides a case study. The landscape has been transformed since the 1950s, and conservationists are the only people now giving nature conservation a high priority. Land uses incompatible with local nature reserves are supported because they provide jobs. Thus, conservationists find themselves facing a world where wildlife is increasingly devalued as the forces of change accelerate. This paper concludes: (1) conservationists must expand their influence into rural communities, (2) an integrated develo;ment and conservation plan is required for northeastern Swaziland, and (3) only the alleviation of poverty will secure the future of nature conservation in Swaziland as well as the rest of Africa.
24013751|Dust in its myriad forms impacts human existence in arid environments; but dust is more than an environmental nuisance. It shapes and reshapes adaptive response and human ideology over the short and long term. In 2011, the Gila River Indian Community (GRIC), Arizona, U.S.A. sponsored a study of dust entrainment within the jurisdiction of its airshed. The study's primary objectives were to determine the relationship between sediment sources and sinks in premodern contexts and how indigenous people have coped with eolian activity since intensive settlement of the Middle Gila River Valley began. Ethnographic and archaeological sources indicate that people respect winds and observe cultural procedures consistent with their origin and to reduce their ill effects. Geomorphic data also show stratigraphic correspondence between relic wash channels and adjacent terrace and sand sheet deposits demonstrating a long history of eolian activity derived from fluvial sources. Climatological data from PM10 "exceedance events" corroborate anthropological analyses indicating that extreme dust events are typically westerlies and occur during exceptionally dry periods. Eolian dust is part of the ambient ecosystem of the GRIC and should be viewed as such within the modern cultural and regulatory environment governing these emissions.
4602877|This paper presents an analysis of household variables and their relationship to success in cash cropping among the Gainj of Madang Province, Papua New Guinea. Censuses and household surveys from 1978, the year in which cash cropping began, and 1983 provide data that show different patterns of change in household structure for more and less commercially successful households. The results illustrate the importance of women's labor in economic development and the dynamic nature of the relationship between household structure and economic development.
4602637|Accounts of Southwest Asian pastoralism often suggest that wealth in animals is volatile. However, no systematic study has been undertaken to determine either the potential for herd increase and loss or the likely long-term implications of this potential. Drawing on an analysis of data from teh Komachi nomads of south-central Iranand other Southwest Asian pastoralists, this paper addresses these questions. It argues that, contrary to conventional expectations, (a) Herds inthe region do not show potential for dramatic increase; (b) radical shifts in individual economic sttus are unlikely to occur through normal gains and losses; and (c) to the extent that short-term gains or losses of individual holdings do occur, long-term economic differentation within a population can be expected.
4603409|Kiribati underwent dramatic changes in laws governing access to intertidal resources as a result of colonial intrusion. In recent years, the impact of population growth, urbanization, more efficient extractive technologies, and expanding market opportunities have prompted island councils to adopt by-laws to protect existing resources. However, there remains the challenge of enforcing territorial rights. Several approaches that might lead to a viable tenurial system include alternative short-term gains, cooperative ventures, and the judicious application of TEK (Traditional Ecological Knowledge) as an instrument for resource management. The first two are seen as preconditions for the success of the third because of the insights they provide within the context of behavioral ecology. This theoretical approach and associated models caution us from essentializing the environmental outcomes of human behavior by showing the lack of a resource conservation strategy. These aforementioned solutions for ensuring sustainable development of the intertidal zone are discussed based on fieldwork among several atoll communities in Western Kiribati with a focus on shellfish gathering.
4603583|A large complement of Australia's biotic web is dependent on a regular regime of burning, much of which is the result of firing by humans. Many researchers have suggested that moderate and repeated burning by Aborigines is a tool designed to enhance hunting efficiency. We present the first test of this with data on contemporary Martu Aboriginal burning and hunting strategies in the arid spinifex savanna of the Western Desert during the cool-dry season (May-August). Our results show a strong positive effect of mosaic burning on the efficiency of hunting burrowed prey (primarily conducted by women), but not larger mobile prey (primarily conducted by men). We suggest that regular anthropogenic disturbance through burning in Australia's Western Desert may be important for sustaining biodiversity and habitat mosaics, but these effects may be maintained primarily by women's hunting of burrowed game. We discuss the implications of these results for understanding variability in hunting strategies, issues of conservation, and land management policy for the region.
40343976|Swidden agriculture, once the dominant form of land use throughout the uplands and much of the lowlands of Southeast Asia, is being replaced by other land uses. While change and adaptation are inherent to swiddening, the current rapid and widespread transitions are unprecedented. In this paper we review some recent findings on changes in biodiversity, especially plant diversity at various scales, as swidden farming is replaced by other land uses. We focus particularly on two areas of Southeast Asia: northern Thailand and West Kalimantan. We examine actual and potential changes in the diversity of crops that characterize regional swidden systems, as well as that of the spontaneously occurring plants that appear in swidden fields and fallows. Severe declines in plant diversity have been observed in most areas and at most spatial scales when swidden is replaced by permanent land use systems. However, shifts away from swidden agriculture do not invariably result in drastic declines or losses of biological diversity, but may maintain or even enhance it, particularly at finer spatial scales. We suggest that further research is necessary to understand the effects of swidden transitions on biodiversity.
4602285|Selected contributions to the study of environmental public policy are reviewed in the context of the difficulties faced in making such studies cumulative. The information obtained for a preliminary directory of students of environmental public policy is outlined and briefly analyzed. The directory itself is presented.
4603167|This paper, an account of the Shetland Islands oil spill (1993), examines the public health controversies surrounding the spill and the clean-up response. It critically examines the risk management policies of both the United Kingdom and the Shetland Islands Public Health Office, and suggests that the withholding of critical information contributed to increased anxiety and suspicion among the disaster victims. In an attempt to reassure the victims, the policies contributed to an increased air of uncertainty. It is further argued that the withholding of information prevents those who are at greatest risk from participating in critical decisions that may affect their health and livelihoods and asserts that a right-to-know policy is a critical first step in risk management practices.
4603292|Diversification in agricultural techniques is a common strategy of risk minimization in nonindustrial societies. However, attribution of suboptimal behavior to risk minimization without consideration of the structure of risk and its environmental context obscures the complexity of agricultural decision-making. The productive potential of a prehistoric agricultural system that includes flood-water and dry farming and stream irrigation is modeled using Geographic Information System (GIS) analysis to evaluate whether diversification occurred as a response to population pressure or as a risk buffering strategy. The estimated productive potential of floodwater and irrigation farming is sufficient to have supported the estimated local population, suggesting that risk buffering is a more likely explanation. Floodwater farming and stream irrigation form a dual strategy that is effective at reducing risk. However, the potential of dry farming for subsistence production is insufficient for buffering more than a 2% productive shortfall. We propose that, within this generally risk-averse economy, dry farming was oriented toward the production of nonsubsistence crops such as cotton.
27654310|Borana pastoralists in southern Ethiopia are faced with the challenge of developing more efficient and sustainable use of natural resources. In past decades poorly adapted development interventions and inadequate land-use policies aggravated by population growth have weakened pastoral rangeland management. Ignoring pastoralists' technical and organizational capacities has contributed to progressive land degradation, the erosion of social structures and poverty. The Endogenous Livestock Development concept recognises pastoralists' indigenous knowledge-based strategies and priorities, and uses them as the bases for further development of their production system and social relations, to be utilized, improved and combined with modern technologies. This paper explores the Borana pastoralists' adaptive strategies for improved utilization of natural resources and the manner in which they respond to environmental risk and external influences such as water development and new formal administration. The adaptive responses include controlled integration of crop production and protection of grazing reserves, as well as changing cattle breeding priorities and the adoption of camel husbandry. The pastoralists have started negotiations with the administration to regain control of land utilization by strengthening directives for settlements, land use pattern and extraction rates. To support these initiatives the study recommends that pastoralists and other stakeholders enter into an institutionalized process of negotiation that builds on indigenous knowledge and organizational structures and facilitates validation and implementation of newly generated knowledge.
24015742|Interactions of indigenous peoples with the surrounding non-indigenous society are often the main sources of social and environmental changes in indigenous lands. In the case of the Suru in Brazilian Amazonia's "arc of deforestation," these influences are leading to deforestation and logging that threaten both the forest and the sustainability of the group's productive systems. The Suru tribal leadership has initiated a proposal for an economic alternative based on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD). This has become a key case in global discussions on indigenous participation in REDD. The realism of the baseline scenario that serves as a reference for determining the amount of deforestation and emissions avoided by the proposed project is critical to assuring the reality of the carbon benefits claimed. Here we examine the SIMSURUI model, its input parameters and the implications of the Suru Forest Carbon Project for indigenous participation in climate mitigation efforts.
24017345|Rural areas of the developing world have become increasingly integrated into the world economy through both production and consumption during the last decades. This growing integration shapes the development of communities and influences their relationship to the natural environment. Where livelihoods are constrained by resource limitations and the productivity of labor in farm activities is low, it may result in a shift to nonfarm activities, which may under some conditions improve wellbeing and relieve pressure on natural resources. The possibility of such a "win-win" development pathway has important implications for development and environmental policy. In this article we use original qualitative and quantitative data to examine environmental and social changes during the last half century in a rural area of Morocco, seeking evidence of such a pathway. While our case study supports the hypothesis that nonfarm diversification in a context of resource scarcity allowed people to improve their material living conditions, the effects of economic integration and nonfarm diversification on the environment were mixed.
4603157|Using case material on the exploitation of groundwater in Balochistan Province in Pakistan, the article studies how resource management regimes evolve or fail to evolve. Incipient resource management regimes face two problems: the definition of access rights and the lack of knowledge on the limits and regenerative capacities of the resource as well as on the behavior of the co-users. These problems will usually be addressed as soon as increased exploitation makes itself first felt in declining groundwater exploitation, though this does not necessary mean that the resource is exploited at levels that are not sustainable. As exploitation will continue to increase however the point of overexploitation may be reached, beyond which it will be much more difficult for a resource management regime to evolve.
4602558|A tendency for fertility to be higher among middle-class women than among lower-class women has been found in all the recent sources of data on fertility levels and patterns in Indonesia. After briefly reviewing these findings, this article presents the results of a community study in rural Java which systematically investigates the positive relation between fertility and socioeconomic status, focusing on the so-called intermediate variables (first inventoried by Davis and Blake in 1956) which directly determine fertility. Differential patterns of marital stability, secondary sterility, and the practice of postpartum abstinence in particular were found to contribute to the contrasts in fertility levels observed. The use of modern contraceptives, a recent innovation at the time of the study, was found to a greater extent among middle-class women, and may prove to be an important determinant of future patterns of fertility and fertility differentials.
4602731|Experience with irrigation schemes designed to improve the productivity of subsistence farmers in Latin America seems to parallel the results of the green revolution in Southeast Asia. Although in some cases the impact on the productivity has been significant, in far too many cases the pervasive pattern of inequity has been reinforced. This case study of the Irrigation District of Zapotitan in El Salvador analyses some of the reasons for the unexpected results, with particular reference to the planning process. It essentially illustrates that the transformation of subsistence agriculture through irrigation demands new institutions designed not only to service agricultural production but also to ensure the accrual of benefits on the targeted group.
41474629|The aim of this study is to investigate the health impact of the introduction of new food resources into the Spanish diet in the early Modern Age. For this purpose we compare the pathological conditions of teeth from skeletal remains dating from the Middle (Mediaeval) Ages (11th15 th century) with others of the Modern era (16th18th century), sampled from historic cemeteries of north Iberia (Spain). Dental alterations like abscesses, periodontitis, calculus and dental wear, indicate oral hygiene and habits, and linear enamel hypoplasia (LEH) is considered as an indicator of nutritional status. Significant decreases of LEH occurred in Modern Age individuals in comparison to Mediaeval values, suggesting the positive influence of increased diversity of nutritional resources mainly due to intercontinental (America-Europe) trade.
27654175|This study documents indigenous knowledge of breeds of cattle, sheep and goats in southwestern Niger, and includes both pastoralists and agropastoralists. Our study included sheep and goats in view of the increasing importance of small ruminants in livestock production systems in the Sahel since the drought of the 1970s and 1980s. This study was carried out under the Desert Margins Program (DMP) project on arresting land degradation and the conservation of biodiversity in desert margins of sub-Saharan Africa, partly funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF).
4602569|Archival and ethnographic research carried out in northeastern Tanzania provides evidence of significant changes in production and consumption of staple food crops between 1850 and the present. The banana, which provided the bulk of calories and other nutrients in precolonial times, has been successively replaced by Irish potatoes, maize, and cassava in different localities. The reasons for the adoption of each of these introduced crops are explored, and their implications for human nutrition in the area are discussed.
4603145|Over the past 10 years, Ghusel VDC, Lalitpur District has moved from primarily subsistence agriculture into the wider cash economy aided by the Small Farmers' Development Program (SFDP), which provides credit to farmers mainly for the purchase of buffalo for milk production, and by the National Dairy Corporation, which supports local dairy cooperatives. Analysis reveals that buffalo-keeping and milk sales are increasing the well-being of many households, while at the same time creating new inequalities in gender roles and responsibilities, greater inequities between Brahmin and Tamang residents in Ghusel, and placing pressures on the ecosystem for increased supplies of fodder and fuelwood. Evidence suggests that there is critical, need for attention to the social, and particularly gender-based, implications of maintaining livestock for milk sales and to the ecological underpinnings of this livelihood system.
4603333|Following the widespread application and success of Bongaarts' proximate fertility framework in the 1980s, anthropologists and demographers have shown increased interest in the delineation of distal fertility variables, alternatively called "higher-order" by cultural ecologists or "ultimate" variables by evolutionary ecologists. This shift in focus raises at least four immediate issues: (1) confusion over the role and effect of culture on individual members' behavior, (2) whether the individual or the group forms the basic unit of analysis, (3) discordance between external and internal perspectives of demographic regimes, and (4) difficulty comparing and evaluating quantitative survey-based data with qualitative information derived from focus groups or key informants. This paper presents one approach to dealing with these problems, featuring the assessment of anthropological and demographic data collected for Rendille pastoralists of northern Kenya, a group long cited in both anthropological and demographic literature as regulating their fertility in relation to ecological factors.
4603342|There is a prohibition on the use of modern external inputs, such as chemical fertilizers, in Baduy swidden farming. Ordinarily, the consequence of this in a situation of acute forest pressure would be a decrease in fallow times, and an inevitable depletion of soil fertility. The Baduy (particularly Outer Baduy) have several ways of alleviating this problem, one of which is the introduction of Paraserianthes (Albizia) falcataria. By alternating this commercially valuable perennial leguminous tree with rice, soil fertility is maintained and the socio-economic position of the Baduy improved. As a result, swidden farming, which is considered by the Baduy to be central to their cultural identity, continues to be viable, despite increasing population density and the continuing depletion of mature forest.
40981187|This paper describes and analyses how discourses of conservation and development as well as migrant labour practices can be understood as transnational dynamics that both cement and complicate transnational relations. It also looks into how these dynamics articulate with, shape and are being shaped by 'the local'. Focusing on the north-eastern boundary of Lesotho in the area of the 'Maloti-Drakensberg transfrontier conservation and development project', we show how conflictual situations put the ethnographic spotlight on the ways in which 'local people' in Lesotho deal with dual forces of localisation and transnationalisation. We argue that they accommodate, even appropriate, these dual pressures by adopting an increasingly flexible stance in terms of identity, alliances, livelihood options and discourses.
41474623|Literature on conservation and land reform politics concentrates on how local actors are characterized dualistically as either environmental villains or heroes. Here I present three different frames as exemplary of the multiple narratives at stake as actors create environmental subjectivities in relation to political opportunity, based primarily on ethnographic field research in a case study of Projects for Sustainable Development (PDSs) located in the Transamazon highway region of the Brazilian Amazon. I argue that local identities are mediated by their shifting relationships with other interested actors. Through a historical analysis of different frames of identity and land use, I examine how and why representation struggles occurred and shifted, based upon the ways in which powerful actors took advantage of political opportunities. This led to indeterminate outcomes in different local struggles across the region. In the process, local voices were often undermined in favor of interests of more powerful outsiders. The political process through which such struggles occur yield geographically and socially uneven effects contingent upon key events and contestation from disparate groups.
4603359|Theories of agrarian change in Africa normally treat agricultural intensification as a linear unidirectional process that gradually engulfs entire agrarian systems as human population increases. Focusing on soil management practices, this paper disputes the alleged uniformity of intensification and argues that periodic, contrary processes may occur simultaneously. Written and oral historical data, and survey data describing current farmers' practices and perceptions of change in densely settled Maragoli, western Kenya, are used to support this argument. Farmers' soil fertility management practices have changed in response to migration, social differentiation, and economic change, and the interplay between changing social and ecological conditions. Despite rapid population growth, Luhya farmers manage their soils both more and less intensively in response to this interplay and create a heterogeneous pattern of management in space and time. The implications of this variability for contemporary applied agricultural research in the region are assessed.
40928139|Parallels exist between the academic theory of a dwelling approach to resilience and the Indigenous Stewardship Model developed on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota. In both approaches, sustainable resource management depends on a practical environmentalism that creates linkages between local community members and their surrounding ecosystem. Research on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation reveals that Lakota people possess a conservation ethic that stems from their physical connection to place. However, tribal, state, and federal land policies create structural barriers that reduce access of Lakota households to the land, which in turn reduces adaptability and resilience in their ecological practice. To overcome these barriers, Lakota households envision local stewardship of reservation lands and resources. Particular emphasis is placed on the intergenerational transfer of knowledge to Lakota youth, to transcend local and political conflict, and to reestablish social and cultural relationships with the reservation's ecology.
4602251|The ecological and social bases of spatial organization among hunters and gatherers are examined. After criticizing the patrilocal band model of social organization, the author documents the flexible, nonterritorial groupings of the !Kung Bushmen of Botswana and relates them to rainfall and surface water scarcity and variability. The paper goes on to consider the effects of extra-Bushman contacts on the breakdown of sociospatial organization and finds that the observed flexibility occurred in both the pre- and the postcontact periods. The final section attempts to relate the analysis to general issues. Three areas that need further work if a more valid model of hunter spatial organization is to be developed are the problems of time perspective in research, adaptation to long-term climatic variability, and critical thresholds of population density.
4603037| Information is presented on fishing effort, efficiency, techniques, and catch composition for Pum men, women, and children along with a conceptual model of fishing as a food procurement strategy. The Pum are a native lowland South American group living in the topical savanna region of southwestern Venezuela characterized by seasonal flooding. Results are discussed in relation to the Pum environmental and social situation, and briefly compared with results from other lowland South American groups. 
4603141|The rate of rain forest clearing throughout central Africa is of national and international interest because it affects both the region's contribution to global warming and impacts the sustainable productive capacity of its natural resource base. The size and inaccessibility of much of central Africa makes remote sensing imagery the most suitable data source for regional land cover mapping and land transformation monitoring. Present image availability is poor. Most regional studies have had to rely on coarse resolution AVHRR 1 km data that fails to detect the small-scale agricultural clearings that are the primary cause of land cover change throughout the region. This study demonstrates that higher spatial resolution Landsat MSS imagery, which comprises the most available, geographically comprehensive and longest time series dataset, is too coarse to map land cover in low population density areas typical of most of central Africa. Furthermore, this study cautions that the use of high resolution imagery without detailed collateral field data on population density and land use practices while generating superficially plausible results, will most probably produce highly inaccurate estimates of land cover and land transformation. Policies for future regional remote sensing surveys of central Africa should focus on acquisition of higher spatial, spectral, and radiometric resolution imagery and must be accompanied by detailed, systematic field data collection.
24013715|Ecosystem-based planning and management have stimulated the need to gather sociocultural values and human uses of land in formats accessible to diverse planners and researchers. Human Ecology Mapping (HEM) approaches offer promising spatial data gathering and analytical tools, while also addressing important questions about human-landscape connections. This article reviews and compares the characteristics of three HEM approaches that are increasingly used in natural resource management contexts, each focused on a particular aspect of human-environmental interactions. These aspects include tenure and resource use (TRU), local ecological knowledge (LEK), and sense of place (SOP). We discuss their origins, provide examples of their use, and identify challenges to their application. Our review serves as a guide for environmental managers, planners, and communities interested in gathering spatial data on aspects of human ecology important in ecosystem-based management and planning, and for scientists designing socioecological research.
27654190|Attention to institutional arrangements has become integral to research on forest management and conservation. While strong institutions typically are associated with better forest conditions, few institutional studies have evaluated the influence of underlying biophysical factors on forest conditions. Our research compared institutional arrangements and forest conditions across nine forests in Guatemala and Honduras while accounting for biophysical characteristics. Statistical analyses found that soil nitrogen concentration, annual temperature, and annual rainfall were positively correlated with better forest conditions. Better forest conditions were in turn associated with stronger institutions. In part, the results suggest that the biophysical characteristics most favorable for high productivity, given the socioeconomic context, constitute an incentive for strong institutions. One common-property forest presented strong institutions with very good forest conditions, but stronger institutions and better forest conditions in this region typically occur with private property. The situation reflects historical contexts that have supported private property and undermined common property. The findings indicate that efforts to improve natural resource management should recognize the biophysical factors and historical contexts that facilitate or constrain strong institutions.
40928150|Nearly 60% of the world's human population is malnourished and the numbers are growing. Shortages of basic foods related to decreases in per capita cropland, water, and fossil energy resources contribute to spreading malnutrition and other diseases. The suggestion is that in the future only a smaller number of people will have access to adequate nourishment. In about 100 years, when it is reported that the planet will run out of fossil energy, we suggest that a world population of about two billion might be sustainable if it relies on renewable energy technologies and also reduces per capita use of the earth's natural resources.
4602534|Britain, a nation with the most organized water system in the world, suffered a protracted drought in 1975-1976. This paper casts doubt on the assumption that its causes were natural, especially in rural areas, and presents some general principles regarding the process of responding to water supply problems. The past and present water situation of Britain is described, and an account of the course of the drought and responses to it is presented.
4603178|A Brazilian Indian village divided into several settlements during the 1980s. In this article, the political ecology approach is used to account for the process whereby this occurred. Data on ecology, subsistence practices, demography, and regional dynamics are presented. Analysis of results explores the articulation between shifts in population levels both in the region and in the Indian reservation, on one hand, with environmental stresses on reservation resources. The effects on national economic development programs on the regional and local levels are also discussed. The relationship between these policies and programs, on one hand, and alterations in local production systems are made explicit.
4603585|Participatory research documented the hunting yields of 59 households in five neighboring indigenous villages in western Panama. These households captured 2,580 kg of game over 8 months, with 47% of the harvest coming from agricultural areas. The quantity of game captured in anthropogenic habitats is influenced by the hunting strategies employed. Only 25% of game captured during hunting trips was captured in agricultural areas, as opposed to 93% while "awaiting" and 65% using traps. Reliance on different strategies is in turn dependent on age, gender, and access to firearms. I argue that garden hunting is not a response to game depletion, but rather a productive activity that is complementary to broader cultural and economic patterns, and that simultaneously protects crops from animal predation. The creation of heterogeneous habitat mosaics through shifting cultivation has played a key role in the relationship between people and wildlife in the humid neotropics, leading to adjustments in both animal foraging patterns and indigenous hunting practices.
41432990|Benefits from wild edible plants (WEP) are multiple for rural households as well as urban traders. To set species priorities for WEP market development and domestication, we performed an inventory of WEP species and traders in five markets and one road-side selling point in Kisangani. During four one-month sessions between September 2007 and July 2008, all WEP traders present in the target markets were interviewed. We registered 119 unique sellers, selling 15 different WEPs. The September-October period and 'March Central' were the most important for WEP trade in Kisangani. Added values and net incomes generated through WEP sales were very divergent. Four types of traders could be distinguished. Gnetum africanum trade involves the more dynamic traders. Cola acuminata, Garcinia kola and Piper guineense spices have local and international market potential. Within the wild fruits category we propose Landolphia owariensis and Tetracarpidium conophorum as priority species for local market development.
4603373|Prior to 1975, agriculture in Ethiopia was organized largely under feudalistic/imperial arrangements. The Ethiopian military government (1974-1991) issued the Land Reform Proclamation in 1975 which nationalized and redistributed most of the agricultural land among rural households. Land redistribution was meant to achieve equal land area per household and improve agricultural performance. Sale of land and hiring of agricultural labor were prohibited and there were fears that livestock would be nationalized. Following the ousting of the military regime in 1991, there has been a reduction of the imperfections in rural factor markets. Results from a field survey in the central Ethiopian highlands indicate that selling, hiring, renting, and exchanging of agricultural land, farm labor, and animal traction are increasing. These changes will influence agricultural production in many ways, particularly if reform with respect to rural factor markets is encouraged and accorded appropriate policy support.
4602635|This paper investigates the relatinship between fertility and domestic adjustments that people have made to changing conditions of production and consumption in a rural community in western Guatemala. Present and past systems of production and the domestic factors affecting the timing of family formation and the incidence of sexual activity within unions are described. Analyses of variance for demographic variables among three productive sectors reveals that the greatest changes in fertility over time have occurred inthe families of labor-intensive garlic producers and in those of poor dasketmaking specialists. The results are discussed as direct and indirect outcomes of earlier family formation due to recurrent labor crises and chronic subsistence stress.
41474668|Over the past few decades there has been increasing attention paid to 'shared' forms of governance and to the creation of new protected areas (PAs) that are designed to address 'non-biological' goals and values. The rationale for these initiatives has, in part, been based on the belief that well-designed systems of protected area governance will help to deliver desired outcomes and meet linked sociocultural, economic and environmental objectives. Addressing these questions has become increasingly important in British Columbia, where a number of First Nations are asserting increasing control over existing state-run protected areas, as well as establishing new protected areas and designing governance systems for them that deliver outcomes consonant with cultural beliefs, values and goals. This paper reports on an in-depth case study of the Tla-o-qui-aht Tribal Parks and the Pacific Rim National Park Reserve, with a focus on comparing how these physically adjacent protected areas with different objectives each attempt to meaningfully engage the Tla-o-qui-aht First Nation in PA governance.
41474620|A recent archaeological survey demonstrates that one of the most durable of all forms of pre-Columbian landscape transformation, Amazonian Dark Earths (ADE; soils formed by pre-Columbian settlement), are widespread along the course of the Madeira River, Central Amazonia, Brazil. We hypothesize that processes of crop cultivation and management by human populations today in landscapes that were intensively transformed during the pre-Columbian period will diverge from those in environments where human agency has not left such a heavy footprint. In order to test this hypothesis, we compare bitter manioc fields, homegardens and secondary forests on ADE with those on non-anthropogenic soils along the lower and middle Madeira River. We demonstrate that crop species and landrace populations diverge on anthropogenic and non-anthropogenic soils as a result of the interaction between human selection and management, soil physical and chemical properties, and plant responses over time. Hence, crop species selection and abundance and therefore agrobiodiversity is contingent on anthropogenic soils in Central Amazonia.
25652776|Tibetans in five villages in the Mount Khawa Karpo area of the Menri (Meili Xueshan in Chinese) range, Northwest Yunnan, People's Republic of China, were interviewed about their knowledge of a number of medicinal plants and their uses. There was large variation in people's knowledge with significant differences among the villages and between men and women. Most of the reported knowledge focused on a small number of commercial plants and their uses. In comparison with Tibetan doctors, villagers generally knew fewer applications and focused on general health remedies. Many people collected medicinal plants for their own use as well as for sale, but also obtained medicinal plant remedies from markets and Tibetan doctors, and often used traditional Tibetan healthcare in conjunction with biomedical treatment.
4603602|For over a century the Mexican state has justified its control of forests by claiming that rural people are ignorant and destructive fire setters, in the face of abundant evidence to the contrary. Academic and popular stereotypes of the state have tended to assume that official power and kowledge go hand in hand. In an institutional ethnography of the Mexican environment agency, SEMARNAP, I show how official ignorance is deployed both within and outside state forestry institutions, and how ignorance and complicity may be as important as knowledge in asserting state power. Rather than internalizing official fire discourse, rural people in Mexico learn to mouth polite fictions in their encounters with officials. I argue that the scholarship on governmentality derived from Foucault has uncritically internalized the link between power and knowledge. A closer attention to the production and translation of knowledge within state institutions leads to a more nuanced understanding of various forms of obscurity and ignorance which accompany official knowledge claims.
40928151|Most of the existing anthropological literature that recognizes human-animal interaction as being at the core of nomadic pastoralism focuses on nomads as the only active agents of this interaction. Nomads interact with their animals by either adapting their actions to animal behavior or by changing this behavior in ways to suit them. Based on empirical material from two groups of reindeer herding nomads in northern Russia, we suggest that human-animal interaction in nomadic pastoralism can be better understood as being the result of a dynamic mutual behavioral adaptation. In the process of this adaptation, animals change their behavior in response to the herders' actions, which in turn leads to a responsive change to herders' patterns of actions, etc. We argue that this approach can account for the differences in both animal behavior and herding technologies across nomadic pastoralist cultures, as well as for some of the divergent developments within these cultures.
4603394|Recent analyses of timber exploitation in Amazonia conclude that a variety of socioeconomic and ecological factors in the region make a stable and profitable logging industry virtually impossible. Most of these studies focus on large-scale timber industries and their dependence on over-exploitation of a small number of high-value timbers. In this article we discuss the economic, ecological, and social aspects of Amazonian logging in a region where the timber industry appeared to have collapsed after stocks of high-value timber were exhausted. We show that forestry in a post-boom phase, currently found in many areas of Amazonia, differs from the better-described "boom" period in its scale of operations, in the range of timbers cut, in management practices employed, and in the costs and benefits of production. Results of a seven-year study show that when sawtimber, poles and firewood are produced in a management system that combines forestry and agriculture they can provide significant additional income for Amazonian smallholders.
4602809|In northern France and Europe the population trebled after 1000 and then ceased to increase about 1300, before the Black Death caused an abrupt decline. The birthrate, as indicated by number of surviving children, increased and then declined. Death rates increased after 1250 and, of course, during the Black Death. Migration (assarting) was high after 1100 but ceased by about 1250. The evidence about resources, disease, and internecine strife is compatible with this scenario which can be predicated based on other animal populations.
4603539|The impact on human ecology of the ivory trade entailed direct and indirect effects. First, the reduction or extermination of elephant populations had direct effects on the vegetation patterns over large areas. Second, the economic activities connected with hunting, transport, and trading affected regional systems of exchange and thereby, indirectly through the political economy, settlements, patterns of resource utilization, population parameters, and specialization of production. Ethnohistorical information from the 1800s suggests how coastal goods interacted with regional systems of exchange and environmental exploitation. Although such information cannot be directly projected onto the more distant past, it can be used to establish some possible pathways through which the hunting of elephants and transportation and trade of ivory could have affected the ecology of human resource use.
40928152|More than 50% of Nepal's population lives in the hill regions, usually with small land holdings, and over 60% are considered below the poverty line. Livestock, and particularly goats, provide these small-scale farmers with about 55% of their on-farm income. We studied goat production in Katteldanda, a mid-hill village of 78 households, mainly Brahmins, in Ghorka District. Subsistence farmers raise six or seven goats and one or two buffalo, and cultivate mainly maize, millet and rice. Tree fodder constituted about 70% of dry matter intake of goats for large parts of the year and was collected by lopping branches from trees on upland, rain-watered, private terraces (bari) near the household compound. Local farmers ranked the fodder trees they considered best and we measured the actual fodder they offered to goats. In addition, we evaluated and ranked 23 fodder species on the basis of laboratory in vitro nutritional and metabolizable energy yields. Using a Mantel test, a significant correlation was found between what the farmers thought was best fodder and fodder offered to goats (Mantel r= 0.398; P= 0.037) but non-significant correlations were found between either what the farmers thought was best fodder or fodder offered to goats and laboratory rankings (Mantel r=-0.027; P=0.49 and Mantel r=0.187; P=0.18, respectively). We concluded that biomass produced and availability throughout the year, in addition to nutritional and energy yield, are important criteria for selecting fodder trees for goat production.
40928149|One of the most important questions facing resource management is how to regulate industries exploiting natural resources. Currently there is an effort in the Maine lobster industry to get lower trap limits, which provides an opportunity to get detailed information on the political factors influencing legislation in an important and highly successful industry. In many industries, including the Maine lobster industry, many laws come in the aftermath of conflict between industry factions seeking laws to get distributional benefits. In the Maine lobster industry, the politics of getting lower trap limits are byzantine. Two factions have different models of the fishery, leading them to advocate different policies. The positions of people in each faction are very complicated. Those favoring a lower trap limit assume the industry is highly inefficient and that a lower trap limit would result in better catches per trap haul, lower costs of operations and higher profits. Some of those opposing a trap limit assume fishing more traps will lower profits; others assume it will raise profits. Those opposing lower trap limits offer five different sets of reasons for their viewpoint. To date, efforts to impose a lower trap limit have been blocked, but a number of factors could change the strength of the factions and tip the balance. In this industry, resource management policy is being made in an atmosphere in which different industry groups are pulling in different directions for complex sets of reasons.
4603140|Coral reef bleaching is an obvious indication that coastal marine ecosystems are being stressed. However, bleached reefs alone are poor indicators because they reflect the final stages of stress. This research project used multidate satellite imagery to look for coral reef changes as indicators of stress. Findings suggest that (1) satellite imagery can be used to identify small-scale changes in coastal marine ecosystems, including coral reefs; (2) remote sensing, marine ecology, and ethnographic data can be integrated to suggest potential causes of coral reef stress; and (3) changes in reef, seagrass, and mangrove ecozones are more closely tied to fishing, tourism, and land use practices than to global warming.
27654157|Rapid urbanization in Africa leads to a spatial concentration of people with different cultural origins and socioeconomic backgrounds resulting in a great diversity of life styles and livelihood strategies. One common strategy in Maroua/Cameroon and Bobo-Dioulasso/Burkina Faso is urban sheep keeping. Cluster analyses identified distinct socioeconomic groups with similarities between the towns: traditional livestock keepers, households headed by well educated government employees or traders, and more vulnerable groups formed of households headed by females, retired people or people with limited formal education. The household types in Bobo varied in their perception of the importance and the development of urban sheep keeping and their future plans. Those in Maroua differed in management intensity and in the potential to adapt their practices to the urban environment. Development interventions to reduce environmental pollution and risks for human health associated with urban sheep keeping need to account for these differences in the target group.
4603225|Since 1987, Penan foragers in Malaysia have been increasingly affected by the activities of logging companies, and have protested this with blockades. Simultaneously, they have become the focus of a broad-based international environmental campaign. This paper examines the rhetoric of that campaign. In particular, I examine the ways in which Western environmentalists have constructed Penan land rights with reference to Penan knowledge of the landscape and of the biotic elements which exist there. Further, I consider how environmentalists have drawn on ethnographic accounts, and how those accounts are transformed in the process of generating images deployed in the campaign.
4602510|A hypothetical model concerning the structure of aboriginal California trophic systems is presented. The dynamics of each possible state of the system is generated theoretically and then tested using previously published data. It is determined that a state of competitive coexistence of a fish-regulated predatorprey competition relationship between the deer and human populations limited the growth of both populations and should be considered a determinant of aboriginal California population levels.
27654257|This research uses Landsat Multi-Spectral Scanner of 1973, Thematic Mapper of 1989, Advance Earth Observing Satellite of 1996, and Enhanced Thematic Mapper of 2003 imagery to examine the effects of socioeconomic and demographic factors on land use and forest cover dynamics in the Bara district of the Central Tarai Region of Nepal for 19732003. These satellite images are used to generate three transition matrices for 19731989, 19891996, and 19962003; and the outcomes of the final transition matrix are compared with the land use and cover patterns seen on the IKONOS (1  1 m) 2003 images. This paper contributes to our understanding of how land use and cover dynamics correspond to national-level socioeconomic developments, demographic changes, and environmental awareness as envisioned by Ecological Modernization Theory. It also demonstrates how such a set of transition matrices generated from different resolution images helps assess these explanatory relationships at different temporal and spatial scales.
25652765|Traditional institutional rules, values, and beliefs help support conservation regimes of natural resources in many indigenous communities. Such traditional conservation regimes may break down as a result of influences from the outside world. This paper examines two cases in Taiwanthe Tao communities on Orchid Island and the Atayal community in Smangus. The former illustrates a process in which traditional institutions supporting local conservation broke down as a result of external influences, leading to the loss of the local community's ability to govern the use of a coastal fishery. The latter, in contrast, demonstrates how local people are able to adapt their traditional institutions to meet the challenges from the outside world while preserving a local forest. The paper concludes by examining factors that affect institutional adaptation in community-based conservation of natural resources.
4602403|Often unwittingly, scientific theory relies heavily upon literary metaphors which influence both the motives and the consequences of scientific endeavor. Human ecologists would do well to assess the implications of conventional metaphors which have been popular in traditional science, and to consider a newer picaresque mode better suited to the complexities of human ecology and to the temperament of modern consciousness.
4602523|This article presents a multiple regression analysis of demographic and social data for 335 wards in 17 American cities in 1890. The most important findings are: (1) Density effects on mortality were uniformly positive and statistically significant; the magnitude of these effects was much greater for child mortality than for adult mortality; and child mortality was more sensitive to persons per dwelling than to persons per acre. (2) Unsanitary conditions, as measured by the city-specific typhoid fever death rate, significantly increased mortality and child mortality was much more sensitive in this respect than adult mortality. (3) Given the same age composition and population density, foreign-born whites, native-born whites, and the colored population had about the same adult death rate.
4603027| Optimal foraging theory is being used increasingly as a means of understanding human foraging behavior. One of the central assumptions of optimal foraging theory is that prey items or patches are encountered sequentially and as a Poisson process. Using empirical data gathered on the Bar hunters of Venezuela, we assess the validity of this central assumption. We compare our observed distribution of encounter frequencies with an expected Poisson distribution, utilizing chi-square tests and graphic representations. The results are strikingly consonant with the expected Poisson distribution and lend support to the applicability of optimal foraging models to human hunting behavior. 
4602781|Water has historically been a critical limiting factor affecting community development throughout the American West. Within the Little Colorado River Basin of northeastern Arizona, abundant groundwater resources enabled local agricultural communities to overcome the limitations of unstable surface-water sources. However, industrialization has led to sharp increases in groundwater consumption in the basin and to a decline in groundwater levels and/or quality at several locations. This paper examines the broader historical and regional implications of recent groundwater changes in the basin. Emphasis is placed upon the relationship between local developments and the rapid expansion of metropolitan centers in southern Arizona.
4603467|This paper considers the promise that geographic information systems (GIS) hold for addressing complex historical questions. Using may experience as an environmental historian who has used GIS in a case study of the Kickapoo Valley in Wisconsin, I examine social and ecological processes of rural transformation during the twentieth century, and how these processes have shaped modern property rights debates. The multiscale range of GIS brings out the crucial issue of scale in the Kickapoo Valley's environmental history. Spatial analysis offers an important picture of landscape dynamics and land ownership in the Valley since the 1930s. Together with historical methods, GIS maps help explore the ways in which residents have constructed their own stories about property and the environment. These cultural narratives include the economic inevitability of land concentration and fragmentation, ethnic differences in land use, local places vs. the federal government, and local communities vs. newer outsiders. Results from the GIS illustrate my argument that change on the ground over many decades--rather than any inherent ideological resistance to federal policies--might better explain contemporary debates over private and public property. Finally, I use this research to outline the dilemmas faced by scholars in the humanities and social sciences who want to incorporate GIS into their own interdisciplinary studies.
27654183|Evidence of a pile-dwelling community and seral environmental conditions during the late Mid-Holocene (ca 4,0003,000 years b.p.) is explored through archaeological data and paleoecological information from the Bilbo Site at the mouth of the Savannah River along the Georgia coast, U.S.A. It is argued that pile dwellings were a central feature of the cultural adaptive system, allowing settlements to be located in wetlands that provided optimal access to the evolving food resources of multiple, dynamic environments. It also is suggested that the adaptive strategy included residential stability and a more complex organizational structure than that exhibited by modern huntergatherers living in marginal environments.
4603556| This article examines transformations associated with changes in resource use and land cover dynamics in the community of So Manoel, Maranho state, in the eastern Brazilian Amazon. The shifting cultivator peasants in So Manoel integrate swidden fields for annual cropping, the extraction of babassu palm products, and pastures for cattle ranching. Since the early twentieth century, predominant vegetative cover patterns have been altered from species-rich mature forests to secondary succession with babassu dominant to pasture or swidden fields containing palm stands of various densities. A grounded political ecology of resource use in the area suggests that management strategies and the resulting land cover dynamics integrate site-specific decisions of peasant producers. I discuss the trajectory of production strategies in So Manoel since the establishment of the community in the 1920s, and identify the multiple dimensions affecting resource use and environmental outcomes, with an emphasis on the period following land struggles and the recovery of peasant tenure rights in the mid-1980s. The analysis indicates that socionatural trajectories that optimize resource use and address the socioeconomic needs of the community include the maintenance of palm/pastures associations. 
4602964|Kubo people of Papua New Guinea sometimes grew Dioscorea yams in mounds of forest litter that were made as egg-incubation sites by birds (Megapodiidae). The small yam plots were included within larger banana gardens and, in the latter, it was yams, not bananas, that took precedence in the gardening decisions of people. The technique would be viable in the absence of a larger garden. It is interpreted as an expression of an ancient pattern of small-scale plant domestication.
41474624|Here we hypothesize that the intensity of disturbances caused by human activities in Brazil nut stands (castanhais) is positively related with the regeneration of Brazil nut trees (Bertholletia excelsa H.B.K., Lecythidaceae) and consequently with a younger population structure of this species. In order to test this hypothesis we compared the population structure of Brazil nut trees in two areas of the Brazilian Amazon with different histories of land usage by humans. Archeological and historical data suggest that the region surrounding the Trombetas River was densely occupied in pre-Columbian times and experienced depopulation after European contact with Amerindian populations, especially in the 16 th century. The 25 Brazil nut stands sampled in this region were dominated by old B. excelsa trees and had scarce recruitment in the understory. These very mature stands likely owe their origins to the interval between the depopulation of the indigenous peoples in the 16 th 17 th centuries and the establishment of quilombos at the beginning of the 19 th century. The second study area was in the vicinity of the Madeira River (Capan Grande Lake), where the castanhais were more accessible and disturbed. In this site, a younger population structure and abundant regeneration of B. excelsa were observed in the 10 sampled stands. Historical data from this region indicate that indigenous populations were replaced gradually beginning in the 18 th century, with no evidence of severe depopulation. We suggest that the different historical and contemporary land use patterns contributed to the current contrasting population structures of the castanhais at the two locations. The data also support the idea that the castanhais, even the ones considered to be pristine and "native" forests, result from anthropogenic influences. We found no evidence to support restrictions on seed harvesting as a means to improve regeneration rates of Brazil nut stands.
24013753|Hunting is often either portrayed as the ultimate means to enact a close connection between the human being and nature, or investigated in terms of its contribution to livelihoods. Through in-depth interviews and focus group discussions, we explored the meaning of hunting in the lower Omo valley, Ethiopia, and found that large game hunting was best understood as an activity that served to establish and maintain humanhuman relationships. Hunting was important as it created the basis for long-term bond-relations between a hunter and his friend ('misso') and a hunter and his honorary elder sister ('misha') that could be drawn on in times of hardship. By contrast, interactions between hunter and wildlife were given hardly any attention by our participants. We discuss implications in relation to the stark decline in wildlife and the degradation of grazing land over the last decades, and the consequences of our findings for conservation and development activities.
4602996|This article analyzes agroforestry practices among the Ndia and Gichugu Kikuyu of Kirinyaga, Kenya, at the turn of the century, before the onset of colonial rule. It describes ways in which people adapted to competing pressures for retaining and removing tree cover. It shows how religious beliefs, tenure relations based on a communal property-rights regime, and farm forestry practices contributed to the conservation of trees. Such strategies were not aimed at reversing deforestation, but mitigating its impact by incorporating valued trees into local sociocultural and household production systems. The article points out that indigenous agroforestry practices need to be viewed in the context of local socioeconomic and ecological differences. It also considers the impact of the caravan trade on land use during the late 1800s. Tree scarcity in the late precolonial era is briefly contrasted with the area's "woodfuel crisis" of the 1980s.
41474639|Use of the terms "wild" and "feral" characterizes ongoing debate over management of free-ranging horses. However, the focus on terminology tends to obscure complex differences in meanings and cultural perception. Examining a case study in the Chilcotin region of British Columbia, we explore how the terms "wild" and "feral" distract from the underlying issues at stake in management of horses and the landscape: different ways of valuing, understanding, and relating to land and animals. To be effective in the long term, and to avoid an unwitting continuation of outdated culturally biased land management practices, future decisions regarding management of lands and free-roaming horses in the Chilcotin would benefit from an integrated process informed by both ecological and socio-cultural information.
27654221|Poor fishers in Bangladesh have been disadvantaged by policies that favored powerful people leasing fishing rights. Community-based management was expected to improve fisher access, livelihoods, and the sustainability of fisheries. The impacts of community management in three floodplain waterbodies differed according to the environment and property rights. Where a set of fishers jointly held exclusive rights to a small enclosed lake they increased production by stocking fish and shared the returns. This strategy is productive but attracts competition for profits and fish consumption was unchanged. Access to capture fisheries in floodplain waterbodies enables the poor to catch diverse small fish for their consumption. Yet sustainability requires limits on fishing. Fish sanctuaries were respected, yet catches per day fell when more people from several villages increased fishing effort in a large wetland, while a tightly knit community restored the fishery in a smaller floodplain. Community organizations will need recognition of their long-term use rights to overcome future threats.
4603456|Carbohydrate food sources have emerged as a critical factor limiting occupation of rainforests by hunter-gatherer peoples globally. In the wet tropics bioregion of northeastern Australia, Kuku-Yalanji aboriginal people occupied the rainforests through a hunter-gatherer subsistence economy prior to European occupation. Collaborative environmental research between a researcher at the James Cook University and Kuku-Yalanji people has established that their fire management protected carbohydrate resources in the fire-sensitive rainforests and their margins, and ensured ongoing access to the critical dry season carbohydrate resource, Cycas media, growing in patches of fire-prone open forest on each clan estate. Carbohydrate resources in the wet season were obtained predominantly from seeds of rainforest tree nuts, a high proportion of which are wet tropics endemic species. Several of the genera utilized by aboriginal people in the wet tropics bioregion also occur in the rainforests of eastern Cape York Peninsula, where they were not utilized as foods. It is hypothesized that use of rainforest seeds for carbohydrate is a cultural adaptation that occurred in the wet tropics bioregion, stimulated by the unique availability of the substantial number of large-seeded rainforest trees that are wet tropics endemics. The implications of these data for concepts about the impact of aboriginal fires on Australian rainforests are considered. Aboriginal fires imposed a fine patterning on the vegetation at the local scale, with little effect on the vegetation at the regional scale, which is determined by environmental factors.
24017348|Many conservation policies advocate engagement with local people, but conservation practice has sometimes been criticised for a simplistic understanding of communities and social context. To counter this, this paper explores social structuring and its influences on conservation-related behaviours at the site of a conservation intervention near Pipar forest, within the Seti Khola valley, Nepal. Qualitative and quantitative data from questionnaires and Rapid Rural Appraisal demonstrate how links between groups directly and indirectly influence behaviours of conservation relevance (including existing and potential resource-use and proconservation activities). For low-status groups the harvesting of resources can be driven by others' preference for wild foods, whilst perceptions of elite benefit-capture may cause reluctance to engage with future conservation interventions. The findings reiterate the need to avoid relying on simple assumptions about 'community' in conservation, and particularly the relevance of understanding relationships between groups, in order to understand natural resource use and implications for conservation.
27654140|The literature on ecosystem management and assessment is increasingly focusing on social capacity to enhance ecosystem resilience. Organizational flexibility, participatory approaches to learning, and knowledge generation for responding adequately to environmental change have been highlighted but not critically assessed. The small, flexible municipal organization, Ecomuseum Kristianstads Vattenrike (EKV) in southern Sweden, has identified win-win situations and gained broad support and legitimacy for ecosystem management among a diversity of actors in the region. Navigating the existing legal-political framework, EKV has built a loose social network of local stewards and key persons from organizations at municipal and higher societal levels. As a 'bridging organization', EKV has created arenas for trust-building, knowledge generation, collaborative learning, preference formation, and conflicts solving among actors in relation to specific environmental issues. Ad hoc projects are developed as issues arise by mobilizing individuals from the social network. Our results suggest that the EKV approach to adaptive comanagement has enhanced the social capacity to respond to unpredictable change and developed a trajectory towards resilience of a desirable social-ecological system.
4603220|National parks are the keystone institutions of environmental conservation. Because national parks make certain lands part of the state itself, international agencies and nongovernmental organizations that promote national parks propose, in effect, to alter the state, as well as the local economy and state relations with social groups. Has international political pressure caused states to create national parks? I consider whether countries highly involved in international politics have the largest proportions of land in national parks. I conclude that many states create minimal park systems as symbolic gestures to the international community. Field researchers may find it easier to explain the success or failure of parks if they identity why state officials decide that adopting international conservation norms will enhance state authority over people and state sovereignty over land.
41474610|In marginal and complex agricultural environments, modern varieties of rice have been scantily adopted by resource-poor farmers. This is due, on the one hand, to farmers' nonexistent or reduced access to agro-chemicals, irrigation facilities, and seeds, and on the other hand, to the fact that they did not fulfil the farmers' socioeconomic and cultural priorities and needs. An understanding of farmers' criteria for variety selection is key to promoting effective plant breeding and achieving broader aims of food security and food sovereignty. Based on extensive ethnographic field research, this paper discusses rice biodiversity management strategies and the experimental skills and knowledge of Southern Guinea-Bissau farmers against the backdrop of failures by development interventions to introduce modern rice varieties. I conclude that the present cereal crises and environmental concerns should reshape researchers' exclusive priorities on genetic engineering in order to identify economically valued landraces, and promote their dissemination through participatory seed self-sufficiency approaches.
4602780|The catchment-ecosystem concept is adapted to investigate the nutrient-budget of the highly-modified Colebrooke drainage basin in Northern Ireland. Anthropogenic inputs, mainly manures and fertilizers, account for 86% of the nitrogen and 96% of the phosphorus added to the catchment. These inputs greatly exceed the streamflow outputs, thereby indicating that the flow of nutrients is dominated by agriculture. This is explained by the transformation of traditional mixed farming into more intensive livestock production and is linked to policies encouraging increased agricultural production, amalgamation of farms, afforestation, rural depopulation, and urbanization. Substantial increases in the N and P output of the catchment and further eutrophication of the recipient lake, Lough Erne, are predicted without the implementation of policies to reduce agricultural nutrient losses.
23280267|Addressing global fisheries overexploitation requires better understanding of how small-scale fishing communities in developing countries limit access to fishing grounds. We analyze the performance of a system based on individual licenses and a common property-rights regime in their ability to generate incentives for self-governance and conservation of fishery resources. Using a qualitative before-after-control-impact approach, we compare two neighbouring fishing communities in the Gulf of California, Mexico. Both were initially governed by the same permit system, are situated in the same ecosystem, use similar harvesting technology, and have overharvested similar species. One community changed to a common property-right regime, enabling the emergence of access controls and avoiding overexploitation of benthic resources, while the other community, still relies on the permit system. We discuss the roles played by power, institutions, socio-historic, and biophysical factors to develop access controls.
4603029| Analysis of Bar collection of loricarid species suggests that the length of time that has elapsed since each collecting site has last been exploited significantly guides site selection. Information on "patch recovery time," gathered through intra-village monitoring of independent foraging groups, allows foragers to choose those sites with a high probability of generating good returns. Comparison of actual returns with those predicted by a model of random site selection indicates that the observed pattern of patch exploitation increases the return of kilograms of loricarids for time invested in foraging substantially above that predicted by random returns to sites. The saving of time as well as the increase in food afforded by this system represent currencies for evaluating the value of information on patch recovery time. 
4602842|In recent years, many rural Third World communities have suffered from the gradual degradation of the natural resources on which they depend. The Kilenge people of West New Britain, Papua New Guinea, offer such an example. The paper examines some of the nutritional, economic, social, and political impacts of these changes on the individual, on the household, and on the community in one Kilenge village. It argues that there may be alternatives to dependent development for this community. It concludes that redirected priorities can assist indigenous communities like Kilenge to achieve sustainable self-directed economic improvement.
27654278|Overexploitation of Neotropical ecosystems for wild meat constitutes a threat to biodiversity and might seriously affect local people who depend on wild animals as a primary food resource. To assess this problem at the local level, social use of wild animals was evaluated in a Mayan community of the Yucatan Peninsula. Over 8 months, peasant-hunters carried out a total of 175 hunting trips, gathering 253 animals of 12 species (mammals, birds and reptiles). Most preys (95%) were taken in 4 months (JanuaryApril) during the dry season and the main target species were white-tailed deer and iguana (jointly representing 59% of preys). During an 11-week period, total per capita wild meat consumption (182 kg; n=14 families) was three times greater in nuclear than in extended families. The observed wild fauna use is a reflection of traditional knowledge and represents an important subsistence strategy for the local people.
41432989|This study develops criteria for classifying the actor groups shaping frontier development along the Transamazon Highway colonization project in the Brazilian Amazon, as a basis to improve understanding of their specific contributions to environmental degradation and socio-economic development. Based on an analysis of responses to questionnaires by 93 colonists representing different migration trajectories, production systems, socio-economic strategies and deforestation patterns, actor groups could be statistically classified according to their type of production and level of capitalization. A property size threshold discriminating small and largeholders in the study area is presented and compared with previous attempts to establish such a threshold. Largeholders practicing large-scale cattle ranching and smallholders practicing diversified family agriculture were found to be the two predominant colonist types. Smallholder farming practices were found to be more appropriate to the local environmental conditions than those implemented by cattle ranchers.
4602585|Two directly opposed explanations for the distribution of female infanticide across cultures have recently appeared. Divale and Harris propose to explain this practice as part of a system which reduces population growth. Dickemann says that the practice serves to increase reproductive success. I criticize each of these explanations and propose a third which depends on the technoecological and economic constraints given precedence by Harris and Divale, combined with the insights of sexual selection which are central to Dickemann's account.
4602471|The recent proliferation of structural fires in New York City is analyzed from an ecological viewpoint. Fire-service cutbacks recommended by the Rand Corporation and largely implemented before the city's "fiscal crisis" are found to have markedly increased the annual number of structural fires.
27654104|This paper examines the responses of mobile pastoralists to a floodplain rehabilitation program in north Cameroon. From 1993 to 1999, we measured changes in number of camps and herds, and the time they spent in the 600 km2 of the Logone floodplain that was reflooded in 1994. The first year, few pastoralists anticipated the reflooding or its impact, and the increase in grazing intensity was caused by a prolonged stay of pastoralists who already used the area for transit. The following three years showed a sharp increase in the number of camps and herds, which stabilized from 1997 onwards. Overall, grazing intensity increased threefold, following the gradually recovering perennial grasslands, with no signs of overexploitation of the area. These developments closely match the ideal preemptive distribution model. We also examined how reflooding affected pastoral incursions in the Waza National Park located in the floodplain.
40343997|The development of cooperation depends on the nature of deliberations among and between local stakeholders and the state as well as the context of deliberations, especially whether larger scale governance helps, hinders or overrides deliberative processes. However, the context of deliberations has not been a focus of past research on deliberation. The paper identifies the key context criteria that influenced deliberation and the development of cooperation in a comparative case study of two forest advisory committees in Ontario, Canada. The study uses cognitive mapping and network analysis techniques to identify key context criteria and concludes with five inferences regarding the influence of context on deliberation and cooperation that have implications for deliberation and decentralization theories.
27654166|This paper introduces a set of four collaborative papers exploring temporal heterogeneity in the analysis of African land use over a decadal time period, from 10 to 50 years, in the second half of the twentieth century. The four cases were chosen amongst the seven teams of anthropologists, human geographers and remote sensing specialists who had carried out long-term research and who met to discuss their findings at a workshop in 2003. All seven teams' work and the collective discussionon Casamance (Senegal), Brong Ahafo (Ghana), Southern Niger/Northern Cote d'Ivoire, Oyo State (Nigeria), Maasai Mara (Kenya and Tanzania), Gwembe (Zambia), and Malawiinform this introduction. We identify several temporal processes in all the cases, each operating on its own temporal frame: population growth and, above all, mobility; livelihood change through crop and occupational change; tenure ambiguity; powerful though "punctuated" interventions by state policy; and climate change. Conceptual and methodological implications are disussed.
4602856|This paper describes Aboriginal subsistance patterns in the northern part of the Western Desert, Western Australia. It describes the seasonal round of the Aboriginal people living in this area, provides a quantified description of the plant and animal resources, and concludes by drawing attention to specific aspects of Aboriginal subsistence in this area.
4602298|Observations were made of the personal space behaviors of same-sex pairs of children, aged 6-16. Results indicated that children used more space as they grew older and that adult proxemic behaviors were acquired by age 12. While in the younger children no sex differences were present for the proxemic behaviors of distance and body orientation, males were found by early adolescence to stand farther apart and at greater angles than females. The development of personal space and of sex differences in these behaviors is discussed in the context of social learning.
40343973|A key challenge for land change science in general and research on swidden agriculture in particular, is linking land cover information to human-environment interactions over larger spatial areas. In Lao PDR, a country facing rapid and multi-level land change processes, this hinders informed policy-and decision-making. Crucial information on land use types and people involved is still lacking. This article proposes an alternative approach for the description of landscape mosaics. Instead of analyzing local land use combinations, we studied land cover mosaics at a meso-level of spatial scale and interpreted these in terms of human-environmental interactions. These landscape mosaics were then overlaid with population census data. Results showed that swidden agricultural landscapes, involving 17% of the population, dominate 29% of the country, while permanent agricultural landscapes involve 74% of the population in 29% of the territory. Forests still form an important component of these landscape mosaics.
4603100|This paper explores the changing political ecology of soil and water management--the articulation of physical and political-economic processes--in the Loess Plateau of north-central China. Market-oriented reforms and the shift from collective to household farming have created a diverse array of tenure, management, and financing arrangements. In the process relationships between farm households, the collective, and the state have been altered, with profound implications for land use and sustainability. The paper reviews the political ecology approach and its relevance to environmental management in China. An outline of the physical and economic context of soil erosion in the Loess Plateau is followed by examination of the impact of reform on rural environmental management. Local innovations in the organization of environmental management are highlighted. The conclusion comments on the utility of the regional political ecology approach and suggests some critical issues for further research.
4603205|This paper explores the variety of factors which influence Iraqw farmers' land-use strategies in northern Tanzania. Based on archival research, oral history, and detailed field research, this study illustrates the ways in which access to and availability of resources through social networks and markets over time are critical to farmers' decisions about how to use their labor and land. This detailed local study of agrarian change examines how wider, regional processes of change affect local conditions. It demonstrates that population growth neither results automatically in intensification nor in degradation of the resource base. The paper also attempts to explore how ideas about farming and "progress" shape farmers' decisions about land use.
4603009|This paper examines the question of whether hunter-gatheres could live in the tropical rain forest of Peninsular Malaysia without access to cultivated foods. It considers the wild food sources used by the Batek De', a contemporary foraging-trading group of Kelantan state, historical and ethnohistorical evidence concerning the Batek economy in the past, and archeological evidence for independent foraging in the Pleistocene and early Holocene. The conclusion reached is that small nomadic groups of foragers can live off wild resources alone in that environment and have done so in the past, although trade for agricultural produce makes life much easier. This suggests that nonseasonal tropical rain forests vary in their potential for supporting human foraging, depending upon the particular species of plants and animals present.
27654155|Traditional dryland agriculture in the Pacific island was often labor-intensive and risky, yet settlement and farming in dry areas played an important role in the development of Polynesian societies. We investigate how temporal and spatial climatic fluctuations shape variation in agricultural production across dryland landscapes. We use a model that couples plant growth, climate, and soil organic matter dynamics, together with data from Kohala, Hawai'i, to understand how temperature, rainfall, nitrogen availability, and cropping activity interact to determine yield dynamics through time and space. Due to these interactions, the statistical characterization of rainfall alone is a poor characterization of agricultural yield. Using a simple linear model of human population dynamics, we show that the observed yield variation can affect long-term population growth substantially. Our approach to analyzing spatial and temporal fluctuations in food supply, and to interpreting the population consequences of these fluctuations, provides a quantitative evaluation of agricultural risk and human carrying capacity in dry regions.
27654315|Some recent scholarship has focused on integrating local and/or traditional knowledge with conventional scientific information in fisheries management to improve the factual foundation of and strengthen support for management decisions. This article compares a sequence of historical and contemporary scientific texts and maps about the migrations and stock structure of cod in the Northern Gulf of St. Lawrence with texts and maps generated by the authors through the collection, aggregation and interpretation of commercial fish harvesters' ecological knowledge. We find that the relationship between fisheries science and harvesters' ecological knowledge is dynamic and has changed over time, and that both are 'situated' socially and ecologically. Overall, each paints an incomplete picture of cod movements and stock structure but the knowledge of harvesters provides a valuable complement to scientific information, particularly at the local scale, and has the potential to contribute to the identification of local cod stocks that are new to science and management. We end by considering how this case study informs the larger discussion about the challenges and potential benefits of the so-called integration project to bring together science and the ecological knowledge of fish harvesters.
23353206|Shifting cultivation systems have been blamed as the primary cause of tropical deforestation and are being transformed through various forms of conservation and development policies and through the emergence of new markets for cash crops. Here, we analyze the outcomes of different policies on land use/land cover change (LUCC) in a traditional, shifting cultivation landscape in the Atlantic Forest (Brazil), one of the world's top biodiversity hotspots. We also investigate the impacts of those policies on the environment and local livelihoods in Quilombola communities, which are formed by descendants of former Maroon colonies. Our findings show that conservation and social policies have had mixed effects both on the conservation of the Atlantic Forest and on the livelihoods of the Quilombola. We conclude that future interventions in the region need to build on the new, functional links between sustainable livelihoods and biodiversity, where less restrictive state policies leave room for new opportunities in self-organization and innovation.
4603223|Marine fisheries are in a state of crisis. One of the few successfully managed fisheries is the Maine lobster industry where catches are at an all time high. An important factor in this success is the effectiveness of regulations which were developed during three periods over the course of the past 125 years. In all cases, the regulations are the result of heavy lobbying activity by various factions in the industry. Both strong commercial rivalry and genuine concern for the well-being of the lobster resource played a role in generating these regulations. However, history did not repeat itself. In each period, the players, circumstances, and goals were very different. The result, however, is a set of effective regulations which are largely self-enforcing.
24017346|This paper presents results from a year-long household survey in which the aquatic resource collection and consumption activities of 240 households across Lao PDR were studied to assess the diversity of species used, their role in household food security and the overall importance of ricefield habitats in this respect. Results show that aquatic biodiversity, under threat in rice-based ecosystems, plays a larger role in household consumption than previous estimates. More than 90 % of these resources are collected by households themselves and the greatest quantities from ricefield habitats. This seasonal aquatic environment is therefore the principal habitat from which households acquire aquatic animals, both to eat fresh and to process and store for use during nutritionally vulnerable times of year. The importance of these habitats therefore goes far beyond their use for rice production and this multi-functionality needs to be understood and addressed in agricultural, conservation and food security policy.
40928154|This article examines the relationship between Amazonian Dark Earths (ADE) and Caboclo horticultural knowledge and practice along the middle Madeira River (the biggest Whitewater tributary of the Amazon) in the municipality of Manicor, Amazonas State, Brazil. ADE are fertile anthropogenic (human-made) soils that are found in many areas of the Amazon region. The formation of ADE is a legacy of Amerindian settlement patterns, mostly during the late pre-Columbian period (2000-500 BP). The primary users of ADE in the Central Amazon today are Caboclos, traditional Amazonian people of heterogeneous origins. The multi-sited ethnography presented here demonstrates that Caboclos have developed a repertoire of local knowledge surrounding the cultivation of their staple crop, bitter manioc, in these soils. This revolves around a local theory of "weakness" and "strength" used to describe different sets of bitter manioc landrace traits and their responses to planting in different kinds of soil and fallow ages. This local theory has developed in the context of a regional historical ecology that has enabled the conservation and generation of such horticultural knowledge. I conclude that these notions of strength and weakness shape divergent loci of bitter manioc genetic traits and co-evolutionary dynamics between people and plants in the cultivation of bitter manioc in different soil types.
40603031|Much recent literature explores controlled burning practices used by people of different cultures to manipulate landscapes. Because humans have only recently been able to suppress fires occurring at larger scales these studies focus on activities occurring at the scale of sites as making the greatest contribution to creating cultural landscapes.In this study we examine the role of fire in the construction of Anishinaabe cultural landscapes in the boreal forest of northwestern Ontario. Through our work with elders of Pikangikum First Nation we examined Anishinaabe knowledge and relationships to fire occurring across spatial and temporal scales. Pikangikum residents perceive forest fires as beings which possesses agency and who intentionally create order in landscapes. This notion suggests that cultural landscapes are more than the physical remains of the sum of human activities. The possibility of non-human agents having a role in the creation of meaningful spaces prompts us to call for a reassessment both of the scale of inquiry and the nature of cultural landscapes. We conclude with a discussion of the benefits and potential constraints to inclusion of indigenous cultural landscapes in current co-management arrangements.
27654195|Recent research on the ecology of fire has challenged the view that the use of fire by indigenous peoples is detrimental to ecosystems and wildlife in protected areas. However, in Canaima National Park and World Heritage Site in southeastern Venezuela, since 1981 managers have employed a costly fire control program to eliminate savanna burning by the Pemon indigenous people. Here I present the results of the first study on Pemon perspectives of fire management in the park. I show that savanna burning is an important tool in indigenous land management and plays a key role in preventing large catastrophic fires. Pemon knowledge of fire also raises questions about conventional interpretations of environmental change in the park. Lastly, I recommend a fire management policy that seeks to integrate local ecological knowledge. This will require: (a) greater openness from scientists and resource managers to understanding Pemon rationale for the use of fire, (b) clarification among the Pemon themselves of their own views of fire, and (c) research partnerships among scientists, resource managers and the Pemon in order to encourage understanding of Pemon ecological knowledge of fire, and to assess its true impact in the Canaima National Park.
4603165|Zimbabwe provides a significant context to examine the interplay of the new development rhetoric, the actions of powerful conservation organizations, donor policies, a relatively strong and stable government, and the empowerment of local communities. This interplay exists in diverse rural areas where the Communal Areas Management Program for Indigenous Resources (CAMPFIRE) is in various stages of experimentation and implementation. CAMPFIRE has been described as a philosophy of sustainable rural development that enables rural communities to manage, and benefit directly form indigenous wildlife. It is the best known of African efforts to permit African communities to re-assert their management of selected natural resources. The program has the official support of the Zimbabwean government. Nonetheless, there are many potential areas of serious conflict. Three case studies are utilized to explore how the challenges of repossession of critical environmental resources by marginalized communities in the changing context of state and NGO relationships where international tourism is a revenue generator for both the private sector and government.
4602769|Quantitative data on men's time allocation among the Ache of Paraguay are presented. The data indicate that Ache men work almost 7 hours daily in direct food acquisition, which is the major daily activity. The amount of time Ache men work is compared with the amount reported for other modern hunter-gatherers and tribal horticulturalists. The characterization of hunter-gatherers as the "original affluent society" does not agree with currently available data. The results show high variance across societies, both hunting and horticultural, and suggest that time spent in subsistence work is not simply a function of food "needs." We propose that the value of time spent in potential alternative activities must be considered in order to predict time spent in subsistence tasks.
4602485|A lack of consensus on the general adaptive significance of energetic efficiency can be shown to exist in ecology and anthropology. After briefly reviewing key studies in optimal foraging theory and ecological anthropology, a model is presented which includes the following elements: (1) an equation of adaptive success with reproductive fitness, within an optimality framework; (2) a definition of energy limitation consistent with this framework; (3) a distinction between efficiency of energy capture and efficiency of energy use in achieving other goals; (4) a multiple definition of energetic efficiency that distinguishes purely energetic measures (output/input) from rate measures (energy captured per unit time); (5) the inclusion of time budgeting as a primary adaptive constraint; (6) a quantitative demonstration that increased output/input ratios do not consistently predict an increase in net energy captured, and are poor measures where time is a constraint. The general conclusion is that where energy is limiting, increased efficiency in the rate of energy capture will be adaptive because more net energy will be made available; where energy is not limiting, an increased net capture rate may still confer increased adaptive success, since time and labor energy are freed from energy-capture activities and can be devoted to achieving other adaptive goals. But while energetic efficiency, properly defined, is shown to have general adaptive significance in all cases where time or energy are constraints, considerations of adaptive optimality preclude the general equation of energetic efficiency and adaptive success.
4603520|In a number of places, sacred forest sites play an important role in conservation and local livelihoods. Here we examine how Iban hunters and animals alike use sacred forest in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. To determine the relative importance of different sites in hunting, we compare hunting effort, animal species and their numbers encountered by hunters, and encounters and captures in a variety of forest sites including sacred groves. We relate the results to the role of such sites in the overall Iban agroforestry system and in the conservation of forest habitat that professional conservationists deem precious. Such land use practices, while having social and religious origins, may be important for local economic purposes, but they may also be valuable in promoting and enhancing the more global goals of biodiversity conservation.
4602952|This article addresses the land fragmentation debate, centering on the question of whether it is an ecological adaptation or an example of anachronistic, if not irrational and uneconomic, peasant behavior. Building on the ecological argument with case studies of inheritance and a quantitative analysis of farm production and land fragmentation in Portugal, two major assumptions about land fragmentation are refuted: (a) that it is extremely detrimental to farm production and (b) that its main cause is inheritance divisions.
4602706|This article poses the question of whether aboriginal population size in the Lesser Antilles was limited by the total calories obtainable from manioc, the amount of protein obtainable from animal sources, or both of these factors. Estimates of cultivable land and productivity show that calories obtainable from manoic are not likely to have limited population size. Estimates of the amount of animal food that would have been needed to provide sufficient protein for populations of varying size, based on studies of faunal remains, indicate that protein is more likely than calories to have been a limiting factor in population size because the amount of animal protein required to support a population of several thousand is unlikely to have been consistently obtainable. A method is suggested for estimating the maximum human population supportable by animal protein resources found on Antillean islands.
4603349|One of the basic tenets of the theory of common property resources is that private property rights work to conserve natural resources. There is growing evidence, however, that some large forest owners in Maine are cutting their forests heavily, using poor-quality silviculture techniques. This overexploitation is being done by paper companies, forest contractors, and some private land owners, who are being motivated by very different sets of factors. This article explores the reasons that private owners of forest resources are overexploiting their own lands and the implications of this for the theory of common property resources. Secure private property rights alone will not be enough to conserve resources and do away with externalities when the owners are operating in a system demanding constant short-term profits, where they are producing undifferentiated commodities in a highly competitive market, where the future value of slow-growing resources is very low, and where harvesting has so many ramifying biological and social effects.
40603013|Understanding local attitudes towards humanwildlife conflict (HWC) is key to developing successful conflict mitigation strategies. In this paper, in-depth interview and questionnaire data about resolution of HWC in Uttarakhand, India are examined from both qualitative and quantitative approaches (n=70). Responses are differentiated between and within three subgroups: gender, literacy status, and relative wealth. Overall, the plurality of respondents said that fencing is the best solution, that the Forest Department should take leadership, and that villagers would be willing to participate in a cooperative management institution. However, cooperative action was only actively supported by 27.4% of respondents, suggesting that comanagement of this protected area will require significant capacity building and trust building activities. Intragroup differences show that all three factors are significant, and underscore the importance of addressing gender differences in attitudes about HWC in particular. Women were less likely than men to support compensation, more likely to prefer that the village take leadership, and less willing to participate in a cooperative management institution. The study illustrates the value of mixed-method research, and suggests a number of specific entry points for action.
4603208|Estimates of rates of return on investments in cattle among the Tawahka and Miskitu Amerindians of the Patuca river in Honduras are presented. Internal rates of return and net present values produced similar rankings. The median internal rate of return is 9% and the median net present value is 224 Lempiras (U.S.$33). Positive rates of return suggest cattle is a viable way of saving and smoothing consumption across time. The use of animals as savings may increase neotropical deforestation by indigenous populations until financial institutions step in to provide alternative and secure approaches to savings.
4602692|In recent years, many dryland farmers in Indonesia have begun shifting from traditional subsistence agricultural practices to growing cash crops. This transition has important economic and ecological implications for many Indonesian communities. This paper explores the experiences of farmers in three agro-climatic regions in eastern Bali where such changes are beginning to take place.
4603482|The Tukanoans of northwestern Amazonia cultivate high-cyanogenic potential cassava, which provides 80% of their dietary energy. In an effort to understand why the Tukanoans cultivate primarily high-rather than low-cyanogenic potential cassava, which requires far less processing before consumption, this paper seeks to determine whether the Tukanoans discern a difference in levels of predation on high- and low-cyanogenic potential cassava. Given the potential protection afforded by high-cyanogenic potential, it was hypothesized that the Tukanoans would report higher predation upon low-cyanogenic potential cassava in comparison to high-cyanogenic potential cassava. Both unstructured interviews and pile-sort exercises were conducted to address this question. The unstructured interviews provide some support for the hypothesis, while the pile-sort interviews did not support the hypothesis. These data demonstrate that while the Tukanoans are cognizant of differences in predation on different cassava cultivars, resistance to predation may not be a characteristic of paramount concern in cultivar selection.
27654313|The Gitksan and Wet'suwet'en of Northwestern British Columbia formerly used landscape burning to manage patches of black huckleberry (Vaccinium membranaceum), the most important plant resource of their seasonal round. In view of its significance one might postulate that managed sites would conform to a biophysical or ecological type to maximize return for effort. However, a survey of a number of traditionally managed sites indicated that managed sites are characterized by wide variation in biophysical attributes including elevation, aspect and moisture regime, while proximity to fishing sites, village sites, or sites for harvest of alpine resources proved to be a common factor in known historic berry patch sites. We conclude that characterization of the ideal site type for aboriginal V. membranaceum management must include the economy and social institutions of the local First Nations and requires an enhanced appreciation for the sophistication of the strategies and techniques employed in their management and utilization of the species.
40981189|We used cultural consensus models to test whether hunters shared perceptions of wildlife abundance and the relative importance of hunting and fishing in a Guarayo indigenous community in the Bolivian Amazon. Results show that highly prized animals that were considered rare are either those with lower reproductive rates and more sensitivity to land use changes and harvest (white-lipped peccary and spider monkey) or those with marked seasonal distribution patterns (barred sorubim and tiger-fish). Rapidly reproducing and resilient species (agouti and armored catfish) were perceived as abundant. More tapirs and red brocket deer were present than predicted by scientific models possibly because hunters were harvesting these species in new forest management areas. Residents identified hunting and fishing among their most important livelihood activities, recognized bush meat and fish as basic food resources, and expected wildlife harvests to be part of their future livelihoods, although market-based livelihoods and domestic replacements for bush meat were reported.
24015746|Beginning with the premise that sovereignty may be most constructively contemplated not as a definable object or objective but instead as a process, this article examines counter-mapping as a way for contemporary indigenous citizens to "do" sovereignty. It surveys three Anishinaabe/Ojibwe communities' recent use of geographical techniques to communicate their own territorial claims and counter the competing claims of others. In a 21 st century context characterized by urgent extractive-industrial threats to indigenous landbases and lifeways, the cases presented here demonstrate that counter-mapping can serve as a powerful positive tool. Yet because the prevailing methods available to safeguard landbased self-determination also have the potential to undermine it, I conclude by considering some of the pitfalls that complicate counter-mapping's ability to promote the sovereignty process. I suggest that indigenous people who choose to enact their sovereignty in this manner are indeed empowered, but only within an existingand inequitablesocio-political system.
4602300|The techniques used by the Sanio-Hiowe of Papua New Guinea to produce edible starch from the sago palm (Metroxylon sp.) are described. Input-output analysis demonstrates that this is a highly productive subsistence technology; nevertheless, the Sanio-Hiowe economy is characterized by an absence of intensification. This is ascribed to functional consequences of dependence on hunting and gathering in the interior. In coastal and riverine habitats, other societies using sago supplemented by fishing or horticulture can more fully exploit the potential of sago as a basis for economic intensification and a more sedentary life.
41474595|Vertical mobile grazing is typical in undulating mountain landscapes. However, recent social, economic, and political changes in China are impacting these traditional practices. This paper presents findings of a study conducted in the Tibetan communities of southwest China to assess the current status of mountain pastoralism and its future viability. Rangeland environment, livestock variety, and grazing form were found to be significantly related factors, which made it possible to analyze livestock distribution. The yak populationthe main mobile grazer in alpine pasture is currently stagnating while the population of cattle raised around settlements is steadily increasing. This situation is likely closely related to labor shortages in households, which have triggered the imbalanced distribution of livestock. The fact that the key to rangeland sustainability is to stimulate mobile grazing runs counter to current privatization policies.
41474621|Plant resources are used, managed and conserved by local communities in many parts of the world. However, very few studies have examined the site-specific factors and mechanisms that affect resource extraction. We apply methodology from the social and biological sciences to examine the cultural and socio-economic factors that influence the harvest practice and resource use of indigenous wood carvers in the Maningrida region of central Arnhem Land. Woodcarvers from this region use a small number of carving timbers with two species dominant, Bombax ceiba and Brachychiton diversifolius. There were many cultural differences in harvest practice, with artists from the Kuninjku/Kunibeidji language community harvesting a greater number of tree species, larger quantities per harvest trip and smaller sized stems. Socio-economic factors also played an important role in facilitating the collection of stems as artists owning a vehicle acquired more stems than those who did not. Harvest sites closest to the township of Maningrida had higher visitation frequencies than those further away. These influences on harvest practice have significant implications for the ecological sustainability of timber harvesting in this region and we highlight the need to examine such localised factors when assessing the sustainability of indigenous wildlife harvests.
24015741|Unsustainable hunting is a threat to conservation and rural livelihoods that depend on bushmeat for food and income. To reduce the pressure on forest-dependent vulnerable species, hunting in farmland might complement offtake from forests and provide a sustainable source of bushmeat. To explore this possibility, we investigated patterns of hunting and wildlife depletion, and integration of hunting into agricultural livelihoods, in an intensively managed farmforest mosaic landscape. Surveys were conducted across 63 households over a year in a Ghanaian cocoa-farming community surrounded by a timber production forest. The findings indicated a high level of wildlife depletion in the landscape and the local extinction of the largest species, especially in farmland. Most hunting occurred in forests and offtake from farmland was low, yet hunting in farmland was disproportionately common relative to its coverage in the landscape. Most farmland hunting was opportunistic and integrated with agricultural activities. Our findings suggest that intensively used farmland provides little opportunity to reduce hunting pressure in forests.
4602240|Cattle and other domestic animals in 5.77 square miles of rural West Bengal were enumerated on three separate occasions during an 18-month period. Feed consumption and productivity measurements involving 80 cattle-day observations were extrapolated to the entire cattle population and an energetic balance sheet was calculated for a 1-year period. The cattle population appears fairly stable despite a high density. The age distribution reveals a demographic imbalance in both the younger and older age groups which contributes toward a more efficient utilization of available feed supplies. One of the major roles of the cattle is to convert items of little human value into products of direct human utility. The gross energetic efficiency of the entire cattle population was approximately 17%. The current management of cattle appears to be appropriate for the ecological framework in which they exist.
4602963|Usufruct rights to trees (Ekwar) in the Turkana silvo-pastoral system are an important aspect of natural resource management, particularly in the drier central parts of Kenya. Originating from a participatory forestry extension program, a survey was carried out that showed the extent and duration, often in excess of one generation, of occupancy of a person's Ekwar. Such rights center around the dry season fodder resources, especially of Acacia tortilis. However they are not definite and are linked to risk-spreading by flexibility in livestock management and the need that they be maintained through efficient usage and social linkages. Hitherto, such natural resource management systems have all but been ignored in the development process in favor of the "tragedy of the commons" paradigm. Likewise, pastoral development has tended to emphasize range and water, while trees are not given the attention they deserve. This endangers the resilience of the system, and it is therefore important that development works with, not against, such environmentally-sound practices to try to make them more sustainable in the long term.
4602850|The investigation of crop and soil-crop conditions among Andoke and Witoto cultivators in southeast Colombia is used as a basis for assessing Geertz' (1963) model of swidden cultivation. In this respect, the extent to which maniocdominated swiddens in the study area "simulate" the structure and composition of the forest climax community is questioned. As Geertz (1963) indicates, an initial nutrient boost for crop cultivation results from the preliminary burning of forest debris, but weed competition, rather than progressive loss of soil fertility, is reported to be the primary cause of abandoning manioc cultivation after 2-3 years. While the Andoke and Witoto crop system remains adaptive at the individual field level, particularly in its constituent species, its fundamental adaptation is considered to be its integration into the broader "field and fallow" system that juxtaposes crop production with extended periods of forest regeneration.
4603426|As the United States and Australia struggle with contemporary crises over competing uses of rapidly depleting natural resources, there are striking parallels between American Indian and Australian Aboriginal communities demanding a place at the management table and offering culturally based understandings of and solutions for the ecosystems at risk. These efforts to integrate indigenous knowledge into mainstream natural resource management are part of larger legal and political debates over land tenure, the locus of control, indigenous self-governance, and holistic ecosystems management.
4602920|This paper defines a four-tiered, hierarchical system for classifying subsistence production types in Nepal and uses the system to describe the subsistence communities of central Nepal. The system first divides Nepal into a grid of homogenous parts or "cells," second, it divides, the cells into "ridge-valley slope sequences," third, defines "production types" for the ridge-valley slope sequences, and, finally, distinguishes local "variants" of the production types. After describing these tiers, I apply these categories to the northern portions of the central and western development regions where I have done research. I then define how representatives of Nepal as a whole are the production types defined for the central and western development regions. Finally, the paper locates some completed studies within its framework.
4602924|This paper discusses the problems of environment and development in Sikkim Himalaya. Two features of Sikkim, the fragile mountain environment and the very rapidly growing population, are crucial in formulating future development plans. An integrated approach to development and environmental conservation is suggested.
4603063|The age structure, sex composition, and territorial behavior of wild camelids is compared to that of llama herds from the community of Alota, southwestern Bolivia. The parallels suggest that herd management techniques are designed to replicate wild camelid social organization. The predictable camelid territorial behavior in turn facilitates the management of llama herds. The implications of these organizational and territorial parallels are discussed with reference to camelid procurement strategies and domestication.
4603253|Being an island has been important for Madagascar's archaeology in two ways. First, its insularity was probably responsible for the lateness and some features of its first human colonizers, as well as for its highly endemic flora and fauna. The earliest coastal communities continued to interact with the Indian Ocean trade network, but the latterly settled interior eventually saw the greatest population increases, eclipsing the coastal communities in power. Second, it may be that as an island, archaeologists have unconsciously been predisposed to interpret Malagasy prehistory in terms of a tree-like model of evolution from a single ancestral culture. Yet if, as seems probable, Malagasy culture has seen contributions from many others, such a single "proto-culture" may never have existed.
41433091|This paper analyses poverty and inequality dynamics among smallholders along the Transamazon Highway. We measure changes in poverty and inequality for original settlers and new owners, contrasting income-based with multidimensional indices of well-being. Our results show an overall reduction in both poverty and inequality among smallholders, although poverty decline was more pronounced among new owners, while inequality reduction was larger among original settlers. This trend suggests that families have an initial improvement in livelihood and well-being which tends to reach a limit latera sign of structural limitations common to rural areas and maybe a replication of boom and bust trends in local economies among Amazonian municipalities. In addition, our multidimensional estimates of well-being reveal that some economically viable land use strategies of smallholders (e.g., pasture) may have important ecological implications for the regional landscape. These findings highlight the public policy challenges for fostering sustainable development among rural populations.
24013749|Economic analyses of risk typically employ mean and variance calculations such as the coefficient of variation (CV) and z-score model. In this study we examine to what degree these simple measures approximate people's perceptions of the risk associated with different farming, foraging, and fishing subsistence activities in southwestern Madagascar. CV calculated using production data for 15 activities (ranked) explains about 18 % of participants' risk ratings from 24 focus groups. CV corresponds better to the ratings of men (37 %) and farmers (40 %), but does not predict the ratings by women, foragers, or Vezo fishermen, suggesting that economic measures of risk have a male and agrarian bias. Narrative responses suggest that risk is qualitatively different for foragers and fishermen, who face hazard (danger) and the cosmological dread of dying far from home. We conclude by predicting the ethnographic and ecological contexts when researchers should go beyond mean and variance when estimating risk.
4603288|This paper examines the indigenous land and forest management systems of the community of seven Iban longhouses whose territories comprise the area of Batang Ai National Park in Sarawak, Malaysia. It also discusses the integrated conservation and development program (ICDP) at the park. This project is attempting to work within the existing system of customary law to build on traditional legislative infrastructure and management practices, in order to enlist the cooperation of local people and their leaders in implementing a new conservation strategy. In addition to reinforcing local authority, park planners recognize the need for local people to be given strong incentives to participate in co-management of the protected area. This paper argues that, despite a history of conflict with indigenous peoples, State officials have in this instance demonstrated a willingness to work with local people and community leaders. At the same time, they are encouraging community development, helping people to find alternatives to activities that threaten the park's wildlife.
41474636|This study explores the relation between household socioeconomic status (SES) and participation in urban and periurban agriculture (UPA) in three West African cities. We used a structured questionnaire to survey 700 randomly selected households: 250 in Kano, Nigeria, 250 in Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina Faso, and 200 in Sikasso, Mali. Multiple correspondence analysis was applied on household asset variables to create an index of assets which was used as a proxy for household SES. The results showed no significant differences in households' rate of participation in UPA across socioeconomic groups. Participation in UPA was rather significantly (P<0.001) and positively related to household size. Interestingly, the analysis revealed that field crop cultivation and gardening were more common among households in the low and medium SES groups while those in the high SES group were more likely to keep livestock.
41474671|This article is concerned with the implementation of community-based conservancies (CBC) in conflictridden pastoralist areas of northern Kenya and whether the creation of protected areas can facilitate the resolution of conflict. Evidence from ethnographic research in East Pokot, Kenya, reveals a mixed picture. In the last decade, three CBCs were established along the administrative borders. Two of them are located in contested areas between the Pokot and neighboring pastoralists. In order to ensure their long-term success in terms of wildlife conservation and economic viability they must act as catalysts for interethnic conflict resolution. In one case, the implementation proved successful, while in the other it exacerbated tensions and led to ethnic violence. In addition, issues of conservation are also embedded in deeper intra-societal struggles over the reconfiguration and renegotiation of access to and control over land. Drawing on ethnographic data and recent literature this research sheds light on unexpected consequences of CBC.
4602773|Horn's model is generalized to state that the "optimal" pattern of distribution for foragers will correlate with the degree of resource patchiness; in particular (1) where resource attributes are less patchy, the "optimal" distribution for foragers is to be dispersed, and (2) where resource attributes are more patchy, the "optimal" distribution for foragers is to be aggregated. "Optimality" is assessed as the minimum round-trip distance from the forager's home base to a resource item. Patchiness is assessed according to the state taken by any of four resource attributes: dispersion (in space), supply (in time), particle size, and lasting properties. Horn's original contrast between (1) stable and evenly dispersed resources, and (2) mobile and clumped resources is shown to have been internally contradictory; that is, the "optimal" distribution for foragers would have been the same in both cases.
4602819|Shipibo Indians, who formed a village to establish a school and health clinic, are gradually depleting local fish and game resources. Men, recently adopting rice as a cash crop, tend to fish and hunt less than other men working only their subsistence gardens. Sale of fish and game in the village is becomeing common, and pigs, once raised exclusively for sale to non-Shipibo, are now more regularly eaten and used for attracting agricultural labor. Other research has indicated that cash cropping often competes for workers' time in subsistence and so dietary change usually accompanies changing activity patterns. This paper explores the latter possibility by examining the relationship between cash cropping, wild meat procurement, and diet among the Shipibo. Time allocation and food consumption data are analyzed statistically to test a mathematical theory and model which relates indigenous work patterns to diet.
40928155|In Canaima National Park (CNP), Venezuela, a protected area inhabited by the Pemn people, sociocultural and demographic changes have contributed to the apparent unsustainable use of fire, leading to forest and habitat loss. This over-use of fire, together with increased forest vulnerability to fire as a result of global climate change, could put both ecosystems and human well-being at risk. The conflict over fire use derives from the fact that whereas the Pemn depend for their livelihood on the use of fire for shifting cultivation and hunting, the policy of the CNP government agencies is fire exclusion (although this is not effectively enforced). Nevertheless, recent ecological studies have revealed that the creation of a mosaic of patches with different fire histories could be used to create firebreaks that reduce the risk of the wildfires that threaten the vulnerable and diverse savanna-forest transition areas. This technique imitates the traditional cooperative savanna burning strategies of the Pemn. By linking research on knowledge systems with management policies, the impasse over fire in the CNP might be avoided.
4603459|This paper describes the expansion of cacao farming among Mayan farmers in the Toledo District, Belize, during the 1980s and why the expansion took place. Land planted with cacao increased from 237 acres in 1983 to 1014 acres in 1990. The number of cacao farmers increased from 70 to 365 and beans sold to Hershey Foods Corporation increased from 1086 to almost 32,000 pounds. This paper describes the distribution of cacao farming in space and time and it uses a holistic approach to explain land-used/cover change. An ecologic model is proposed that explains the cacao expansion that involves the interaction of several forces. During the 1980s, Hershey Foods Corporation provided an unlimited market for cacao beans, agricultural loans and technical assistance were provided by international development agencies, and Mayan farmers planted cacao to gain usufruct rights to reservation and national land. During the 1990s a British organic food company became the new market for cacao beans.
40603001|In this paper, I examine patterns of wealth accumulation and their influence on deforestation among smallholders at Uruar and Redeno, in the state of Par in the Brazilian Eastern Amazon. I argue that the development of the smallholder economy has not been a linear process, and the diversity of smallholder farming systems and their patterns of wealth accumulation have varied implications for the rate and magnitude of deforestation. However, whilst there are differential impacts of farming practices on deforestationcattle ranching has a greater impact than cash cropping or subsistence agriculturethe stronger correlate of deforestation is the wealth of the farmers. Wealthier farmers not only tend to deforest more in absolute terms, but also show a slightly greater propensity to deforest whatever their production system. Though cattle production is a key driver of wealth accumulation and thus deforestation, a significant number of smallholders adopt diversified production systems. The main factors explaining the relationship between the farming systems and deforestation were years of residence on the lot, distance of the lot to main market and the amount of day labor hiredand not variables describing household structure.
4602436|In this paper we examine the decline in mortality rates by cause of death in U.S. cities during the last decade of the 19th century. Causes of death are grouped according to their probable relationship to specific public health measures. The reduction which occurred in the death rates from some disease, e.g., typhoid and diarrheal diseases, can probably be attributed in part to the provision of sewers and waterworks. Large declines also occurred in the death rates from tuberculosis and diphtheria, but the relationship between the declines in these diseases and public health practices designed to combat them is more ambiguous. We therefore conclude that public health measures had some impact on the decline in mortality, but that these measures do not provide a complete explanation of the mortality decline.
4603484|A well-known facet of ecosystems is that the edges--the boundaries or transitions from one ecosystem to another--often exhibit high levels of species richness or biodiversity. These transitional areas often show features of species composition, structure, and function representative of the ecosystems they transcend, as well as having their own unique array of species and characteristics. Cultural transitional areas--zones where two or more cultures converge and interact--are similarly rich and diverse in cultural traits, exhibiting cultural and linguistic features of each of the contributing peoples. This results in an increase in cultural capital, and resilience, by providing a wider range of traditional ecological knowledge and wisdom on which to draw, especially in times of stress and change. We propose that indigenous peoples whose living territories traverse ecological edges have a correspondingly increased access to economically important resources and therefore have a greater capacity for flexibility. Finally, we suggest that indigenous peoples are drawn to areas having a high incidence of ecological edges, and furthermore, that they actively create and maintain ecological edges. This practice provides them with a greater diversity of cultural capital and helps to maintain their flexibility and resilience. Examples from several regions of Canada are provided, from the southern interior of British Columbia, to the Lake Winnipeg watershed of Manitoba and Ontario, to James Bay.
27654159|Most research featuring demographic factors in environmental change has focused on processes operating at the level of national or global populations. This paper focuses on household-level demographic life cycles among colonists in the Amazon, and evaluates the impacts on land use allocation. The analysis goes beyond prior research by including a broader suite of demographic variables, and by simultaneously assessing their impacts on multiple land uses with different economic and ecological implications. We estimate a system of structural equations that accounts for endogeneity among land uses, and the findings indicate stronger demographic effects than previous work. These findings bear implications for modeling land use, and the place of demography in environmental research.
4602989|The European demographic transition of the nineteenth century is often proposed as a model for demographic change in twentieth century developing nations, and economic development is seen as leading to an inevitable reduction in total fertility in these nations. This paper examines data from the Gainj of Papua New Guinea, a natural fertility population with very low reproductive output, and suggests that the effects of development on fertility change are much more complex than a simple demographic transition model would suggest. Looking at two variables known to contribute significantly to low total fertility among the Gainj, late age at first birth for women and long interbirth intervals, the paper suggests that households, in their recruitment and allocation of labor, may exert a mediating influence in the relationship between economic development and fertility.
25652747|The Phlegraean Fields Regional Park in southern Italy has an especially long history of human exploitation. For our enthnobotanical studies we interviewed 39 people native to the area and recorded 962 use-reports. For each species, we provide scientific and vernacular names, plant parts used, and preparation and administration processes. In all, 69 species belonging to 35 families were classified. The species most frequently mentioned were Citrus limon, Chamomilla recutita, Malva sylvestris, Parietaria judaica, Ficus carica, Foeniculum vulgare and Laurus nobilis. The commonest plant use recorded is medicinal, followed by culinary and domestic; for 26% of the species inventoried, more than one use was recorded. The present study confirms the persistence of traditional plant use in regions of central and southern Italy.
4602802|The different responses of plants to drought conditions are examined in the Western Desert of Australia to demonstrate the necessity of considering plant food availability prior to optimal foraging applications involving human hunter-gatherers. The correspondence of Ngatatjara dietary breadth changes to optimal foraging predictions is explained as an adaptive response to the unpredictable Western Desert rainfall. By minimizing the time allocated to food procurement, energy-efficient foraging reduces the risk involved in the exploitation of scattered, ephemeral water sources. Further applications of optimal foraging models to hunter-gatherers is one line of promising investigation to address behavioral variability among human foragers.
4602822| A chemical ecological model can be the basis for defining testable hypotheses concerning human interactions with plants. Selection by Aymara subsistence cultivators against toxic glycoalkaloids in the ongoing domestication of the Bolivian potato cultigen Solanum  ajanhuiri was used as a specific case study of human interactions with phytochemicals. In taste perception tests, Aymara subjects were able to discriminate between concentrations of pure glycoalkaloids in solution only above 20 mg/100 ml. Taste panel tests of potato clones indicated that glycoalkaloid levels are important to the Aymara in determining quality only as part of a decision-making process involving two character states: too high or acceptable. Glycoalkaloids in potatoes are regarded as toxic to humans above 20 mg/100 g fresh weight. Among the Aymara, a breakpoint in the curve for glycoalkaloid preference appears to occur between 20-38 mg/100 g. This distinction is evident in the Aymara potato taxonomy which distinguishes bitter (luq'i ch'oke) from nonbitter (ch'oke) potatoes. 
4602378|Two studies were designed to explore differences between human territoriality and privacy. Study I was designed to determine whether subjects would distinguish between settings offering (1) privacy, (2) territory, (3) both, or (4) neither, and whether they would be prepared to sacrifice privacy for territory (or vice versa) in choosing settings for certain specified activities. Results showed that subjects did make these distinctions. Study II was a laboratory experiment designed to explore the separate psychological effects of territory and privacy. In it, subjects first territorialized individual experimental rooms then half completed dependent measures (focusing on attribution) in their new territories, while half worked in comparable rooms they had not seen before. Subjects were also divided so that half had privacy while completing the measures, while half had none. Results indicated that privacy led subjects to attribute their behavior less to the influence of others, and, independently, subjects working on their own territories attributed their behavior more to own personality. Private environments were also reported as being more stimulating and free, and subjects were more creative there.
25652784|Iran's population has doubled from 33.7 million in 1976 to 70 million in 2006. According to the 2006 Census, 68.4% of the population live in urban areas and 31.6% live in 40,000 rural villages. This census excludes the nomadic population, which is estimated to be 1.3 million people. Despite agricultural production growing faster than population in the last three decades, 2.7 million people (4%) were still undernourished and almost 2% of the population had an income less than $1 a day (9.3% less than $2 a day) in 19902003. The agricultural sector thus faces the prospect of feeding 100 million people by 2050, as well as the challenge of improving the livelihoods of farmers. This report addresses the issues inherent in this dilemma.
4603500|Domestic firewood collection is compared across study sites in Malawi and Tanzania. The study focuses on accommodation of infant-care within wood collection, the influence of family size on firewood demand and the contribution of girls to firewood collection. Malawian women carry their infants on wood collection trips. The Tanzanian women leave their infants behind. The shorter trips of the Tanzanian women, and the ready availability of alloparental care may facilitate this. Mean per capita wood consumption was similar across the two sites. However, a marked economy of scale was evident in wood use at the Malawi site. Girls at both sites assist with wood collection. Their contribution appears more than sufficient to compensate for their own wood use. Having a daughter therefore need not represent a net energetic cost to a woman in terms of firewood acquisition and consumption. While family size and structure appear to influence firewood consumption and acquisition, differences in the environment between the two sites may underpin much of the variation. The longer journey times, heavier load, and less frequent journeys undertaken by Malawian women may reflect the steep terrain and risks associated with firewood collection within a national park.
4602693|Analyses of nearly 3000 hr of hunting for mammals by Etolo people of Papua New Guinea reveal that older hunters were more successful than younger hunters, that increased success was due, in large part, to higher rates of capture for only two of 24 prey species, and that access to a good hunting dog accounted for the increase in rate of capture for one of these two species. A comparison of Gadio Enga and Rofaifo mammal hunting with that of Etolo reveals a marked decline in energy and protein yields with increase of altitude. This is attributed to altitudinal changes in the composition of the available fauna within Papua New Guinea and to reinforcing effects from increased human population density.
4602522|This paper examines a prevailing cultural interpretation of high infant mortality rates among the 19th-century English working class. It argues that most deaths attributed to "overlaying" or "smothering" were probably not the results of infanticide but rather due to Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). Recent research on SIDS is discussed in support of this hypothesis, followed by a description of the demographic and nutritional conditions of 19th-century British working-class populations. Finally, the class-cultural biases of the "infanticide" hypothesis are suggested.
4603168|Rapid and spatially concentrated urbanization in South Africa has brought with it significant health and safety hazards. These hazards are described and analyzed through two optics: environmental rights and community participation. The rights perspective suggests that the system of apartheid led to a collapse of rural livelihoods, driving people to the cities, while apartheid's tight control over African residential location and employment ensured that high density settlement and unemployment would follow. The resulting urban environmental degradation and health and safety hazards are a violation of the human rights of the African residents of townships and informal settlements. The community participation perspective suggests that reconstruction can be linked to development and that community-based hazard identification and mitigation can be a vehicle for kick-starting urban revitalization.
27654208|Understanding the causes of land use change is of great importance for issues of tropical deforestation, agricultural development and biodiversity conservation. Many quantitative studies, therefore, aim to link land use change to its causal 'driving forces.' The epistemology of virtually all these studies is inductive, searching for correlations within relatively large, sometimes spatially explicit, datasets. This can be sound science but we here aim to exemplify that there is also scope for more deductive approaches that test a pre-defined explanatory theory. The paper first introduces the principles and merits of inductive and more deductive types of land use modeling. It then presents one integrated causal model that is subsequently specified to predict land use in an area in northeastern Philippines in a deductive manner, and tested against the observed land use in that area. The same set of land use data is also used in an inductive (multinomial regression) approach. With a goodness-of-prediction of 70% of the deductive model and a goodness-of-fit of 77% of the inductive model, both perform equally well, statistically. Because the deductive model explicitly contains not only the causal factors but also the causal mechanisms that explain land use, the deductive model then provides a more truly causal, as well as more theory-connected, understanding of land use. This provides land use scholarship with an invitation to add more deductive (theory-driven and theory-building) daring to its methodological repertoire.
27654206|On the island of Hainan, China, the provincial government has recently committed itself to sustainable development, which requires the integration of social, environmental, and economic factors in decision making. However, while Hainan's recent Eco-province designation establishes environmental and economic factors as the basis of policy development, it overlooks the equally important social component of sustainability, in which social needs and values are key considerations. This paper presents the results of a study on Hainan in 2002, with government officials, forestry workers, and the Li, an indigenous minority group, and places the province's situation within the context of both the larger changes underway in China, and the theory and practice of sustainable forestry. The research results show that the government of Hainan has not yet been able to manage both social welfare and environmental and economic issues, demonstrating the difficulty of implementing sustainable forestry and of balancing short- with long-term goals. The inclusion of Li communities in forestry-related decision making could reduce tensions between local communities and forestry management and also improve the sustainability of the government's forestry practices.
4603407|The ancestral tradition of gathering nontimber products in the Andean forests of Patagonia seems to be on the verge of disappearing. Edible wild plant knowledge and differential patterns of use have been compared in two populations of different economic and cultural backgrounds--a small rural Mapuche community (Rams), and an outlying population (El Frutillar). The first is located in an herbaceous steppe far from the nearest Andean forest while the seconds is located outside the town of Bariloche, near the forests of Nahuel Huapi National Park. Semistructured interviews and related ecological variables were compared in both communities. In the past, both communities utilized nontimber forest products from the Andean Temperate forests. However, today, cost and benefit trade-offs appear to affect when and what edible resources are collected. The people from El Frutillar gather fewer wild plants in spite of the high plant abundance and the notorious food scarcity they suffer. The Mapuche people use more nutritious resources, more native species, spend longer traveling to the gathering site, and longer handling time preparing edible plants.
27654174|We analyzed data on Ju/'hoansi huntergatherer foraging patterns and found that their movements between residence camps can be modeled as a Lvy flight. The step lengths of their movements scale as a power law with an exponent =1.97. Their wait times (residence times) at the camps also scale as a power law (=1.45). A Lvy flight with step lengths =2 is an optimal search pattern for scarce, randomly located targets; thus, the Ju/'hoansi foraging pattern may approach an optimal search in this area of sparse plant and animal resources. These findings affect the application of optimal foraging theory to humans in anthropology and archaeology because they alter the way in which search and travel times should be quantified. These results may also carry implications for the study of other patterns of human movement, such as demic diffusion and migration.
4602388|This article describes the hunting tactics and prey selection of the Valley Bisa, a matrilineal, subsistence-oriented society in the Luangwa Valley of Zambia. Although Valley Bisa hunters explain their behavior in their own idioms, many of their tactics, including the stimuli for and timing of hunts, the circular morphology of their hunting patterns, and randomized searches, appear functionally related to the behavior and ecology of their prey. The effects of outlawing traditional harvest techniques and the imposition and enforcement of external constraints on Valley Bisa hunting patterns are discussed. Data on habitats, density of cover, wind direction, species, and initial distance to prey from 50 hunts, in which 16 mammals were killed, are compared and related to success and failure of stalking attempts. Graphs, comparing the numbers of observations for each of four variables with the frequency of stalking attempts, illustrate the cultural style of predation for this group of hunters.
4603092|The results of a comparison of agricultural settlement and land-use and local precipitation patterns in the arid region of the Arava in Israel indicated that as the number of settlements and the area of cultivated land has increased since the 1950s, the albedo effect in the region has decreased, and the amounts of precipitation at the first October rains have increased. It is suggested that the albedo effect in desert areas is influenced by extended agricultural land-use.
4603298|Among the agro-pastoralist Kuria people of Tanzania, many young men are engaged in an illicit livestock trade in which cattle stolen in Tanzania are sold to Tanzanian and Kenyan buyers for cash. In contrast to earlier theoretical formulations that have focused on pastoralist livestock raiding's presumed benign human-ecological functions of redistribution and herd management, this paper argues that Kuria cattle raiding is the driving force behind deleterious, and severe, human-ecological consequences in the study area, including a plummeting cattle population and a steady decline in food production in northern Tanzania's agriculturally bountiful Tarime District.
4602636|A major difficulty inthe study of the relationship between human population size and the environment has been placing the problem in a testable framework. Using data from the Marshall Islands, this article tests the proposition that population size and density are highly correlated with environmental variables, including rainfall and land area, through a complex series of socially mediated regulatory mechanisms. This analysis thus supports the population-resources disequilibrium theory of culture change.
4602694|It is suggested on both theoretical and empirical grounds that both central tendency and maximum potential range of variation in camp size among a variety of pastoral nomad groups is heavily constrained by limitations on the ability of individuals and small groups to monitor and process information in decision-making contexts.
4603495|Debate over how people behave in an open access environment is ongoing in both the social sciences and natural resource management circles. Central to this debate is the question of driving forces behind decisions and behavior toward natural resources within a given area. Using data from an artisanal shrimping community in Ecuador, I demonstrate that behavior in an open access environment, measured in terms of fishing effort, is responsive to both economic and noneconomic factors, the nature of which depends on the temporal scale at which behavior is being measured--hourly, daily, or amount of gear over time. These findings suggest that much of the observed variation between previous studies and corresponding data sets may be a methodological artifact, and the ensuing debates ultimately a result of different methodologies and scales of analyses.
4602472|Asmat hunter-gatherers of Irian Jaya have been experiencing rapid culture change since 1953, yet demographically still can be classified as "living primitives." Methods of nonstandard data analysis are utilized in an attempt to provide specific information on age-sex structure, fertility, birth rates, death rates, population growth, internal migration, and life expectancy in the contact era, and to aid in the development of a two-part model of population growth encompassing the immediate precontact and contact eras. Special attention is paid to the continuing albeit reduced impact of infanticide. Brief comparisons with other Melanesian and Third World societies are presented; the Asmat average annual growth rate of 1.5% since first permanent contact in 1953 contrasts with the generally higher rates reported for most of these other groups.
4603091|This paper describes and then analyzes the decision-making arrangements that prevail among the Raikas--nomadic shepherds from Western India. The paper suggests, using a simple analytical framework, that the existing distribution of decision-making during migration helps the Raikas to utilize available economies of scale, represent the different interest groups in their collectives, and control their decision-makers. At the same time, the ordinary shepherds in the camp are able to extract a comfortable subsistence from a complex and harsh environment by delegating much of their decision-making responsibilities to the leaders in the camp. To the extent shepherds in other parts of the world migrate over long distances and must confront similar issues of delegation of responsibilities and control over decision-makers, the analysis holds general relevance.
27654106|In the Indian state of Goa, communally owned agricultural land has persisted through indigenous state rule, colonial occupation and postcolonial liberation. We show that in Goa, and indeed elsewhere in the world, communally owned land provides protection against scarcity, risk, and state revenue demands in wet rice agriculture. When wet rice agriculture is the primary agricultural activity, communally owned land is an effective way to utilize resources. These findings add to the literature that challenges the inevitability of the tragedy of commonly owned resources.
27654226|Environmental effects of salmon farming are controversial issues. In Northern Norway, cod fishers argue that the location of salmon pens in fjords results in the cessation of local cod spawning. Research supporting or rejecting such statements is scant. There is an absence of both short-term and long-term studies on the effects that salmon farming may have on wild fish stocks. There are few studies of local ecosystem relationships in general. This article explores fishers' arguments about the effects of salmon farming. It discusses methods of assessing the reliability and validity of fisher knowledge, and contributes to the discussion on assets and limitations of narrative data and experiential knowledge.
41474635|The causes of agricultural intensification in a peasant community in the north central Andes are explored using a methodology derived from the tradition of Systems Ecology. Hypotheses derived from different research traditionsmainly development economics and anthropologyregarding the causes of intensification are integrated and evaluated for their relative effects. It is found that among the variables, household size is better at explaining the degree of intensity with which labor and technology are employed. The results suggest that technologically-driven agricultural intensification is generally forced upon households by the diminishing returns of their labor, and that this process is normally accompanied by increased financial debt for those peasant households who remain in agriculture and do not completely migrate to regional urban centers.
40981190|In order to understand wabusk (polar bear, Ursus maritimus) behaviours and interactions with people in the Hudson Bay lowlands of northern Ontario we conducted this collaborative study of Cree kiskayndamowin/knowledge. Our findings reveal that Cree knowledge supports previously published information on polar bears, while adding further contextual findings: that male polar bears travel greater distances into the muskeg than previously recorded; that wabusk prey on amisk (beaver, Castor canadensis); that wabusk interact with muskwa (black bears, Ursus americanus); and that human-polar bear interactions occur in this region of northern Canada. Bearing in mind that Cree knowledge has been recognized in wildlife management strategies (i.e., for beaver, caribou and moose) elsewhere in Canada, this particular body of information is timely, especially since polar bears are considered threatened under the Ontario Endangered Species Act, and the province is developing a recovery strategy for the Southern Hudson Bay polar bear population. The federal government is also contemplating listing polar bears in Canada as a "species of special concern" under the Species at Risk Act (SARA). While it is unclear as to how these decisions will impact the Cree-polar interactions, the listing of polar bears by both governments, but especially the provincial government of Ontario, must recognize treaty and Aboriginal rights, acknowledge its duties to consult and properly accommodate Aboriginal people's views, incorporate Cree kiskayndamowinl knowledge of wabusk, and re-examine the proposed Wabusk Co-Management Agreement draft developed by the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources (OMNR) and Coastal Cree First Nations of Northern Ontario in 1994. The article provides recommendations that highlight how the Northern Cree First Nations, through the development of the Recovery Strategy for Polar Bear in Ontario, can become engaged in the management of wabusk in Ontario and throughout Canada.
23353203|Shifting cultivation has long been a major livelihood for people in the miombo woodlands of southern, central and eastern Africa. However, increasing deforestation and forest degradation throughout the region are resulting in growing pressure on traditional shifting agricultural systems. Indeed, agricultural intensification and expansion itself is considered the primary cause of miombo deterioration, which is driven by both endogenous and exogenous variables operating at various scales. On the basis of data collected in the 1990s and 2010 from two villages in Northern Province, Zambia and two in the Rukwa Region, Tanzania, the paper will document the transition of shifting cultivation towards more intensive land use practices. It is argued that the main drivers influencing miombo degradation, and thereby the transition process of traditional shifting cultivation practices, have been a growing population, government policies, and an increasing commercialization/market integration. Questionnaires, focus group meetings, and in-depth interviews reveal that despite the breakdown of the traditional shifting cultivation practices, a general improvement of livelihoods has taken place. This has happened through adaptation and diversification in both agricultural practices and livelihood activities. However, it is also seen that because of the often rapidly changing external factors (market conditions and policies), life in the shifting cultivation communities involves a continual shift of emphasis among a variety of livelihood strategies.
4603183|It has become a theoretical commonplace among students of southwest Asian pastoralism that the balance of exchange between pastoralists and their settled neighbors has had a profound effect on pastoralists, strongly influencing household viability and, indeed, the viability of pastoralism as an adaptation. However, little attempt has been made to examine historical variation in the balance of exchange. Attempts to use transformations in the balance of exchange as a means of accounting for change among pastoralists thus remain largely impressionistic and underspecified. This paper examines variations in the balance of exchange between Iranian pastoralists and non-pastoralists from 1815 to 1977. It demonstrates that to the degree that there were long term shifts in the balance of exchange, they favored pastoralists, and it argues that this trend became stronger, rather than weaker in the 20th century. This suggests that pressures on pastoralists over this period were not directly economic and that variation in the balance of exchange itself cannot account for outcomes such as the increased settlement of Iranian pastoralists.
4602777|The prevalence of absentee herd ownership in Africa's pastoral areas is increasing. Its presence has important implications both for local resource management systems and for research programs that address pastoral ecology and related topics. This paper examines patterns of absentee herd ownership in the Baringo District of northern Kenya. This region has been the source of much debate regarding herder "mismanagement" of range lands. Three categories of absentee herd owners are discussed in the paper: (1) ranchers, (2) livestock traders, and (3) townsmen. It is suggested that the blame for some of the apparent resource mismanagement in the region may lie more with actors in these categories than with the pastoralists themselves. Data collected during an 18-month period in 1980-1981 on pastoral ecology, grazing patterns, and tenure institutions are presented in support of the argument. The paper concludes with a comparative analysis of contemporary resource management strategies in pastoral Africa, emphasizing that: (1) the Baringo case is not an isolated anomaly, and (2) a new orientation toward pastoral studies is warranted.
4602847|Births in Greene County, Alabama for the years 1980-1984 were examined and an overall seasonal trend was found with a peak from August through November. This trend was found to be most pronounced among women greater than 24 yeas old, and among multiparous women, and to be negatively correlated with seasonal variations in temperature and daylight. The phenomenon is likely multifactorial in origin, with sociocultural factors playing a considerable role. The influence of increasing maternal age and parity in the expression of the seasonal trend may be a function of age-related changes in families, with nuclear families acting as the most powerful potentiators of seasonality.
4602367|Ecological problems -- because they involve interactions and interfaces -- require for their solution a flexible, interdisciplinary approach. Ecological research can best be supported in an international, intergovernmental framework, but, at first sight, the requirements of such a framework may seem unwieldy to traditionally trained natural and social scientists. Experience acquired in implementing UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme indicates that it is possible to overcome the difficulties of conducting integrated research and to achieve internationally comparable results. The MAB Programme is a good example of both the potential and the limitations of integrated, international ecological research programs. There seem to be three imperatives for success: (1) research must be problem oriented, (2) the unit selected for study must be sufficiently comprehensive and based on human use systems, and (3) research workers in various natural and social science disciplines and the administrative decision-makers must share responsibility for planning and execution.
4602938|Many researchers have commented on the remarkable ability of African shifting cultivators to adjust their agricultural methods to available resources. In northern Zambia, where the shifting cultivators depend on woodlands as an agricultural fallow crop, deforestation is prevalent under the increasing population pressure. Adaptations to the less vigorous forest cover have taken various forms, but all of them can be described as succession to a common system of shifting cultivation. In many respects, these can be regarded as part of a process of agricultural adaptive radiation as the affected populations were pushed into new environments as a result of warfare and/or population pressure.
4602830|The success of an agricultural industry in commercial duck egg production in the swamplands of South Kalimantan (Borneo) is examined through the utilization of a human ecology framework. Seasonality of resource availability and human population growth are identified as two major constraints to production faced by farmers. Population increases in the urban sectors of southeastern Borneo also present economic opportunities for farmers because of the growing demand for poultry products. Farmers have responded by developing an intensification strategy in egg production based on the use of diversified resources for duck feed. The long-term consequences of these and other innovations in duck farming are discussed; and diversity-stability theory is examined for its applicability to this case of agricultural development and for rural development theory and practice.
27654171|With the rise of joint management of protected areas, community representatives are increasingly involved in formal negotiations with state officials, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and other actors. Policy recommendations have commonly idealized "win-win" scenarios. Theoretical work on negotiation from psychology and management studies, however, points to identifiable circumstances under which the goal of a mutually beneficial "win-win" situation may limit the strategies, and ultimately the benefits, available to communities. Instead, an antagonistic, "distributive" approach to negotiations may be more compatible with the pressures on and strategies available to community representatives. The tensions between a "mutual gains" and "distributive" approach to negotiations are evident in two land claims on protected areas in South Africa: the Dwesa-Cwebe Nature Reserves, and the Pafuri Triangle, a portion of Kruger National Park. In each, NGOs that operated with a "mutual gains" strategy, espousing a "win-win" scenario, came to be perceived as collaborating with conservation agencies. Meanwhile, as negotiation theory would suggest, community representatives inclined towards a "distributive" strategy and allied with a second set of explicitly advocatory NGOs. Expecting that communities should embrace a "win-win" scenario from the outset is unrealistic and likely to reduce communities' power in negotiations.
4602520|The question of why people work more or less at various activities is an old one in anthropology and recently has surfaced in studies of native South American societies. Growing out of debates about protein scarcity, arguments have arisen over the reasons why people spend time on hunting and fishing. Some authors suggest that labor allocation and other societal features can be explained with reference to absolute minimum requirements for specific nutrients (e.g., protein). This study presents data from four native Central Brazilian societies on the time spent at various subsistence tasks and the productivity of those tasks. The evidence suggests that decisions to allocate labor to hunting and fishing are influenced more by the overall possibilities for production in an area than by the availability of animal proteins alone. Satisfaction of calorie requirements appears to take precedence over satisfaction of protein requirements. In those societies in which gardening is highly productive, people can spend more time on hunting and fishing and improve the overall quality of their diet.
25652781|Bushmeat is an important component of the informal economy throughout West and Central Africa. In order to formulate effective policy to ensure the sustainability of bushmeat hunting for both development and conservation reasons, there is a need to understand its position within the wider rural economy. We conducted interviews with households and hunters over a 15-month period in a village in continental Equatorial Guinea which supplies substantial quantities of bushmeat to the urban market, to evaluate (1) whether hunting is predominately for income or consumption and through choice or necessity, and (2) the factors influencing household production of and consumption and expenditure on bushmeat. Hunting for trade to urban markets is a major component of household incomes, carried out by around 60% of poor-to-middle income households, while richer households have other income-generating activities. The greater a hunter's bushmeat offtake, the higher the proportion sold. Bushmeat forms a minor component of household expenditure and is less widely consumed than alternative protein sources. It is a necessity good, with consumption and expenditure on bushmeat related less than proportionately to income. While they prefer the security of a regular wage, hunting is an important source of fall-back income for men in the absence of preferable alternative livelihood opportunities.
4602561|The use of tools to obtain food is probably a long-standing hominid adaptation. Therefore, the rapid increase in hominid brain size over the last million years cannot be explained by selection for basic tool use alone. Two alternative theories, here termed the ecological adaptation hypothesis and the intraspecific competition hypothesis, are reviewed and rejected. Instead, a combination of these two theories is offered: the mental arms race amplifier hypothesis.
23353259|Property rights are a central topic in conservation debates, but their influence on environmental outcomes is rarely carefully assessed. This study compared land use, tree planting practices and arboreal vegetation on government, estate private, smallholder private and communal "family" lands in Saint Lucia. The influence of tenure was apparent, but overall not a strong predictor of either farmer practices or vegetation characteristics. Higher abundance of planted trees on smallholder private lands was offset by greater abundance of natural forest trees on estate and family lands. Tree planting and abandonment of cultivation (with ensuing afforestation) were commonplace on all three types of land. The influence of tenure was swamped by other factors shaping farmer decisions to plant trees, cut trees or abandon cultivation, including local topography and changing commodity and labor markets. Findings from this study challenge the assumption that property rights necessarily determine resource and environmental outcomes.
4602345|In order to test the hypothesis that in Central Africa variation in melanin concentration in the human skin largely results from adaptation to ultraviolet radiation, skin reflectance of the inner surface of the arm was measured at 685 nm in three samples: a sample of 415 Sara, who have a long history of habitation in the very sunny savanna of Chad; a sample of 278 Oto, a Konda caste that migrated to the equatorial forest of Zaire less than two millennia ago; and a sample of 122 Twa, a Konda caste that has been in the equatorial forest longer than the Oto. The predicted Sara-Oto-Twa sequence was confirmed and is at least partly genetically based.
24015748|Many empirical studies examine the performance of pro-environmental behavior. A review of 49 recent studies revealed 42 unique measures of pro-environmental behavior. Analysis of these studies indicates a lack of consistency among the various behavioral measures. To address the issue of inconsistency in such a critical variable, I developed a new measure, the Pro-Environmental Behavior Scale (PEBS). The behaviors included in this scale are those identified by environmental scientists as having the greatest impact on the environment. Principal components analysis generated a 19-item scale with four dimensions. Coefficient alpha for the full scale was .76. Coefficient alphas for the subscales ranged from .62 to .74. Bivariate Pearson correlations between the PEBS and the New Ecological Paradigm Scale, the Environment Identity Scale, and the Environmental Regulations Attitude Scale demonstrated the scale's construct validity. Test-retest correlations were strong, demonstrating reliability of the PEBS.
4602798|The energy flows in a seventeenth century agroecosystem in Jiaxing region of eastern China were analyzed on the basis of historical data. The agroecosystem included cropping, mulberry-silkworm, livestock, and fishing systems. In terms of energy, the agroecosystem was sustainable. Human labor provided all the power with inputs of about 3700 hr per hectare of farmland. Most or 70% of the labor was expended in the cropping system. Human and animal manure provided most of the nutrients for crop and mulberry production. About two-thirds of the total manure was used in crop production and one-third in the mulberry plantations. The only fossil energy input was a few hand tools. Approximately 55% of the grain was consumed directly by local residents, about one-third of the grain was used to make an alcohol drink and produce distillers' grains, which was fed to pigs, and only 2% of the grains were exported outside the agroecosystem. About two-thirds of the harvested crop residues were used as household fuel, while the remainder was returned to the field as an organic fertilizer. Pork accounted for 85% and silk cocoons 14% of the total animal products produced. Even though the agroecosystem was generally sustainable in terms of energy, the major environmental problem was that two-thirds of the harvested crop residues were used for household fuel. This reduced nutrient cycling in the system. Insufficient land was available to produce fuelwood; thus, crop residues were the primary source of fuel for the people.
4603025| Considerable demographic data on the Bar were provided by the 1982 Venezuelan Indian census. Some of these data are presented here and used to test the hypothesis, suggested by the Bar themselves, that territorial exogamy was caused largely by a shortage of marriageable women within the territorial group. The hypothesis is disconfirmed, but new insights into the causes of territorial exogamy emerge from the analysis. 
4602977|The energy flow through the ecosystem of a typical Apatani village in Arunachal Pradesh in northeastern India was studied. The energy and economic efficiency of the rice agro-ecosystem of this region is exceptionally high, and rice is exported after meeting local needs. The cropping pattern varies depending upon the amount of organic residues recycled into the system. Where recycling is more efficient and substantial, pisciculture is integrated with rice cultivation. Dry land cultivation of millet and mixed cropping in home gardens contribute toward meeting the diverse needs of the people. Swine and poultry husbandry is an important link with agro-ecosystems through the detritus food chain. Mithun (Bos frontalis) husbandry, which is dependent upon large forested grazing lands, is important for social and religious reasons, as well as being a source of food. Fuelwood is extracted from the natural forest and from the cultivated bamboo gardens; the latter also provide construction materials. This village ecosystem with high overall energy efficiency is based on tight recycling of resources.
27654209|It is generally assumed that peasants optimize security of food supply rather than maximize profit. One way of securing the survival of the household is to spread risk in farming by extending the planting and harvesting seasons in order to avoid all crops being damaged if unfavorable production conditions should occur. It thus seems peculiar that some Himalayan peasant communities act in the opposite manner by compressing peak agricultural activity into a minimum period, and furthermore that all cultivators simultaneously start planting and harvesting on dates fixed by the village headman in consultation with a lama (Buddhist priest). Rather than suggesting that any single explanation for this practice is the right one, however, this article contends that specific farming system cannot be understood properly unless a combination of subsystems  or facets  are included in the analyses.
4603540|Research at the site of Sayil in the Yucatan Peninsula has provided a valuable database for making inferences about the Terminal Classic (A.D. 750-1000) occupation of the Puuc region. This article evaluates and modifies previous demographic estimates for the site and considers the long-term implications associated with supporting this many people. Although a relatively high level of population was possible because of the excellent soils in the region, their natural fertility could not have been sustained indefinitely. The apparent demographic load on the proposed Sayil system would have required an intensive cropping strategy that may not have been sustainable for more than 75 years. This conclusion not only indicates how long the principal occupation of Sayil may have lasted, but more importantly, how the occupational dynamics during the Terminal Classic may have played out in the greater Puuc region.
27654148|Human predator-prey relationships changed dramatically in the Mediterranean Basin between 250,000 and 9,000 years ago. Many of these changes can be linked to increases in Paleolithic human population densities. Small game species are particularly diagnostic of increases in human hunting pressure and are a major source of evidence for demographic change after 4045,000 years ago. Biomass-corrected data on prey choice also indicate increasing use of those species that possess higher reproductive efficiencies. Step-wise, apparently irreversible shifts in human predatory niche are apparent in the Mediterranean Basin, beginning with the earliest Upper Paleolithic in the east and spreading westward. Evidence of demographic pressure and greater use of resilient prey populations is followed by technological innovations to exploit these animals more efficiently. The zooarchaeological findings suggest that Middle and Lower Paleolithic reproductive units probably were not robust at the micropopulation scale, due to the rather narrow set of behavioral responses that characterized social groups at the time, and thus localized extinctions at the micropopulation level were likely to have been common. Upper Paleolithic groups were the quintessential colonizers and, in addition, uniquely good at holding on to habitat gained. Upper Paleolithic archaeological "cultures" had shorter histories of existence than those of earlier periods, but they were even more widespread geographically. The demographic robustness of the Upper Paleolithic systems may stem from wholesale strategies for evening-out or sharing risk and volatility in technology. Micropopulations were larger and often denser on landscapes, more connected via cooperative ties, and thus more robust.
27654125|Soil conservation is widely regarded a critical component of sustainable livelihood strategies for the hillsides of Honduras. However, neoliberal polices have reduced economic incentives for agricultural intensification. Recent studies indicate off-farm work opportunities address poverty in a way conservation and development efforts do not. Yet off-farm work may discourage poor farmers from practicing soil conservation. A middle ground is needed. This study indicates micro-credit can substitute for off-farm work and encourage soil conservation practice. Many regions throughout Honduras have had extensive contact with soil conservation programs and would benefit more from credit services than redundant technological extension.
25652777|Indigenous knowledge is often portrayed as static and traditional, while indigenous people are considered victims of exploitation. In the name of development and empowerment NGOs as well as scientists may run the risk of representing indigenous communities that fit their definition of the "correct" way to be indigenous. However, for indigenous people knowledge is not necessarily a static condition in a binary position to science or the 'modern' world. Rather, it is a dynamic condition that draws from experience and adapts to a changing environment. The perspective advanced in this paper is that all forms of knowledge, including indigenous knowledge(s), are situated and hybrid. Our argument draws from research carried out in Chiapas, Mexico, regarding the ICBG-Maya bio-prospecting project that was initiated in the 1990s and later terminated due to accusations of bio-piracy.
4602483|The positive association between energy used and social complexity proposed by Leslie White and his students is examined at the microsociological level of the household. The hypothesis is tested within matrifocal households supported either by welfare or by the mother's earnings. White's macrosociological proposition is found to be conditional on other cultural, social organizational factors. Household energy consumption rises to the extent that the family establishes ties with outside social organizations, with an increase in the tempo of household activity, and, pari passu, with the expressiveness of the personality of the female household head. Energy consumption is a way of coping with the effects of reduced social organizational and personality order. These social factors interact with demographic and technological factors in determining a social organization's level of energy consumption. By considering the institutional, organizational, and motivational measures suggested in this paper, the unreliability of energy use predictions may be reduced.
4603503|In this paper, the link between traditional rights of access to land and water and present day practices is established and illustrated. Data collected during various studies in the Zamfara Forest Reserve, northwest Nigeria, provided information on the different resources utilized (land, pastures, water) and the views and practices of different user-groups and stakeholders. The findings are discussed with a view to improving existing common property resource management (CPRM) in the area.
4603047|There continues to be much debate in anthropology concerning the mechanism by which agricultural intensification takes place and its impact on labor efficiency, farm diversity, and quality of diet. A major reason for this lack of consensus is the paucity of data from case studies that focus on specific agricultural systems at the point of transition from extensive to intensive methods of cultivation. Research in a frontier community in the Philippines, where farmers are making the shift from swidden cultivation to small-scale irrigated rice production, indicates that intensification does not necessarily result in lower efficiency or a decline in dietary standards. Rather, farmers faced with growing population pressure and an unproductive short fallow swidden system have been motivated to adopt irrigation because it increases the efficiency of their labor while maintaining a reliable and diverse farming system.
23353260|Rice breeding and crop research predominantly emphasize adaptation to ecological conditions. Based on qualitative and quantitative research conducted between 2000 and 2012 we show how ecological factors, combined with socioeconomic variables, cultural norms and values, shape the use and development of local technologies related to the cultivation of African rice (Oryza glaberrima Steud.) in seven West African countries (Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Senegal, Sierra Leone, The Gambia and Togo). In this region the role of African rice is diverse across ethnic groups. Findings suggest that farmers, through various pathways, are active in the development of promising new varieties based on genetic resources of Asian rice, African rice, or both, as well as in the adoption of modern varieties. These findings require further research into interactions among ecological, genetic, socioeconomic and cultural factors within farmers' innovation systems and recognition of emergent knowledge and technologies resulting from such interactions.
40343948|This paper examines the relation between public land management policy, amenity migration, and socioeconomic well-being using the case of the Northwest Forest Plana forest management policy that caused 11.6 million acres of federal land in the US Pacific Northwest to be reallocated from commodity production to biodiversity services. Our analysis focuses on three propositions implicit in much of the amenity migration literature in the USA: land management policies that reduce commodity production and/or increase environmental protection (1) improve the natural amenity values of public lands; (2) increase amenity migration to communities near public lands; and (3) stimulate economic development and increase socioeconomic well-being in these communities. Our findings indicate that all three propositions are problematic and demonstrate the importance of community-scale analysis for understanding the relation between land management policies, amenity migration, and community well-being. We discuss the implications of our findings for public land management and rural community development.
4602624|While intestinal parasitic infestations of both helminthic and protozoal types are endemic in most parts of West Bengal, and variations in their frequencies between (a) the southern coastal and (b) the northern sub-Himalayan ecological zones are generally recognized, microlevel studies are few. Studies undertaken on these two zones suggest that, considering four broad classes of infection, the differences between the two zones, as also within the sub-Himalayan zone, are significant. Possible explanations of such differences in terms of physical and cultural environmental factors are suggested.
4603123|Using a stress-capability framework, the problems and opportunities for sustainable development at the village level in Bali are examined. Balinese culture incorporates a traditional form of local government which emphasizes cooperation, consensus building, and balance. These aspects provide a strong foundation for sustainable development initiatives. At the same time, many decisions are being taken external to the villages, and even to Bali, which may lead to problems for development initiatives.
40344001|Unlike neighboring disciplines, anthropology rarely studies how actual future events affect current behavior. Such studies could lay the groundwork for studies of ethnoforecasting. Psychologists argue that people forecast poorly, but some empirical work in cultural anthropology suggests that at least with weather, rural people might make reasonably accurate forecasts. Using data from a smallscale, pre-industrial rural society in the Bolivian Amazon, this study estimates the effects of future weather on the current collection of planted crops and wildlife. If actual future events affect current behavior, then this would suggest that people must forecast accurately. Longitudinal data covering 11 consecutive months (10/2002-8/2003, inclusive) from 311 women and 326 men age 14 in 13 villages of a contemporary society of forager-farmers in Bolivia's Amazon (Tsimane') are used. Individual fixed-effect panel linear regressions are used to estimate the effect of future weather (mean hourly temperature and total daily rain) over the next 1-7 days from today on the probability of collecting wildlife (game, fish, and feral plants excluding firewood) and planted farm crops (annuals and perennials) today. Daily weather records come from a town next to the Tsimane' territory and data on foraging and farming come from scans (behavioral spot observations) and surveys of study participants done during scans. Short-term future weather (3 days) affected the probability of collecting planted crops and wildlife today, although the effect was greater on the amount of planted crops harvested today than on the amount of wildlife collected today. Future weather beyond 3 days bore no significant association with the amount of planted crops harvested today nor with the amount of wildlife collected today. After controlling for future and past weather, today's weather (mean hourly temperature, but not rain) affected the probability of collecting wildlife today, but today's weather (temperature or rain) did not affect the probability of collecting planted crops today. The study supports prior work by anthropologists suggesting that rural people forecast accurately. If future weather affects the probability of harvesting planted crops and collecting wildlife today, then this suggests that Tsimane' must forecast accurately. We discuss possible reasons for the finding. The study also supports growing evidence from rural areas of low-income nations that rural people tend to protect their food production and food consumption well against small idiosyncratic shocks or, in our case, against ordinary daily weather that is not extreme. However, the greater responsiveness of daily foraging output compared with daily farming output to today's weather suggests that foraging might not protect food consumption as well as farming against adverse climate perturbations.
27654169|This paper examines change within farming systems in the Brong Ahafo Region in Ghana, and the impact of agricultural modernization and mechanization on the regional economy and local farming systems. It combines anthropological, historical, and remote sensing techniques to document changes in farming practice and land use and land cover. It argues that change is not the product of simple evolutionary sequences of responses to population pressures or adoption of modern technologies, but arises out of a complex set of factors interacting within wider regional economies, which are increasingly commodified and commercialized and subject to global market pressures. These include technical, institutional, market, movements of labor, and transport infrastructure development dimensions, which often create new opportunities for local farmers other than those envisaged in agricultural development policies. Tracing the opening up of the transition zone over the last 4050 years through the development of state farms and mechanized synthetic agriculture, the paper examines the changing fortunes of farming systems within a radius of 3040 km from agricultural technology hubs and the implications for models of agricultural development.
4603385|In this paper I explore the interactions between colonial law and native customary law in the formation of contemporary property regimes in a rural village in Sabah, Malaysia, that I call Govuton. Govuton was one of the few known villages in Sabah that rejected colonial policies of land settlement that focused on settling private, individual property claims. Instead, village leaders negotiated with colonial officials for their village lands to be legally designated as corporately-held village property under the title of "Native Reserve." While the Native Reserve served to protect village access to jointly-held property in the colonial period, in the contemporary period new land disputes are arising as different images of community and tradition are strategically deployed by villagers in order to win struggles over rights of ownership and access to resources in the current political economy. By adopting such an historical and site-specific view of the transformation of property rights several broader themes regarding the relationship between state and society and natural resource management emerge. First, this case study challenges the idea the colonial governments were a monolithic force imposing laws on an unresisting native population. Second, the notion that "the community" is an appropriate unit for natural resource management is questioned. And finally, this case study raises the possibility that the current trend toward strengthening or reinvigorating native customary law is not always in the interests of native peoples with diverse interests in natural resource management.
4602659|Patterns of conflict and cooperation both within and between societies may be related to the degree of cultural similarity within and between the same societies. A simple model of social learning is used to predict patterns of conflict and cooperation in hypothetical societies that differ in the roles of relatives and nonrelatives in the enculturation of children. The model is illustrated by comparing its predictions to known differences in the patterns of conflict between males in patrilocal and matrilocal societies.
4602459|Data from two rural Chinese settings suggest that an ecological variable -- the reliability of food supply -- may exert a more decisive influence on birth seasonality than time of marriage or attributes of temperature, rainfall, or workload. First births seem to be especially important for patterns of seasonality; comparison between villages suggests that a periodic but reliable source of food may encourage a seasonal distribution of first births, the effect of which might be to protect the mother and/or her newborn infant. It is the periodicity of first births that may give aggregate birth figures the appearance of seasonality.
4602988|This paper examines the effects of the 1984 drought upon household wealth differences in a community of Ariaal pastoralists of northern Kenya. The database consists of 1985 post-drought livestock counts and informants' statements of species-specific drought loss, compared to 1976 livestock counts on the same 38 households. The analysis confirms the hypothesis that the drought resulted in increased household wealth inequalities. It is suggested that the combination of differential herd growth, differential participation in the cash market, and differential loss to the drought has contributed to a polarization within Ariaal of rich and poor, resulting in rural proletarianization and urban migration.
4603485|Documenting local ecological knowledge (LEK) has recently become a topic of considerable interest within the social research, development, and indigenous rights communities. For instance, LEK is thought to offer a substantial alternative to existing, largely "top-down," natural resource management regimes. LEK informed resource management systems would acknowledge peoples' experiences and priorities, while also providing people with additional means of empowerment. Given these qualities, one might reasonably expect that rigorous design and methodological attributes will characterize LEK research, particularly respecting the procedures employed to identify and to select "local knowledge experts." Our review of the recent social research literature suggests that insufficient attention is given both to reporting the methods employed and to employing systematic approaches, especially with regard to the critical issue of how local experts are identified. We detail a research design that systematically solicited peer recommendations of fisheries local knowledge experts in a study focused on two northeast Nova Scotian embayments. Finally, we argue that in order to achieve the stated purposes and potentials of LEK research, researchers need to become more attentive to reporting on the methods employed and to employing systematic approaches than is currently the case.
4602880|The use of energy (calories) as the currency to be maximized per unit time in Optimal Foraging Models is considered in light of data on several foraging groups. Observations on the Ache, Cuiva, and Yora foragers suggest men do not attempt to maximize energetic return rates, but instead often concentrate on acquiring meat resources which provide lower energetic returns. The possibility that this preference is due to the macronutrient composition of hunted and gathered foods is explored. Indifference curves are introduced as a means of modeling the tradeoff between two desirable commodities, meat (protein-lipid) and carbohydrate, and a specific indifference curve is derived using observed choices in five foraging situatiuons. This curve is used to predict the amount o meat that Mbuti foragers will trade for carbohydrate, in an attempt to test the utility of the approach.
4603410|This paper shows that the Huaorani Indians of the Ecuadorian Amazon possess a long-standing common property management regime fostered by secure ownership status of the land, the small size and kinship ties of residence groups, the existence of mutual trust and reciprocity, and culturally sanctioned rules of behavior. This regime, however, was focused on maintaining harmonious relationships between residents of the nanicabo and not on resource conservation (although it may have fostered epiphenomenal conservation). It cannot be presumed that communal management of resources invariably leads to conservation; other factors need to be present, such as a perception of resource scarcity. The common property regime was designed for a situation of plentiful resources, low population density, clear membership, and behaviors held in check by respect for kin and the desire for good standing. It was a sufficient and simple system for delimiting common property resources from private property, based on implicit social boundaries and cultural under-standings. Now, confronted by powerful external forces, population growth, and intermarriage with non-Huaorani, the system is faltering. Conservationist practices, however, can be encouraged by adapting the earlier system to reflect current conditions.
4603137| Since pacification 30 years ago, the Bar of northwest Venezuela have aggregated in villages and have begun to produce cattle and some crops for sale in regional markets. This research analyzes satellite imagery to compare patterns of land use among Bar settlements that differ in their population size, cattle holdings, and distance to nearest marketplace. These comparisons indicate that settlement history mediates the effect of population pressure and herd sizes on land use. Moreover, intensification of land use is associated with greater deforestation and a more heterogeneous landscape, but less biodiversity in woody species. 
4602939|Models of optimal foraging theory are used to evaluate the decisions of a sedentary herdsman and his family in Burkina Faso concerning the movement of his cattle from pasture to pasture. Generally, such models describe exploitation at the patch level, but are inadequate at higher levels. The herdsmen in the study area are generally sedentary, and their strategy of exploitation appears to be characterized by planning at least in terms of a whole day and minimizing daily travel time among fields. In conjuction with this conclusion a modified optimization model is proposed. We conclude that optimal foraging models are useful in interpreting and understanding the rules governing the movements of traditional West African herdsmen when so modified, but that more data are needed to develop and test these models further.
4603114| The June 1991 eruption of Mt. Pinatubo in the Philippines produced one of the greatest volcanic aerosols in the last hundred years. The estimated net decrease of radiation may have peaked at 10% in the tropics. What was the impact of the Pinatubo aerosol on regional and global climate? Besides the expected net cooling of the average global surface temperature, correlation studies indicate that other types of climate anomalies may also be expected. These include the appearance of an El Nio event, decreased Indian monsoon rainfall, fewer tropical storms in the north Atlantic Ocean in 1991-1993, and normal to above normal winter rainfall in California in 1991/92, all of which were observed. A proposed physical mechanism for the almost-simultaneous occurrence of this constellation of climate anomalies is presented. The results of correlation studies between low-latitude volcanic aerosols and the El Nio/Southern Oscillation are presented in some detail as one example. The correlation between Indian monsoon rainfall and tropical storms in the north Atlantic Ocean is also shown and is updated for the most recent 5 years. 
41474670|When faced with a species that is seldom encountered or discussed, can local or indigenous people piece together their accumulated experience to make inferences about the ecology of that species? In this paper the Greenland shark acts as a model to study how the Inuit of southern Baffin Island are able to produce ecological knowledge. We examine experiential information, reflections, variations in knowledge, and sense-making related to the Greenland Shark, and present a knowledge coproduction process based on heuristic reasoning. The process of knowledge co-production has similarities to fuzzy logic, and highlights the adaptability and versatility of indigenous knowledge systems to generate new understandings about the species and its role in the Arctic marine environment. Interactions between the Inuit and researchers can provide a forum to facilitate knowledge co-production, and can be used as a strategy to engage the Indigenous and traditional peoples in resource management and conservation.
4602792|This paper deals with the behavioral pattern of neighbor relations and their relationships to the subjective attitudes and expectations of the residents. The sample was 318 middle-class women living in eight- to 20- story buildings. The findings indicate that respondents so desiring were able to develop active social ties with their neighbors. Moreover, they interacted with neighbors despite the fact that the majority had opportunities for alternative social relations. The distinction between "localized" and "nonlocalized" high-rise residents does not seem meaningful in this case. Actual social ties with neighbors were related to norms and expectations regarding neighbor relations. Despite active neighboring, respondents did not have difficulties obtaining privacy.
4602940| Models of energetic efficiency have been widely used by ecological anthropologists to study human subsistence patterns. This paper explicitly tests an hypothesis posed by Smith (1979) about energy utilization in the highland community of Nunoa, Peru. Smith's hypothesis is largely confirmed, as greater energy availability is associated with increased caloric consumption and improved measures of health and well-being among the wealthier sectors of this population. However, an energetics model does not provide a full understanding of the behavior and biology of this population. Interacting social/economic and environmental forces impose different constraints on different sectors of this population. These differences are in turn reflected in variation in adaptive strategies and in biological well-being. Future work in human ecology will benefit from (1) attention to the interaction of ecological and socio-economic forces, (2) greater appreciation of intra-populational variation in adaptive strategies, and (3) explicit linking of variation in adaptive strategies to differences in human biological parameters. 
27654105|We explore the history, structure and function, and management of vegetated field margins, particularly hedgerows, in Mexico since the pre-Hispanic period. We then focus on the current agricultural landscape in El Bajo, central Mexico, describing in detail the abundance, composition, and management of existing hedgerows. These vegetated field margins can be traced to the pre-Hispanic period, especially in central Mexico, where Indians planted hedgerows, living fences, and terraces, mainly to prevent erosion. After the Spanish Conquest, some of these structures disappeared, but in many cases, new plant species were incorporated into the remaining field boundaries. Today, vegetated field boundaries are adjacent to crop fields and, in some places, they form networks similar to those seen in Europe. Farmers actively manage hedgerows for a variety of useful products and in so doing provide habitat and dispersal routes for native plants and animals.
4602751|Andean cultural ecologists have made two claims in recent years: ecological decomposition is absent due to effective indigenous management of communal resources, and agricultural intensification is inversely related to altitude. Drawing on material from the Jukumani Indians of Northern Potosi, Bolivia, these assertions are challenged. First, there is little evidence to prove or disprove ecological degradation. Second, the location of agricultural intensification, as the Jukumani data suggests, is influenced by altitude as well as by the presence of market.
4602583|To what extent have recent warnings of deepening ecological problems become topics of discussion among international political elites? To address this question a content analysis was undertaken of the speeches comprising the general debates of the 1968, 1972, and 1976 sessions of the UN General Assembly to identify all instances in which ecological issues were mentioned. Despite other indications of an increase in environmental consciousness in the international community, it was found that ecological problems have not been discussed very extensively in the general debates and are far less salient than several other agenda items for which data were also collected. Moreover, the environment peaked as an issue in the 1972 session and declined in prominence in 1976. It was also found that the more developed a country is, the greater the tendency for its delegates to mention environmental problems in their speeches. The lack of prominence of ecological issues is interpreted on the basis of two alternative assumptions: first, that the degree of international awareness of environmental problems is not adequately represented in the general debates and, second, that the findings accurately reflect what is generally a low level of environmental concern in international circles.
4602821|Previous analyses of faunal remains from highland Mesoamerican sites have viewed implied changes in animal exploitation patterns as a secondary consequence of early agricultural practices. This paper argues that faunal data from the Tehuacan Valley, when interpreted within an optimization framework provide evidence for the alteration of optimal meat harvesting strategies through time by communities responding to a variety of socioenvironmental factors: seasonal and long-term availability of game, access to domestic meat resources, human meat demand levels, and scheduling constraints.
40343986|In recent years a new approach has begun to emerge in commons scholarship that draws on complex systems thinking and that makes use of concepts such as fit, scale, and the adaptive renewal cycle. This paper explores what complex systems thinking has to offer for commons scholarship by applying these concepts to the pastoral commons of the Gabra ethnic group of north-central Kenya. The concepts of fit and scale can help us to understand why some features of the institutional regime of the Gabra do not conform to mainstream principles such as clearly defined boundaries, clearly defined membership rules, and subsidiarity. The notion of the adaptive renewal cycle can help us to describe and understand some aspects of dynamics of Gabra institutions, especially those related to the management of shallow wells. Applying the adaptive renewal cycle to larger and longer scales highlights the possibility that the Gabra social-ecological system is becoming increasingly brittle, with evolving institutional arrangements putting more and more constraints on adaptation and especially on nomadic mobility. An examination of the distinctive nature of dryland pastoral commons, and in particular a complex systems approach to this examination, suggests a number of issues that relief and development organizations should consider, including how to foster novelty and innovation through all the phases of the adaptive cycle.
4603530|Interest in shade-grown coffee is now increasing because of declining coffee prices in the world market and an increasing trend toward "green consumerism." It is therefore important to understand farmers' perception of the role of shade trees in coffee fields, an area that has not received deserving attention in research agendas. On the basis of detailed interviews involving both "open-ended" and "closed" questions with 83 small-scale coffee farmers in the Peninsula of Nicoya, Costa Rica, we found that characteristics that farmers considered important were mostly comparable to those stated in the literature. But some differences were also noted; examples included tree height (considered important by farmers, but not in literature) and leaf size (mentioned in literature, but not by farmers). Some tree species that were not considered beneficial as coffee shade trees were still retained in the fields because of the additional benefits they provided. Eighty-eight percent of farmers were interested in incorporating more trees, especially fruit trees, into their coffee plantations. The results of the study underscore the need for research on the little-studied area of interaction between coffee plants and fruit trees.
4603115|Rules incorporating influences on global temperature, an estimate of radiation balance, were induced from astronomical, geophysical, and anthropogenic variables. During periods of intermediate global temperatures (generally like the present century), the influences assume canceling roles; influences cancel the effects of extreme states potentially imposed by other influences because they are, in aggregate, most likely to be assuming opposite values. This imparts an overall stability to the global temperature. To achieve cold or hot global temperature, influences assume reinforcing roles. CO
4603034|Kubo producer-units (families and independent bachelors) could have been self-sufficient in the production of bananas but chose not to be. Nor did they seek self-sufficiency in the production of any combination of staple carbohydrate foods (bananas, tubers, sago flour) or, in the long term, strive for balance in the exchange of food with other producer-units. Despite the fact that bananas, which provided 50% of people's energy needs, were a delayed-return crop Kubo communities were very unstable. This instability and the failure to choose the option of self-sufficiency were connected and were mediated through intense intracommunity sharing that, ultimately, served to negotiate a concern with sorcery. The people grew bananas in the way they did, not out of environmental necessity, but to accommodate the crop to the needs of sharing and, thereby, facilitate community living.
25652741|From the earliest days of the Soviet Union, the people of Tajikistan were allowed to have small "kitchen gardens" attached to their homes or in the vicinity of their apartments in which they could augment their diets with fresh food and also keep a milk cow and perhaps chickens. Over time however, families began to produce far more than they needed and would sell the surplus in local markets, along roads, and even in nearby citiesan early example of market-oriented, investment agriculture in Central Asia. By the end of the Soviet era, as much as one third of food sold in the markets was from kitchen gardens. In post-independence Tajikistan, these gardens have allowed families facing civil war, drought, and demodernization to feed themselves and earn some extra income. This paper describes the historic geography, layout and crops of kitchen gardens, and provides quantitative data on the economic importance of these gardens.
4602283|Shifting public conceptualizations of the environment have led to a comprehensive, ecological view of the impact of industrial activity. Nevertheless, primary attention has been focused on the problem of externalities, i.e., pollution. In an industry such as iron and steel manufacturing, with its heavy demands on mineral resources and various forms of energy, some equally important questions are raised about the extent to which technological change has resulted in environmentally beneficial or harmful trade-offs or substitutions. It is found that there have taken place, over a 50-year period, substantial reductions in the amounts of iron ore and metallurgical coke required to produce a ton of iron; however, these developments have raised certain new environmental problems. In the energy sector, the industry has responded rationally to changing relative prices in making substitutions among sources. Demand for scrap, the major recycled input, is found to be very price-inelastic; furthermore, despite some radical changes in the contributions of various steelmaking technologies to total production, the overall ratio of scrap input to raw steel output has remained remarkably stable over the past quarter century.
27654147|There is substantial research on psychological consequences of disasters. However, most disaster studies to date have focused on acute disasters, ignoring slow-onset chronic hazards, such as extreme climate conditions and pollution. Using a multilevel theoretical framework based on the Conservation of Resources theory (S. E. Hobfoll, The Ecology of Stress, Hemisphere, New York, 1988; "Stress, Culture, and Community: The Psychology and Philosophy of Stress," Plenum, New York, 1998) and the "ecological analogy" (see e.g., S. E. Hobfoll and R. S Lilly, Journal of Community Psychology, 21:128148, 1993; E. J. Trickett, "Extreme Stress and Communities: Impact and Intervention," Kluwer, Boston, 1995), this critical review of the current literature is aimed at increasing our understanding of personal and community impacts of drought as a classic example of a natural, slow-onset disaster affecting large numbers of people worldwide. A gap in the current literature was identified concerning appraisal and coping at the individual level. These include psychological coping strategies and the role of resources other than economic resources in explaining vulnerability to negative consequences of drought, such as personal resources (e.g., knowledge, skills, self-sufficiency, mastery, control) and social resources (e.g., social support). Important differences were identified with fast-onset disasters. Most importantly, dealing with drought is generally an integrated part of life for people in drought prone areas. Therefore, individuals may not recognize that their problems are part of a community wide stressor, and raising community awareness during severe and long droughts that deplete community resources needs special attention. Implications for studying drought and effective intervention strategies are given.
40343959|This paper situates concerns for conservation of aquatic snakes and livelihood sustainability in Cambodia within a social-ecological systems context and thereby presents a challenge to conventional species-based conservation programmes. Fishing for low-value water snakes has become a widespread activity within the floating communities of Tonle Sap Lake in the last 20 years in response to new market opportunities, provided primarily by a crocodile farming industry. The scale and intensity of this new form of exploitation and reports of declines in catch per fisher have highlighted this activity as a conservation concern, yet its role within local livelihood strategies was previously unknown. We show that it is of increasing importance to the less well-off, and is linked to higher incomes within this group, where it potentially reduces their vulnerability to fluctuations and declines in fish catches. It is particularly important as a means to smooth seasonality of incomes in this flood pulse-driven social-ecological system. We argue that shifts between snake-hunting and fishing, as a market-driven adaptive livelihood strategy by the poor, may be more compatible with wider ecosystem conservation and development goals than alternatives such as increased fishing effort or converting floodplain habitats for seasonal agriculture.
4603310|The transition of Australian Aborigines from a diet based on hunting and gathering to an essentially Western diet has been proceeding for almost 200 years, but in some regions was greatly delayed. In 1966/1967 Gould (1980) studied operational aspects of hunting-gathering in desert regions of north-western Australia and recorded sufficient quantitative and species-specific data to allow definition of the diet over 5 months. By 1966, many Aboriginal people in that region had been displaced from their hunting grounds and were living in camps on cattle stations or in missions. Aboriginal diet on cattle stations in the north-west was studied in 1951 (Commonwealth Department of Health) and shown to consist chiefly of fresh meat, wheaten flour, and sugar with small amounts of vegetables and dairy products. With the granting of citizenship in 1967, most Aborigines were dismissed from cattle stations and were moved first to town camps and later formed remote Aboriginal communities. Studies in the 1980s showed that the self-selected diet in such communities reflected the station diet to a greater extent than the traditional diet. Quantitative presentation of the above three diets, in terms both of foods and of major nutrients, show that many of the dietary inadequacies of the station diet identified in 1951 still persisted in self-selected Aboriginal diets in the 1980s. A comparison of the three diets with a modern recommended diet supports the nutritional adequacy of the hunter-gatherer diet. Traditional cultural values assigned to food preferences continued to influence food choices in all three diets.
25652780|The project to exterminate nonindigenous fish was initiated in Lake Biwa in April 2002 because nonindigenous fish, especially large-mouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) and bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus), had adversely affected the diversity of indigenous fish. This project allowed fishers to catch nonindigenous fish whenever, wherever, and however they wished and to sell their entire daily landing to the Shiga Prefectural Government (SPG) on a fixed-price basis. That is, the SPG regarded nonindigenous fish as an "open-access resource." This project defined success as the extermination of nonindigenous fish. This study focused on how the fishers behaved after the project began and attempted to identify the factors influencing their behavior. I observed that the ranks of fishers increased because of the policies pertaining to nonindigenous fish. At one level, this result supports the model of "the tragedy of open-access resources." However, this study also found that the behavior of fishers did not always result in "tragedy." In Okishima, fishers' behavior is strongly influenced by merchants. More specifically, fishers must abide by their contracts with merchants, and these effectively prevent them from catching nonindigenous fish even when these appear to bring greater profits. This local mechanism served to limit excessive levels of fishing and impeded "the tragedy of open-access resources." Consequently, the results of this project did not meet the expectations of the SPG.
4603235|This paper considers traditional resources and fire management practices of Aboriginal people living in a near-coastal region of western Arnhem Land, monsoonal northern Australia. The data illustrate that before the arrival of Europeans freshwater floodplains and riverine habitats provided the major proportion of food resources over much of the seasonal cycle. By contrast, the extensive lowland woodlands and open forests, the sparser vegetation of the Arnhem Land escarpment and plateau, and the generally small patches of rain forest ("jungle"), provided relatively few resources, although jungle yams were of critical importance through the relatively lean wet season. The paper then considers burning as a management tool through the seasonal cycle. In broad terms, burning commenced in the early dry season and was applied systematically and purposefully over the landscape. Burning in the late dry season was undertaken with care, and resumed in earnest with the onset of the first storms of the new wet season, particularly on floodplains. These general patterns of resource use and fire management are shown to have applied widely over much of near-coastal northern Australia. The implications of these data for prehistory and for contemporary land management practices in the region, are considered. It is suggested that pre-European patterns of fire management in the region are likely to have been practiced only over the past few thousand years, given the development of abundant food resources in the late Holocene. It is shown that traditional burning practice offers a generally useful, conservative model for living in and managing a highly fire-prone savanna environment.
23353255|The Mongolian plateau in East Asia is part of a new hotspot of land cover change. Recent human activity and natural forces have degraded grasslands in northern China with the southern Mongolia steppe similarly vulnerable. Investigating vegetation patterns at piospheres (the area around water points) can identify herder influence on pasture conditions. Through fieldwork and remote sensing this paper examines plant density and species richness at water sources to establish land cover patterns in two Mongolian provinces where overgrazing is thought to be the major cause of degradation. In contrast to standard piosphere patterns, vegetation was greater near water points and decreased with distance. This suggests that livestock are not concentrated at water points in Mongolia and that piosphere dynamics are more influenced by precipitation, edaphic factors and potential distinctive processes in cold drylands. It implies that pastoralism, with mobile livestock management, is a suitable adaptive strategy to the low forage capacity of steppe grasslands.
4603226|This article examines current net hunting practice by BaAka Pygmies of central Africa. In terms of time allocation, net hunting remains the single most important activity for the BaAka. But net hunting is only one in a range of subsistence and economic activities among which individuals switch on a daily basis. Returns from net hunting are roughly equivalent to those from competing activities. Several factors encourage the decline of net hunting and its replacement with snare hunting: enforcement of park regulations, higher individual returns to snare hunting, and greater involvement in formal employment and agriculture. However, net hunting has not been abandoned completely for several reasons: the local market demand for bushmeat is growing, numerous forest products besides meat are collected on net hunts, and economic alternatives remain irregular and unreliable.
23353201|Despite the rapid agricultural transition that has occurred in the past decade, shifting cultivation remains a widespread agricultural practice in the northern uplands of Lao PDR. Little information is available on the basic socioeconomic situation and respective possible patterns in shifting cultivation landscapes on a regional level. On the basis of a recent approximation of the extent of shifting cultivation landscapes for two time periods and disaggregated village level census data, this paper characterizes these landscapes in terms of key socioeconomic parameters for the whole of northern Laos. Results showed that over 550,000 people live in shifting cultivation regions. The poverty rate of this population of 46.5 % is considerably higher than the national rural rate. Most shifting cultivation landscapes are located in remote locations and a high share of the population comprises ethnic minorities, pointing to multi-dimensional marginality of these areas. We discuss whether economic growth and increased market accessibility are sufficient to lift these landscapes out of poverty.
41433097|An effective response to future risk within socio-ecosystems will require the retention of local diversity, not just in more vulnerable communities on the margins but also in regions vital to industrialised countries. A case study is presented that examines agroecosystem vulnerability to climate change within an Australian multifunctional rural landscape adjacent to the city of Adelaide. The dominant neoliberal governance approach is struggling to account for the levels of risk apparent in the region, even though there is considerable evidence that changes in policy and practice are required. Land use planning mechanisms can explicitly and implicitly support adaptation to risk within vital agroecosystems by defining spaces of complexity and experimentation. A review of French land use policy suggests that appropriate classifications can facilitate support for local diversity and broaden the capacity of farming systems to adapt to risk. Such classifications of spaces valuable for socio-ecological resilience and innovation could become vital tools to integrate into neoliberal governance systems to support anticipatory adaptation to future socio-ecological risk.
4602779|Fish resources are generally considered common property and open to any user. This, the assumption goes, makes them susceptible to the "tragedy of the commons" in which selfish users are both the villains and the victims. While it is true that wild fish populations cannot readily be privatized, it hardly follows that they are completely open-access. In addition to social controls found in many traditional fishing communities, amply documented by anthropologists, many administrative controls in contemporary fisheries management also create limited property rights over fishery resources. This study focuses on Great Lakes fisheries of Ontario in Lakes Erie and St. Clair, and the kinds and diversity of limited property rights instituted in these areas: the formal and informal allocation of fishing areas, and the allocation of quantitative fishing rights (quotas), all of which serve as mechanisms to solve the common property resource problem. The Great Lakes fisheries suggest certain generalizations about the management of common property resources. The paper offers a "life-cycle" model of living resources use.
24013722|This paper analyzes increasingly individualized herding behavior after the implementation of a grazing ban policy in northern China based on empirical research in 12 pastoralist villages. The findings reveal that de-collectivization of pastureland has not necessarily led to direct changes in individual land use strategies. Instead, a wider institutional context influenced by the implementation of a grazing ban has led to more individualized herding and increased short-term considerations of profit maximization in the study area, both of which are seen to undermine the sustainable use of pastureland. Based on our observations of herder responses to privatization, the grazing ban and a short experiment with lifting the grazing ban, we propose that the special characteristics of grassland and pastoralism call for institutions that facilitate locally originated pasture land use practice (e.g., co-operative herding, self-organized management) instead of exclusive reliance on a rigidly defined private property regime focused on fixed property boundaries.
4603268|Using ground truth and remote sensing data this paper tries to demonstrate once again that commons as well as privately owned pastures are managed by their appropriators in such a manner that sustainability as a goal can be approached, while areas not recognized as controlled by one or more legitimate persons and hence open to all may well be overexploited. The analysis of pastures which are recognized as commons in the western Liddar valley in Kashmir (India) shows that these lands are not overexploited by the nomadic and transhumant pastoralists using them. On the whole, individually owned pastures were also not found to be overstocked. Those plots, however, through which all herders transit on their bi-annual migration and which are not recognized as being owned by any authority are highly degraded.
4602812| Marketing strategies employed by herders in Piura, a coastal region in northern Peru, are discussed in conjunction with ecological and economic factors. Data from regional slaughterhouses help in analyzing decisions concerning livestock offtakes and in understanding the rationale behind them. Piura is characterized by sharp weather changes, amplified by the El Nio phenomenon. The variations in precipitation and forage availability strongly affect production, structure, and dynamics of the herds and are therefore a significant component in determining the actual marketing decision strategy. "Pure" herders adopt an "insurance" strategy emphasizing a build-up of herds during abundant years in order to compensate for considerable losses caused by frequent droughts. The use of stubble and concentrated feed in coping with droughts is restricted by economic and social factors. Agropastoralists are affected not only by ecological factors but also by labor availability, agricultural cash requirements, and household needs. As a result, these goat keepers practice a "capital-manipulation strategy" in which goats and kids are used as a form of capital. The paper provides an empirical representation of these two marketing strategies based on slaughterhouses' records and a complementary field survey. 
27654289|Small-scale fisheries in developing countries are often vital to the livelihoods of the rural poor, yet the dynamic and variable nature of household engagement in local fisheries remains poorly understood. This paper describes a small-scale fishery for aquarium fish in two proximate villages of the Peruvian Amazon, and explains observed differences within and between villages in participation, reliance and organisation of the fishery. A framework is developed to guide the systematic description and characterisation of small-scale fisheries organisation in Amazonia and beyond. An improved understanding of the socioeconomic factors that shape the organisation of artisanal freshwater fisheries promises to better inform research and management initiatives aimed at promoting sustainable local fisheries and poverty reduction among fishers.
4602679| A number of researchers have suggested that polyculture is characteristic of native tropical forest swiddens and have adduced theory from community ecology to account for its adaptiveness. Ye'kwana and Yanomam swidden cultivation is examined, and it is shown that polyculture is not practiced to any significant degree. Instead, the concept of polyvariety is introduced along with a number of other cultivation practices that more simply account for the adaptiveness of Ye'kwana and Yanomam gardening. In addition, comparative data from other parts of the tropical world indicate that polyculture is no more common than monoculture and recent advances in ecological research indicate that the diversity-stability hypothesis that underpins adaptive arguments of polyculture is in need of drastic revision. 
40343963|This study documents labor migration and its impacts on household income, material well-being, and land-use practices in Mexico's southern Yucatn and examines the relation of labor migration to local forest recovery. Drawing on a 203-household survey in 14 communities, we contrast migrating and non-migrating households, showing that migration earnings substitute for agricultural earnings and that migrating households cultivate significantly less farmland. A larger percentage of migrating households maintain pasture, but, on average, not more hectares. These dynamics are consistent with the decline in deforestation registered in the area for the year 2000. Incipient local forest recovery is considered in light of current forest transition theory, with an examination of three hypothesized paths to forest recovery: economic development, forest scarcity, and smallholder agricultural adjustment. The southern Yucatn case illustrates the need to explicitly incorporate the role of globalizing household economies into forest transition theory.
24015694|Pastoralists employ different strategies to minimize the risk of losing their livelihood due to drought, disease, and other disasters. Livestock transfers have been considered critical because they provide not only a safety net during disasters but also contribute to the resilience of pastoral societies by allowing pastoralists to rebuild their herds after disasters. I examine whether and how livestock transfers serve as risk management strategies in a comparative, ethnographic study of three pastoralist communities in the Far North Region of Cameroon. The findings show that livestock transfers contribute to short-term survival of households but not long-term viability of family herds. Here I argue for a more holistic, anthropological approach that considers the social and cultural aspects of strategic decisions that individual pastoralists make when they engage in these transfers.
40603030|The fact that humanlarge carnivore relationships tend to be filli of material and social conflicts raises applied questions concerning the origin of human perceptions linked to these animals and more theoretical questions concerning the link between identification and relational processes. This study, based on ethno-ethological surveys in the Republic of Macedonia (SE Europe), aims to show that the widely contrasting species specific behavioural characteristics of brown bears, wolves and Eurasian lynx influence local perceptions of these species through the nature and frequency of their interactions with humans. It appears that a high frequency of interactions allows the relational processes to dominate, leading people to modify their actions in response to the behaviour and ecology of the species. However, the fact that the virtual absence of interactions with lynx has not prevented the construction of a particular image of the species also highlights the complexity of the relationship between the level of interactions and people's perception about animals.
4602878|Previous research into drought-response tactics has tended to be undertaken after the fact, and hence has been forced to be impressionistic. This study quantifies the importance of farmer drought-response strategies in southcentral Niger based on a survey which began during the drought of 1984. Livestock sales, food aid, temporary migration, remunerative non-agricultural activities, and loans were the principal drought-survival tactics employed.
4602705|This article describes the colonization process of the Japanese pioneer farmers in the Bolivian subtropical lowlands. Quantitative data for each of the farm households that can be matched for comparison between the initial phase of colonization and a later phase provide the basis for an examination of a reciprocal relationship between household organization and successively introduced agricultural practices. Two hypotheses are tested: (a) pioneer agriculture stimulates the formation of large family households to cope with an assumed labor shortage; and (b) existing variation in household organization produces variation in agricultural practices. The analysis reveals that the size of swidden farming in the initial phase and the size of permanent field cultivation in the latter phase both relate positively to the size of the male labor force. Despite the significant advantage of a large family household for providing free labor during rapid agricultural growth, a diachronic analysis does not support the hypothesis that the pioneer condition stimulates adaptive social change toward the formation of large families. Rather, the data indicate that changes in household composition have major effects on the size of cropland and the transformation from swidden farming to mechanized cultivation. Underlying mechanisms of agricultural change are further explored, and the implications for a colonization project are discussed.
4603593| Hovsdalur, an area delimited by the great cirques of upland central Suuroy, draining into the valley of the Hovs and terminating in the east at the coastal amphitheatre of Hovsfjrdur, is a microcosm of the Faroes. The area contains the physical and economic features which characterize the greater part of the island group--mountain, valley, and coast, and marine, cultivation, and grazing environments. Data comprising mainly geomorphological, palynological, and pedological evidence, covering the period prior to and subsequent to the initial Norse settlement (landnm), are used to test a series of hypotheses which exemplify the human ecology of the area. Not all the hypotheses, or aspects of them, proved acceptable--the Norse period clearly coincided with a number of vegetational and pedological changes, but this must be set partly against a backdrop of long-term geomorphological activity. 
4602899|The collapse of the Classic Maya state is investigated from an ecological perspective. Settlement and palynological data from the Maya center of Copan, Honduras, are presented which indicate that substantial clearing of the upland pine forest had occurred prior to and during the abandonment of that urban center. A comparative use-rate analysis suggests that the increased clearing of pine was primarily caused by demands for domestic fuel wood by an expanding urban population. This forest mismanagement is directly linked to accelerated erosion rates which are considered primary elements in the collapse of the Maya state.
4602803|Regional analyses of the interaction between human populations and natural resources must integrate landscape scale environmental problems. An approach that considers human culture, environmental processes, and resource needs offers an appropriate methodology. With this methodology, we analyze problems of food availability in African cattle-keeping societies. The analysis interrelates cattle biomass, forage availability, milk and blood production, crop yields, gathering, food subsidies, population, and variable precipitation. While an excess of cattle leads to overgrazing, cattle also serve as valuable food storage mechanisms during low rainfall periods. Food subsidies support higher population levels but do not alter drought-induced population fluctuations. Variable precipitation patterns require solutions that stabilize year-to-year food production and also address problems of over-population.
4603374|Shifting cultivation (jhooming) has been identified as one of the main human impacts influencing biodiversity in Tripura, Northeast India. Over the last few years a new class of shifting cultivators has emerged that has adopted non-traditional forms of jhooming, which have been responsible for the loss of biological diversity in the state. This paper describes the successes achieved by the state government in providing the jhumias (tribes practicing jhooming) with various non-jhooming options. Recommendations include the need for short and long term control measures, improvement of existing jhooming methods, and integration of traditional knowledge with new practices.
41433092|In the early 1980s residents of Hobeni, in South Africa's Eastern Cape, were subjected to forced resettlement, under "betterment" policy ostensibly aimed at soil conservation. They were moved into a spatially contiguous but socially differentiated village. South Africa's political transition ended this policy, and in the early 1990s, some people, mainly from part of the resettlement area (Kunene) characterized by dense kinship networks who had faced pressure to leave, and began to return voluntarily to their former sites, opting to live in dispersed, flexible settlements. Few people resettled in Mhlanganisweni, a part of the village more diverse in its social composition, returned to their former sites. This research highlights the ways exclusion within "socially-embedded" land tenure systems, together with the layout of resettlement areas and other forms of social and economic differentiation, caused patterns of resettlement to diverge from planners' intentions.
4603438|On the southern Caribbean island of Tobago, we excavated two archaeological deposits, the preceramic (ca. 2900 years old) Milford 1 site (TOB-3) and the ceramic (ca. 1200 to 900 years old) Golden Grove site (TOB-13). The non-fish bone assemblages from these sites are very different, with an emphasis at TOB-3 on sea turtles (which seldom nest today on Tobago) and the collared peccary Tayassu tajacu, a large (17-30 kg) mammal extremely rare now on Tobago. TOB-3 also yielded bones of two somewhat smaller mammals that are extinct on Tobago, the red howler monkey Alouatta seniculus and paca Agouti paca. The non-fish species at TOB-3 comprise only four reptiles and seven mammals, whereas they are more diverse (29 species) at TOB-13 and mostly represent small- to medium-sized vertebrates (<10 kg, often <1 kg), such as a toad, lizards, snakes, birds, opossum, armadillo, and eight species of rodents, as well as sea turtle and peccary, although the latter is uncommon. We interpret these differences as possibly being due to a local or island-wide scarcity of big game (peccaries) in ceramic times, which would have promoted diversification of hunting practices. Related to this may have been a more sedentary way of life for Tobago's ceramic peoples, with increased agriculture leading to more hunting near the site and less time being devoted to longer distance big-game hunting. While prehistoric anthropogenic extinction or population reduction of vertebrates is well documented on Caribbean islands to the north, our data from Tobago show that such depletions probably occurred as well on continental, land-bridge islands with more diverse faunas. Models of post-Pleistocene faunal "relaxation" toward a lower value for species richness should not ignore human-caused losses, which may be impossible to distinguish from non-anthropogenic losses.
27654274|During the last quarter century, China's agricultural sector has undergone a dramatic transformation from collective to private production under the so-called "Household Responsibility System." This incentive system, designed to increase yields, reallocated communal land to peasant households, creating hundreds of millions of smallholders with relative autonomy over land use decisions and crop selection. Based on recent ethnographic research, this paper discusses the smallholder farming system of a mixed-ethnic community that intensively cultivates small land plots for subsistence and market exchange in China's populous southwestern province of Sichuan. The paper characterizes the smallholder system in terms of biodiversity of plant and animal species, market distribution of crops, multiple cropping systems, and labor and technology inputs. The paper also describes how smallholders adapt their agricultural practices and decisions to changing market conditions and agricultural policies. Significantly, these adaptive strategies focus on shifting to the production of various cash crops, including melons and mangoes. Implications for the long-term viability of China's smallholders, particularly in ecologically and economically marginal areas, are also discussed.
4602297|The relationship between political organization and hydraulic development is discussed, using illustrations from the Valley of Oaxaca, Mexico. It is suggested that change in political organization toward greater or lesser centralization of control over local water resource use may be part of a social response to environmental degradation (in this case, a receding water table) resulting from the effects of change in resource use (in this case, intensified water extraction). Economic stress due to environmental degradation varies in duration and intensity; such variations must be taken into account in understanding shifts in response patterns. Small-scale hydraulic development which places pressure on the availability of water for irrigation may elicit an initial response of centralization of control over its use to correct for the disturbance, water shortage. However, this response itself tends to exacerbate the disturbance through reducing previously existing homeostatic controls on the extraction of water and hence leads to greater economic stress, up to the point at which new responses must take place. Other kinds of environmental disturbance resulting from initial development attempts appear to have similar feedback effects which contribute to potential systemic instability.
41474611|Studies using Optimal Foraging Theory to understand human behavior have stated that daily variation in patch profitability could explain mismatches between theoretical predictions and actual behavior. In this paper, we tested whether the return rate of the last fishing trip could predict fishers' choices to return or choose a different fishing ground for their next trip. We collected data on fishing trips using interviews and direct observation of fishers' activities at the main landing point in So Francisco, a small-scale shrimp fishing community on Brazil's southern coast. We found that fishers returned more often to fishing grounds where the return rate of the previous fishing trip was above the average gross return of the environment. Daily variations in patch quality accounted for fishers' decisions, but other factors may also influence the observed behavior, such as scale of analysis, information exchange, environmental conditions, and economic variables.
40928141|This paper analyzes how local seed system institutions support seed diversity, itself a requirement for agrobiodiversity maintained on-farm. The paper focuses on maize seed diversity in the central Peruvian Amazon. Using household and community level data from three different cultural groups from the central Peruvian Amazon, empirical results show the importance of collective action and the mediating role of ethnicity in the functioning of informal seed systems that in turn affect farmers' choices regarding conservation of seed diversity. This implies that policies are needed to protect the relatively open seed exchanges of such local practices as a way to sustain onfarm agrobiodiversity.
4603558|The ethnobotanical study on edible wild plants was carried out from May to December, 2001, in four districts of Ethiopia. The study areas included the rural and semiurban settings of Alamata, Cheha, Goma, and Yilmana Denssa districts of Tigray, Southern Peoples, Oromiya, and Amhara regional states, respectively. Voucher plant specimens were collected along with ethnobotanical information, and scientific names were determined. One hundred and fifty two plant parts from 130 species were recognized and consumed in these districts. Children consumed more wild plants during seasons of food availability (sufficient crop stock) than adults. There was marked increase in quantity and number of wild plant species consumed during food shortage and famine. A few of the reportedly edible species caused health problems that sometimes lead to fatality. Research into the safety and nutritional composition of edible wild plants and fungi is warranted. Selected edible wild plant species should be promoted as supplements to dietary variety and/or bridging the hungry periods of food shortage.
27654239|This article argues against the idea that indigenous cultural change and knowledge loss are inevitably bonded to one another, with particular reference to agro-productive transformations. This view has not only ignored the potential of these productive systemswell documented in recent decadesbut has often threatened them by promoting development policies based on mistaken premises. It is suggested here that some indigenous peoples' productive responses to market integration may in fact offer alternatives to the paradoxes of development in seemingly fragile tropical environments. This article reports, in particular, on the strategies developed by the Piaroa, from southern Venezuela. Contemporary large and permanent Piaroa communities, which resulted from their involvement in aspects of national society, have been able to sustain the forests on which they depend while satisfying their food and market necessities. This has been possible due to a series of market strategies based on their agroforestal tradition, which have emphasised the commercialization of secondary forest products. The article proposes that these strategies have been underestimated due to the market conditions in which Piaroa farmers are immersed, and from which they have learnt the very principles of "capitalism." Oil dependent and saturated with corruption, the Venezuelan market hampers their full economic integration, contributing to the idea that their agroforestry system can only produce at subsistence levels.
4602937|The maize (Zea mays)-cassava (Manihot esculenta)-Musa relay-cropped sequence as practiced among 28 Yanesha families in the Palcazu Valley in Central Amazonian Peru was surveyed to determine why farmers rotate fields into bush fallow. Typically, this sequence is planted on alluvial Inceptisols after the clearing of 2-5 year tree and shrub growth. During the 18-30 months of cropping, fields showed a buildup of weeds and an increase in banana stem borer and nutrient deficiency symptoms. Farmers attributed the decline in Musa yields from the first to third harvests to stem borer, weeds, or soil infertility but were not unanimous. Any or all of these factors facilitate the decision to abandon a field. A 3-year record of fields cleared by each farm family indicated that field rotation stems from two independent decisions: selection of a fallowed field to clear for maize and vegetables, important for family nutrition, which are planted right after field clearing, and discontinuation of weeding in old fields as labor is used primarily on new fields, a decision leading to bush fallow recovery. Work with these families during 4 years suggests that the distribution of land and labor is based on a sense of relative labor productivity, on diverse dietary needs and preferences, and on the maintenance of a balance between areas in cropping and under fallow.
4602468|In a commons dilemma laboratory analog subjects were allowed individually to draw valuable points from a slowly regenerating pool. Subjects participated in groups of four and faced the dilemma of either rapidly drawing a large number of points for themselves (but thereby destroying the pool), or limiting their own harvesting so that the pool would regenerate, benefiting the group. All subjects were, in addition, informed of the optimum strategy for harvesting before the game began, but results showed that this strategy was rarely used. Two factors were added to the basic game: (1) dividing the resource pool into individual harvesting territories, and (2) making the varying levels of resources visible. Each of these increased the harvest and production of the resource, but only territoriality increased the supply. Only when both factors were applied together did the groups approach the optimal harvesting strategy earlier spelled out to them. Possible mediating variables and applications are discussed.
4603045|This paper reconsiders two widely held hypotheses about the effects of the green revolution, that it led to biological simplification and instability. The hypothesis of biological simplification (genetic erosion) is tested with evidence from Andean agriculture, where farmers maintain a significant degree of crop diversity even as they adopt modern crop varieties. The hypothesis of increased instability is tested with evidence from Asia where wheat and rice yields show no general pattern of increased instability. Neither of these hypotheses is confirmed. The conventional wisdom about the green revolution should be reconsidered with emphasis on resilience and variation in modernizing farming systems.
4602402|The Siriono Indians of eastern Bolivia have one of the simplest cultures on record. In a famous ethnography, Allan Holmberg explained Siriono cultural poverty mainly with a psycho-functional model, in which the demands of the food quest were said to have prevented the elaboration of most aspects of Siriono culture. This article reexamines the cultural status of the Siriono in terms of population decimation, flight into a new ecological niche, acculturation to Whites and to other Indians and Afro-Americans, and a strategic but culturally corrosive shift from patrilocal to matrilocal residence. The article concludes that the reexamination of all past ethnographic work, and perhaps especially of the "classic," or more influential ethnographies, is one of the most urgent tasks facing cultural anthropology.
4602696|Demographers and anthropologists have recently turned their attention to the fertility increases that seem to have occurred with the "demographic transition." This study examines various explanations for historical changes in fertility among the Mekranoti-Kayapo Indians of Central Brazil. Data from pregnancy histories and genealogies suggest that changes in health status, use of contraceptives, lactation periods, and post-partum sexual abstinence are not as important in accounting for Mekranoti fertility as is warfare. Because of high male mortality from war, many Mekranoti women spent a large portion of their reproductive years without a husband, and their fertility was significantly lower as a result. This finding may have implications for demographic changes elsewhere and in other periods of human evolution.
4603469|As a result of increasingly apparent and problematic effects of global information system and remote sensing technologies, there has been increased emphasis on demonstrating and incorporating indigenous environmental knowledges in land use and cover analysis. Such approaches, though ethnographically revealing and politically efficacious, tend to reproduce a model of difference between local and scientific knowledges that is epistemologically untenable. This paper demonstrates an alternative use of geographic information system and remotely sensed imagery to both demonstrate the partiality of mapping technology and show possibilities for critical usage of the tool. Using a case from India, the research shows a method to elicit and explore competing environmental knowledges, including and especially those of "scientific" experts. The analysis concludes that, for both local producers and expert managers, the cultural meaning of landscapes is dependent on their roles in regional production and resource politics.
27654240|Recent discussions of local knowledge emphasize its dynamic nature invoking local peoples' ability to effectively integrate traditional or local with science-based or "modern" knowledges. The smallholder timber industry of the Amazon's estuarine floodplain provides an outstanding example of local patterns of resource management and economic activities transformed from within by smallholder farmers who participated in the industrial timber boom of the 1970s and 1980s. These farmers of eastern Amazonia have developed a vertically integrated local industry based on expertise reflecting profound locally developed knowledge of specific forests and management of ecological processes, individual observation and experimentation, as well as concepts and practices derived from temporary employment by large-scale industrial timber firms. At each stage of the smallholder forestry processfrom managing natural regeneration to running small sawmills and marketing lumberlocal managers apply an innovative set of practices reflecting their diverse experiences. This combination of technical, market, and ecological knowledge results in forests, timber markets, and economic patterns that do not correspond to many of the widely-held generalizations concerning either local or industrial tropical timber exploitation. This article uses data from 7 years of research in the Amazon floodplain.
40343945|Many scholars claim that open access due to the effective absence of state control is the major reason for the overuse of common-pool resources such as fisheries. Based on data from the Kafue Flats fisheries in Zambia, we argue that the main problem in open-access situations is the paradox of a state that is simultaneously absent and present: present in actions that dismantle local fishery institutions but absent when it comes to the ability to enforce the laws that might protect the resources. Thus, the state is present in the voice of immigrants from other parts of the country who use their Zambian citizenship to legitimize free access to the fisheries. But it is absent when the Department of Fisheries is not able to enforce its own formal rules or control these immigrants' activities. Local groups are unable to act collectively to reinstall new institutions due to the absence of formal law enforcement. This paper analyses this historic process of institutional change within the theoretical framework of New Institutionalism. We test the hypothesis that the main reason for the lack of local collective action in the Kafue Flats is ideology (the notion of citizenship) strengthening the bargaining power of external actors, who profit most from open access constellations.
4603254|Between ca. A.D. 800-1000, Scandinavian chiefly societies with a mixed maritime and agricultural economy expanded into the North Atlantic, colonizing Shetland, Orkney, Caithness, Hebrides, Faeroes, Iceland, Greenland, and Vinland. The settlers brought continental European economics and expectations to a widely varied set of island ecosystems. In many regions, rapid degradation of flora and soils took place associated with social and climate change. Recent research coordinated by the North Atlantic Bicultural Organization (NABO) highlights the extent of pre-modern impacts.
4603122|The Gitksan and Wet'suwet'en peoples of northwest British Columbia occupy the upper drainage of the Skeena River and the western headwaters of the Fraser River. They live in a region of diverse topography, vegetation, and climate. Berry patch burning was the most important traditional vegetation manipulation. Black huckleberry and lowbush blueberry patches were burned to stimulate growth of new stems and production of berries, while preventing invasion by other shrub species and conifers. Maintenance of berry patches by burning was discontinued in the 1930s and 1940s because of fire suppression by the British Columbia Forest Service. Spring burning on south facing slopes, village sites, and garden sites was also practiced, and continues to the present. It occurs in aspen, pine, or grass dominated seral communities, or cottonwood floodplain forest, and is intended to control brush and encourage growth of grass.
40343974|For centuries swidden was an important farming practice found across the girth of Southeast Asia. Today, however, these systems are changing and sometimes disappearing at a pace never before experienced. In order to explain the demise or transitioning of swidden we need to understand the rapid and massive changes that have and are occurring in the political and economic environment in which these farmers operate. Swidden farming has always been characterized by change, but since the onset of modern independent nation states, governments and markets in Southeast Asia have transformed the terms of swiddeners' everyday lives to a degree that is significantly different from that ever experienced before. In this paper we identified six factors that have contributed to the demise or transformation of swidden systems, and support these arguments with examples from China (Xishuangbanna), Laos, Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia. These trends include classifying swiddeners as ethnic minorities within nation-states, dividing the landscape into forest and permanent agriculture, expansion of forest departments and the rise of conservation, resettlement, privatization and commoditization of land and land-based production, and expansion of market infrastructure and the promotion of industrial agriculture. In addition we note a growing trend toward a transition from rural to urban livelihoods and expanding urban-labor markets.
4602966|The opinions of rural people living near conservation areas have largely been ignored by conservationists. Several studies, however, have attempted to rectify this oversight, including two from southern Africa, whose findings can be compared. This paper examines the attitudes to nature conservation of people living near the Umfolozi-Hluhluwe Corridor Complex Game Reserve in southeastern South Africa with those of people living near the northeastern game reserve complex in Swaziland. Although the former study used a questionnaire survey and the latter semi-structured interviews, comparisons are possible because of common objectives. This paper concludes: (1) general support for nature conservation exists in both areas, (2) there is, however, little support for local conservation areas, (3) there appears to be little active hostility toward the conservation authorities managing protected lands, and (4) rural people's attempts to reconcile conservation and economic development are largely unsatisfactory.
40343988|In this study, we examine the effect of Tarangire National Park (TNP) on local perceptions of risk and how these perceptions may influence behavioral responses. Data were collected during 2004-2005 through household surveys and participatory risk mapping (PRM) in eight villages east of TNP. By identifying and rank-ordering respondents' perceived risks, PRM enhances understanding of the nature and variation of risks faced within a population by distinguishing between the incidence and severity of subjective risk perceptions. Results indicate that proximity to the park has a strong effect on the type and severity of perceived risks. Within villages close to the park, however, behavioral response to perceived risks varies considerably. This study contributes to an appreciation of how behavioral response to environmental and socioeconomic factors is mediated by human perception.
4602621|The estuarine system of the Clarence River in northern New South Wales, Australia is examined. Although many such systems in Australia have been placed at risk as a result of human-induced environmental pressure, it is contended that this is not the case with the Clarence River system. Rather it is suggested that perceived environmental threats in this case are the result of particular local environmental cognitions and that actual stress exerted on the system is largely independent of human use.
23353264|Most fires in Africa are anthropogenic yet remain understudied. Studies typically address managed fire, or the "fire triad" of early dry season-late dry season-suppression, and fire regimes which are annual or less, leaving unstudied the anthropogenic fire regimes that occur in the majority of African savannas. I take the case of the Bateke Plateaux area where burning today occurs both annually and semi-annually and measure the impacts of these regimes on savanna structure, measuring stem survival post fire and post fire regeneration of resprouts of the dominant savanna tree. While annual fires are hot and burn completely, semi-annual fires are cooler and patchy, favouring re-sprout survival and an escape route for small stems to mature into trees. This work extends the fire triad model to include an anthropogenic semi-annual regime which favours tree survival. The integration of local fire regimes into future studies will help increase our understanding of climate, vegetation dynamics as well as help orient policy and conservation.
4602634|Self-regulation of human populations has been proposed by various authors, despite the fact that no biological or cultural mechanisms have ever been established. POPREG I, a computer simulation of ritual warfare among the Tsembaga Maring of New Guinea, demonstrates that the self-regulatory mechanism proposed by Rappaport (1968) ignores the demographic consequences of external variables. When the effects of epidemics are taken into account, the regulatory nature of the ritual cycle becomes suspect. Future research in anthropological demography requires careful analysis of both internal and external variables; POPREG I provides the basis for a synthetic model of population dynamics in human societies.
40603004|Indigenous medicine is important to rural livelihoods, but lay knowledge and use of medicinal plants has not been extensively studied. Research in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, showed that medicinal plants were frequently used by villagers and contributed to their ability to cope with health problems. Knowledge of plants and household remedies was extensive and varied in that households often held different knowledge. Villagers mainly relied on common species, and were generally aware of alternative species for a certain ailment. People were flexible in their use of indigenous and western health care, which were both perceived as beneficial. Improved cooperation between health care systems could improve health standards. Extraction of medicinal plants has been described as unsustainable in the regiona situation not found in the study area. It is argued that conservation policies aimed to restrict access should be differential and potentially not include local consumption, since this may be ecologically unnecessary and entail local hardships.
4603301|Community-based management is increasingly viewed as the most appropriate arrangement for promoting sustainable development of natural resources. A common assumption is that the values of community members, often assumed to be homogeneous, foster successful outcomes. However, analysts often treat these values and their homogeneity as exogenous factors, ignoring the community's potential role in managing members' values. This study of community-based forest management in two southern Indiana sites examines how the members of the two communities created institutions to screen, maintain, and defend their values. Analysis reveals that different institutions shaped members' preferences and led to different levels of community stability, conflict management, and natural resource condition. We argue that understanding community-based management processes and outcomes requires careful attention to how institutions facilitate or hamper the construction of community members' values.
4602457|The effects of residential density were examined in the following study through a comparison of experiences of tenants living in 14-story apartment buildings and those in three-story walkups within the same low-income housing project. It was hypothesized that tenants in the high-rise buildings would come into contact with large numbers of others in the public spaces of their buildings. As these contacts exceeded residents' interaction capacity or ability to process relevant incoming social stimuli tenants would experience social overload. This experience would be manifested by tenants' perceptions of crowding in the building, feelings of less control, safety, and privacy in the immediate residential environment, problematic social relationships among tenants and alienation and dissatisfaction with the residential environment generally. These experiences were not expected to occur for tenants in the low-rise walkups. Interview data supported these hypotheses and revealed, in addition, that high-rise apartment residents were less socially active beyond their building and felt a greater sense of powerlessness in effecting management decisions. Correlational analyses provided further evidence of the vast differences between residents' experiences of the two building types.
40343962|Indigenous knowledge is unevenly distributed. Individual knowledge level may be affected by many factors such as gender, age, ethnicity, profession, religious and cultural beliefs, abundance and usefulness of the species. This study documents indigenous knowledge of herbaceous and woody plant species of farmers and herders in southwestern Niger. Specifically, we examine the effects of age, gender, and ethnicity on knowledge of local vegetation. Results from the study showed that on average a higher proportion of woody species was identified by the respondents compared to herbaceous species. Both gender and ethnicity had a significant effect on the identification of herbaceous species but no effect on identification of woody species. Respondents in lower age group (10 to 30 years) identified lower number of species compared to other age classes. There seems to be a curvilinear relationship between age of respondents and number of plant species identified. Results from this study reaffirm the uneven distribution of indigenous knowledge within a given area due to social factors. The main challenge is how to incorporate these social differences in knowledge of native plant species into sustainable management and conservation of community natural resources.
27654124|In southern Mali and throughout the semiarid tropics, small-scale family farmers are faced with the challenge of producing adequate harvests in difficult biophysical and socioeconomic environments. Professional plant breeders have had much difficulty developing modern varieties that outperform farmers' traditional varieties in these environments, in part because of an incomplete understanding of why farmers choose the varieties they grow. Improved understanding of farmers' varietal choices can contribute to collaboration between farmers and formal plant breeders. Based on a 15-month field study in Dissan, Mali, we examine farmer's choices among their traditional sorghum varieties in terms of one or more than one variety, and short-cycle or long-cycle varieties, and the interaction between these two choices. Results support our general hypothesis that farmers choose varieties to optimize outputs in the face of variation in the growing environment and in human managed inputs such as labor and tools.
41474654|India is home to thousands of community-protected forests, called sacred groves. Sacred forests or groves are sites that have cultural or spiritual significance to the people who live around them. These areas may also be key reservoirs of biodiversity. In India, most sacred groves are managed by a community group, not by a government agency. They are often private or community land, not formal protected areas or parks. This poses an interesting challenge in terms of future management and possible policy relating to the sacred groves. On the international level, organizations such as the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and UNESCO have created guidelines for management of sacred sites. On the national level, India's past Forest Acts and recent Forest Rights Act have relevance to the sacred groves. Local differences in land tenure also affect the groves. Ethnographic research conducted in 2009 and 2010 in the states of Meghalaya and Karnataka, India, evaluated the historic and current management and beliefs associated with sacred forests. Cultural change and pressure to use natural resources within the groves is leading to reduction of these forest areas. In the future, a creative combination of policy approaches to conserve groves that respects their spiritual values is recommended.
4602259|Population growth in Java paralleled the development of a colonial economy based on the production of export crops using Javanese land and labor. The increase in population may be interpreted as a demographic response to demand for labor within the family, created by the need to intensify subsistence production in the face of colonial demands on land, labor, and produce.
4602310|In the last few years, considerable evidence has been obtained regarding the importance of zinc in human nutrition. Zinc is an important component of many metalloenzymes and is also required for metabolism of nucleic acids and synthesis of protein. Human requirements for zinc vary at different times in development, but appear to be particularly high during embryonic life, during periods of rapid growth, and during pregnancy. Although zinc is widely distributed in foods, a number of types of diets appear to be deficient or marginal in terms of available zinc. In addition, there is physiological loss of zinc in bleeding and sweating which may lead to low levels of body zinc. A syndrome characterized by markedly retarded growth and sexual development that occurs in the Middle East has been shown to be due to zinc deficiency. This syndrome is reviewed. It is thought that the zinc deficiency syndrome is only one end of a continuum of growth-related problems associated with low levels of physiologically available zinc. In rats, zinc deficiency during pregnancy has been shown to lead to congenital malformations in a large percentage of the offspring. A number of these malformations involve the central nervous system. We have suggested that epidemiological data support the possible importance of maternal zinc deficiency as an etiological factor in human CNS malformations. These data are discussed.
41433096|This paper examines the contribution of human migrations to the propagation and maintenance of Caesalpina bonduc by means of an analysis of its population genetics and distribution patterns. One hundred and forty seven sites were surveyed in the three climatic zones of Benin and all individuals of the species were recorded. A set of individuals was randomly selected and sampled from seven populations and morphological variation and genetic diversity were assessed. The study confirmed the presence of the species in all climatic zones but its abundance varied greatly. Morphological variability between populations and zones was low in comparison with the high amount of variation within populations. AFLP and cpDNA finger-printing revealed an extremely low genetic diversity within populations and a low genetic differentiation, suggesting parental links between populations. The results support the hypothesis of human involvement in Caesalpinia dispersal and persistence in Benin. However, the low genetic diversity may imply high risks for future extinction. We recommend that gene flow among the remaining populations be supported in order to conserve the species.
4602724| Preliminary results from an energy analysis of the coal fuel cycle in an Appalachian coal county have provided a systematic assessment of hidden energy subsidies in extraction, transport, processing, and combustion. Current results indicate that the system operates at an annual energy deficit of approximately 350  10
4603594|We present palaeoenvironmental, geomorphological, archaeological, and place-name data which allow a holistic assessment of the history of landscape change on Sandoy, Faroe Islands, especially in terms of the changes that occurred in response to the colonization of the island by humans. In contrast to other situations in the North Atlantic region, there is considerable continuity in the patterns and processes of landscape evolution across the initial settlement horizon. Many of the characteristic features of post-settlement North Atlantic landscapes--absence of trees, widespread blanket mires, high rates of soil erosion--were already in place when the first people arrived. Although human impact on Sandoy appears to have been light, conversely, the unusual environment forced major alterations of the subsistence economy imported by the colonists. Settlement-era archaeological records suggest that, from the start, patterns of resource use differed substantially from the regional norm, and these differences became amplified over time as the Faroese economy created a locally sustainable cultural landscape.
4603604|Malaria prevalence has been one of the most dramatic outcomes of the occupation of the Brazilian Amazon as exemplified by Northern Mato Grosso, one of the areas of highest malaria prevalence in the Americas in the early 1990s. This paper associates the dynamics of high malaria prevalence in Northern Mato Grosso with three land uses--small-scale gold mining (garimpos), agricultural colonization/cattle ranching (rural), and urban activities--and their related population characteristics, which constitute risk profiles. Furthermore, spatial proximity and population mobility between (a) garimpos and new rural settlements and (b) older rural settlements or urban areas are key factors explaining malaria diffusion throughout the region. The paper identifies and characterizes populations at high malaria risk and the effects of land use types on malaria diffusion, providing policymakers with information for regional and local policies to control malaria and minimize its effects on Amazonian populations.
4603335|Medicinal plants are an important part of the environment as it is perceived by Mexican indigenous groups. The aim of this study, which was conducted over a period of 18 months in three Yucatec Mayan communities, is to better understand the selection criteria for medicinal plants. An important group of selection criteria are the flavor and aroma of plants. The absence of smell or taste indicates that the taxon has no potential medical value. Medicinal plants are more often considered to be sweet or aromatic (to smell good) or astringent, while a similar percentage of medicinal and nonmedicinal plants are considered bitter, spicy, acidic, or bad smelling. The relationship between the ethnobotanical data obtained for the individual plants and the secondary plant products (natural products) prominent in each species is specifically addressed in this paper. It shows that an understanding of the indigenous concepts used to distinguish medicinal from nonmedicinal species has considerable heuristic value.
4603277|The relationship between size of landholdings and household economic status is fairly clear, particularly in societies where agricultural exports dominate the economy. Less clear is the effect of differential access to and control of productive property within households and the ways in which it affects the economic opportunities of individual household members. This paper examines property holdings and inheritance patterns among coffee-producing households in Costa Rica. I show that while cultural norms regulating labor contributions do affect the balance of authority within households, de facto property rights can significantly enhance an individual's decision-making power both within households and between generationally-related households. Unless new opportunities arise, as population increases, coffee production expands, and lands become increasingly scarce, we shall likely see increased stratification both within households-as women inherit less land-and among households, as some sons inherit at the expense of other sons and daughters.
25652785|How farmers perceive the state of their pastures is an important component of their management decisions and affects natural resources in arid and semi-arid regions. In an explorative study conducted in the Rehoboth farm area of central Namibia, we addressed the question whether the judgments of commercial farmers on pasture conditions are consistent with a botanical assessment of these pastures based on measurements. The perceptions were inferred from the comparative statements of farmers on the pasture quality of adjacent farm pairs. For the botanical assessment, biomass and plant species frequency counts of the same pastures were used. The results of the statistical analysis show a large agreement between perceived and measured pasture states of corresponding farm pairs, thus pasture quality dimensions perceived by the farmers agreed with the measured pasture quality variables. We also discuss the problems of designing more elaborate studies of this type.
24015743|An established body of literature documents current changes in rural livelihoods, agricultural practices, and agrobiodiversity patterns in smallholder communities across the globe. Contributing to this literature, this paper documents change in agricultural practices and agrobiodiversity patterns in a tidal floodplain settlement in Amap, Brazil, where in recent years farmers increasingly devote their attention to the production of aa fruits, an important regional crop with strong local, national and international markets. Research results indicate that farmers are abandoning subsistence production in annual fields to make room for aadominated agroforests. At the same time, farmers are diversifying home gardens, and as a result conserve a portion of the crop diversity once maintained in annual fields in these areas. Agrobiodiversity documented in home gardens is much higher than previously recorded in the study area, and is equal or higher than previously reported in home gardens in other less-market integrated Amazonian communities. Research points to the need for innovative methods to document agrobiodiversity patterns in today's modifying landscapes and for the historical analysis of such patterns to avoid presumptions that observed changes are unilateral and unidirectional.
24015699|In September of 1996, without prior warning to Utah residents, the Clinton Administration announced the creation of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument (GSENM) in southern Utah. Reactions by residents in neighboring gateway communities were both swift and intense. Lack of citizen input in the process drew ire among Utah citizens living near the monument and statewide. In this article we examine how the designation process has impacted residents' trust in the federal agency managing the monumentthe Bureau of Land Management. Research on trust in federal resource management agencies is important for successful natural resource planning and management. We extend the research by incorporating the manner in which the designation of the GSENM occurred as an additional factor in the analyses on trust. We find the manner of designation matters, and discuss implications of this finding for both research and policy makers.
27654242|The ability of rural people to protect their food consumption matters because it captures their economic vulnerability. How well do foragers protect consumption from adverse income shocks and does protection work equally well for all people in the household? We answer the queries with data from 156 adults and 169 children collected over five consecutive quarters from the Tsimane', a native Amazonian society of foragers and farmers in Bolivia. We estimate whether quarterly changes in the logarithm of consumption bear an association with quarterly changes in the logarithm of cash income while controlling for many confounders, including covariant shocks. We use anthropometric indices of short-run nutritional status to proxy for food consumption and use instrumental variables to abate biases from the endogeneity of income. We found that child consumption was fully protected from income growth, but adult consumption was not as well protected. Estimates of income elasticities of consumption fell toward the lower range of estimates from previous studies of farming and industrial societies. We present several hypotheses to explain how the Tsimane' smooth consumption.
4602974|Sahelian decision-makers must discern whether wider adoption of irrigation techniques would relieve the existing food production crisis. This case study of the Kirene District illustrates, how, despite the capital intensive investment, the prevailing design fails to adequately adjust or reform existing institutions so as to provide incentives to farmers. Consequently, the full economic potential of irrigation remains untapped. Vested interests in the status quo to perpetuate the monopoly of the State further compromise the potential benefits that irrigation could provide.
4603258|Information collected on herding practices and economic activities of nine Bedouin households is used to define livelihood strategies and examine their economic viability. Large variations found in herding practices and other means of subsistence are a response to external policies and constraints which limit herding space and sources of income. Differential access to resources and different sociocultural norms are important factors. The identification and analysis of different livelihood strategies is a useful point of departure for discussing the development of Bedouin herding in the Negev and for formulating policy that is more effective and empathetic.
41474622|In recent years, states have ceded governance over large territories to indigenous organizations. This article examines the history of an early case of territorial governance (dating from the 1970s) to probe the social, political, and environmental processes that occur when an indigenous social movement becomes a governing body. It argues that indigenous organizations can quickly learn to "see like states" (Scott 1998) without adopting the particular visions promoted by the state that facilitated their new role. In the case explored here, indigenous leaders created landscape improvement schemes that went beyond those promoted by the state and others in terms of changing the legibility of land use and tenure categories. Furthermore, their schemes had significant impacts on forest cover as evidenced by remotely sensed images. These processes challenge theories that position the state as the primary arbitrator of human-environmental relations as well as theories that dichotomize between states and indigenous organizations.
4603121|Despite a steady increase in population since the 1930s, farmers on Rusinga Island in Kenya have abandoned many traditional intensive agricultural practices, including the construction of hillside terraces. At the same time, low crop yields have led to a chronic shortage of food on the island. This paper, based on an analysis of archival materials and a detailed agronomic study of the farming system, analyzes the causes of this process of disintensification. Labor scarcity resulting from migrant wage employment and the growing importance of the fishing industry has been a major factor in the decline of agriculture on the island. The loss of soil conservation practices and serious weed infestations have contributed to the collapse of farm productivity. This study highlights the importance of understanding not only the local ecology but also the broader political and economic environment in order to explain farmers' decisions and the process of agricultural change.
4602888|This paper presents quantitative data on blowpipe hunting among the Semaq Beri, a group of the aboriginal peoples of Peninsular Malaysia, with special reference to daily activity rhythms, space use, efforts, and efficiency of hunting. The role of hunting is examined in the diet of the population studied, which is in transition from a nomadic to a sedentary lifestyle. The special hunting focus on a few species (the leaf monkeys, Presbytis spp.) is examined in relation to ecology of prey items and using the optimal diet breadth model. Technological efficiencies of the Semaq Beri blowpipe and dart are compared with the Waorani of Ecuador.
4603162|In a growing number of cases throughout Africa, communities' resource bases are being undermined or appropriated by outsiders, a process which seriously threatens the continuation of local cultures and livelihoods. In this article, we use a political ecology framework to examine how the linked processes of economic development, political power, and environmental change are transgressing the rights of fishing communities on the shores of Lake Malawi. In the cases described, these communities, or community members within them, find themselves powerless to prevent the expropriation of the resources over which they previously had either legal or customary control. Thus, it is not the economic processes of dispossession alone which lead to human rights violations but rather dispossession combined with an authoritarian political context.
4603280|Ancient Maya subsistence practices and their relation to the rise and decline of Maya civilization have long been the subject of archaeological debate. Traditionally Mayanists correlate subsistence strategy with political economy, positing that a change in one must correspond to a change in the other. Since smallholders, as defined by Netting, can exist within a variety of political and economic systems, their ubiquity in the Maya Lowlands may explain why household studies often fail to detect political or economic change at a macro level. The absence of smallholders, however, may correlate with the depopulation of many Maya cities at the end of the ninth century.
4603330| Theory in political ecology emphasizes the role of competing interests in shaping resource use. Although supportive of these approaches, this article draws on the importance of meanings assigned to ecological systems to question how epistemological differences also contribute to environmental conflicts. Following calls to examine the interface between environmental knowledge and action, consideration is given to ethnoecological constructs of forests on Mexico's southern Yucatn peninsula, home to the Calakmul Biosphere Reserve. To quiet opposition to the Reserve, government agents increased financial aid to the region in the form of conservation development projects. With the counsel of a Reserve director, local residents effectively used these projects to press for an environmentalism based on sustainable resource use. This position has associations with a local ethnoecology of land as a place of work. In examining how ethnoecologies played out in contests surrounding conservation, possibilities for a localized, alternative environmentalism are discussed, as well as the importance of environmental constructs for research in political ecology. 
4603603| Livestock agrodiversity of Mazahua smallholder 'campesino' systems in the highlands of Central Mexico was investigated in the villages of San Pablo Tlalchichilpa (SPT) and La Concepcin Mayorazgo (LCM). An animal inventory of 142 households in the two villages was made, followed by the monthly monitoring of 25 households through interviews and participant observation. Thirteen species of domestic animals were found, with a median of three species per farm. The main species were chickens, donkeys, sheep, cattle, mules, and horses, with some also keeping rabbits, ducks, and pigeons. Draught animals are fundamental. Poultry represents a dynamic asset that provides food, income, and short-term savings. Sheep are medium-term savings, and provide stability. Livestock are managed in interaction with crops, providing draught force, manure, and cash, and receiving feed. Livestock are fed weeds of the maize crop and stover during the dry season. Donkeys and sheep are also grazed on common land and in the fields after harvest. High prices for sheep have meant more flocks with possible detrimental environmental effects. Men usually own the draught animals, although anyone may own animals. Women are commonly owners of small stock and receive animals as wedding presents or inheritance. Other arrangements include shared ownership and borrowing. Livestock and produce may be traded in regional markets but are generally sold locally. Compesinos are aware of unfavorable local terms, but reckon possible benefits do not warrant increased transportation costs and time. The villagers say their animals allow them to meet their needs and remain in their villages while improving their livelihoods. 
4602951|A long-term study of land tenure, land transfer, and succession in one subclan of the Chimbu in the Papua New Guinea highlands takes up the relations between the agricultural cycle, family, and population growth in a period of rapid commercialization and cash cropping. Over a generation, land was held and allocated within families, among families within the subclan, and to kin and affines in neighboring groups. The land tenure, ownership, and use system allows for a very great deal of individual movement and land gifts, temporary or long-term, by land owner to kin and friends. Despite an agnatic ideology, individuals and local groups opportunistically accommodate to land needs. As cultivation becomes more intensive and semi-permanent, there appears to be a progression from fluidity of land rights in the clan or subclan to anchoring of rights and boundaries to individuals and families. It is suggested that this characterizes Chimbu land tenure; it is not a post-colonial phenomenon.
27654210|Integrated assessment seeks to combine models of the ecological as well as the social system to allow different scenarios to be tested in terms of their likely impacts on ecological functioning and household well-being. We outline such work undertaken in four case studies in East and southern Africa: pastoralist communities in northern Tanzania, agro-pastoralists in southern Kenya, communal and commercial ranchers in South Africa, and mixed crop-livestock farmers in western Kenya. Results from these case studies are synthesised to test the hypothesis that households' capacity to adapt in the face of increasing external stresses is governed by flexibility in livelihood options. The results support this hypothesis. There is considerable variation in how households in these places cope with external stresses. Options include intensification, diversification, and increasing off-farm economic activities, and these depend on household objectives and attitudes as well as on access to natural resources, inputs and output markets. The results also indicate that generally it is the poorer households that can gain the most from implementing such options for coping and managing risk. Quantifying likely household and ecosystem impacts of different options is a crucial step in targeting appropriate technology, policy and adaptation interventions in the face of considerable system changes. We conclude with some research needs to improve integrated assessment tools that may allow us to represent more realistically the highly complex decision-making milieu of householders in sub-Saharan Africa who are dependent on ecosystem goods and services for a large part of their livelihoods.
4603415|Horse breeding is well-known to be one of the traditional means of subsistence for the Sakha (Yakut) of Siberia. Existing research, however, lacks clear descriptions of the reproductive process of the horse-bands and the role which herders play in that process. The objective of this paper is to clarify these issues. Currently the peoples of Northern Yakutia are not subsistence pastoralists but rather ranch workers. Rural development policies of the Soviet regime and the contemporary decollectivization process have infiltrated all spheres of indigenous life. I describe the nature of state property, labor organization of the state farms, and relations among the administrative village, herders' camp, and pasture, which were defined by the former socialist government and now are unstabilized, as well as how pastoral techniques and practices of horse husbandry shared among herders have been shaped, mediated, and channeled by state-institutional arrangements. My primary focus is the historical interactions among subsistence herders, indigenous ecological knowledge, and state administration, in light of the interaction between herders and horses in the reproduction process of the herds involved with state institutions.
24013716|In the Andean region of South America, understanding communities' water perceptions is particularly important for water management as many rural communities must decide by themselves if and how they will protect their micro-watersheds and distribute their water. In this study we examine how Water User Associations in the Eastern Andes of Colombia perceive water scarcity and the relationship between this perception and observed climate, land use, and demographic changes. Results demonstrate a complex relationship between perceptions and observed changes. On the one hand, observed changes in land cover match perceptions of deforestation as the primary cause of increasing water scarcity. On the other hand, perceptions of climate driven changes in water availability are not reflected in observed precipitation data. Furthermore, water scarcity was perceived in regions where seasonal rainfall variability is higher but not in regions where annual rainfall is lower. We discuss how these results contribute to our understanding of adaptation to climate change and the implications of possible mismatches between environmental changes and local perceptions.
23280341|Religious beliefs and practices have long influenced human perceptions and uses of nature. Animals in particular play a prominent role in magico-religious practices and given the historical and cultural depth of these relationships, understanding human-faunal relations is often fundamental to the cause of meaningful wildlife conservation. This study investigates the domestic and wild harvested species used for spiritual and religious purposes by adherents of the Afro-Brazilian religion Candombl. Introduced by enslaved Africans, this belief system combines animal and plant traditions derived from Africa with many others assimilated from Amerindians. We identified a total of 129 species of animals (or animal derived products) used and/or sold for magico-religious purposes; of these, 34. 8 % (n=45) are included in some list of threatened species. Most animals reported were mammals (n=29), followed by mollusks (20), fishes (19), birds (18) and reptiles (16); the majority (78 %) of reported species were wild-caught from terrestrial habitats (62 %), followed by marine and estuarine (24 %), and freshwater (14 %). We identified an extensive commercial network of collectors, middlemen/distributors, shop owners, and consumers. Rarity of a given species was often positively associated with economic value. Considering the ubiquity and underground nature of these practices, future conservation strategists are encouraged to work with Candombl practitioners.
27654228|The paper describes factors influencing artisanal fisheries at the So Francisco River in Brazil as an example of the challenges of managing socially and economically valued common-pool resource systems. A rapid assessment of problems affecting So Francisco River fisheries in 10 communities was carried out in 2003, representing the upper, middle, and lower river portions. Field visits, interviews, focus group discussions and a literature survey allowed us to map socioeconomic and environmental factors important to the fisheries, including conflicts and tensions between stakeholders. Federal, state, and municipal governments, industries, farmers, hydroelectric companies, and urban and rural populations all have a stake in river use. Traditional fishers are the most disadvantaged of these stakeholders. With declining fish populations, most of the fishing communities surveyed are now poor, socially excluded, and with few alternative livelihood options. The stakeholders involved in access and use conflicts are artisanal fishers, professional fishers, sport fishers, farmers, enforcement and regulatory agencies, and hydroelectric companies. Traditional fishers have close ties to the river and its environment and they are usually not invited to contribute to resource management decisions. We recommend changes to management structures involving the fishing communities that are essential to resolve the major conflicts and to improve equity and sustainability of artisanal fisheries.
27654182|Since the late 1990s, there has been a boom in tourism focused on the Khushmaan Ma'aza Bedouin of Egypt's northern Eastern Desert. While entrepreneurship on the part of a Bedouin, along with growing numbers of potential visitors, has fuelled this growth, a natural drought has pushed large numbers of Bedouin into the tourist trade. Almost no rain fell over the Khushmaan homeland between 1997 and 2005. Historically, such severe droughts compelled households to settle permanently along the Nile Valley, or men to take up temporary jobs in Red Sea coastal cities. The response to this drought is unique. Bedouin have clustered not in towns or villages but in a dozen tourist mahattas (stations) in the desert, where tourists visit for a few hours. The station structures are made of reeds, and two other factors make this sedentarization "soft". Most Bedouin say they would disperse into the desert if rains return. The capricious trade itself could evaporate due to political events in the region. But is also possible that sustained drought combined with tourism impacts could take Khushmaan culture beyond a tipping point, depriving youth of traditional pastoral education and channeling them toward a permanent settled existence.
41474653|The cultural landscape of the European Alps was formed over centuries through human agricultural activities. Smallholder family farms, made famous in the cultural ecological literature by Robert Netting (1993), are still the predominant socioeconomic unit of agriculture. This study assesses the resilience of farm households in relation to climate change in the village of Vals, Switzerland. Using ethnographic methods, farming households' resilience to environmental change was investigated from two perspectives: 1) an assessment of traditional ecological knowledge (TEK) in the household and its social networks; and 2) the assets of the various livelihood strategies of the farms. TEK was found to be of vital significance for management of the local environment, despite its reduced integrity due to contraction of farmland holdings, mechanization of certain tasks, and fragmentation of the agricultural ecosystem into different jurisdictions. Today the strongest and most critical areas of TEK are centered on production of agricultural goods and hazard management. Households' TEK, in combination with their flexible structure, gives them a high degree of adaptive capacity that nevertheless must be viewed in the context of an environment including not only significant natural constraints and variability, but also local and nonlocal sociopolitical factors, including state subsidies, which constitute a significant share of farmers' income, and political directives to maintain biodiversity. TEK must also be responsive to these constraints and the premises of biodiversity conservation and landscape and livelihood maintenance that underlie them.
23280272|Barton et al. (2011) claim that western Eurasia witnessed a shift in hominin land-use from a predominantly residential mobility strategy to a predominantly logistical mobility strategy during the Late Pleistocene, and that this shift would have led to increased interaction rates between Neandertals and modern humans. But an important assumption of their modelthat foragers employing a predominantly logistical mobility strategy cover a greater geographic extent over the course of their lifetimes than foragers employing a predominantly residential mobility strategymay not be universally true. Here, I reevaluate Barton et al.'s conclusion with a simple foraging-radius model. My results show that a shift to a predominantly logistical mobility strategy can inhibit rather than enhance forager interaction under conditions that presume less of Pleistocene hominin foragers.
4603017|A model of herd management is presented for Aymara alpaca herders in the south central Andes. Linear programming methods and subjective utility values are used to model how pastoralists choose the size of their herd and the species they raise. These decisions are modeled in light of the land and labor resources available to pastoralists, and the products Andean herders must derive from their herds (meat, wool, and dung). The model predicts typical herd size in the community of Chinchillape, and has implications for social and economic changes seen in the Andes today. Specifically, pastoralists in Chinchillape are pursuing maximizing strategies, optimizing herd value by concentrating on alpacas, and decreasing the proportion of llamas in their herd in response to expanding transportation systems. Finally, results of the models indicate that sheep are a very poor option for Andean herders. This explains the reluctance of indigenous herders to adopt sheep herding in some areas of the Andes.
4602249|Orientations toward privacy were identified and individual differences in orientation assessed by means of the newly developed Privacy Preference Scale. Principal components analysis of the PPS revealed six major factors from which subscales were constructed, their content centering on orientations toward noninvolvement with neighbors, seclusion of the home, solitude, privacy with intimates, anonymity, and reserve. In a suburban adult sample (n = 101), these orientations toward privacy were related by means of correlation, multivariate analysis of variance, and canonical correlation to density of past and present environments and to features of the physical environment affecting potential privacy.
4603576|Recent literature on migration and the environment has identified key mediating variables such as how migrants extract resources from the environment for their livelihoods, the rate and efficiency of extraction, and the social and economic context within which their extraction occurs. This paper investigates these variables in a new ecological setting using data from coastal fishing villages in North Sulawesi, Indonesia. We do not find as many differences between migrant and non-migrant families regarding destructive fishing behavior, technology, and investment as might have been expected from earlier theories. Instead, the context and timing of migrant assimilation seems to be more important in explaining apparent associations of migration and environmental impacts than simply migrants themselves. This finding fits well with recent literature in the field of international migration and immigrant incorporation.
4603468|Although remote sensing techniques have become important methodologies in geographical studies, their quantitative tradition and empirical strength have discouraged their use in ethnographically based research of cultural landscapes. Using Uxin Ju of Inner Mongolia in China as a case study, this paper, adopting the approach of "mixed methods," explores the integration of remote sensing techniques with ethnographic research in the study of cultural landscapes. In particular, it examines how remote sensing techniques, combined with ethnographic methods, can contribute to the study of cultural change and human perceptions as they relate to the landscape. Remote sensing analysis offers additional stories about changes in the landscape-stories not told by interviewees, or stories that supplement the account of interviewees. These stories provide important insights into cultural change and culture-landscape relationships. Through this case study, I argue that remote sensing techniques can greatly enhance ethnographic research in the study of cultural landscapes.
4603217|Different forms of management of wild, weedy, and domesticated plants carried out by the Nahua and the Mixtec in the Balsas River Basin, Mexico, are described. Along with cultivation of domesticated plants, these forms of plant management include gathering from wild populations; in situ tolerance of plant individuals during clearings of natural vegetation; in situ enhancement and protection of particular plants among populations of some species; as well as sowing or planting of propagules and transplantation of complete individuals of weedy and wild plants in controlled ex situ environments. Processes of artificial selection and possible routes of domestication occurring in these forms of plant management are discussed.
4603480|This paper describes an indigenous hunting/fishing/trapping economy in the Taimyr Autonomous Region, northern Russia, and traces the continuities and developments in property since the collapse of the Soviet command economy in 1991. Indigenous relations to hunting grounds and renewable resources are discussed with ethnographic case material from Dolgan and Nganasan communities. Land tenure is analyzed in terms of inclusive and exclusive property and informal and formal resource management. The asymmetric growth and distribution of common-pool territories and private holdings is a central issue. A number of factors when examined together appear to favor common property and traditional management including ancestral frames of morality and access, crosscutting kin relationships, principles of ownership and mutual aid, cooperative hunting, sharing of meat and fish, as well as migration patterns of prey species and relative increases in the cost of freight transport since 1991. In addition, private holding often make commercial sales and generally have better access to urban centers, while they are more closely regulated through land, tax, and environment offices of local government.
4602323|A central focus of neighborhood studies has been on the cohesion of neighborhood social groups. When it has been studied as an independent variable, concern has been with the effect of varying levels of neighborhood cohesion on the behaviors of residents within the area. In studies of cohesion as a dependent variable, emphasis has been on changes occurring in the larger community and society which may affect the formation of cohesive neighborhoods. In most cases, however, the concept of cohesion has been inadequately conceptualized and measured. This paper discusses two considerations that are important in measuring neighborhood cohesion but are often neglected. These considerations refer to the number of separate dimensions of the cohesion concept and the system level at which the concept is measured. Four different dimensions of cohesion are discussed: use of local facilities, personal identification, social interaction, and value consensus. Differences between individual and structural measures of the concept are also discussed. A review of some of the ways in which neighborhood cohesion has been measured within the literature is provided, according to these two considerations. Some suggestions are made for constructing new measures, and an empirical example, concerned with land development, is presented to support the argument that cohesion must be measured on a number of different dimensions.
4602484|This paper presents three propositions. First, the author suggests that there is a growing potential for technologically induced catastophes. Second, our capacity to analyze technological risk is inhibited in part because: (1) we tend to confuse low-probability/low-consequence events with low-probability/high-consequence risks; (2) we seldom adopt a holistic approach to the analysis of risk; and (3) we tend to underestimate the effects of catastrophic events. The author further argues that existing control systems, including federal regulatory bodies, are inadequate. In the conclusion the author discusses difficulties likely to accompany the design and creation of risk control systems.
4602365|The ecological approach to the etiology of disease involves consideration of the complex interactions of factors related to the host, agent, and environment. Although the ecological approach was developed with regard to infectious diseases, this article suggests its application as a meaningful approach to understanding the etiology of anencephalus and spina bifida. Host, agent, and environmental factors thought to be important in the development of these malformations are discussed. Translation of this conceptual approach into a testable model is needed.
4603411|With perhaps controversial implications for theory and practice, this paper suggests that the validity of Hardinian theories of the commons are dependent on the implicit rational choice assumption that resource users are aware of resource degradation. Without an awareness of the collective costs of resource use, there can be no dilemma between pursuing individual benefits and avoiding collective ruin. In such situations, the dilemma of the commons cannot be validly said to be the cause of resource depletion, and many traditional policy options to address common resource depletion may not be effective. Two reasons for the lack of awareness about resource degradation are (1) fatalistic beliefs that humans cannot harm a resource base, and (2) the growing complexity and abstraction of modern environmental problems that have obscured the collective costs of resource use from our individual and societal awareness.
4602414|It has been assumed that public or collective goods, such as resource conservation or pollution reduction, will not be created or maintained since rational actors in the international system will choose to consume these goods while avoiding the cost of preserving them. I argue that on the contrary private and public goods are so interrelated that cooperative coalition behavior over their generation is possible. The problem of the maintenance of such cooperative coalitions, via an internal bargaining process, is considered. It is suggested that local optimizing behavior by a coalition may bring about qualitative change in the system, to the extent that the stability of the coalition is destroyed. Such a catastrophic change could lead to entirely new patterns of cooperation, and hence to qualitatively different development paths for the economic and ecological system.
4602612|Fieldwork conducted in new and old swiddens in the Maring territory of the Bismarck Mountains of Papua New Guinea indicated a successional sequence of crop composition, diversity, and biomass regulated by human and ecological processes. With increasing swidden age, the number of cultivated species, individuals, varieties, and net productivity decreased. In contrast to new swiddens, old swiddens were characterized by a simplified crop composition and a distinct vertical stratification. While a 3-month-old garden contained 10 cultivar species, 43.5 plantings of taro, a cultivar biomass content of 2.54 kg/25 m
4602437|The changing economy of a group of tropical forest hunter-gatherers is examined. The Batak of the Philippines today earn many calories by participating in an external market system; once they would have earned these calories within the traditional subsistence system. Gathering and selling Manila copal to purchase rice has partially displaced digging wild yams as the major source of subsistence. Data show that this change has reduced the productive efficiency of human labor. The Batak must work longer and perform more difficult tasks to obtain the same number of calories by collecting copal as they can obtain by digging wild yams, even as they must today work longer hours anyway to earn necessary cash to satisfy new, nonfood consumer wants. The growing dietary importance of rice is only one aspect of changing food consumption patterns that may be having an unfavorable impact on Batak nutrition.
4602424|Actions to improve local water or air quality are likely to combine collective benefits with specific costs. This suggests that the variations among communities in their actions to improve water quality will involve opposition from industries bearing the specific costs. The use of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-funded matching grants for sewerage construction by large U.S. cities varies inversely with the imputed opposition from polluting industries. Use also increases with assessed need and with the extent of certain resources, including the credit rating. Matching grants funded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) are not likely to have such specific costs, and imputed opposition does not affect their distribution. When location and the growth rate are controlled, use of restrictions and surcharges on industrial wastes increase with imputed opposition. It is possible that industries influence the specific regulations. Alternative explanations of the statistical relationship between opposition and EPA grant use are discussed.
40603012|This study examines the acculturation of ethnobotanical knowledge in association with modernization by analyzing similarities and differences within a language group, the Roviana people of the Solomon Islands. Cultural consensus analysis and evaluation of either village-level or individual-level modernity were performed for seven villages. In one modernized and one less modernized village, detailed socioeconomic data at the individual level were collected. Intervillage variation of knowledge correlated with modernity only when the villages were referenced to the less modernized villages, while there was no correlation when the most modernized village was used as the base knowledge. An informant's knowledge in the less modernized village was affected by socioeconomic factors, but this was not observed in the modernized village. From these results, I suggest that modern knowledge is easily integrated into the ethnobotanical knowledge system but is not directly related to the loss of indigenous botanical knowledge.
4602557|This paper examines social responses to the 1973-1974 gasoline crisis in the United States, using newspaper reports of automobile driver behavior in two metropolitan areas and American Automobile Association data on the adoption of rationing plans and the availability of gasoline in 48 states. From these data it is possible to identify two types of responses: individual responses by automobile drivers, which occurred in every region affected by the shortages, and collective responses in the form of rationing plans adopted by governments and gas station operators in the regions with the most severe shortages. In the latter regions the responses occurred in sequence, with individual responses emerging first and collective responses developing later.
41474642|The ecological knowledge and understanding of indigenous peoples and long-term settlers is heterogeneous and continually in flux as they adapt to ecological, political and economic changes. This research focuses on Khumbu Sherpa ecological knowledge and its relation to environmental decision-making. The Sherpa, Tibetan Buddhists who practice agro-pastoralism, provide tourism services to visitors of Sagarmatha (Mount Everest) National Park and Buffer Zone. Utilizing mixed quantitative and qualitative methods, I selected a stratified random sample of 100 individuals to assess spiritual values, and species and landscape knowledge. The results generally showed that individuals who lived on the tourist route and younger generations had less knowledge of these domains. These findings suggest that some Sherpa ecological knowledge and understanding had shifted from spiritual and agropastoralist socioeconomic values to a more tourismcentered economic logic. Future environmental decisions may be influenced by these changes.
4602447|This paper considers projections made about world population levels and world food production from 1945 to 1970, attempting to evaluate them in terms of actual levels of 1975. Most underestimated the population explosion of the past two decades; short-term estimates were more reliable than long-term ones; there was little variation in population estimates at any one time; and U. N. figures were generally the most useful. Projections of world food production were less satisfactory than those of population levels, as both data and measures were debatable. The research suggests some of the problems in evaluating the danger of world famine by examining projections of population and food supply mechanically and in isolation from the complex processes which affect these factors.
4603592|Apart from the possible, but unproven presence of some Irish hermits, the Norse colonizers of the Faroe Islands arrived in an unsettled landscape around A.D. 800. The archipelago was essentially unwooded and rich in bird and marine life. The area of land suitable for settlement and farming was relatively meagre and concentrated in coastal areas; inland areas were suitable for shielings (summer pasture) and subsequently more extensive grazing (outfield) activities. Reconstruction of the settlement distribution has not been a well-developed aspect of Faroese historical study. Using archaeological and documentary evidence, we are able to present the first comprehensive distribution map of Norse settlement, which emphasizes an overwhelmingly coastal focus of considerable density. Using historical (including place-names), archaeological, and environmental evidence, we examine the nature and organization of the Viking (early Norse) and medieval (later Norse) settlement. Colonization and economic activity in the islands were strongly influenced by topographic and ecological factors. This, along with social organization, was subject to influences which may have derived, at least in part, from experiences in a Norwegian homeland.
4603056|Understanding the problem of pesticide misuse in the Third World requires analysis of both political-economic forces and local-level variations in peasant behavior and attitudes. This study, based on 12 months of fieldwork during 1988-1989, examines growing agrochemical dependence and misuse in St. Vincent and the Grenadines in the East Caribbean. Consistent with findings from other political-economic studies, this research documents the influence of the state, export agriculture, consumer pressure, and foreign aid in leading to increased chemical use in agriculture. This study also considers the extent to which farmer behavior and attitudes limit or exacerbate the problems that can accompany increased pesticide use. Some researchers emphasize that farmers are careless and indiscriminate when using pesticides, thereby contributing to pesticide-related problems. In contrast, data from the village level reveal that although some farmers are careless, others are cautious in their use of pesticides, a pattern reflective of variability among farmers in pesticide-use practices and attitudes in general. By exploring the issue of variability in patterns of pesticide use among villagers, this paper emphasizes the utility of the concepts of individuality and experimentation in agriculture in examining problems of pesticide misuse.
4603218|The objectives of this paper are to quantify the annual household consumption of wood for different purposes and to investigate the types of wood used for each purpose. Households in part of Gokwe Communal Area, a rural Zimbabwean study area in which wood is considered plentiful, use a mean 4.8 tons per household per year (t
4602332|A new approach to the problem of linking social organization and the physical environment is claimed on the basis of an analysis of the relationship between the complexity of the irrigation facilities and the institutional differentiation of the service centers of a sample of townships in Taiwan. The hypothesized strong relationship holds, supporting the claim that the differentiation of institutions and technology can be interpreted by the same concept. The strategy is elaborated by showing that a wide range of data can be compressed in terms of differentiation and that the result holds when other measures of township organization are controlled and despite the blunting effect of the subregion-wide irrigation association.
4603309|Straight growth forms of wild shrubs and trees unaffected by insects, diseases, or accumulated dead material have been valued cross-culturally for millennia for use in basketry, yet these growth forms do not occur readily in nature without disturbance. California data are presented that demonstrate how fire and pruning were ancient horticultural techniques that were utilized by Native Americans in various temperate ecosystems to shape ecosystem structure, reduce the occurrence of insects and diseases, and activate specific developmental stages in shrubs and trees for twined and coiled basketry. It is suggested that the magnitude and extent of burning applied to wildlands for basketry and many other cultural purposes in most indigenous cultures in California have been drastically underestimated in the published literature. A methodological approach is outlined for unraveling past and present-day wildland management for basketry materials in various temperate regions. Working hypotheses to explain the ecological rationale for indigenous management at both the organismic and ecosystemic level are proposed.
4602275| The net primary production of the biosphere is about 160  10
4602648|The Wopkaimin are a population of hunter-horticulturalists who live near the Upper Fly River in Papua New Guinea. In this paper, ecosystem heterogeneity is related to diversity of strategies in the Wopkaimin subsistence system. Subsistence subsystems of shifting cultivation, silviculture, gathering, pig raising, hunting, fishing, and collecting are associated with 11 biotopes. Biotopes are useful descriptive categories for subsistence ecological research and they are recognized Wopkaimin emic categories, having cognitive and behavioral consequences. The relationship of the Wopkaimin population to other biota in the ecosystem is shown to be related to a very steep biotope gradient.
40343960|This study explores the management of inland fisheries on common lands (ejidos) within the Mayan Zone of Quintana Roo, Mexico. Qualitative survey data are used to examine whether there are (a) ongoing fishery conservation activities; (b) local caretakers of fishing sites; (c) restrictions on where fishing can take place; and (d) particular groups of individuals who lack the right to fish within the ejidos. Results indicate that in contrast to other local resources, fisheries in the ejidos have less defined use rights, being viewed as largely "open access". In particular, most feel that outsiders can fish in an ejido if they abide by local rules (notably not damaging the local water bodies, asking consent to fish, and having a friend or relative in the community). However, there are within-community differences in views concerning management and conservation, with those more dependent on fishing being more likely to support exclusion of outsiders.
4602671|Examination of Thai ethnographic materials highlights several problems in comparative analysis of social processes that are population linked. Marked differences in family composition among four Central Thai villages are shown to arise primarily from a common family system operating on different underlying sociocultural and demographic processes. Satisfactory analysis requires detailed demographic data, information on other sociocultural processes, and a formal model of family dynamics relating the demographic to the other kinds of data. Lack of even one of these three components may make comparison meaningless. Demographic anthropology and historical demography provide complementary data well suited to anthropological studies of social organization.
23280260|Palaeodietary isotope studies have long assumed C 4 signals in South American archaeological populations to be due to the consumption of maize (Zea mays), which in turn, underlie interpretations important social processes. We presents  13 C data from wild plants (n=89) from the south coast of Peru, which may have been significant in the diets of humans and animals in the past. A combination of these with previously published results from domesticates of the Andean region (n=144) brings the proportion of C 4 species likely to have contributed to the human dietary isotopic signal, whether directly or indirectly, to almost one third. This undermines the widespread assumption that maize is the only plant to contribute a C 4 signal to diets. By considering both direct and indirect routes whereby C 4 plants may have contributed to the human isotopic signal we show the need for a reassessment of how palaeodietary studies are interpreted in the Andes, and perhaps elsewhere in the Americas.
40343946|This paper examines people's experiences with economic compensation for losses due to humanwildlife conflict (HWC) in Uttarakhand, India. Employing a combination of qualitative and quantitative approaches, we used a case study approach to investigate (1) socioeconomic characteristics of applicant versus non-applicant households, (2) explanations for why only some households chose to apply, and (3) perceptions of program effectiveness. We found that despite widespread complaints, the participation rate was only 37%. Our results broadly support the findings of other studies which have identified inadequate remuneration, processing delays, and corruption as key problems. However, we also found that nonparticipation was itself a critical problem. Our study indicates that participation in the scheme was shaped by factors including wealth, gender, social networks, and preexisting expectations. We highlight the need for improved communication about what "compensation" can and should be, advocate for reconceptualizations of compensation that are more closely based on ground-level realities, and point to the potential for alternative forms of payment to be more sustainable and socially just.
4603250|Scholarly views on the prehistory of the Pacific Islanders are currently undergoing a major shift in perspective and underlying assumptions. This shift is driven by new research data and a need for new theoretical perspectives on space, time, and causal process. A new research agenda is coming to the fore, replacing the agenda guiding Pacific studies since the 1950s. Instead of looking at these islands as remote, undeveloped human colonies scattered across a vast and empty expanse of sea, we are finding that the Pacific was a notably early sphere of human accomplishments, on land and sea, where the ocean was more an avenue than a barrier for cultural interchange. The roots of this new perspective can be traced back, in part, to the Wenner-Gren/Smithsonian conference on human biogeography held in Washington, D.C., in 1974.
4602953|This paper examines land-use practice among the Turkana pastoralists of Kenya. Drawing on work of both ecologists and anthropologists, it examines the argument that posits that pastoralism is inherently destructive to the environment, commonly referred to as the "Tragedy of the Commons." Results of this research suggest that the livestock management practices of East African pastoralists do not degrade the environment, that livestock numbers do not exceed the carrying capacity of the land, and that social institutions successfully function to cope with environmental problems.
4603192|Since the 1970s, the study of gender relations and labor and resource use in different production systems has become an important subject of inquiry. While there has been recent interest in gender and livestock issues in pastoral societies, most of the work on gender and agriculture to date has focused primarily upon the role of women in crop production, to the virtual exclusion of the contributions women, children, and the elderly make to the livestock component of the farming system. The topic of gender (broadly defined to include age and sex criteria) and livestock management was addressed at a session at the 1992 Annual Meetings of the American Anthropological Association entitled, "Gender and Livestock in African Production Systems," the contributions to which form the basis of the present volume. Topics presented in the papers include: a conceptual framework for investigation of gender and livestock production and disease control, responsibility for productive tasks, livestock ownership and rights to livestock products, and impacts of and responses to change. Nearly all papers in the volume argue explicitly or implicitly for the need to include gender considerations in the planning of livestock development programs, thereby rendering the collection of interest to both scientits and policymakers.
40603000|High prevalence rates of overweight and obesity are increasingly common among indigenous Amazonian societies experiencing greater involvement in market economies. An important factor in such nutritional transition is internal socioeconomic differentiation, which partially accounts for fatness frequencies. We report the results of a diachronic anthropometric comparison and crosssectional anthropomtric and socioeconomic survey of Xavante adults from a single, large community. Our data show an accelerated nutrition transition, with significant weight and BMI increases for males and females between 1962 and 2006. We also found income and wealth to be significantly associated with fatness measures for both sexes combined and for females separately. We interpret the observed gender differences as reflecting differences between male and female social dietary practices. Comparison with other studies in the Amazon region suggests that the relationships between internal socioeconomic differentiation and dietary health vary between cultural and economic settings. We also argue that parallels between Xavante health perspectives and epidemiological interpretations demonstrate the potential for proactive interchange between native and scientific health discourses.
4603074|Ethnographic research in the central Aravalli Hills of Rajasthan documents a coherent system of groundwater irrigation distinctively different from the system of dams, wiers, and perennial canals redesigned for India by the British during the early nineteenth century and continued by contemporary Indian governments. This paper articulates these indigenous principles and practices and contrasts them with those found in the scholarly literature on irrigation in Rajasthan which follows modern engineering concerns. Our analysis indicates a difference set of questions to guide future research on surface impoundments and groundwater management. Furthermore, this study has broader implications for an understanding of the human-shaped hydrology of northwestern India, where the earlier system has been overlaid, but not fully displaced by subsequent irrigation projects. Indeed, indigenous practices involving groundwater recharge and retrieval may have continued to flourish and expand, achieving a new order of hydrologic and adaptive complexity, through the local initiative of the peasantry to adapt to the unintended spillage, soakage, and siltage from the grand system of dams and perennial canals constructed by the state.
4603186|Human perceptions of the relationship between pollution and food safety are often haphazard and contradictory, based on a variety of sources of information. Recent media events concerning seafood and coastal pollution have generated concern that an otherwise healthy food--fish and shellfish--has become dangerous. We assess consumer knowledge about seafood safety and coastal pollution using several methods, including tests of cultural consensus. We find that consumers view seafood as far more threatened by pollution than scientific analysis suggests, due in part to their perceptions about the dynamics of the marine environment. Finding variation in perceptions within our population based on income and other factors, we explore the use of the cultural consensus approach in large and heterogeneous populations.
4603501| Witness tree data from the southeastern United States (lat 33 30 N, long 86 30 W) were analyzed using catchment and distance analysis to quantify the effects of Native American settlement on the composition of forest trees. Thirty Creek Indian villages comprising 18 settlement catchments were included in the sample, which is the largest Native American-forest interaction study using witness trees to date. Lower frequencies of Pinus spp. were observed within village catchments of the Coastal Plain and Ridge and Valley. Elevated frequencies of early succession species were observed surrounding 2 km village catchments. Distance analysis at two relatively isolated towns showed that Pinus increases in frequency beyond 2000 m from villages while Carya had the opposite result. Field and fruit species were more frequent within 6000 m of villages and then dropped off in frequency. Fire-sensitive tree species appear to be in a spatially cyclical pattern. 
24015696|Social learning is hypothesized to result in shared knowledge and skills, trust, self-efficacy, and democratic decision-making for collective action. This paper uses a multi-method approach, including ethnography and nonparametric and multivariate statistics, to test this hypothesis and describe what specific process characteristics can predict social learning outcomes. Data are based on two communities, each with a subset of members participating in social learning processes for communal timber management and collective Brazil nut marketing in the Bolivian Amazon. Those who participated in the social learning process had significantly more knowledge about communal forest management, gained more skills, were more active in specific management activities, and had more intentions to work collectively than those who did not. The development of trust during the process, the equal involvement of all who participated, and the presentation of various ideas were most predictive of these outcome variables.
4602547|This paper argues that the altitude-oriented "mixed mountain agriculture" model in which mountain dwellers move to higher altitudes in summer and lower ones in winter does not fit the empirical situation in many areas of the Himalayas where north-south or latitudinally differentiated habitat and production zones play important and, in some instances, central roles.
4602334|A previous study of the effects of overcrowding on social behavior is discussed and replicated in this article. Consideration of two major methodological problems -- the construction of the class and ethnicity indices and the measurement of social class -- leads to reanalysis of the data and to results differing in several significant respects from the original results. Although these new results do not provide a definitive answer to the question of the effects of population density on social pathologies, they do show that studies of the problem are subject to several, possibly severe, measurement problems. Until these are more adequately dealt with, conclusions regarding the relation between density and human behavior must be both cautious and tentative.
24017350|Fires in humid tropical forests are increasingly frequent due to severe dry seasons, forest degradation and agricultural expansion. One agent implicated in current discourse surrounding tropical forest fires is the small-scale farming peasantry who rely on fire in swidden (shifting cultivation, slash-and-burn) agriculture. The environmental degradation associated with fire has led to government responses at multiple scales (international, national, state, regional) via policies aimed mainly at managing ignition sources. However, continued increase in forest fires suggests that these policies may be having limited impact and a fresh evaluation of current policy approaches to fire management is needed. We review fire policy measures with insights of caboclo farming practices and perspectives from Eastern Amazonia and examine the congruence between policy and practice. We demonstrate a significant disparity between policy requirements such as firebreaks and actual fire management practices, in which measures rarely meet requirements outlined in legislation. We explore the origins and the impacts of these disparities, focussing on smallholder farm-level management measures and local capacity. Incomplete knowledge coupled with marginal awareness of legal requirements served to propagate widespread erroneous beliefs in what these are. This analysis at multiple scales (international, national, state, regional) will contribute to developing greater congruence between fire policies and smallholder farming practices.
4602342| Patterns of ecosystem resiliency and differential exploitability by man exist, but they have not yet been worked out in detail. This article presents a systematic approach for quantifying the responses of different ecosystems to various levels of human exploitation. It presents a model of the operations of natural ecosystems and suggests a useful analogue between "exploitation" ecosystems and different stages in ecological succession. This analogue enables us to define a coefficient of exploitability which relates the intensity of ecosystem responses to the intensity of management. The coefficient should prove useful in elucidating a number of types of man-environment interactions. It can be calculated from empirical data. Since it is a function of independent ecosystem variables such as climate, we can also suggest its probable global distribution patterns. Sample values of  are calculated from two different types of data. The range of values is greater than one order of magnitude, and their trends are entirely consistent with their predicted distribution. 
27654237|The World Health Organization (WHO) and other organizations report that the prevalence of human diseases during the past decade is rapidly increasing. Population growth and the pollution of water, air, and soil are contributing to the increasing number of human diseases worldwide. Currently an estimated 40% of world deaths are due to environmental degradation. The ecology of increasing diseases has complex factors of environmental degradation, population growth, and the current malnutrition of about 3.7 billion people in the world.
4603311|Overlapping patchworks of farm spatial units are characteristic of the mountain landscapes of Andean regions of Peru and Bolivia. Patchiness and overlap (200-600 m) are shaped by the broad tolerances of major crops, high variability/low predictability of habitat factors, multifaceted cropping rationales of cultivators including their linkages to extraregional influences, and, to varying extents, the sociospatial coordination of crop choice among farmers. Indian peasant farmers manage overlapping patchworks using a concept of farm spaces as loosely bounded. They apply a naming system to farm spatial units based primarily on topographic features in order to serve their cultural, social, and political purposes. Key processes suggest a regional-global model of overlapping patchworks. The model elucidates the roles of landscape flexibility and uncertainty in conservation-with-development. Implications are shown by farm units of diverse food plants and prospects for in situ conservation. Findings caution against universality of the zone model of mountain agriculture.
4603185|Zimbabwe is devolving substantial wildlife management responsibility to local government, and ultimately to local communities, through its Communal Areas Management Program for Indigenous Resources (CAMPFIRE) program. This paper's purpose is to explore the notion that CAMPFIRE offers a useful model for sustainable development discussions by examining the program's impacts in one case study location. It presents a legislative history of the CAMPFIRE Program before specifying the spatial criteria that explain ideal CAMPFIRE sites. Thereafter, it reports results from a study of the development impacts of locally controlled wildlife management in Masoka, an isolated CAMPFIRE community in the Zambezi Valley. The village has developed a land use plan, fenced its fields and settlements, reduced wild animal attacks on people and crops, provided access to primary education for both boys and girls, created local employment, and provided money for household food purchases during a severe drought. In Masoka, the implementation of CAMPFIRE seems to successfully provide incentives to protect megafauna and their habitats. For Masoka, CAMPFIRE has provided an alternative model to statist solutions emphasizing centralized control for biodiversity conservation purposes.
4603302|A survey of 101 Tawahka Amerindian households in the Honduran rain forest examined the effects of schooling on the clearance of old-growth rain forest. The results of tobit, ordinary least square, probit, and median regressions suggest that: (i) each additional year of education lowers the probability of cutting old-growth rain forest by about 4% and reduces the area cut by 0.06 ha/family each year, and (ii) the effect of education on deforestation is non-linear. With up to 2 years of schooling forest clearance declines; with between 2 and 4 years of schooling, clearance increases, but beyond 4 years education once again seems to curb deforestation. Even a little education curbs forest clearance because it is easier for individuals to acquire information about new farm technologies from outsiders in order to intensify term production by river banks. Estimates of the social rate of return to education for indigenous populations of Latin American have been shown to be high. We suggest that these rates of return may need reappraisal for Amerindians in the rain forest to take into account the positive and negative environmental externalities of education.
4603120|This paper analyzes the relationship between leaders and ordinary shepherds among the raikas--nomadic shepherds from western India. It uses a neo-institutional perspective to show how control over information is crucial if shepherds are to prevent their leader from misusing the extensive powers he possesses to make decisions on their behalf. Control over information is not, however, sufficient. The paper argues that shepherds must also possess the capacity to impose sanctions if their leader oversteps the bounds of delegated decision-making authority. The paper highlights the importance of politics and the divergent interests of the shepherds and their leaders. In so doing, it allows inquiry into a system of social interactions that is characterized by conflicting interests and the negotiation of conflict, but is often perceived as harmonious. At the same time, the investigation offers new insights into other social situations structured by principal-agent relationships.
27654115|This paper reviews the theoretical and empirical literature on labor productivity in shifting cultivation systems, and relationships between labor productivity and production parameters are analyzed in two case studies of Iban communities in Sarawak, Malaysia, during two farming seasons. In addition, the labor productivity in shifting cultivation compared to off-farm wage labor opportunities is explored. Establishing firm relationships between labor productivity and production parameters, such as fallow length, fertilizer use, and herbicide use was not possible. We are thus unable to verify or reject the thesis that more labor is required for managing fields after short fallow compared to long fallow periods. We do demonstrate that shifting cultivation of hill rice can compete economically with common off-farm employment opportunities, and conclude that farmers' decisions to maintain their practices is based as much on economic rationales as on tradition.
4603083|Traditionally, the ribeirinho economy has been based on strategies of multiple resource use including agriculture, fishing, and small-scale stock raising. In the last two decades though, ribeirinho strategies of resource management have undergone major changes due to the decline of jute production (the principal cash crop), and the intensification of the commercial fisheries. As a result of these trends, there has been a shift of ribeirinho labor from agriculture to commercial fishing. Today, the diversity which once characterized ribeirinho subsistence strategies is disappearing, and fishing has become the primary economic activity for the great majority of varzea families. As pressure on varzea fisheries has increased, ribeirinho communities have attempted to assert control over local varzea lakes and exclude fishermen from outside the community. In a number of cases, ribeirinho communities have closed lakes to outsiders and established informal lake reserves under local community management. These lake reserves are a promising strategy for managing lake fisheries on a sustainable basis.
25652766|By adopting nature conservation practices, farmers can enhance the environmental quality and biodiversity of their land. In this exploratory study, a behavioral intervention that focused on improving Dutch farmers' nature conservation practices was developed and tested. This intervention was based on insights derived from social psychology and combined tailored information and public commitment. Participating farmers were divided in three groups: one group received tailored information only, one group received both tailored information and a public commitment manipulation, and one group served as a control. A questionnaire measuring relevant aspects of conservation was completed before and after the intervention. Results show that tailored information combined with public commitment making resulted in a stronger desire to engage in conservation, an increase in surface area of non-subsidized natural habitat, and an increase in time farmers spent on conservation. The intervention affected both subsidized and non-subsidized conservation, but the effects were stronger for non-subsidized conservation.
41474614|Floral and faunai assemblages from rocksheiter sites have provided data on the transition from a Late Stone Age way of life to an Iron Age way of life on the Shire highlands in southern Malawi. The data have come from the excavation of seven rocksheiter sites located in the area. They show that while there were no noticeable changes in the exploitation of wild flora and macrofauna during the Late Stone Age period, exploitation of microfauna and use of domesticated plants by Later Stone Age hunter gatherers became prominent with the arrival of Iron Age agriculturalists in the area. The change appears to have been a direct response to a declining resource base of hunter-gatherers caused by Iron Age subsistence strategies that may have led to a hunter-gatherer dependence on Iron Age agriculturists.
24017351|We analyze the floristic and ecological diversity of plants traditionally used in the Arribes del Duero Natural Park (Central Western Spain, Iberian Peninsula). We identified all plant species used by the local people and classified them in 10 general use-categories. All the ethnobotanical data used derive from global ethnobotanical research carried out from 2005 to 2009. The results are analyzed with respect to the total flora of the area and to the ecological diversity of the species in their habitats. The conservation and management of these taxa are also analyzed. We discuss the implications of their harvesting for the development and conservation of their natural populations and habitats.
4602837|The relocation and consolidation of subarctic native populations into settlement patterns designed according to southern, urban models has often resulted in cultural confusion and an increase in interpersonal tension, alcohol abuse, and violence. Through a review of selected case material, and the detailed examination of one relocated community, the dynamics of this situation are highlighted. Where native communities have re-established themselves beyond the reach of government planners, the re-creation of more culturally appropriate settlement patterns has ensued.
4602486|Maasai settlements in Amboseli are distributed in a pattern which reflects various physical and biological characteristics of the landscape. The settlements avoid hillslope gradients exceeding 0.08, and the lower sections of long hillsides, which receive large amounts of runoff. Long, relatively high hillslopes are difficult for exhausted cattle to climb at the end of the dry season, and even the welldrained sites at the upper ends of these slopes are not commonly used. Deep, poorly drained, and light-colored soils are avoided because they affect the comfort of humans, and especially the milk production of cattle. The settlements are located away from dense tree and bush vegetation because of the danger of predators, but during occupation of the site important changes in the vegetation are wrought by the use of trees for settlement construction and firewood. The reasons for the pattern were elucidated by making a set of systematic measurements of settlement distributions and various environmental factors. The conclusions of this analysis were then checked and extended through conversations with Maasai elders. These latter exhibited a sophisticated knowledge of environmental characteristics and processes which is reflected in their choice of settlement sites. Such knowledge has commonly been overlooked by other writers on the subject of pastoralism.
4602922|Minute-by-minute observation of individual women over the period of a year provides a reliable and valuable description of their daily activities. The extent to which Nepalese rural women vary their subsistence responsibilities during pregnancy and lactation is examined by comparing mothers with a non-childbearing sample. The remarkable behavioral similarity between the two groups of women when workloads are high is explained by reference to childcare practices and labor constraints prevailing in the community.
4603163|Development schemes aimed at reducing Central America's social and economic problems historically have stressed intensified exploitation of the region's natural resources through augmented exports of agricultural commodities and forest products, enhanced agricultural productivity, and expanded industrial fisheries. There is plentiful evidence documenting how succeeding waves of export expansion have displaced small farmers from their lands often initiating cycles of repression and violence while also generating or intensifying environmental destruction. This paper explores the environmental quality and social justice implications of the current prevailing development strategy in the region, the promotion of so-called nontraditional exports. Focusing on the expansion of shrimp mariculture in coastal zones along the Gulf of Fonseca, Honduras, it uses political ecological analysis to examine the interconnections among the dominant export-led development model, the policies and actions of the state, the competition among various classes and interest groups, and the survival strategies of an increasingly impoverished population. Analysis suggests that problems of social justice and environmental quality cannot be understood apart from the underlying social structure of the region.
40343941|Zooarchaeological analyses of animal remains from the Petexbatun sites in the Guatemalan lowlands provide proxy evidence to test a hypothesis of dietary insufficiency during the Maya "collapse." Ecological foraging theory and resource depression models are used to interpret animal use patterns before and after the disintegration of the Petexbatun polity at the end of the Late Classic period (around A. D. 800). Environmental failure models of the Maya "collapse" at the end of the Late Classic imply that a dietary insufficiency, and particularly a lack of animal resources, was associated with the political and social transitions of this period. However, the results of this zooarchaeological study do not support this hypothesis and point instead to very limited early reductions of only highest-ranked dietary species. The lack of evidence for specific resource depression associated directly with the period of political collapse does not support a model of environmental failure during political disintegration in the Petexbatun. Correlations are found between animal use patterns and the specifics of site size and periods of peak political activity, suggesting that smallscale resource depressions might have resulted at some sites during early periods of human population growth, site expansion, and increasing political activity.
41432982|We measured mobility patterns that describe walking trajectories of individual Me'Phaa peasants searching for and collecting fuel wood in the forests of "La Montaa de Guerrero" in Mexico. These 1-day excursions typically follow a mixed pattern of nearly-constant steps when individuals displace from their homes towards potential collecting sites and a mixed pattern of steps of different lengths when actually searching for fallen wood in the forest. Displacements in the searching phase seem not to be compatible with Levy flights described by power-laws with optimal scaling exponents. These findings, however, can be interpreted in the light of deterministic searching on heavily degraded landscapes where the interaction of the individuals with their fuel wood-scarce environment produces alternative searching strategies than the expected Levy flights. These results have important implications for future management and restoration of degraded forests and the improvement of the ecological services they may provide to their inhabitants.
4603510|This paper investigates the effects of mother's age and parity on the prenatal allocation of resources in sons and daughters using a sample of 6994 in 20-to 34-year-old mothers from Granada (Spain). This study tests the Trivers-Willard allocation model, which predicts that, depending on the mother's condition, there can be a bias from 50/50 expected investment in the sexes. The results show that mothers of 25-29 age class produce relatively heavier sons compared to younger mothers, suggesting a bias in the allocation of resources before birth favoring neonate boys. This extra investment in boys appears to be related more to the mother's age than to her parity. Offspring of multiparous mothers had shorter gestation length, but multiparous mothers of the 25-29 age class had boys with a longer gestation than the younger ones. The 25-29 age class mothers are in the peak of fertility and they are presumably in better condition than the other mothers in the study sample. The results suggest that Granada women performed a sex-biased prenatal investment favoring sons by prolonging the gestation period. An index of boys' extra birth weight is proposed as a suitable variable to measure the maternal prenatal investment.
40603002|Ethnobotanical knowledge and practices are dynamic and they change as they are transferred and appropriated by people who are adapting to new surroundings and changing environments. Using tifey, a multispecies drink, as a case study, we discuss the changes that emigration brought about related to tifey, and the processes that determined these changes. Tifey is a Haitian drink prepared by soaking Artemisia absinthium and other plants in rum or aguardiente. It probably had its origin in the adoption of the absinthe-based liquor used by French settlers and troops during the colonial period. Haitians progressively added culturally relevant flavorings and medicinal plants to this drink, and differentiated its production and use for medicinal, medicinal food, ritual (religious and social), and economic purposes. When Haitians migrated to Cuba, they brought tifey with them, but over the course of the twentieth century its use declined and its composition changed due to sociocultural factors such as the dissolution of Haitian settlements, and to ecological factors such as difficulty in cultivation and/or procurement of A. absinthium in the new environment.
27654135|There are two broadly conceptualized ways in which conservation knowledge may evolve: the depletion crisis model and the ecological understanding model. The first one argues that developing conservation thought and practice depends on learning that resources are depletable. Such learning typically follows a resource crisis. The second mechanism emphasizes the development of conservation practices following the incremental elaboration of environmental knowledge by a group of people. These mechanisms may work together. Following a perturbation, a society can self-organize, learn and adapt. The self-organizing process, facilitated by knowledge development and learning, has the potential to increase the resilience (capability to absorb disturbance and reorganize while undergoing change) of resource use systems. Hence, conservation knowledge can develop through a combination of long-term ecological understanding and learning from crises and mistakes. It has survival value, as it increases the resilience of integrated socialecological systems to deal with change in ways that continue to sustain both peoples and their environments.
25652760|The highlands of Eastern Africa are characterized by high population densities and tightly coupled interactions between adjacent landscape units and users. Effective formal or informal natural resource governance is necessary to mitigate the potential negative social and environmental effects of individuals' behavior. Yet many natural resource management and development problems that require or benefit from collective solutions remain unresolved (German et al. Environ Dev Sustain 8: 535552, 2006a; German et al. 2006b; German et al. Q J Int Agr 47(3): 191216, 2008). We argue that many of the more intractable problems in improving governance stem from the tradeoffs that underlie them, which may include a loss of livelihood options for at least some households, leading to governance break down. Following a brief introduction to natural resource management and governance in Eastern Africa, we analyze the results of participatory by-law deliberations by distilling the restrictions proposed governance reforms pose to certain local stakeholders. We recommend that future policy for improved landscape governance couple institutional reforms with livelihood alternatives that reduce the burden of good governance on households.
4602600|Few social-psychological theories of intraurban residential mobility have been offered, despite a number of empirical studies of personal motives. A complete explanation of residential mobility would interrelate macroscopic economic factors with household preferences. A cross-cultural socio-psychological model is presented as a step toward a comprehensive theory. Data from an exploratory study of middle-class Mexico City residents are used to test the model. Results suggest that middle-class Mexicans decide to move because of space needs accompanying life-cycle changes, desire for home ownership, and environmental reasons. Home selection was primarily a function of availability, cost, and terms. Unlike North Americans, suburban Mexicans were uninterested in community activities and maintained close contact with relatives; central-city respondents enjoyed living in the city despite dissatisfaction with residence or neighborhood. Most would avoid the suburbs because of communication problems and distance from relatives. Results support the model and justify further testing and development.
41474628|Differences in land use and land cover often coincide with social and political borders. Using vegetation indices and a visual inspection of Landsat imagery, we consider a rural section of the central Arizona-Sonora border dominated by government-owned land on the U. S. side and seek to understand where and why cross-border land cover continuity exists in some places while distinction exists in others. Land cover distinctions are attributed largely to differential population and economic pressures in the two countries, but are also exacerbated by social and political distinctions. By contrast, historical relations, common use of the land, and relative remoteness provide cross-border homogeneity in land use and land cover in rural areas, especially on the Tohono O'odham reservation.
4602839|The subsistence ecology of Venezuelan Cuiva foragers during the early dry season is described. Data on diet, time allocation, demography, and physical measurements are presented. Analyses show that the Cuiva depend primarily on game and wild roots during the early dry season for their subsistence. Sex differentials in productive efficiency, total contribution to the diet, and time allocation to food acquisition and other activities are also examined. As in most other foraging societies, men specialize in hunting while women specialize in gathering. During the early dry season, men provide more calories than women and are the more efficient food producers. However, men spend slightly less time than women in food acquisition. Demographic data show that child mortality rates, female infertility rates, female infanticide rates, and the sex ratio among juveniles are high in the Cuiva population. Comparisons between the patterns found among the Cuiva and other foraging populations are made.
27654168|A significant change in the geography of livestock raising over the past 30 years is the southerly movement of FulBe herds into the humid Sudanian and Guinean savannas of West Africa. The literature suggests that the severe droughts of the early 1970s and mid-1980s were the driving force behind this southern expansion of mobile livestock raising. The conventional view is that drought forced herders to seek greener pastures to the south, an area that zebu cattle have previously avoided because of the presence of tsetse flies, the vector of animal sleeping sickness (trypanosomiasis). This "sudden push" hypothesis places Sahelian herds in savanna pastures in a matter of a 13 years. This stimulus-response model runs counter to our observations and understanding of the social and ecological processes influencing FulBe herd movements. We challenge the "sudden shift" thesis at the regional scale by arguing that the southerly expansion of FulBe herds has proceeded according to a more complex temporal frame that includes generational, biological, and social historical timeframes and periodicities. We distinguish between short-term shifts ("test movements") and more permanent shifts ("migration movements"). These mobility patterns are linked to contingent factors such as cattle diseases, drought, and political instability, as well as to more structural and adaptive features such as the establishment of social networks, herding contracts, and cattle cross-breeding. Shifts in livestock ownership and the social differentiation among herders are important variables for understanding changes in herd movements. We conclude that the permanent shift of herds to the humid savannas of West Africa has been preceded by a series of social and agroecological adjustments that operate on decadal and generational time scales.
23353261|Indigenous people of northern Australia make extensive use of wild resources as a source of food, in their art and craft, and for medicinal purposes. These resources are part of a socially and culturally significant landscape. Using data collected from household surveys across two catchments in northern Australia, the Daly River, Northern Territory (NT) and the Fitzroy River, Western Australia (WA), we describe indigenous aquatic resource use patterns. The former is a perennial system with extensive vegetated wetlands that can remain inundated for 45 months, while the latter can cease to flow during the winter dry season (MayOctober) and its floods usually last for weeks. Subsistence strategies depend on seasonal availability of a wide array of aquatic species and are attuned to the life histories and movement patterns of key species, such as Long-necked Turtle (Chelodina rugosa) and Magpie Goose (Anseranas semipalmata). Indigenous households harvested resources from different habitats. Our results show a clear progression from use of the main river channel shortly after the wet season to use of billabongs late in the dry season in the Daly River, and a constant reliance on the main river channel and tributaries in the Fitzroy River. Difference in the main species utilised appears strongly related to habitat use, with four of the five most commonly harvested in the Daly catchment being non-fish species associated with billabong habitats. Commonly harvested species from the Fitzroy catchment included small bodied species used as bait and two popular food species, Black Bream (Hephaestus jenkinsi) and Catfish (Neoarius spp.). Results suggest that indigenous subsistence strategies are vulnerable to changes in the natural systems that provide the "ecosystem goods," particularly annual inundation of floodplains that drives productivity and provides habitat for some key species. Water resource developments, such as river regulation and increased abstraction for irrigated agriculture, could adversely affect a highly valued customary component of the indigenous economies of tropical Australia.
4603596| In the early Norse settlement period throughout the North Atlantic, effective management of the land area surrounding the domestic settlement, the home-field, was essential. In the Faroe Islands, the extent of home-field land suitable for growing fodder or cereal crops is limited by topography and by drainage highlighting the need to optimize the management of these land areas. In this paper we examine the management of home-fields through a modeling approach, allowing the long-term sustainability of the past agrarian system in the home-field area to be examined. The CENTURY agroecosystem model is used to predict soil organic carbon levels and the potential hay meadow and cereal production for locations around three settlements on the islands of Sueroy, Sandoy, and Eysteroy. Using paleoclimatic data and measurements from buried soil materials alongside ethnographic and historical evidence on land management, the results from this model reveal maximum hay and barley yields attainable through early agrarian practices. Comparisons between modeled outputs and recorded yields from the nineteenth century show that there is a strong moderating influence on longer-term climatic fluctuations. The role of soil management is emphasized through comparison of long-term climate/yield data. This has been undertaken using statistical time series analyses, which reveal fluctuations in yield related to climate are relatively slight, except going into the twentieth century. It is concluded that intensity of soil management is the primary determinant of yield and could buffer cereal and hay yields against climatic downturns, and that from a low yield baseline in the early Norse settlement period, yield improves to an equilibrium level by the twelfth century. 
4602411|A nutrient balance is established for the contemporary urban ecosystem of Hong Kong. The flow of nutrients in the Hong Kong food system in particular is examined, including current and potential nutrient recycling patterns. Losses of nutrients in food for human consumption are found to be up to 20% for major nutrients. The flow of mineral phosphorus in the Hong Kong food system is examined in detail. About 3600 tonnes of phosphorus are lost from the Hong Kong food system each year. A comparison is made between the land-based forage area demand of the Hong Kong population and a similar-sized Western population, that of Sydney, Australia. It is estimated that the average Hong Kong person consumes a diet which requires only half the land area needed to produce the diet of the average Sydney person. However, Hong Kong relies on the ocean for 25% of its animal protein supply compared with 2.5% for Sydney. Patterns of food production and nutrient recycling are proposed, with the aim of optimizing resource utilization in close association with contemporary urban settlements.
4602532|Humans and domestic animals in 14.94 square kilometers of rural West Bengal were intensively studied between 1967 and 1970. In 1977, 3.81 square kilometers (25.5%) of the same area was resurveyed and all humans and cattle enumerated. The human population has increased 10% from 1969 to 1977, but the total number of children in the younger age groups has actually diminished. The cattle population has decreased 3.7% since the 1969 census, but in 1977 there were 19% fewer working bullocks present. Other significant observations relative to the primary productivity and economics of the area are noted.
24013720|The relationship between fishing, livelihood diversification and poverty was investigated in the lower Mekong basin, in Laos, where fishing forms an important, but usually secondary part of rural livelihoods. Results from a household survey show that participation in fishing is common and positively associated with higher occupational diversity and more agricultural activities. This is likely due to the low opportunity costs associated with many forms of fishing and factors such as tradition, enjoyment of fishing, underutilised labour and low capital requirements. Alternative livelihoods within the rural setting are therefore unlikely to cause fishers to leave the fishery, but instead strengthen the livelihood portfolio as a supplementary activity. Fishing is not an activity only for the very poorest households, but is undertaken by all wealth groups. However, fishing forms a greater proportion of income, employment and food security for the poor and is important in households with poor quality farm land.
4602241|The comparative perspective is of central importance to effective analysis in human ecology. The present paper compares "traditional" irrigation systems in two quite disparate settings: east central Morocco and southeastern Bali. Bali, which has a tropical climate and a plentiful water supply, displays a highly collective approach to the organization of irrigation facilities. Morocco, which is essentially an arid country, displays, on the contrary, a much more individual, property-based approach to water regulation. The internal organization of these two regimes is described and their connection with more general cultural and ecological factors is traced, in an attempt to demonstrate that patterns of adaptation are susceptible to the same pattern of analysis as other aspects of social and cultural life. The contrast between the strongly group-oriented Balinese approach to water control and distribution and the highly individualistic Moroccan one is said to extend in an overall way to the two societies as a whole.
4602799|The Mbuti pygmies, hunter-gatherers of the Ituri Forest of Zaire, trade forest products and labor for agricultural foods. It has been assumed that the Mbuti lived independently in the equatorial forest prior to its penetration by shifting cultivators. We assessed forest food resources (plant and animal) to determine their adequacy to support a hunting and gathering economy. For five months of the year, essentially none of the calorically important forest fruits and seeds are available. Honey is not abundant during this season of scarcity. Wild game meat is available year round, but the main animals caught have low fat content. This makes them a poor substitute for starch-dense agricultural foods, now staples in Mbuti diet. In general, in the closed evergreen forest zone, edible wild plant species are more abundant in agriculturally derived secondary forest than in primary forest. Similarly, they are more common at the savanna ecotone and in gallery forests. We suggest that it is unlikely that hunter-gatherers would have lived independently in the forest interior with its precarious resource base, when many of the food species they exploit are more abundant toward the savanna border.
4602855|From 1980-1985, the Turkana District of Kenya experienced both drought and above average rainfall. The effects of a 2-year drought on the livestock population of the nomadic pastoral Ngisonyoka are discussed. Detailed data on mortality rates and offtake are presented for the animals of four herd owners, and the recovery process is followed for the 5-year period for one herd owner. It is concluded that during the drought, 63% of the cattle, 45% of the camels, and 55% of the small stock left the sample herds. The livestock population of one herd had recovered to pre-drought levels 3 years after the drought.
27654173|The detrimental impacts of invasive alien species (IAS) on ecosystem goods and services and local and regional economies are well documented. However, the use of IAS by rural communities is little understood, and rarely factored into IAS control programmes. Understanding the use of IAS by rural communities and factoring these into cost-benefit models is complex, depending upon a range of local-level attributes such as the time since invasion, abundance, and local-level costs and benefits. This paper reports on two case studies examining the role of IAS in rural livelihoods in the Eastern Cape, South Africa. In both cases, rural communities made widespread consumptive use of the IAS and generally would prefer higher densities, except in certain key localities. Several households traded in IAS products to generate supplementary income. We present a conceptual framework to guide interpretation of these and future case studies, considering attributes such as time since invasion, the competitiveness of the species, and the relative costs and benefits.
4602976| This paper explores familial contexts of transition to a wage labor economy using ethnographic and survey data from Tamang communities at the northern edge of Nepal's Kathmandu Valley. Historically agro-pastoralist, the Tamang of this area have experienced social watersheds drawing them into ever closer relationships with Kathmandu. The earliest was their nineteenth century induction into corve labor for national elites; more recent has been the accelerating monetization of the twentieth century. This analysis demonstrates trends and frames hypotheses about the social structuring of this latest process, testing them at the individual level with combined ethnographic and survey data from 1028 respondents. Multivariate analyses explore the effects of birth cohort, education, domestic group status, and settlement location on participation in non-family organized wage work. Substantive findings are related to the broader historical literature on household and family with special attention to varieties of subsistence to monetized transition. 
4603062|Preliminary demographic data are presented on the Datoga, a semi-nomadic pastoral population of northern Tanzania. In comparison with other pastoral populations Datoga fertility is high. There is a marked seasonal distribution of births that is only partly associated with rainfall patterns. Survivorship chances up to the age of 15 are poor, and are independently affected by both length of the preceding interbirth interval and survivorship of the previous child. The results are discussed in the context of ecological and social factors that affect fertility and offspring mortality rates in pastoral populations.
25652761|Community forestry offers potential for socioeconomic benefits while maintaining ecosystem services. In Mexico, government and donor efforts to develop this sector focus on issues within forest communities. Often overlooked are effects of external non-government actors (NGOs and foresters) as links or barriers between communities and funding, capacity building, and technical support. To analyze the role of these actors, I analyze household survey and interview data from 11 communities with varying levels of vertical integration of forestry production in states with divergent records of community forestry, Oaxaca and Michoacn. Results suggest that strong community governance is necessary but not sufficient for vertical integration, and strong interactions with non-government actors are critical. These actors, operating within the existing framework of government regulations, have a range of incentives for engaging communities. Availability of these actors motivated by concern for community capacity instead of timber income may be a determinant of community forestry development.
27654314|Crop diversity protects food consumption in poor households within developing nations. Here we estimate the association between crop diversity on swidden fields and ethnobotanical knowledge. We conducted research among 215 male household heads from a native Amazonian society. Using multivariate regressions, we found higher crop diversity among households that depend on agricultural production for household consumption. We also found a statistically significant and positive, but low, association between the ethnobotanical knowledge of the male household head and crop diversity. Doubling the stock of ethnobotanical knowledge of the male household head is associated with a 9% increase in the number of crops sown by a household. The association remained after we controlled for the household level of market exposure, but vanished after we controlled for the social capital of the male household head. Future research should compare the association between ethnobotanical knowledge and crop diversity across different agricultural systems (i.e., home gardens, fallow fields).
4602497|Domestic cattle serve a variety of purposes in human society. In most cultures they are used primarily as a source of food: either meat, milk, or both. However, in some societies products such as blood and manure are important and elsewhere cattle are important draft animals or symbols of status and prosperity. Comparisons of energy flow in Indian, Ugandan, and North American cattle reveal how these different human strategies shape the energetics of cattle herds. Despite allegations to the contrary, Indian cattle appear to be rather productive when all consumable and nonconsumable products are considered. North American range cattle are considerably more productive than Ugandan cattle; however, the latter are efficient at maintaining high biomass. Other aspects of cattle energetics demonstrate the divergence in grazing strategies used by different peoples and the ecological efficiencies of these diverse strategies.
4603297|This paper presents the botanical and historical evidence for the role of African rice (O. glaberrima) and slaves in the crop's introduction to the Americas during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. By focusing on culture, technology, and the environment the research challenges the perspective of the Columbian Exchange that emphasizes the diffusion of crops to, rather than from Africa, by Europeans. The evidence presented in this paper suggests a crucial role for glaberrima rice and slaves in the introduction of African crops to the Americas.
27654273|Group formation, social capital and collective action have been the focus of much recent attention amongst donors and policy makers. Optimistic scenarios highlight their contributions to poverty reduction and effective natural resource management. However, recent critiques have focused on the exclusionary potential or 'dark side' of groups and social capital. Not only are their longer term livelihood impacts unclear, but lacunae persist in our understanding of how social capital, especially trust, is built. This paper presents a longitudinal evaluation of trust, collective action and cooperation among herders in post-Soviet Mongolia in the context of recent donor projects. Results highlight the important catalytic effect of external interventions in overcoming a lack of trust and promoting formalised collective action, but only in the context of a particular conjunction of circumstances. Indications for livelihood outcomes confirm the differentiated benefits, exclusionary potential and fragility of social capital and new institutional forms.
24013746|Terracing is an important and ubiquitous landscape feature in the Mixteca Alta region of southern Mexico. It is a land-management strategy that has been in use for millennia, perhaps starting around 300 B.C.E. We discuss terracing as an adaptive and resilient strategy of food production and land management that continues to be culturally significant to modern-day farmers. Through the integration of archaeological, geomorphological, ethnohistorical, and ethnographic data we document the history of terracing and discuss how Mixtec communities and terraces have responded to natural and cultural perturbations through millennia. We find that different stages in the history of terracing show parallels with the adaptive cycles of a resilient system.
4603072|Deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon was less than 1% before 1975. Between 1975 and 1987 the rate increased exponentially. By 1985, world opinion and attention to the destruction of the richest biome on earth led to elimination of some of the major incentives that had fueled deforestation. Favorable credit policies for cattle ranchers, rather than population growth, explains the process of deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon. The paper suggests other actions that may be taken to reduce deforestation, and examines the rapid growth rates of secondary successional species in a colonization area.
4602299|Data are presented from the first four groups studied in a long-range investigation of human ecology in the Solomon Islands. The groups varied in habitat, way of life, genetic background, and exposure to Western influence. Coverage of residents in designated hamlets was 78% for Kwaio, Malaita Island; 91% for Nasioi, Bougainville Island; and over 95% for both Lau and Baegu of Malaita. In all, 1626 persons were studied: 256 Nasioi, 443 Kwaio, 442 Lau, and 485 Baegu. All four groups were demographically "young," with a high ratio of persons under 15 to those over 45 years of age, but a significant proportion lived to old age. Nutrition was adequate, though low in protein and fat. They had very little color-blindness and virtually no myopia, astigmatism, glaucoma, or hypertensive and coronary heart disease. Malaria, trachoma, and intestinal parasitism reflected differences in habitat and ways of life, but tuberculosis did not. Despite a density as high as that recorded for any human population, the Lau, living on small artificial islets in a saltwater lagoon, enjoyed robust health.
4603173| Recent work has dealt with the local management of aquatic resources as an alternative to Hardin's (1968) "tragedy of the commons." In communities with no formal management of resources, informal ownership of fishing spots or conflicts with outside competitors may determine the basis for future local management. In this study, I analyze the use of aquatic resources by five fishing communities on the Atlantic Forest coast of southeast Brazil: Bzios Island, Puruba, and Picinguaba in So Paulo State, and Jaguanum and Itacuru Islands at Sepetiba Bay in Rio de Janeiro State. Informal ownership of fishing spots, used for set gillnet fishing, is regulated by kin ties at Bzios Island. The artisanal fishers of Sepetiba Bay, especially those from Jaguanum Island, have a conflict with Bay "intruders," such as the shrimp and herring trawlers. Two coastal communities, Puruba and Picinguaba, have conflicts with fishing regulations from a State Park (Parque Estadual da Serra do Mar), created in 1977. The transformation of populated areas of the Atlantic Forest to Extractive Reserves might be a way to avoid conflicts with intruders and with governmental agencies, and to involve local populations in management. Kinship rules at Bzios Island and the territorial behavior of fishers at Sepetiba Bay may form a basis for local organization. 
27654290|This study describes the seascape ecology of the Roviana Lagoon in the Western Solomon Islands. Using a combination of ecological and ethnographic data, we analyze the dominant characteristics of the habitats represented in the area, the prevalent environmental phenomena, and the productive practices exerted in these habitats by the local inhabitants. The lagoon offers an ecological structure characterized by micro-patchiness and a productive system in which the members have a detailed knowledge of an extremely complex environment and a set of extractive practices that take advantage of this intimate knowledge to selectively use most of the niches provided by the ecological heterogeneity of the lagoon. The correlation of ecological structure and social use of a landscape is not just a descriptive endeavor. It is a fundamental step toward understanding humanenvironmental relations and developing integrative base resource maps for planning marine and terrestrial conservation in the Roviana Lagoon and elsewhere. More generally, the socioecological analysis of seascapes is of key importance for formulating ecosystem-based management plans.
27654211|The primary objective of this paper is to examine more closely the complex nature of the natural environment dimension of community attachment using the narratives of local community members. This work seeks to build and elaborate on previous quantitative analyses that demonstrated two distinct dimensions of community attachmentsocial and natural environment. The findings reveal several distinct facets of the natural environment dimension of community attachment and demonstrate both a discreet perception of the natural environment in terms of community attachment as well as one that is more embedded within the social context of a particular lifestyle. The findings further demonstrate the need to include consideration of the natural environment in the broader assessment of community attachment and bolster previous quantitative research findings.
4603513| Cattle transhumance has been practiced since colonial times in Mapuche communities of northwestern Patagonia, which travelled seasonally along the Andean valleys from arid lands towards temperate forests. In this study, we analyzed how this migratory practice affects the abundance and variety of wild edible plants utilized by the Mapuche community of Paineo. Patterns of use for those who practice transhumance were compared with those who do not utilizing ecological variables. Gender and age were also evaluated. The Paineo people collect wild plants in 3 different gathering sites: the A. araucana forest, the "Travesa," and their dwelling surroundings. However, those who practice summer transhumance utilize a more diverse variety and a tan greater quantity of wild edible forest plants than those who do not. Moreover, the nutritional value of plants collected by transhumants is greater than those used by non-transhumants. Men practice summer cattle transhumance in a greater proportion than do women and consume significantly more wild edible plants. In contrast, plants from their dwellings and from the Travesa are used in a similar way by both sexes. It was observed that the elderly do not presently participate in transhumance. Our results illustrate a change in wild plant knowledge influenced by the transformation of the summer transhumance pattern. 
4602929|Fieldwork in the village of Dadahup along the Lower Barito basin in Central Kalimantan (Southern Borneo, Indonesia) shows that smallholder rattan cultivation is financially profitable to smallholders and economically profitable to the nation. The financial net present value (NPV) for green and processed canes is Rp 828,000 and Rp 946,000; the economic rate of return is about 22% for both green and processed canes. The article contains a discussion of the methodology for evaluating the shadow price of a non-timber forest good.
4603447| Mori continue a centuries old harvest of tt chicks (sooty shearwater, Puffinus griseus) on islands adjacent to Rakiura (Stewart Island). This study measured time limits on the number of Tt taken each day from Putauhinu Island. In the first period of the harvest ("nanao") the chicks are extracted from the breeding burrows during daytime. In the second period of harvest ("rama") the chicks are caught at night after they have emerged from their nesting burrows. Capture rate is much higher during the rama than the nanao. More time is spent processing (plucking, cutting-up, gutting, and packing) chicks during rama than the nanao because of a 1.3-1.7 increase in the number of chicks caught. Recently introduced motorized plucking machines decrease the time required to pluck each chick and make plucking less physically demanding and less painful. However, motorized pluckers did not increase the number of chicks harvested on Putauhinu. Other social limits may control harvest intensity and influence sustainability of muttonbirding. 
4603046|Established approaches to human hunting-gathering behavior have failed to integrate economic, political, and cultural motivations and to describe the rich array of meanings foragers derive from their practices. This essay examines an Australian Aboriginal community's foraging and settlement behavior. It argues that in order to understand the form and meaning of Australian Aboriginal economic practices, researchers must attend to local and regional economic, historical, and ecological constraints on foraging behavior. Equally important are local understandings of the productive potential of foraging activity, including a capacity to maintain the physical and mythic topology of the countryside and human body.
4602458|Rapidly accumulating evidence indicates that light reduces the human pineal's inhibitory effect on the gonads. Artificially extended daily photoperiods, by allowing increased production of gonadal steroids, have probably accentuated the secular growth trend and may be causing males, especially adolescents and young adults, to have an overready hormonal response to situations which elicit aggressive behavior.
23280261|Mercury is known to be a powerful neurotoxin, particularly in its organic form. Amazonian populations living along contaminated rivers are exposed to mercurial contamination through fish consumption, but spatial disparities of contamination have very seldom been explored. The problem was addressed along the river Beni, in the Bolivian Amazon. Fifteen communities have been studied by a multidisciplinary research team, to explore the socio-geographical determinants of contamination by mercury. Using quantitative and qualitative methods, from the community to the regional level, this paper shows how spatial contrasts of mercury contamination are determined by contrasted types of resource management and contrasted social networks from one community to another, and how the places' and societies' specificities play an essential role in the determination of the mercurial risk.
41474613|This article reports on an example of early archaeobotanical evidence for beer-making in Iron Age South-Eastern France. An archaeological sample from a fifth century BC house at the site of Roquepertuse produced a concentration of carbonized barley (Hordeum vulgare) grains. The sample was taken from the floor of the dwelling, close to a hearth and an oven. The barley grains are predominantly sprouted and we argue that the assemblage represents the remains of deliberate malting. Malt was most likely related to beer-brewing. The neighboring oven could have been used to stop the germination process at the desired level by drying or roasting the grain. Beermaking evidence in Roquepertuse is discussed in the context of the consumption of alcoholic beverages in the Iron Age Western Mediterranean using archaeological and historical data.
4603113|Historical research at different time scales from 10s to 1000s of years suggests that solar variation may have influences on global climate. Climate change has had significant impacts on cultures during these periods. Very high solar output during the Medieval Optimum would be expected to have particularly large impacts on peoples of that time as sunspot numbers are thought to have reached one third again any values observed in the current century. Certain other impacts can be inferred from modern populations. For example, the higher parts of the solar cycle are associated with greater incidence of skin melanoma.
4602870|This article presents a concept of energy accounting that is novel because of two features. One is the valuation of human labor in terms of the workers' shares of their societies' energy use, which allows that workers in different societies or time periods may be more or less intensive energy users. The other is the valuation of resources in units of renewal time, which allows renewable resources to be treated as less ecologically costly than depletable ones. These new proposals are used for a reconsideration of the energy balances of Spanish agriculture.
40603027|This study explores the association between individual beliefs in local Islamic Saints in the High Atlas of Morocco and the use of the environment. This exploration is done within the framework of a traditional institution of natural resource management, based on the regulations (called Agdal) of access to common pastoral resources. Research methods included participant observation and interviews during several stays between 2003 and 2008 among the Amazig (Berber) people of the Mesioua tribe, and a survey of 80 households in the village of Warzazt. Our data show an association between the transformation of traditional individual beliefs in local Saints and new agro-pastoral practices that have previously been linked to the disappearance of Agdal-managed pastures and biodiversity loss. We conclude that, in addition to the more material dimensions of climate change, population increase, migration, or expansion of cash economies, religious beliefs should also be taken into account when analyzing the use of natural resources and agro-pastoral change processes.
4602315|The Hutchinsonian concept of the ecological niche can be made operational for studies in human ecology by defining it in terms of the distinctive ways of using resources for subsistence that set "cultural species" apart. Subsistence variety, the number of resources used for subsistence, and how much each is depended on are measures of distinctiveness, and the amount of variety present can be defined as the width of the ecological niche. The calculation of niche width from subsistence data is discussed, and examples are given from several human groups with reference to total resource variety, resource variety in space, and resource variety in time. The importance of selecting niche dimensions for niche width measurement is stressed, and examples are given of width differences resulting from measuring variety in quantity (biomass or calories) and variety in quality (protein, essential minerals, etc.). Finally, some implications of niche width measurements for human ecology are discussed.
40343949|This study is focused on ethnobotanical usages of wild plants growing within the Afyonkarahisar province districts of Sinanpaa, Hocalar and Dazkin. Ninety local informants in 11 villages were interviewed. A total of 129 different usages of wild plants in the study area were recorded. Out of 650 plant species commonly present, 93 plant taxa (14.3%) belonging to 43 families were used for medicinal (52 citations), foodstuff (37 citations), fodder (14 citations), dye (six citations), firewood (five citations), construction materials (four citations) and miscellaneous purposes (11 citations). At least 15% of the information regarding ethnobotanical uses of wild plants was obtained by showing herbarium voucher samples to the informants. It was noted that Sideritis leptoclada and Verbascum stenostachyum are endemic to Turkey and their endangered status has markedly increased in recent years because of increased collecting for ethnobotanical purposes. Informants indicate that members of the younger generation have a much reduced interest in ethnobotanical knowledge and that this is a danger to the continued use of local plants.
4603567|Ecotourism has been heralded as a potential economic and environmental savior in much of Latin America, though explosive foreign investment in ecotourism ventures raises questions about the validity of ecotourism as a tool of sustainable local development. This paper uses three case studies from coastal Belize and the Bay Islands of Honduras to illustrate the challenges that local communities face when attempting to derive ecotourism benefits. Whether these communities are poised to take advantage of foreign capital is largely dependent on their ability to direct the investment and establish control over their common property resources. This appears to require a marked cultural shift toward planning and politicization.
40343998|While wildlife conservation efforts have become increasingly aggressive around the world, illicit use of resources in conservation areas has not subsided, raising questions about the ecological character of noncompliance activities. This paper reviews the results of research conducted amongst foresters and households living adjacent to a wildlife sanctuary in India in a period following a ban of human use activities. Using a formal survey supplemented by interviews and participant observation, the research sought to determine the intensity of illicit use, the demographics of resource users, and the attitudes of rulebreakers. The results suggest that noncompliance with conservation restrictions is nearly universal, that forest use is highly specialized, that available village resource assets do little to offset forest use, and that rule-breakers prefer current governance arrangements. These results paint a picture of deeply institutionalized forest use that suggests serious barriers to any simple enforcement solutions or governance reforms.
40603016|This study examines potential climatic influences on historical agrarian populations in Finland by means of historical weather diaries, rye phenology, and rye and barley grain-figure (ratio between sown and harvested grain) data from the sixteenth to the nineteenth centuries. Crops exhibited great temporal variation. During the poorest years, the amount of harvested grain was less than that sown whereas during the better years the sown grain was harvested more than tenfold. Depending on the locality, 37-84% of this variability could be explained by monthly variables of growing season temperature and precipitation over the latter half of the eighteenth century. Although the grain-figure data showed clear spatial synchrony, it was found that this synchrony was much weaker than that of temperature, precipitation or rye phenology. Consequently, individual crop failure years should not be extrapolated over widely extended areas from spatially restricted data. Further, it was found that the desertion of farms in the sixteenth and the seventeenth centuries occurred coterminously with long-term summer temperature cooling, indicating that the desertion may have resulted from climatic deterioration that significantly impeded agriculture as a means of subsistence.
4603362|Following its introduction on the island of Timor, the shrub Chromolaena odorata has expanded dramatically across the landscape. A highly flammable but fire tolerant plant species, Chromolaena is an extremely successful plant coloniser of disturbed ground and open savanna woodlands. For Timorese semisubsistence agriculturalists, Chromolaena odorata represents the most recent in a long history of invasive weed spcies that have periodically covered their lands and challenged their ability to farm and prosper. Already its impact is being felt in a number of domains of socioeconomic life. This paper explores some of these issues and the prospects for future management and control strategies.
4602426|Introduction of a cash economy in Melanesia has initiated a broadening range of individual acculturation and affluence. In the course of medical surveys in two Melanesian communities, socioeconomic status was assessed for 1,982 adults and correlated with a variety of biological and medical parameters. In one population that had had only brief exposure to modern technology, we were unable to identity status-dependent medical conditions, but in the other, more economically differentiated group, weight, respiratory disease, anemia, subnutrition, and skin disease demonstrated the biological advantage of the most affluent class. In general, striking differences in health between socioeconomic groups were not revealed in this study and either our investigation of effects of sociocultural change was premature or biological change was too subtle for detection.
4602756|The following analysis holds that explanation of the emergence of agricultural wage labor in northern Nigeria depends on determining the dynamics of what are here called critical historical conjunctures. It examines three such conjunctures, historical moments in which an ecological calamity converges with a crisis in the political economy. It is proposed that identification of such conjunctures expedites the movement of the analyst from the micro to the macro level and between the domains of ecology and political economy. As such, it addresses the methodological issues of boundary definition, scale, and time depth in human ecological study.
4602682|Candoshi sharply defined crop zonation and other farming practices are examined and compared with neighboring dissimilar Cocamilla practices and patterns. The comparison indicates that the Candoshi swiddens are probably more typical of aboriginal swiddens in the region than are the Cocamilla swiddens. Candoshi gardens may better be understood as a sophisticated response to microenvironmental conditions, specific plant needs, and equatorial rainfall patterns than as replicas of the tropical forest.
4603257| This paper explores the process of change in a Brazilian indigenous community, relating it to historical, economical, and political forces at the regional and national levels, as well as to environmental variables. In the light of current fieldwork, we examine the predictions of a model constructed 20 years ago based on fieldwork in this and three other Indian communities of Central Brazil by Daniel Gross and collaborators. This model ascribed involvement in the market economy of small-scale communities primarily to land circumscription and resulting environmental degradation, increasing the labor cost of subsistence food production. We find that in the case of the Xavnte community entry into the market was more the result of a top-down government plan to implement mechanized rice production on Xavnte reservations. With the collapse of the project the Xavnte have, on the one hand, returned to a more "traditional" economy based on hunting, gathering, and swidden agriculture and, on the other hand, are innovating by marketing their cultural image through connections with national and international environmentalist organizations. 
4603357|Nongovernmental organizations active in the field of biodiversity conservation such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), have contributed to the legitimation of "unproven assumptions" and romantic notions about forest people as traditional conservationists. In this paper, I will look at a form of indigenous forest tenure, tana ulen, in the area of the Kayan Mentarang National Park, East Kalimantan, Indonesia. I explore how tana ulen has been used and interpreted by local communities and WWF staff in relation to emerging issues of community rights and conservation of biodiversity in the area. In doing this, I argue that without an account that discloses the ways in which forms of forest management are variably affected by and effecting the social, economic, and ecological circumstances in which they are situated, we would be unable to understand local practices and, consequently, would be unprepared to design viable policy alternatives with regard to community-based management of conservation areas.
4602273| The seas occupy the greater part (70%) of the earth's surface, but their total net primary production is less than that of the land. Depletion of nutrients in the lighted surface waters is responsible for low productivities of most of the open ocean; higher productivities occur in coastal waters and areas of upwelling. A recent estimate of total production for the marine plankon is 50  10
23280264|Humans, animals and plants suffer from similar types of diseases (e.g., fungal, viral etc.). These can "emerge" as new diseases by expanding their geographical range or by jumping species (from plants to plants, or from animals to humans). Emerging diseases place an additional burden on developing countries which are often struggling to manage the diseases they already have. New diseases spread through weather, insects or other vectors, or by the movement of people, animals or goods. This study examines the role of cross-border travel in the spread of diseases. A survey of travelers and of residents along the Malawi-Mozambique border found that most cross it frequently and that they rarely travel empty-handed, often taking plants and animals with them. People also cross borders seeking medical attention. Attempting to limit travel would hamper an already struggling economy, where many people make a living by producing, processing or transporting plants and animals for food. Cross border travel per se may pose slight danger for the spread of diseases, if governments can collaborate on sharing information about the status of diseases within their border.
41432991|Pastoral production systems in the Spanish Pyrenees have changed dramatically in recent decades, leading to the loss of traditional ecological knowledge (TEK). We documented TEK of pastoralists from two valleys in the western Central Pyrenees of Aragn and explored its potential applications to resource management and adaptation. Pyrenean pastoralists possess extensive knowledge of relationships between terrain, climate, vegetation and animal nutrition and behavior. TEK could contribute to sustainable stewardship and facilitate adaptation by informing pasture monitoring; providing traditional practices to manage mountain vegetation; and preserving knowledge of extensive livestock production strategies, such as transhumance. Institutional barriers to applying TEK include weak economic cooperation among stockmen, their dependence on EU subsidies, and lack of voice in regional government decisions about local resources. A more collaborative, place-based stewardship of the Central Pyrenees might begin with direct involvement of pastoralists in designing monitoring of pasture conditions and vegetation type changes.
4603156|We use microeconomic theory to frame hypotheses about the effects of income on the use of non-timber rain forest products. We hypothesize that an increase in income: (a) encourages foraging specialization, resulting in the extraction of fewer goods; (b) increases the share of household income from occupations besides foraging; (c) produces a yearly value from the extraction of nontimber forest goods of about $50 per hectare; and (d) produces depletion of forest goods entering commercial channels and sustainable extraction of goods facing cheaper industrial substitutes. To examine these hypotheses we present worldwide ethnographic information and preliminary findings from field work carried out among the Sumu Indians of Nicaragua. Field work suggests that higher income produces: (a) foraging specialization with animals rather than with plants; (b) a decline in the economic importance of forest goods in household income; (c) and a rise in the value of non-timber goods removed from the forest to about $35/ha/year. We did not have time to test hypothesis "d."
4603228|The mainstream view in natural resource management in African drylands has been that local people are responsible for natural resource degradation. Today, alternative views or new paradigms are emerging in several fields. These new paradigms, which support decentralization of natural resource management, are discussed in relation to the ongoing decentralization process in Mali. During the colonial period, heavily centralized governments were installed in all the French colonies. This structure was maintained by Malian governments after independence. However, following the recent transition to democracy, a decentralizing reform is being implemented. It is presently not clear whether these reforms will lead to mere deconcentration, involving the redistribution of administrative responsibilities within the central government, or whether Mali is heading toward real decentralization, devolving decision making powers to local communities. The gestion de terroir approach, which may be a useful tool in achieving decentralization in farming communities, would, in pastoral areas, cause more damage than benefit.
25652782|Concerns about the impacts of national parks and protected areas upon local populations have generated significant interest in community conservation initiatives that attempt to include local knowledge and participation in natural resource decision-making. While there has been much interest in the institutional frameworks and livelihood impacts of community conservation, emerging research is documenting the various factors that shape local perceptions. This paper uses a case study of the Mahushe Shongwe Game Reserve in South Africa to examine the key variables shaping community perceptions of community conservation. We employ multinomial logistic regression models to understand views of the benefits and future direction of the reserve. These models are coupled with information collected from semi-structured interviews that assists in providing a detailed, and more complex, understanding of the diverse ways that community conservation is perceived by local residents. The paper demonstrates that multiple factors, particularly household history, education, and gender contribute in shaping views of the reserve. While these variables are often identified in the academic literature as important, we argue that the combination of qualitative and quantitative methods helps reveal the interplay between them in shaping perceptions of community conservation.
4603102| Using oral histories, archival materials, and observations of present behavior, a largely hypothetical historical reconstruction of the natural resource exploitation and subsistence practices of Lese farmers and Efe foragers in the Ituri Forest of northeastern Zare is presented. Distinct epochs associated with the advent of forest agriculture, Belgian colonization, and post-independence economic collapse have resulted in changes in local population density, the range of forest resources exploited, and the spatial distribution and intensity of resource use. Broadly speaking, there has been a historical trend toward sedentism, spatial clumping of settlements, localization of resource exploitation, reduced importance of forest carbohydrates in the diet, and an increased reliance on agricultural products. Over time the Efe and Lese exchange system has changed, in relation to the items traded and the relative dependence of each partner on the exchange relationship. Involvement in this alliance has had a considerable impact on Efe settlement pattern, diet, and probably fecundity. It ultimately placed the Lese in a position of power over the Efe, and provided the farmers with means to enter a transient monetary economy. By providing a retrospective on Efe and Lese subsistence, we hope to demonstrate that to decipher the relative benefits and constraints of this contemporary exchange relationship, we must understand their historical etiology. 
24015701|The Itzamma Garden and Medicinal Plant Project is a collaborative effort focused on identifying traditionally important plants used by the Q'eqchi' Maya of southern Belize. The Garden represents a cornerstone of the project where these plant resources (~130 in total; of which 102 have been identified to the species level) are cultivated ex situ as a means of providing primary healthcare by traditional healers. Here, we present a comprehensive agro-ecological survey of the Garden describing the layout and cultivation scenarios, development challenges encountered, and associated implementation strategies for improving site practices. A general recommendation for the adaptation of this strategy to other localities is the thorough depiction of ecological features based on interactions with local practitioners, for example, leading to the effective cultivation of plants, the enhancement of soil, and the surveillance of crop nutritional status and medicinal potency. We consider that the 'ethnobotanical garden approach' could provide a collaborative 'working model' for rural development, especially indigenous communities interfacing with their local agro-ecosystems.
4603146|The Commonwealth of Dominica, hereafter referred to as Dominica, is one of only two islands in the English-speaking Caribbean with two species of extant, endemic Amazona parrots, namely the Imperial or Sisserou Parrot (Amazona imperialis) and the Red-necked or Jaco Parrot (A. arausiaca). These birds are of national as well as international significance, as their populations have been on the decline for several years. During the last 15 years the local authorities, with the support and cooperation of various regional and international agencies, have mounted a campaign to save both species from extinction. An islandwide public awareness campaign has been attempted, with encouraging results. An increase in the species population as well as an increased level of private and public support for parrot conservation, are among the positive results to date. In spite of these accomplishments, however, the parrots are not out of danger and therefore continued vigilance is necessary. Additional measures are proposed to ensure the continued existence and complete recovery of the Dominican Amazons.
4602449|A number of neighborhood studies have supported the view that urban areas are a mosaic of local communities or neighborhoods with clear boundaries and a high degree of identity. However, many of these studies are based on highly identifiable inner-city natural areas in large metropolitan centers; thus, the generalizability of these findings is limited. Two studies broadened the investigation of these issues by looking at neighborhood perceptions of residents living in relatively undifferentiated inner-city, outer-city, and suburban areas of a middle-sized metropolitan area. In both studies, residents were asked to draw and describe their neighborhood. The first study (N = 72) indicated that the content of neighborhood images differed by area of the city: city residents ascribed the same number of positive characteristics, but more negative characteristics to their neighborhood than did suburban residents. Moreover, suburban residents in both studies drew neighborhoods that were substantially larger than the inner-city neighborhoods. The second study, conducted with 24 immediate neighbors from the inner city and suburb, indicated that in both areas there was a high degree of agreement among neighbors on the neighborhood limits, but little consensus on a neighborhood name. These results support and extend the local community model of neighborhoods: From city to suburb the imagability of neighborhood does not differ; it is both high and consensual. But the content of the image does change; suburban neighborhoods are seen as larger and less negative.
4603116| A general discussion is given of climate variability over the last 1500 years as interpreted from two ice cores from the Quelccaya ice cap, Peru. The possible role of climatic variability in prehistory over this period is discussed with emphases on (1) relationships between climate and the rise and decline of coastal and highland cultures; (2) the possible causes of two major dust events recorded in the Quelccaya ice cores around AD 920 and AD 600; and (3) implications of climatic variation for the occupation and abandonment of the Gran Pajaten area. The remarkable similarity between changes in highland and coastal cultures and changes in accumulation as determined from the Quelccaya ice cores implies a strong connection between human activities and climate in this region of the globe. Two ice cores drilled to bedrock from the 6047 masl col of Huascarn in the Cordillera Blanca, Peru in 1993 offer the potential of an annual to decadal climatic and environmental record which should allow the study of human-climate and human-environmental relationships over 10,000+ years. The 1991 and 1993 evidence from the Quelccaya ice cap indicates that recent and rapid warming is currently underway in the tropical Andes. Thus many of the unique glacier archives are in imminent danger of being lost forever. 
4603249|Environmental conditions of the Eastern North American Arctic make this region suitable for biogeographical approaches to culture. Although composed of a vast assemblage of large and small islands, the Eastern Arctic differs from other "oceanic" environments where modern biogeographical work has been pioneered. This paper outlines conditions which make the Eastern Arctic suitable for biogeographical study and considers the nature of "islands" as analytical constructs rather than as discrete entities. Biogeographical concepts are considered in relation to the "core-periphery model" that has been the organizing principle for interpreting patterns of Eastern Arctic culture history. Abstractions, aspects, and conclusions reached from these studies outline some of the opportunities available for application of more directed anthropological biogeographical work in the future.
4602820|Humans participate in ecological systems as one means of extracting and distributing environmental resources. Such ecosystems manifest themselves in the archeological record. Settlement systems represent subsistence systems latent with information relevant to explaining the spatial organization of people and change through time. Three subsistence settlement systems were segregated from the record of prehistoric farmers in southwestern Zambia. One is associated with the practice of pioneer populations successively occupying and abandoning favored microenvironments. The second is associated with the cyclical swiddening of a few opportunities within a single microenvironment. The third set spreads centers of production throughout several environmental segments. It is suggested that swiddening the marginal soils of the Zambezi periphery enabled the colonization but did not permit a burgeoning population. It is further suggested that internal networks were crucial to equalization of access to necessary resources and that these were incorporated in the segmentary, descent group.
4603386|Many scholars are concerned that globalization and "scientization" of local management systems threatens the survival of valuable indigenous knowledge of agriculture and agroforestry. This paper addresses such concerns by drawing on a field study of knowledge about tree and crop cultivation in central India to examine dynamics of knowledge system change. It uses concepts from systems studies, including hierarchy, adaptability, connectedness, and scale, to show how parts of indigenous knowledge systems might be more likely to be lost or preserved under various socio-economic circumstances. It then suggests some concrete lessons for those interested in conserving indigenous knowledge: that knowledge is best conserved in situ; that concepts can be more important to communicate and preserve than mere facts or practices; that researchers might identify those parts of a knowledge system most in need of conservation attention; and that technical innovation might allow local-scale indigenous knowledge to interface more effectively with large-scale global technologies.
40344000|The world-wide debate on land degradation in arid lands, usually linked to local land use practices, does not reflect methodological advancements in terms of assessments and monitoring that integrate local communities' knowledge with ecological methods. In this paper, we evaluated the efficacy of three different methods related to herder assessments and monitoring of land degradation; herder knowledge and ecological methods of assessing impacts of livestock grazing along gradients of land use from settlement and joint monitoring of selected marked transects to understand long-term vegetation changes in southwestern Marsabit northern Kenya. The performance of each method was carefully evaluated and interpreted in terms of the indicators used by herders and ecologists. Herder interpretations were then related to ecologists' empirical analysis of land degradation. The Rendille nomads have a complex understanding of land degradation which combines environmental and livestock productivity indicators, compared to conventional scientific approaches that use plant-based indicators alone. According to the herders, the grazing preference of various livestock species (e. g., grazers versus browsers) influences perceptions of land degradation, suggesting degradation is a relative term. The herders distinguished short-term changes in vegetation cover from long-term changes associated with over-exploitation. They attributed current environmental degradation around pastoral camps, which shift land use between the alternating wet and dry seasons, to year-round grazing. We deduced from long-term observation that herders interpret vegetation changes in terms of rainfall variability, utilitarian values and intensification of land use. Long-term empirical data (23 years) from repeated sampling corroborated herder interpretations. Land degradation was mostly expressed in terms of declines in woody plant species, while spatial and temporal dynamics of herbaceous species reflected the effects of seasonality. The efficacy of the three methods were inferred using explanatory strengths of ecological theory; insightfulness of the methods for describing land degradation and the likelihood of using the methods for promoting local community participation in the implementation of the UN Convention on Combating Desertification (CCD) and the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD).
4603170|This paper attempts to identify the main threats to and sources of sustainability in African agricultural systems by examining cases of unsustainability and resilience at various levels. Current concepts of sustainable agriculture are based mainly on the experiences and norms of western industrial nations and may not be appropriate to sub-Saharan Africa and other developing regions. The things we want to sustain comprise a hierarchy of attributes, components, and systems at increasing scales, and it is important to examine the dynamics of sustainability at each significant level as well as the impacts of events at one level on others. Cases of crop declines and of collapses of larger systems indicate that extreme perturbations, both biophysical and social, are more important as causes of unsustainability than suggested in the literature, while the significance of resource degradation or of overuse of technological inputs have been overemphasized. Survey data from Kenya and Nigeria show that the main causes of crop disappearances have been major disease or pest outbreaks, followed by changes in crop preferences. Fertility and land use stresses have been only a tertiary factor. Sources of resilience that have buffered households and larger systems from the impacts of these range from farmers' strategies of crop and income diversification and searches for resistant cultivars to interventions by national and international bodies. Numerous population and large-scale system collapses have also occurred over the past century in Africa, almost all caused by extreme social and/or biophysical perturbations. There is no evidence that land degradation or land use pressure has played a significant role in these. Increased land use pressure has led to the disappearance or alteration of many prior practices, though farmers have generally adapted to these. Resource management systems have also declined due to outmigration as regions undergo a transition from remote and relatively closed systems to more open systems. These may call for a greater rather than lower use of modern technology to enhance the income earning potential of agricultural production.
27654126|Indigenous peoples of western Arnhem Land, central northern Australia, have detailed knowledge of the rock kangaroos of the region, species that are little known to science. Information about the ecology of the species is required for their conservation and management. Ethnoecological studies can assist senior indigenous people with transfer of knowledge and can give respect and meaningful employment to those involved. We used semidirected interviews in the regional vernacular, Bininj Kunwok, to record indigenous knowledge of the ecology of the four rock kangaroo species (Petrogale brachyotis, P. concinna, Macropus bernardus and M. robustus). Discussions focussed on habitat preferences, diet, activity patterns, reproduction, predation, and hunting practices. The ethnoecological knowledge of the rock kangaroo species was extensive, and both complemented and extended that reported in the scientific literature. In contrast to scientific understanding of taxonomy and ecology, consultants recognized the rock kangaroos as a natural group. They also described subtle differences in the species' comparative ecology. The methodology used proved highly successful and we recommend recording indigenous knowledge of the ecology of fauna species in the local vernacular wherever possible. This study is one of the most comprehensive ethnozoological studies of a group of species undertaken in Australia.
4603138| Landsat-thematic mapper images recorded April 1986 and 1990 were obtained for northern Guatemala. The study area corresponds to a major portion of Guatemala's Maya Biosphere reserve but also includes land outside the western and southern boundary of the reserve. The normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) was computed at each date and image differencing (subtraction) was performed. The resulting image was thresholded into three categories: regrowth, no change, and forest clearing. A 10  10 km grid system was superimposed on the image to categorize the percentage of each 100 km
27654141|The purpose of this paper is to explore adaptive learning networks as a contemporary means by which new resource management knowledge can develop through social learning forums. The paper draws upon recent discussions within two disparate literatures on indigenous knowledge and network theory and is grounded in fieldwork with two Anishinaabe First Nations in northwestern Ontario. The paper has three objectives. First, problematize the principle of representation as a basic way of including the knowledge of indigenous peoples within natural resource and environmental management. Second, utilize network theory as a way to weave together adaptive learning by individuals into a cross-cultural social learning process. Finally, propose an adaptive natural resources and environmental framework that brings together, through a social learning process, the different ways individuals, indigenous peoples and resource managers, perceive environmental change.
41474601|Two grassland management patterns, multihousehold and single-household, have developed in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau of China since grasslands came under household control. In the multi-household management pattern (MMP), grassland is jointly managed by two or more households without fences between individual household pastures. The single-household management pattern (SMP) refers to a system in which grassland is separately managed by an individual household with fences separating these pastures from those of other households. This paper compares the benefits of the two management patterns using a field investigation and a social survey. We found that the MMP has greater economic benefits compared with the SMP because multi-household cooperation was more likely to reduce production costs and so reduce resource expenditures. Furthermore, the social benefits from MMP collaboration were also important. The results also indicated that the SMP was more likely to cause grassland degradation. In conclusion, the comprehensive benefits created under the MMP were greater as a result of social learning in this coupled human and natural ecosystem. The MMP has important policy implications for conservation and development initiatives in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau and other similar areas.
40343995|Traditionally, models of resource extraction assume individuals act as if they form strategies based on complete information. In reality, gathering information about environmental parameters may be costly. An efficient information gathering strategy is to observe the foraging behavior of others, termed public information. However, media can exploit this strategy by appearing to supply accurate information while actually shaping information to manipulate people to behave in ways that benefit the media or their clients. Here, I use Central Place Foraging (CPF) models to investigate how newspaper propaganda shaped ore foraging strategies of late nineteenth-century Colorado silver prospectors. Data show that optimistic values of silver ore published in local newspapers led prospectors to place mines at a much greater distance than was profitable. Models assuming perfect information neglect the possibility of misinformation among investors, and may underestimate the extent and degree of human impacts on areas of resource extraction.
4602571|Belowground plant parts were important potential food resources in the habitats associated with Pliocene and early Pleistocene hominids. The food gathering and dental adaptations of three groups of modern mammals -- bears, pigs, and humans -- testify to the earlier convergence of these animals on this resource. Since belowground food reserves are relatively unaffected by the factors controlling aboveground food supply (fire, drought, and grazing stress), exploitation of this stable nutritional bank had distinct energetic and behavioral advantages for hominids.
4603241|By marshaling empirical data from five Machiguenga communities studied over 20 years, this paper disputes two common assumptions about the behavior of indigenous peoples in the face of increasing commercialization. First, many Amazonian researchers suggest that the social and ecological deterioration confronting native populations results from externally-imposed political, legal and market structures that compel local groups to pursue short-term, unstable economic strategies. Second, these structural explanations are combined with the increasing recognition that indigenous peoples possess a substantial agroecological knowledge to suggest that, if indigenous people receive control of adequate land and resources, they will implement their traditional knowledge in conservative resource management practices. In contrast to these assumptions, this analysis shows that the Machiguenga are not compelled by external forces (such as land tenure, migration policies or economic trends), but instead are active enthusiastic participants seeking to engage the market in order to acquire western goods. Further, despite highly adaptive traditional subsistence patterns and a vast agroecological knowledge, households and communities facing increasing degrees of market integration are progressively altering their traditional cropping strategies, planting practices, labor allocation and land use patterns toward a greater emphasis on commodity crop production and domesticated animal breeding. This increasing concentration on income generating activities subverts the environmentally-friendly nature of traditional productive practices and creates a socially, economically, and ecologically unsustainable system.
4603256|Datoga herding follows a cyclical pattern depending on the availability of grazing and water. This analysis focuses on two questions: (a) Is the herding strategy followed by individual households limited by the amount of labor available to that household? and (b) does the herding strategy followed by individual households influence the dynamics of cattle herds? The results show that the availability of labor on a household level does not influence either the herding strategies used by individual households, or the dynamics of cattle herds. This suggests that once minimum labor requirements are met, livestock productivity is insensitive to additional labor inputs.
4602545|Previous investigations have yielded contradictory conclusions concerning the importance of the economic contribution of children to households in agricultural societies. The present study evaluates the significance of children's economic input in rural Ancoraimes, Bolivia by using child growth as an indirect indicator of the economic value of children. Children whose households differed in size and age composition were compared on the basis of five anthropometric measurements. Children from households with many young, nonproducing children were found to be significantly smaller for their age than children from households with few nonproducing children. Absolute household size had no major effect on child growth. While young children have a negative effect on the growth of children in the household, the positive effect of children as they grow older appears to make up for this loss. In terms of child growth, children are neither a net liability nor a net asset to agricultural households in Ancoraimes.
41474638|The tree management practices of a Dogon village in Mali, West Africa were investigated to learn how a rural population adapts its strategies to cope with institutional change, climate change, unequal land distribution, and expanding market access. A range of methodologies was used, including semi-structured interviews, seasonal calendars, community mapping and matrices. Special focus was given to baobab (Adansonia digitata L.) and tamarind (Tamarindus indica L.), two highly used and valuable trees within this community. This research reveals that community members have realized that traditional management practices are no longer effective in dealing with the impacts of these transitions, and highlights the fact that management practices, while historically uniform, have begun to diverge in recent years based on unequal land and water endowments within the village. Understanding the rights and abilities of all users to access and protect these species is crucial to their conservation.
4602936|Secondary succession in tropical deciduous forest is often characterized by vegetative reproduction, or coppicing. Coppicing is also observed in forest sites that are disturbed by farming activity. This observation raises questions about the role of established management practices in determining the succession of vegatation on farmsites once they are abandoned to fallow. To what extent is the coppicing succession the result of specific aspects of swidden farming technology and management? And what variations in coppice successions occur in swidden sites following deviations from the standard farming practice? In research on swidden farming among the Susu of Sierra Leone, I examined the successional pathway in an age series of forest fallow sites. I show that the standard pattern of minimal cultivation favors the coppicing of felled trees in the subsequent fallow periods. By contrast, deviation from this pattern results in stump deaths and favors the invasion of fallow sites by grasses and vegetatively reproducing pioneer trees from the savanna. Variations in the environmental outcome of disturbance to plant communities, then, are the result of interactions between processes of tropical tree reproduction and the agricultural practices of local farmers.
27654137|Common property arrangements govern the subsistence harvest of berries in the Gwich'in region of the Northwest Territories, Canada. Some of these arrangements, including rules for resource access, sharing information and harvest sharing, enable the Gwich'in to deal with ecological variability. The rules change in response to year-to-year variations in the abundance and distribution of the species, spatially and temporally across the region. This paper illustrates the interrelationships between ecosystem dynamics and local institutions, a neglected area of commons research.
41474643|We examine the role that habitus, an individual's or group's dispositions, has played in the retention of traditional ecological knowledge among the Noongar people of south-western Australia. We sought to determine if current plant knowledge reflects Noongar habitus or, alternatively, the use of fall-back species that were important due to the intermittency of agricultural employment and the social exclusion of Aboriginal people up until at least the 1960s in Western Australia. We compared the seasonal availability of Noongar food plant resources currently known by Noongar Elders to those described at the time of European settlement. We used non-metric Multidimensional Scaling (nMDS) and multivariate statistics to compare the seasonal availability of plant resources with the seasonal availability of work prior to the introduction of civil rights for Aboriginal Australians in the 1960s. We show that the seasonal pattern of plant knowledge has changed little since settlement and that there was no significant relationship between the seasonal availability of work and plant knowledge. This result suggests that prior to 1960 Noongars maintained a reasonably traditional round of seasonal activities involving traditional plant use. We suggest that Noongar habitus guided their response to the colonising culture and helped preserve traditional ecological knowledge.
4603549| Community wildlife management is being tested across the tropics as a means of promoting the conservation and sustainable use of wildlife resources. Key to successful programs is the effective participation of local hunters and communities in monitoring, planning, decision-making and implementation. We evaluate one method to achieve this participation, namely hunter self-monitoring. Between 1997 and 2000, Izoceo hunters from 22 communities in the Bolivian Chaco have voluntarily participated in monitoring their hunting activities, measuring and recording data on captured animals and hunting methods in personal notebooks. Despite the lack of remuneration, participation exceeds 60% of active hunters. However, the written information and specimens provided are not complete, and are biased according to hunting methods and prey characteristics. Complementary research is essential to answer specific research questions. Nevertheless, hunter self-monitoring serves to raise awareness of wildlife management issues at the communal or indigenous territory level, as evidenced by preliminary actions taken by hunters and communities in the Izozog. 
4602793| Several investigators cite population control, frequent settlement relocation, trekking, expansion of diet breadth, and food taboos as strategic responses to game depletion by indigenous populations living in interfluvial zones of lowland South America. The Ka'apor Indians of the interfluvial forest of northern Maranho, Brazil, employ other means of optimizing hunting efficiency, partly based on ritual. Menstruating women, pubescent girls, and parents of newborns can consume meat only of the tortoise (Gochelone denticulata), the first prey species to be hunted out of an area. Tortoise capture requires, on average, one full day of hunting. This means that the full potential of hunting pressure does not materialize near the settlement. Meat productivity is unusually high even near old settlements. I argue that ritual tortoise hunting helps to regulate environmental utilization, to maintain a sustained yield of meat protein, and to expand the catchment area gradually. 
4603206|This article attempts to conceptualize the dynamics of resource allocation by colonist farmers under the unique conditions of land abundance and labor scarcity which characterize frontier environments, such as the smallholder agricultural settlement areas in the Amazon basin. In contrast, most previous theoretical literature on household agricultural decision making and land-use change in rural areas considers conditions of high population density and land scarcity, and is not, therefore, adequate for understanding critical land-use changes which may be occurring in frontier regions. This article first discusses the appropriateness and inadequacies of the analytical frameworks commonly used to explain the expansion of settler agriculture into remote forest regions and the unsustainable land-use practices observed in these areas. This review serves as the basis for characterizing resource allocation under the particular conditions of frontier environments. A conceptual advance in the analysis is its consideration of the way institutional/policy factors and farm-level characteristics can interact to produce land-use outcomes. This knowledge is essential to understand not only the social and economic factors affecting present land use and choice of technology, but also those factors influencing farmers' demand for more optimal systems of land use which are consistent with varying agro-ecological potentials, demographic situations, and their own management capacity.
4602262|In assessing the impact of European influence on sociocultural characteristics of the Murapin tribal community of the Western Highlands of Australian New Guinea, the authors have gathered and, where possible, quantified information on family size, polygamy, marital status, religious beliefs, education, linguistic ability, economic development, occupation, housing, clothing, alcohol intake, and dietary patterns. Our findings suggest that the results of contact have not been uniform but that various social characteristics have been influenced at differing rates. European influence has been greatest in religion, less significant in matters of occupation, education, economic development, and housing, and negligible as regards diet. This differential effect of contact affords hope that it will prove possible to discriminate between various social and nutritional factors in their influence on the health status and biological characteristics of the population as the process of acculturation proceeds.
24013750|Urban forests are multifunctional socio-ecological landscapes, yet some of their social benefits remain poorly understood. This paper draws on ethnographic evidence from Seattle, Washington to demonstrate that urban forests contain nontimber forest products that contribute a variety of wild foods, medicines, and materials for the wellbeing of urban residents. We show that gathering wild plants and fungi in urban forests is a persistent subsistence and livelihood practice that provides sociocultural and material benefits to city residents, and creates opportunities for connecting with nature and enhancing social ties. We suggest that an orientation toward human-nature interactions in cities that conceptualizes the gathering of forest products as a legitimate social benefit may support and expand urban forest justice. Urban forest justice recognizes the rights of local people to have control over their own culturally appropriate wild food and health systems, including access to natural resources and to the decision-making processes affecting them.
4602435|In a sub-Arctic band of Hare Indians, considerable discrepancies have been found in the style, consistency, and degree of environmental involvement characterizing different individuals and families. The distinct subsistence patterns of subgroups within the population are explored. Ideological, psychological, historical, and experiential factors that contribute to this variability are examined. These factors are seen to affect strategies concerning trapping, hunting, mobility, wage labor, identity maintenance, and the quality of life that people seek. While some individuals pursue freedom from traditional subsistence hardships, others focus on self-sufficiency and freedom from constraints imposed by greater integration with Western society.
4602257|A methodology is described for the utilization of ecosystem concepts in land-use issues of urban development and urban design. The issues are discussed of utilizing science specialists to develop in-depth understanding of ecosystem structure and function, synthesizing the information into usable form, and communicating the ecosystem knowledge to engineers, architects, landscape architects, and planners. Case studies from Ontario and New York illustrate some of the difficulties and opportunities in this kind of interprofessional work. The issue of identifying who is an ecologist and the related matter of professionalization are then discussed.
4603251|Inter-island paleoecological comparisons have provided useful information concerning the role of humans vs. background-level disturbance in tropical ecosystems. Major ecological changes have occurred since human arrival in Madagascar, the West Indies, the Hawaiian Islands, and elsewhere. Prehuman vegetation changes and disturbances have also been documented for many islands. Instructive inter-island similarities and differences have been detected in the chronology, distribution, and extent of human activities, vegetation changes, and biotic extinctions. The earliest stratigraphic proxy evidence for initial human impacts (including increased charcoal particle influx to sediments, first appearance of exotic pollen, increase in ruderal pollen, and paleolimnological evidence for cultural eutrophication of lake waters) generally confirm but sometimes predate the earliest conventional archaeological evidence for human activity. Carefully chosen sites permitting the close integration of palynological, paleontological, and archaeological data from a variety of island settings with differing geographic and historical contingencies can enable investigators to more fully evaluate the importance of a range of human and ecological variables in determining the overall character and dynamics of ecosystems.
4602927|Amid discussions of an agricultural crisis and the failure of large-scale, mechanized, capital-intensive development schemes in Nigeria, the Kofyar of Plateau State provide a case study of farmers spontaneously expanding food crop production for the market, using indigenous low-energy technology. Temporary, followed by permanent, migration from the Jos Plateau homeland to frontier settlements on the fertile Benue plains has been accompanied by a change from initial shifting cultivation in forest clearings to permanent, intensively tilled and fertilized homestead fields. Labor is organized primarily in households that have grown in size and complexity. Cooperative and exchange work groups are also important for meeting seasonal bottlenecks and providing the careful, disciplined cultivation that intensive agriculture requires. Kofyar now devote up to 50% of their labor to cash crops, and they purchase considerable quantities of manufactured goods and medical services. Their uncoerced adaptation to an environment of new land resources and market incentives suggests both the advantages of indigenous development with a minimum of state control or interference and the limitations of a conventional dependency theory perspective.
4603000|This article contains a comparison of the profits of cultivating modern and traditional varieties of coconuts as a monocrop and as an intercrop, in ideal and in average growing conditions, with good and with average management. We carry out the analysis from a private (financial) and from a national (economic) perspective. The results show that intercropping generates more income than monocropping. In the conclusion we discuss why development organizations and Third World countries encourage monocropping.
41474597|Today, people in the U.S. commonly engage in mutual relationships with white-tailed deer (WTD) in manners consistent with those that ultimately resulted in the domestication of animals in the past. Using a wide range of media depicting perspectives of sport hunters, biologists, ecologists, and game managers this paper explores: 1) the influence of anthropogenic environments on WTD behavior, 2) 'game' management and the ability to create valued demographics, and 3) the selection for increased antler size in farmed WTD. This study demonstrates that in order to gain a more accurate understanding of domestication, analyses should focus on the evolution of mutualisms between people and animals. Insights gleamed from this analysis also contribute toward our archaeological understanding of prehistoric animal domestication.
4603427|Based on a case study from Ferlo in Senegal, this paper discusses how pastoral mobility can be studied and understood with special emphasis on the use of GPS data. It has a dual objective: first, to investigate the methodological potential of using GPS data; second, to discuss the analytical use of GPS data for understanding mobility. The methodological potential for using GPS data is related to quantifying mobility and characterizing mobility patterns in space and time. Analytically, GPS data can be used in combination with qualitative information to make method triangulation. The GPS data can be used both prior to qualitative interviews to make informed questions about mobility and they can be used after qualitative investigations to illustrate points made or to reveal inconsistencies. The study shows that cattle walk about 5000 km per year (excluding night grazing) and different mobility patterns occur depending on the season. Issues such as "the cattle complex" and the notion of the independent, nomadic pastoralist are discussed in relation to pastoral mobility. Although cattle are of major importance to the Fulani, it is not important for them to walk with their animals, which are left to roam freely or supervised by paid herders. It is necessary to take into account all these issues if we want to go beyond the simple understanding of mobility as a means to find pasture and water.
4603595|For the first time in the Faroe Islands, the paleoecological content of an early Norse farm has been sampled comprehensively in an effort to understand how it functioned and its relationship to the landscape in which it was located. Organic deposits indicate an increase in species diversity at the time of settlement, including the introduction of several new species. Plant resources from various areas of the treeless landscape were exploited and farm buildings contained suites of synanthropic insects dominated by those associated with accumulations of decaying plant debris. Potential fuels included wood, peat, dung, and seaweed. Insect faunas lacked both ectoparasites and a significant foul beetle component. This may be a reflection of animal husbandry, with stock not being stalled over winter in the farm buildings examined, or an absence of wool-processing in the buildings. Results compare well with other sites in the North Atlantic and argue for the consistent nature of the Norse farming economy across the region.
4603402|There are numerous incidences of impoverishment and livelihood change in pastoral societies following transformations in land use, and land and livestock ownership. Opinion is divided over the effect of these changes on women. This paper considers the case of the former residents of the Mkomazi Game Reserve. Pastoralists were evicted from the Reserve in the late 1980s and their livelihoods have changed as a result. I show that women from poorer households now have to sell milk, firewood, or medicine frequently to meet daily family needs, but I argue that increased income-earning activity by women is not only the result of impoverishment. Selling goods is useful for women as it provides an income that they control and some choose to earn their own money. The income resulting is also subject to intrahousehold power dynamics. Women may have to sell more goods more often and may be less free to use the money as they wish because men sometimes withdraw "normal" provisions for day-to-day needs in the expectation that women's income will meet the deficit. Debates over the changing status of women in pastoral society need to be cognizant of these intrahousehold contests.
41474606|The Yanomami are a hunter-gatherer and gardener people with high mobility, which influences the regeneration of forest in agricultural clearings. Increasing contact with the wider Brazilian and Venezuelan societies may lead to sedentarization. Population groups and clearings were mapped in the Yanomami Land in Brazil using four mosaics of Landsat images from within a two-year period. The mosaics were separated by intervals of 7 years. Few groups were sedentary, and most of these maintained alternative residences. The Yanomami cleared 16,856 ha (0.17% of the Yanomami territory in Brazil) over the 21 years covered by this study. Individuals in mobile groups deforested more than those in sedentary groups, but secondary-forest regeneration occurs mainly in clearings made by mobile groups. Permanent settlements had impeded regeneration of 48% (2,025 ha) of the area cleared prior to 1988. Access to health care has led to population growth but has not increased sedentarization.
4602681|The proposition that tropical polycultural gardens simulate the structure and dynamics of the surrounding forest is examined in the light of research on Jivaroan manioc cultivation. Garden transects were used to measure the diversity of intercropped species and of locally recognized varieties of manioc. Huambisa and Aguaruna Jivaro gardens have much lower species diversities than the surrounding forest, even though crop compositions reflect the age, topography, and soil type of the swiddens. Furthermore, the number of manioc varieties is far greater than that of all other crop species combined. It is argued that a pure stand of Jivaroan manioc can itself be considered a polycrop of distinct cultivars with differing branching patterns, leaf shapes, and growth periods.
4603184|Recent research suggests that, under unconstrained human circumstances, pastoral nomads within arid environments have at their disposal means of evading ecological stress that could impel them to cause damage to their grazing and land resources. The Israeli-Egyptian border has imposed a severe constraint upon the range management strategy of the Bedouin whose traditional territory it bisects. The border forced them to exert an increased pressure upon local resources. Considerable damage was thus caused to the perennial vegetation cover (both macrophytes and microphytes) and to the structure of sand dunes on the Egyptian side of the border, with opposite effects on the Israeli side to which the Bedouin had no access. This case study adds a further dimension to the discussion of range management by pastoral nomads in arid and semi-arid areas.
4602797|The cropping systems of seventeenth century traditional organic agriculture in the Jiaxing region of eastern China required about 2000 hr of labor per hectare for rice production. Rice and related grain crops were produced employing only human power. The input was about 200 times that for most mechanized grain production today. The charcoal or fossil energy input to produce simple hand tools accounted for only 1-2% total energy in the crop systems. Organic wastes including manures, pond sediments, and green manure crops supplied most of the nutrients. Rice yields, ranging as high as 6700-8400 kg/ha, were similar to some of the highest yields today. The energy output/input ratio ranged from 9 for compost-fertilized rice to 12 for green manure-fertilized rice production. These ratios were 2-10 times higher than most mechanized rice production systems of today. Knowledge of the crop and soil system enabled the early Chinese farms to maintain high crop yields and sustain highly productive soils.
4603073|While many recent studies of East African pastoralists have begun to consider the social and material contexts within which cattle come to be valued, few have stressed the importance of pastoral production for subsistence needs, and even fewer the conditions under which this production takes place. This paper will show that a thorough understanding of herd management strategies, including the circulation of cattle through bridewealth, demands that we consider the long-term environmental risks inherent in pastoral production in arid lands. A computer simulation demonstrates the manner in which, in the course of 50-year spans, stochastic and environmental factors affect small herds. I go no to show the manner in which differing levels of bridewealth payments can offset the risk associated with a highly fluctuating environmental context.
4602849|By describing the ecological implications of Mormon settlement in the Little Colorado River Basin, the paper demonstrates: (1) the application of general ecological concepts in human ecology, (2) the ecological basis for the evolution of complex human communities, (3) the interactive, hierarchical relationship between community diversity and environmental stability, and (4) the positive contribution that human ecology can make to the general discussion of diversity and stability in ecological systems. The paper gives a brief description of Mormon colonization in the Little Colorado River Basin. Local differences in community development are then related to environmental variation within the basin and compared to general ecological research expectations. The implications of community development in this region for explaining the relationship between diversity and stability in ecological systems are discussed.
40981192|Located in the north-western extreme of the Iberian northern plateau with the Portugal border on the west, Zamora province is one of the current divisions of the autonomous region of Castile-Leon (Spain). According to natural boundaries and historical records, the province of Zamora can be subdivided into six different regions: Aliste, Benavente, Bajo Duero, Campos-Pan, Sanabria and Sayago. The geography of the area is configured by two major rivers: the Duero that crosses the province in a west-east direction and its affluent the Esla that crosses the province in a northwest-southeast course. In this work, we analyze both surnames of 166,349 individuals from Zamora province. The main goal of this study is to explore the differential weight of historical, demographic, geographic and sociocultural factors in shaping the bio-demographic and genetic structure of this specific population. The highest value of total consanguinity based on random isonymy is observed in Sanabria, which also has the lowest values of heteronymy and the highest intra-population a priori kinship. By contrast, Sayago exhibits the highest value of heteronymy and the lowest intra-population a priori kinship. The consanguinity values observed in Zamora are, in part, related to the population structure. Notwithstanding, the values of non-random consanguinity observed in some municipalities could be associated with particular mating behaviors that favor isonymic marriages. Finally, the results of analyses indicate that the levels of micro-differentiation in the province cannot be considered high; however, some degree of substructure could be deduced. It appears that the current population structure of Zamora has been determined not only by settlement history, geographic distance and geographic boundaries, but also, by land system distribution and population size.
27654196|Substantial attention has been given in recent years to forest and peatland degradation, transboundary haze, and biodiversity and economic impacts associated with major fire events in perhumid western Indonesia. Conversely, little information is available concerning underpinning conditions associated with burning practices and resultant fire patterns in other parts of the Indonesian archipelago, especially in markedly seasonally dry regions. As part of a broader study examining the patterning and drivers of burning in the monsoonal province of Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT), the paper explores cultural, socioeconomic, biophysical, and, in discussion, political dimensions associated with landscape-scale patterns of burning at each of two village locations on the islands of Sumba and Flores. Assembled data illustrate that: (1) study villages are reliant on a range of subsistence agricultural activities, particularly annual food crops, livestock (especially pigs), and forest products; (2) while villages encompass mostly extensive areas of grassland savanna, proportionately most income/products are derived from limited areas of arable agricultural and very diminished forested lands; (3) despite this, considerable economic potential exists for developing certain tree products especially in agro-forestry settings, and more intensive livestock management; (4) these patterns are representative generally of surrounding regional agricultural landscapes. While burning is used as an essential agricultural management tool in defined seasonal contexts in all study villages, the reality is that today much burning is unmanaged and uncontrolled, with attendant significant economic impacts. As for western Indonesia, underlying drivers of such behavior are multiple and complex, but pointedly include: rapid societal change; conflicts within and between villages, and between villages and regulatory authorities (especially the Forestry Department), over access to land and resources; and continued nonrecognition in national and provincial fire policy frameworks of the practical necessity for using fire (wisely and safely) in many agricultural contexts. It is axiomatic that, without effective fire management and a supportive policy environment, sustainable livelihoods development will continue to be elusive in fire-prone savanna landscapes of eastern Indonesia.
40928156|Rural migration and its relationship to the rural environment have attracted increasing research interest in recent decades. Rural migration constitutes a key component of human population movement, while rural areas contain most of the world's natural resources such as land and forests. This study empirically evaluates a conceptual framework incorporating rural household livelihoods as an integrative mediating factor between rural migration and the rural environment in the context of rural-to-urban labor migration in Chongqing Municipality, Southwest China. The analysis draws on data collected through household surveys and key informant interviews from four villages. Results confirm the hypothesis that labor-migrant and nonlabor-migrant households differ significantly in livelihood activities including agricultural production, agricultural technology use, income and consumption, and resource use and management. Implications for the subsequent environmental outcomes of rural labor out-migration and corresponding natural resource management and policy in rural origin areas are discussed.
41474649|Given the complex and multidimensional nature of human evolution, we need to develop theoretical and methodological frameworks to account for and model the dynamic feedbacks between co-operational biological and cultural evolutionary systems to better understand the processes that produced modern human behavior. Equally important is the generation of explicit theory-based models that can be tested against the empirical paleoanthropological record. We present a case study that examines evidence for culturally-driven behavioral change among Late Pleistocene hominins that altered the social niche occupied by hominins in western Eurasia, with consequences for subsequent biological and cultural evolution. We draw on a large sample of 167 Pleistocene assemblages across western Eurasia and employ mathematical and computational modeling to explore the feedbacks between cultural and biological inheritance. Shifts in land-use strategies changed the opportunities for social and biological interaction among Late Pleistocene hominins in western Eurasia with a cascade of consequences for cultural and biological evolution, including the disappearance of Neanderthals from the fossil and archaeological records, and the acceleration of cultural evolution among ancestors of modern humans.
4603291| Nongovernmental organizations are increasingly influencing resource management and land use in areas of small farm agriculture in Latin America. A field study of NGOs working in upper Caar, a region in the southern highlands of Ecuador, documents the changing human-environment relations in an indigenous area and the influence of NGOs in the change process. Case studies of PLAN International and CARE indicate that the NGOs are helping marginalized producers shift land use away from traditional grains and tubers toward dairying and vegetables. Given current needs and resource constraints, the new land uses represent effective adaptive strategies. However, the NGO work is having notable consequences for land use intensity and labor utilization patterns. 
4602999|Black-American culture has been tied to the land and agriculture for over 300 years. However, Blacks have had limited access to land ownership due to a historic relationship with a dominant White society based on discrimination. This major resource constraint prevented the full participation of the Black farmer in traditional commercial agriculture. Research conducted in the Black Belt Region of Alabama is used to examine the importance of land, particularly the multigenerational ownership of land, on current farm participation and landholdings. Strategies employed by farmers to pass this scarce resource to succeeding generations are also examined.
40928140|Based on participant-driven photo elicitation and in-depth key informant interviews conducted in an American and Norwegian rural amenity area, this article argues that newcomers, seasonal home owners and other stakeholders in rural amenity areas may fail to appreciate, or choose to ignore, the social relations tied to their property or the consequences that their seemingly innocuous decisions can have for local communities. Viewscape fetishism can cause the "magic" of commodified natural amenities to obscure more complex, holistic understandings of the land in favor of a simplified view based on individualized use or exchange value, both of which are highly influence by the sign value inherent in property situated with access to scenic viewscapes. This phenomenon can create barriers to social interaction and community building, and lead to environmental degradation in places that are rich in natural amenities and vulnerable to change.
27654158|Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA), Tanzania, contains renowned wildlife, an expanding human population, and cultivation by Maasai agro-pastoralists and non-Maasai agriculturalists. We used integrated assessments to explore some effects of cultivation on livestock, resident wildlife, and people. Using a Landsat image from 2000, we mapped 3,967 ha [9,803 acres (ac)] of cultivation within NCA, or 39.7 km2 of the 8,283 km2 conservation area. Using integrative ecosystem (Savanna) and household (PHEWS) models, we assessed effects of: up to 50,000 ac (20,234 ha) of cultivation; cultivation concentrated into two blocks totaling 10,000 ac (4,047 ha) and 20,000 ac (8,094 ha) that may be more palatable to tourists; and human population growth. Simulations with from 10,000 to 50,000 ac in cultivation showed no large changes in ungulate populations relative to there being no cultivation. When cultivation was altered to be in two blocks, some wildlife populations changed (15%) and ungulate biomass remained the same. When cultivation was increased linearly with human population, poor households needed 25% of their diets to come from relief as populations tripled, because livestock could not increase significantly. Our results indicate that having <1% of NCA in cultivation, in its current distribution, is not overly detrimental to wildlife or livestock populations, and is important to Maasai well-being.
4603035|In this paper I examine the complexity of human forces involved in tree cutting in a Ghanaian forest region. I provide evidence to link the indiscriminate tree-cutting activities of some local communities to the gradual loss of communal control over land and the replacement of kin group control with state property regimes. I point to the interrelated factors of the state's promotion of an export-led development strategy, the intensification of agricultural commercialization, and household and group variations in access to land as all having deleterious impacts on local traditions of sustainable forestry.
4602975|A survey was conducted among the pastoral Twareg of Niger on their perceptions of rainfall impacts for each year from 1947 through 1988. The herders saw drought as a prolonged process with a multi-year onset that culminated in a single year of extreme crisis and abated gradually. The identified crisis years, 1973 and 1984, corresponded with historical rainfall data that showed each of these to have been the second consecutive year of extreme drought. Single years of drought, which may have served as red-flag signals of impending crisis scenarios, were not identified by the herders. Rainfall measurements from the zone of extensive cultivation, south of the pastoral habitat, did not correlate well with key crisis years or the herders' perceptions. Neither did national-level livestock market statistics. It was concluded that rainfall was a reliable indicator for a drought early warning system for the northern Sahel, provided that the measurements were taken from an ecologically-defined pastoral habitat.
27654149|What makes the structure and dynamics of coupled natural and human systems difficult to interpret in the Mediterranean is the extreme diversity in space and time of both environments and human societies. The succession of civilizations that waxed and waned in the Mediterranean Basin over several millennia has had great impacts on biota and ecosystems everywhere in the basin. A complex 'coevolution' has been claimed to shape the interactions between ecosystem components and human societies. Two opposing schools of thought traditionally have considered the consequences of human pressures on Mediterranean ecosystems. The 'Ruined Landscape' or 'Lost Eden theory' argues that human action resulted in a cumulative degradation and desertification of Mediterranean landscapes. The second school argues that humans actually contributed to keeping Mediterranean landscapes diverse since the last glacial episode. With this debate in mind, I show the following: (1) One cannot understand the components and dynamics of current biodiversity in the Mediterranean without taking into account the history of human-induced changes; (2) The various systems of land use and resource management that provided a framework for the blossoming of Mediterranean civilizations also had profound consequences on the distribution and dynamics of species, communities, and landscapes; (3) The processes of domestication of plant and animal species, which first occurred in the eastern Mediterranean area some 10,000 years ago, contributed to the increase of certain components of biodiversity at several spatial scales. Positive and negative feedback cycles between cultural practices and natural systems at the local and regional levels have kept ecosystems robust and resilient; (4) Assuming that human action can, to a certain extent, be considered a large-scale surrogate for natural sources of ecosystem disturbance, such patterns give support to the diversity-disturbance hypothesisspecifically, intermediate levels of disturbance have promoted biological diversity; (5) Intraspecific adaptive variation increased as a result of human-induced habitat changes over millennia, resulting in bursts of differentiation during the later Holocene of local ecotypes and gene pools of domesticated and wild plant and animal species, with region-specific characters fitting them to local climate and environmental conditions. High intraspecific adaptive variation also arose from earlier natural processes of the Pleistocene, mainly from a combination of periodic refugia formation and climate dynamics. During the Holocene, the main sources of disturbance came increasingly from humans, specifically from the coupled cultural and natural modifications of community and landscape structure. It is concluded that a high degree of resilience of Mediterranean ecosystems resulted in a dynamic coexistence of human and natural living systems, which in some cases provided stability, while fostering diversity and productivity (Blondel and Aronson, 1999). The word "design" used in the title and elsewhere in this paper metaphorically indicates that the long-lasting influence of human impacts resulted in an unintentional shaping of individual components of landscapes.
41433088|Forests in Vietnam are heavily utilized resources. Some 25 million people who live in and near forests depend on timber and non-timber resources for subsistence and income. Vietnam's timber processing industries, which are in a steep growth phase, demand raw material from the nation's forests, but that demand greatly outstrips available, high quality supply. A national forest development strategy through 2020 calls for broad expansion of plantation forests coupled with third-party forest certification. One type of forest certification, involving certification of groups of smallholder farmers, is comparatively understudied. A recent effort to promote group forest certification in Vietnam yielded measurable benefits to stakeholders, including enhanced income streams to plantation smallholders. However, long-term challenges to group forest certification remain, including smallholders' ability to cover recurring costs for certification  costs that are subsidized by a bilateral donor. Vietnam's recent experience with group forest certification represents an early chapter in that nation's ambitious plans to increase forest cover, make forests more productive through plantation forestry, and improve forest management and market access through forest certification.
27654279|We used a quantitative ethnobotanical approach to analyze factors influencing the use value of plant species among men and women of the Rarmuri people in Cuiteco, Chihuahua, Mexico. We constructed a use value index (UV) combining the use frequency (U) and the quality perception (Q) of useful plant species by local people. We identified all plant species used by the Rarmuri and classified them into 14 general use categories. We interviewed 34 households in the village to compare men and women's knowledge on the five main general use categories (and on their respective subcategories and specific uses), to document how they practice gathering activities and to calculate scores of plants UV. A total of 226 useful plant species were identified, but only 12% of them had high UV scores for the 42 specific uses defined. When the overall knowledge of plant species was examined, no significant differences were detected between men and women, but significant differences were identified in general use categories such as medicinal plants, plants for construction and domestic goods, but not in plants used as food and firewood. We identified a division of labor in gathering activities associated with gender, with women mainly gathering medicinal and edible plants and being involved in preparing medicines and food, whereas men were primarily gathering and using plants for manufacturing domestic goods, firewood, and building materials. Plant species UV associated to gender were significantly different between men and women at the level of specific uses in the general category of domestic goods and building. Frequency of use is highly associated with plant species quality perception.
4603306|Since the privatization of livestock in 1992, rates of absentee ownership of livestock have increased sharply in Mongolia. Unlike other documented instances of absentee herding in pastoral societies, absentee herd ownership has few detrimental ecological or social impacts in Mongolia. Rather, the relationship between absentee herd owners and herders may be viewed as a revitalized institution, with links to customary patterns of urban-rural exchange, emerging to meet the needs of both herders and town-dwellers during the transition from a socialist planned economy to a free market economy. Absentee herding in Mongolia differs from absentee and contract herding accounts from Africa and the Middle East in its continuing emphasis on subsistence rather than speculative investment and accumulation. Other important distinctions include: (1) absentee owners and herders are usually kin or friends; (2) herders tend their own private herds in addition to absentee-owned animals; (3) few ethnic, caste, or class differences exist between herders and absentee herd owners; and (4) herders from all wealth strata tend absentee-owned animals. Policies to restrict or regulate absentee livestock ownership must be carefully considered in the Mongolian context, making clear distinctions between informal, mutually beneficial subsistence-driven arrangements among kin and friends, and more formal investment-driven contracts between businesses or investors and herders.
4603458|We examine factors regulating numbers of domestic livestock and saiga antelopes during the major periods of Kazakhstan's history. In the pre-Soviet period livestock migrations were relatively unrestricted and covered huge distances. Little winter feed or veterinary care was provided for domestic livestock and numbers were regulated largely by winter snow or ice cover. Drought affected fecundity but did not cause large-scale mortality. During the Soviet period the provision of winter feed shielded domestic livestock from winter mortality while hunting controls allowed saiga numbers to recover from over-hunting. Livestock and saiga numbers during this period were high and there is evidence that productivity was affected. However, there were no crashes in livestock numbers linked to high densities, probably because rainfall variability is relatively low and catastrophic droughts are rare. Today livestock numbers in Kazakhstan have crashed because of the withdrawal of state support and the use of animals as currency. The collapse of the state also meant the end of hunting controls and increased poverty, which has lead to widespread saiga poaching and dramatic population declines.
27654296|Cultivation of agave was common in pre-Hispanic northern Mexico and the American Southwest, and scholars generally accept that it was a strategy to ensure food supply during years of drought when the maize crop failed. Some even suggest that incorporating agave cultivation make large, nucleated settlements possible in arid northern Mexico ca. 500900 CE. Yet the environmental circumstances under which farmers could reasonably expect such a strategy to decrease the chances of agricultural failure are not well understood. We explore the potential of this crop complementarity by assessing the risk of famine-induced migration events in different idealized environmental settings. We use Monte Carlo simulation to analyze a simple discrete-time, age-structured stochastic model for maize and agave agroecology, deriving the climatological conditions under which agave could have significantly reduced the probability of short- and long-term famile events. Investments in agave production made the most sense where average annual rainfall was between the levels that would ensure maximum maize yield and those that would mean loss of the maize crop due to drought-related mortality. Cultivating agave had little impact on famine risk at high (maize yields sufficient) and low (failure of both maize and agave) rainfall levels. Perhaps more surprisingly, it had its highest impact at moderate rainfall levels when variance in rainfall was relatively low. While a higher variance in rainfall increased the number of 'good' years for maizewhere production would exceed demand and allow for storageit also increased the probability of simultaneous failures in both agave and maize production. These findings are difficult to apply to specific times and places in the past, because rainfall distribution in complex, environments change, and it is difficult to take all relevant human interventions into account. The analysis does, however, offer support for the proposition that agave cultivation could have significantly enhanced survival probabilities of large, nucleated settlements in certain circumstances. It remains for further study to identify such circumstances more precisely geographically and temporally.
4602912|Based on a systematic sample survey among the residents of Minnesota Point, a fresh-water spit/baymouth bar on the southwest shore of Lake Superior, this study tests a number of hypotheses related to the perceived causes of lake level fluctuation and shore property hazards. The study found that, despite significant differences in property setting and the nature of flood and erosion hazards between the lakeside and the bayside of the spit, the majority of the respondents perceived that their property hazards were induced primarily by the manipulation of lake levels by the International Joint Commission (IJC). Consequently, one in every two respondents would like to lower the lake level by amounts ranging from 30 cm to more than 1 m. The study points out the physical limitations of controlling water levels and recommends that greater attention should be given to shoreline management, which could proivde guidelines for protecting existing coastal structures and for developing minimum standards for future encroachment of the remaining unused sections of the shoreline.
40928138|The introduction of invasive exotic plants has many social dimensions. Although a diverse literature identifies some of the social drivers of exotic plant introduction and subsequent invasion, relatively little attention has been given to the motives of individuals involved. This research focuses on the extensive conversion of native rangeland to exotic buffelgrass (Pennisetum ciliare) pasture by ranchers in Mexico's Sonoran Desert using data gathered through systematic interviews and ordinary least squares regression modeling to demonstrate how a few social variables determine the extent of buffelgrass introductions. Results show that land allocation to pasture is determined chiefly by ranch size, with significant roles also played by rotational grazing, buffelgrass seed harvest, and exposure to government research. Results are contextualized and explored in depth, illustrating how the extent of rangeland-to-pasture conversion in this part of the Sonoran Desert is determined by direct and indirect social factors. The study also highlights implications for buffelgrass invasion.
4602250|One component of a complex system operating so as to maintain the Mae Enga people of the New Guinea highlands in equilibrium with their limited resources is the Te, an elaborate cycle of ceremonial exhanges of valuables. It may be viewed as one in a series of material or substantive systems (including cycles) of varying extent, each affecting the others in an intelligible and predictable fashion.
4603015|Studies of past famines are useful as portrayals of a society under stress and valuable as testing grounds for ideas on the causes and consequences of famine. Older historical sources may lack some of the richness and detail available to students of modern famines, but history offers hindsight and valuable opportunities to integrate famine studies with long-term views of a society and its ecology. This paper takes a different tack from many economic histories of past famines, especially those that rely heavily on economic measures of ecological sufficiency, such as the prices of wheat, labor, and land. It describes the effects of the disastrous 1783 eruption of Iceland's Lakagigar (Laki craters) on a largely subsistent population for whom relief measures were belated and few. At the time of the disaster the entire population lived in households whose main livelihood consisted of farming or fishing. Both these activities were acutely disrupted by the eruption. In this paper, the course of the famine and its effects on population will be analyzed and reviewed in the light of long-term trends in Icelandic population and food production.
4603278|The links among family characteristics, pre-marital experiences organized outside the family, and participation in choice of spouse are now well established for historical transformations in a range of social settings. Less examined are the consequences of these changes for subsequent inter-familial relationships in societies where marriage organizes kin alliances and interfamilial labor obligations. Using survey and ethnographic data gathered in Nepal, this paper examines the implications of change in work, living experiences, and the marriage process for subsequent inter-familial relationships exemplified by cross-cousin marriage and the provision of brideservice. Hypotheses are developed which consider the impact of community context on these behaviors; these are tested in logistic regression analyses for the first marriages of all 430 ever-married women in the community. Cross-cousin marriage and brideservice are shown to be related to prior familial characteristics, life-course experience, and elements of the marriage process in ways that are significantly conditioned by community history and proximity to urban centers.
4603586|A better understanding of common property resource management systems and institutions is important for conservation and development, as fortress-based approaches towards conservation are increasingly questioned. This paper examines how an indigenous resource management system has operated and supported the protection of an Afro-alpine area in the Central Highlands of Ethiopia. The community was mainly concerned to regulate their own use of natural resources, including collection of firewood and thatch, and grazing by livestock. The original common property resource management system operated under a previously undescribed indigenous institution known as the Qero system, which was enforced through sanctions and punishments imposed by the community. The Qero system was suspended following the Agrarian Reform in 1975, which resulted in the breakdown of the traditional land tenure and land rights systems within Ethiopia. In the Central Highlands, user rights and management responsibility shifted to include formerly marginalized groups. Nevertheless, the common property management system has shown sufficient resilience to withstand these changes and pressures, and is still functioning with defined user groups and byelaws to regulate resource use and manage the area. Nevertheless, attitudes to current and future management are polarized between former and present managers of the common property regime.
27654272|Contemporary rural Viliui Sakha of northeastern Siberia, Russia, are a Turkicspeaking people practicing horse and cattle breeding in the subarctic. This article details their story of survival in the north as one not only of adapting a southern subsistence to an extreme climate but also to the effects of Russian colonization, Soviet collectivization, and post-Soviet decentralization. In the post-Soviet period a majority of rural Viliu Sakha adapted to the loss of a centralized agro-industrial state farm system by developing a smallholder food production system relying on cattle husbandry supplemented with other subsistence sources including fish, game, forage, other domesticates, and garden products. In the twenty-first century, this "cows-and-kin" system represents a resilient smallholder adaptation based on reviving pre-Soviet production knowledge, recalling ecological knowledge, and relying on kin. The article concludes with a discussion of the future of cows-and-kin by exploring issues of alienated youth, accessing land and the overwhelming concern of inhabitants about the local effects of global climate change.
40602999|The rapidly growing world population and rising consumption of biofuels intensify demands for both food and biofuels. This exaggerates food and fuel shortages. The use of food crops such as corn grain to produce ethanol raises major nutritional and ethical concerns. Nearly 60% of humans in the world are currently malnourished, so the need for grains and other basic foods is critical. Growing crops for fuel squanders land, water and energy resources vital for the production of food for human consumption. Using corn for ethanol increases the price of US beef, chicken, pork, eggs, breads, cereals, and milk more than 10% to 30%. In addition, Jacques Diouf, Director General of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, reports that using food grains to produce biofuels is already causing food shortages for the poor of the world. Growing crops for biofuel not only ignores the need to reduce fossil energy and land use, but exacerbates the problem of malnourishment worldwide.
4602783|The "Boserup hypothesis" contends that land-intensive systems of agriculture will be adopted only when high population density precludes the use of land-extensive methods. In the Kerayan District of East Kalimantan (Indonesia) the Lun Dayeh practice permanent-field rice cultivation despite very low human densities. An examination of the relative labor efficiencies of shifting and permanent-field agriculture in the Kerayan, as well as of local environmental and historical variables, explains why this "anomalous" situation exists. It is argued that since relative success in production of rice by shifting- and permanent-field irrigated methods depends on many natural and social conditions other than levels of population density, the "environment-free" Boserup hypothesis cannot adequately explain or predict the occurrence of particular forms of rice agriculture.
4602805|A decade ago in a seminal monograph, Anne Kirkby proposed a model of colonization for the prehispanic Valley of Oaxaca, Mexico, in which settlement location was determined by the distribution of prime agricultural land. The model was tested against the corpus of known prehispanic settlements and tentative support was found. In the years since this study, a systematic archeological settlement pattern project was completed, making a more adequate test of the model possible. Reexamination of the colonization process suggests that, although agricultural considerations were important, they were less determinant of settlement location than had been implied previously. The adoption of a broader perspective toward regional colonization is suggested.
4602333|The adaptive strategy of a population of New Guinea highland subsistence farmers is considered in the light of events surrounding a series of severe frosts experienced in 1972. Coping with frost is seen to be a critical preoccupation for all Enga, and agricultural mounding a universal response, adequate to deal with the mild frosts of Central Enga country below 2250 m but insufficient above. There, among the Fringe Enga, a sequence of responses at three different levels may be identified. These may be called the local, intraregional, and extraregional levels because of their progressively wider geographical spread in agricultural activity and attendant increased population mobility. A correspondence is indicated between response level and frost intensity. This response, while effective, is being modified through cropping innovations and disrupted by a colonial situation. Further, at higher levels, it is incompatible with the prescribed course of political and economic development.
4602790|Comparison of two nomadic peoples, one postoral, the other food-collecting, reveals that rapid bicultural oscillation of both is an adaptation to their multizoned environments. One may speak of their being flexible in the face of temporally variable environmental hazards and opportunities. For each people, the more nomadic of their two cultures is associated with norms of propriety, the more sedentary one entails what Freilich calls "smart norms." It is argued that this complementation gives both cultures continuing appeal, thereby facilitating rapid change. A major difference between decision-making mechanisms in the two cases underscores that we treat a system type in a very abstract sense. Other, possibly similar cases are noted from ethnographic literature. A formal theory is put forward concerning the tendency of people under certain conditions to develop oscillating biculturalism. Such rapidly oscillating systems are proposed to have a biological analogue in versatile acclimatizers.
4602274| Freshwater bodies include a small fraction of the earth's surface (0.5%) and the biosphere's production. Freshwater productivity is difficult to estimate because of both problems of measurement and the great diversity of water bodies. A total production of 1.3  10
24015698|This article addresses strategies of secrecy and deception in hunters' and fishers' appropriation of land-and seascape-based resources in northern Norway. We argue that in their management of relevant environmental knowledge and information, hunters and fishers often seek to avoid competitors and free riders by hiding their trails, and are particularly careful about who they share their knowledge with. Strategies of secrecy are also integral to individual hunter's and fisher's social reputation. Reputation is achieved not only by successful trips and sharing of spoils, but also through role enactments that become the subject of evaluating commentaries and information exchange guided by socially sanctioned rules of appropriate deference. In some important ways structural and economic changes in the social environment also change the generic properties of the practices investigated, while secrecy as practice shows a strong cultural continuity in spite of such changes.
40603028|Recent studies in West Africa and other parts of the world suggest that globalization and modernization make extended forms of domestic organization untenable in the face of modern economic and ecological circumstances. Unlike the large and extended domestic groups of pre-industrial and precolonial periods, households today tend to be small and nuclear. Thirty years ago, a series of case studies conducted on the Central Plateau of Burkina Faso documented this nucleation process among Mossi rural communities and predicted the decline and demise of Mossi extended households. This article tests the degree to which these predictions were correct based on ethnographic fieldwork in three villages in 2004. The results indicate that extended households indeed persist. Their persistence is explained by analyzing the roles of environmental and social change on the twin processes of household extension and fragmentation. Regional desiccation, off-farm income-generating opportunities, and agricultural intensification have created conditions that equally promote both household extension and fragmentation.
23353262|A widespread concern among ethnobiologists is the rapid process of erosion of indigenous environmental knowledge observed worldwide. This paper examines the ongoing transformations of knowledge about natural remedies in the Quechua-speaking Andes. Freelisting exercises and interviews were conducted with 36 households at Bolivian and Peruvian study sites. (Generalized) linear mixed-effects models were used to analyze the effects of age on knowledge about medicinal plants, animals, minerals, and their uses. Our study demonstrates that younger participants knew as much about natural remedies as their elders. However, proportional knowledge about some medicinal use categories of natural remedies varied with age. We conclude that knowledge about natural remedies is generally not being lost at the study sites. Nevertheless, it is undergoing transformations in terms of specific medicinal uses. A careful understanding of these complex transformation processes is needed to better orient initiatives for the conservation of biocultural diversity in the Andes and elsewhere.
27654227|Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) are promoted as an important marine ecosystem management tool. However, they are complex systems that, from a governance perspective, raise serious challenges with regard to their effectiveness. In this paper, drawing on recent contributions to the so-called "interactive governance theory," we argue that marine and coastal governance is basically a relationship between two systems, a "governing system" and a "system-to-be-governed." The former system is social: it is made up of institutions and steering mechanisms. The latter system is partly natural, partly social: it consists of an ecosystem, and the resources that this harbours, as well as a system of users and stakeholders who, among themselves, form political coalitions and institutions. We need to be concerned with the relationship and the interaction between the governing system and the system-to-be governed, which forms a system in its own right. Governance theory argues that both systems and their interactions share similar attributesthey are diverse, complex, dynamic and vulnerable. This raises serious concerns as to their governability. There may be limits to what the governing system can do, limits attributed to one or all three systems. But such limits are themselves issues and concerns for planning and institutional design. In this paper we present, in the form of a governance matrix, the relevant issues and concerns with regard to the governability of MPAs.
4602867|In 1967-1970, 3.81 km
24015745|Scholars have often puzzled over why ancient socioecological systems (SES) have collapsed or survived overtime. This paper examines the case of the 2,000-year old Ifugao SES in the northern Philippines and the contemporary challenges they now face. Five observations can be drawn. First, the Ifugao case does not fit some of the conventional theoretical explanations for the collapse or survival of SES. Second, the Ifugao's primogeniture system of property rights along with the their customary laws and practices have played important roles in maintaining the robustness of their SES through their effects on ecological integrity. Third, the Ifugao SES today is faced with contemporary challenges with varying effects on its robustness: integration into a post-colonial social order, the effects of tourism and agricultural development, migration, urbanization and the introduction of Christianity and mass education. Fourth, despite these changes, it is not a certainty that the Ifugao will shift to a new domain of attraction that cannot support a human population, or that will induce a transition that causes long-term human suffering. Finally, the Ifugao case study adds to our understanding of robust SES.
4602423|A 17-year period during which interaction occurred between the Chumash and Spanish colonizers is the focus of the study. Significant variation in subsistence and interactive patterns during this period is identified. The baptismal rite that marked the transition from native villager to mission Indian is interpreted in relation to the environmental and subsistence realities faced by both the Chumash and Spanish.
4603471|This article examines the process by which remotely sensed land cover maps work to both simplify and complicate landscapes. The central argument is not merely that the construction of land cover maps is complex, but that the points of complexity often arise through the process of trying to simplify. In other words, the forces of complexity are intimately connected to the forces of simplicity and vice versa. This article takes as a case study the production of WISCLAND, (Wisconsin Initiative for Statewide Cooperation on Landscape Analysis and Data), a statewide land cover map of Wisconsin derived from remote sensing data and GIS (Geographic Information Systems) technologies and proceeds by analysis of mapping methodology, practice, and representation. In addition to the development of a more nuanced critique of the use of land cover maps, it facilitates the possibility for a constructive dialogue between remote sensing practitioners and the critical GIS community.
4602305|When a community authorizes the development of a controversial project which may produce adverse ecological effects, the decision may be made on the basis of a differing geographical distribution of costs and benefits. Local benefits may exceed local costs while overall costs exceed overall benefits. This paper attempts, through a mathematical theoretical exposition, to show that this situation provides a rational incentive for hypocritical public behavior. Possible solutions are considered. One set of solutions implies return to laissez-faire type capitalims and the maintenance of a taut, spatial economic system which is sensitive to shock. Another set of solutions implies the development of a socialist economy. Mixed solutions are presented as unstable and tending to environmental deterioration. The mirror-image problem -- of concentrated costs and diffused benefits in the United States, and the State of New Jersey specifically -- is also considered, leading to similar conclusions.
4603327|This article examines continuity and change in farming and herder communities' strategies for coping with food deficits in S. E. Kajiado District, Kenya, through a comparison of coping strategies reported in surveys conducted in 1977 and 1996. It provides empirical evidence of the dynamic responses that one rural society prone to recurrent drought-related food insecurity has made to the complex interactions between exogenous and local political, economic, social and demographic, and environmental processes. It demonstrates that although driving forces emanating from national and international scales create the broad context for developmental change, local processes mediate these. As these alter, so do the options available for coping with food insecurity. The availability of these options differs according to a person's age, gender, and socio-economic status. Such dynamism and differentiation is inherent in rural development and should inform development planners and those seeking to include monitoring of coping strategies as a component of famine early-warning systems.
27654311|It is known that the relationship between humans and their animals is important for understanding many aspects of nomadic pastoralist systems, including nomadic movement. However, to date, these complex humananimal relations have not been analyzed in a way that has led to an explanatory model of nomadic movement capable of producing testable hypotheses. Based on ethnographic material collected amongst Komi and Nenets nomadic reindeer herders of the Russian Arctic, we argue that nomadic movements can be best understood as a product of the interplay that exists between animal behaviour and the herders' skilful actions to (a) maintain herd cohesion and (b) avoid hazards, whilst deploying the minimum amount of resources (i.e., human/animal effort and use of equipment) on rounding up the herd, stopping and turning it. Ecological factors affect movement through their influence on animal behaviour, whereas non-ecological factors do so by influencing the herders' skilful actions. We demonstrate that, based on these assumptions, it is possible to build a testable model explaining the movement of some nomadic groups.
41474581|This article takes issue with Stephen Lansing's bottom-up model of Balinese irrigation management. Based on archival research and extensive fieldwork in the former south Balinese kingdom of Mengwi, it is argued that in precolonial days large scale irrigation depended largely on dynastic involvement. During the colonial period (1906-1942) the Dutch took over the role of regional irrigation management while they strengthened the autonomy of local irrigation associations.
41433094|Historical domestic livestock grazing in sensitive landscapes has commonly been regarded as a major cause of land degradation in Iceland. Shieling areas, where milking livestock were taken to pasture for the summer, represented one element of grazing management and in this paper we consider the extent to which historical shieling-based grazing pressure contributed to land degradation. Based on a grazing model to assess pressures and tephrochronology-based soil accumulation rates allied to micromorphology as a proxy for land degradation, our findings suggest that the shieling system contributed to the maintenance of upland vegetation cover and related productivity levels without causing land degradation from settlement through to ca. AD 1300. As land degradation accelerated from ca. AD 1477 it is likely that shieling management continued to operate effectively contributing to the overall resilience of livestock farming.
4603382|Throughout the world it is unusual to find irrigation systems that work well, distributing water efficiently and with minimal conflict, especially in situations where the resource is scarce. This paper describes one such system in the Peruvian Andes, a peasant village where irrigation and water management are handled in an unusual way. It analyzes the village principles of social organization, showing that these create a situation of equity and transparency which provides people with a strong incentive to obey the rules and conserve water. By doing so, they are directly maximizing the frequency of irrigation, a benefit that is the same for everyone using a given source of water. The system is argued to be a highly effective and sustainable way of dealing with a scarce and fluctuating resource.
4603384|The current literature on common-pool resources suggests that appropriators'autonomy in determining access and harvesting rules is a pre-condition for successful local self-governance. Yet few studies have been done to examine how local communities that are faced with outside intrusion can regain such autonomy. This paper examines this issue by studying how two mountain tribal villages in Taiwan have attempted to rebuild their indigenous rules governing the use of their local stream fisheries. One village, Shan-Mei, has been more successful than the other village, Li-Chia, in restoring self-governance in fishery conservation. Shan-Mei's relative success is explained by its villagers' willingness and ability to develop mutually beneficial relationships with external stakeholders and to attain a negotiated autonomy from the larger society.
4602898|Taungya is a system of forest management in which land is cleared and planted initially to food crops. Seedlings of desirable tree species are then planted on the same plot, leading in time to a harvestable stand of timber. Taungya is believed to have been developed by the British in Burma during the nineteenth century. Historical research indicates that successional systems of forest management which follow the pattern of taungya have been used for at least three centuries by ethnic minorities in and by the Han population. The resilience of these systems is associated with economic and social factors which have made the cultivation of trees an adaptive strategy of land use for the inhabitants of the highlands of southern China.
4602921|Transhumant herding of cow-yak hybrids is a specialization of Helambu Sherpa villagers living at altitudes between 7,000-11,000 feet on the southern slopes of the Himalayas. Hybrids are ideally suited for the climate at this altitude, producing large quantities of rich milk for butter production. Focused on a village in east-central Nepal, this paper documents a shift by some families between 1971-1989 from the longstanding pattern of herding hybrids to an alternative pattern of producing them. This involves learning to manage yak, establishing new transhumance routes, a switch from dairying to livestock production, and a variety of economic, environmental, and social repercussions. The two types of herding systems are described, and possible causes for the shift are discussed within the context of the economic options available to people in this environment. A special emphasis is placed on the flexibility of options that is both necessary and possible with transhumant agropastoralism as practiced by middle and high-altitude Himalayan peoples.
40343975|This paper explores the major interactions between the transformation of swidden farming and the pursuit of rural livelihoods in the uplands of Southeast Asia. The paper draws on selected literature, workshop reflections, and six case studies to describe the causal processes and livelihood consequences of swidden change. Householdlevel livelihood responses have included both the intensification and 'dis-intensification' of swidden land-use, the insertion of cash crops, the redeployment of household labour, and the taking on of broader (often non-rural) livelihood aspirations and strategies. At the community level there have been emerging institutional arrangements for management of land and forests, and varying degrees of participation in or resistance to government schemes and programs. Swidden change has led to the loss and also the reassertion, realignment, and redefinition of cultures and identities, with important implications for access to resources. The impacts of these changes have been varied. Cash crops have often improved livelihoods but complete specialisation for the market increases vulnerability. Thus swidden can still provide an important safety net in the face of market fluctuations. Improved access to markets and social provision of education and health care have mostly improved the welfare of previously isolated groups. However, growing differences within and between communities in the course of swidden transformations can leave some groups marginalized and worse off. These processes of differentiation can be accentuated by heavy-handed state interventions based on swidden stereotypes. Nevertheless, communities have not passively accepted these pressures and have mobilized to protect their livelihood assets and strategies. Thus swidden farmers are not resisting appropriate and supportive forms of development. They are adopting new practices and engaging with markets, but in many situations swidden is still important to their livelihood strategies, providing resilience in the face of turbulent change. Active involvement of local people is essential in planning, implementing, monitoring and evaluating development and conservation programs in swidden lands. Positive market incentives and supportive government policies are better than standardised, top-down directives.
27654139|Questions centered on the development of local and traditional ecological knowledge and the relationship of that knowledge to the development of conservation and management practices have recently attracted critical attention. We examine these questions with respect to the dynamic commercial fisheries of the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. The knowledge of fish harvesters coevolves with fishing practices and is embedded in a dynamic socioecological network that extends into and beyond the fisher, fishery households, and communities to include management, technologies, markets, and marine ecological conditions. Changes in these networks have moved knowledge and practices related to fishing in directions defined by policy, science, economic rationality, and new ecological realities. We characterize this movement as a shift along a continuum from local ecological knowledge (LEK) towards globalized harvesting knowledge (GHK) as harvesters become increasingly disconnected from socioecological relationships associated with traditional species and stocks. We conclude with a discussion of how LEK/GHK have interacted over time and space with other knowledge systems (particularly science) to influence management, and suggest that contingent, empirical evaluations of these interactions will provide a fruitful avenue for future interdisciplinary research.
25652764|This paper investigates social-environmental factors contributing to differential ethnobotanical expertise among children in Rarmuri (Tarahumara) communities in Chihuahua, Mexico, to explore processes of indigenous ecological education and epistemologies of research. One hundred and four children from two schools (one with a Rramuri knowledge curriculum and one without) were interviewed about their knowledge of 40 useful plants. Overall, children showed less ethnobotanical expertise than expected and a great deal of variability by age, though most shared knowledge of a core set of culturally and ecologically salient plants. No significant difference was found between girls' and boys' knowledge. The overall use-knowledge scores were almost twice as high as naming scores (mean of 40% vs. 24.4%). This supports the conclusion that use-context is more culturally relevant, salient or easier for children to remember than names. The socialenvironmental factors significant in predicting levels of plant knowledge among children were whether a child attended a Rarmuri or Spanish-instruction school, and, to a lesser extent, age. However, these effects were not strong, and individual variability in expertise is best interpreted using ethnographic knowledge of each child's family and personal history, leading to a model of ethnobotanical education that foregrounds experiential learning and personal and family interest in useful plants. Though overall plant knowledge may be lower among children today compared to previous generations, a community knowledge structure seems to be reproduced in which a few individuals in each age cohort show great proficiency, and children make the same kinds of mistakes and share specialized names for plants.
4603239|Human ecology research in the high-altitude region of Ladakh (northern India) has tended to focus on the adaptive significance of Ladakhi social institutions given a natural environment characterized by numerous challenges. This research appears to lead to the conclusion that traditionally-living Ladakhis are in a state of well-being and harmonious balance with their environment, as social institutions such as polyandry constrain fertility to keep the population size in check relative to constrained resources. There has been little research on biological adaptation in Ladakh, and the view from biology presents a very different picture of the relationship between Ladakhis and their environment. Data presented here show that the health of reproductive women and infants is compromised by both natural and social factors. Since reproductive health is crucial to the production of future generations, it is argued that mortality plays a major role in constraining population growth in Ladakh, and may be due to the limited biological history that Ladakhis have in this high-altitude region. This may also help us understand Ladakhi patterns in relation to those observed in the Andes.
4602868|Incorporation into wider social and economic systems has brought a variety of changes to the hunting-gathering lifestyle of the Batak of the Philippines. Compared to 100 years ago, Batak hunting-gathering camps today are more limited in duration and smaller in size, hunting-gathering itself is more seasonal in importance, and there are significant differences in technology, resource utilization, the organization of labor, and length of workday. These changes are related to the growing importance of other economic activities and to the nature of Batak market articulation with lowland Filipino society.
4603591|In the context of the North Atlantic arena, the histories and landscape evolution of the Faroe Islands are comparatively less known. The position of the archipelago astride cyclonic tracks and the predominantly rugged terrain with meagre woodland and limited high quality agricultural land, conspired to produce an environment which might be thought to have severely challenged early colonizers. Those settlers, whether Norse/Vikings, or earlier Irish monks, had access to the vital resources of bird cliffs, rivers, and the sea to supplement the produce of their domestic animals and crops. The lack of apparent crises is a function both of the richness of the resources provided by the Faroe Islands, and of the development of appropriate land management practices such as outfield grazing and soil augmentation to counteract any detrimental effects arising from, for instance, reductions in the bird population, soil and slope erosion, the lack of naturally fertile soils, and any climatic downturn. From the research contained within this volume, it seems likely that there have always been sufficient resources available for an enterprising human population and that the Faroes did not exceed their carrying capacity during the Norse period.
4603446|Shifting cultivation is identified as a major cause of tropical deforestation. Sources that recount such impacts routinely employ an Eden-lost narrative structure that represents shifting cultivators as having their relatively harmonious human-environment relationships disrupted by various forces. While such disruptions lead to land degradation, official development institutions via research into alternatives to such agriculture offer redemption, or the return to relative ecological harmony. This Edenic narrative vehicle allows shifting cultivators to be represented as "primitives" in need of modernization, yet it also more commonly allows a sympathetic representation as holders of valuable, albeit threatened, indigenous knowledge that can be applied to the development of solutions. However, embedded within both hostile and sympathetic accounts from both scientific and policy sources are cultural images that persist as a legacy of colonialist assumptions of social evolution and cultural hierarchy.
25652743|This study documents natural resource use in a forest-adjacent western Ugandan village, and explains how what superficially appears to be a sustainable scenario is in fact quite unstable. Kibwona village is adjacent to Kasokwa Forest, comprised of a small Central Reserve owned by the National Forest Authority (NFA) and several contiguous community forests. Firewood and water collection is legal. However, empirical observations of women's daily activity budgets and details of resource acquisition show on average, women spent less than 5% of the time collecting natural resources. This is true for resources both in and out of the forest. This may be simply because firewood within household compounds, gardens and woodlandbush areas is abundant, accessible, and closer than the (also close) forest. However, two additional reasons for this behavior may, in fact, hinder long-term sustainability: (1) Many locals also plant eucalyptus trees for firewood, poles, and timber, which, although it is fast growing and makes good firewood, is water-draining and hard on the soils and thus a high cost to subsistence farmers. (2) Fears of harassment by NFA officials when collecting firewood inhibit local people from even entering the forest. Decentralized, collaborative forest management will not happen under oppressive and fear-based relationships, nor can a sustainable firewood supply be based on eucalyptus.
24017347|Indigenous communities commonly face a major impediment in their ongoing efforts to participate effectively in the stewardship and sustainable management of their traditional lands, waters and resources. Externally driven projects and policies can overwhelm communities' abilities to respond, severely impact in their resource base, and significantly eclipse traditional knowledge, practices and values. Such projects and policies can be devastating to small, Indigenous communities struggling to maintain their culture and economic independence in a changing world. While many examples of external impacts on small-scale resource use could be drawn upon for these communities, we illustrate this situation by examining the impact of fisheries management regimes on Indigenous coastal communities in British Columbia, Canada and Aotearoa New Zealand. We characterize the problem and identify key stressors involved. Within the context of Indigenous rights and Indigenous peoples' knowledge, perspectives and experience, we highlight the need to recognize this type of constraint on Indigenous Peoples' resource use and effective participation in resource management.
4603370|The ways that people experience, respond to and pattern recovery from major climatic aberrations must be understood within the context of existing socioeconomic arrangements and the ethos that informs these. This paper describes immediate and longer term impacts of a major drought on two populations--Bedamuni and Kubo-Konai--in the interior lowlands of Papua New Guinea. Though they occupy similar environments, are culturally related and reliant on similar technology and resources, these two populations differ in density, intensity of land use, and social complexity. The drought of 1997 affected one of the populations much more severely than the other. A comparison of effects on subsistence regimes, mobility and social life in the two areas suggests that these were mediated by understandings people held of relationships with both the environment and other people. Bedamuni pattern their lives around an expectation of favorable returns on effort, emphasising security of tenure to protect those returns. Kubo-Konai, in contrast, pattern their lives around an expectation that availability of resources will be often in flux, and emphasise means of ensuring security of supply. These understandings are reflected, respectively, in risk-prone and risk-averse strategies of subsistence and sociality which directly influence vulnerability and responses to disruptive events.
4602919|Knowledge of human adaptation in the Himalayas has developed more slowly than that for other world mountain systems. At the same time, the opening of the region to research has focused attention toward description in a "natural history" mode until quite recently. Where these studies have addressed issues of adaptation they have tended to do so more as a heuristic tool rather than in terms of contributing to the development of adaptive perspectives from a uniquely Himalayan vantage point. The contributions to this special issue suggest some of Himalayan cultural ecology's new themes as it more directly assumes a truly processual approach that incorporates the individual and domestic dimensions of adaptation within historical and social contexts.
4602438|A review is presented of issues relevant to the definition, measurement, and classification of stimuli, situations, and environments. Problems such as the lack of adequate definitions of concepts, error and bias in measurement procedures, confusion between measurement of a concept and measurement of its behavioral effects, and the lack of agreement among alternative measures are emphasized. It is suggested that concepts be defined in terms of objective characteristics while allowing for the study of the transactional relationship between organism and environment. The work of the ethologists in defining stimuli while studying their relationship to different organismic states and situational contexts is emphasized in this regard. Following Brunswik, it is also suggested that wherever possible there be a representative sampling of variables in natural settings.
41474666|It is well known that ethnobotanical knowledge can vary significantly among societies. However, it often remains difficult to fully capture the factors underlying differences in perceptions of usefulness. A quantitative ethnobotanical study was conducted in Indigenous Territory and National Park Isiboro-Scure (TIPNIS), Bolivia, to compare the plant use knowledge and management of the Yuracars and Trinitarios, two indigenous groups that share the same living environment. Results show that the Trinitarios have higher knowledge of plants from anthropogenic environments and maintain a significantly larger pharmacopoeia than the Yuracars. By contrast, the Yuracars are more knowledgeable of wild flora and particularly excel in their knowledge of wild food plants. I relate these differences to: (1) cultural heritage, customs and practices; (2) ethnomedicinal system; (3) (historical) mode of subsistence; (4) provenance; (5) history of contact with Western society; and (6) modernization and social position. I argue that although contemporary Yuracars are semi-sedentary, their plant use knowledge and management reflect their previous semi-nomadic foraging lifestyle. Similarly, Trinitarios' current plant use knowledge and management reflects their legacy of having developed one of the most advanced pre-Colombian agricultural societies in the tree savannahs of Moxos.
40928143|The socioeconomic and environmental features of local places (community context) influence the relationship between humans and their physical environment. In times of environmental disturbance, this community context is expected to influence human perceptual and behavioral responses. Residents from nine Colorado communities experiencing a large outbreak of mountain pine beetles (Dendroctonus ponderosae) were surveyed in 2007. Multiple analytic methods including ordinary least squares regression and multilevel modeling techniques were used to evaluate a community-context conceptual model of factors influencing individual actions in response to forest disturbance by beetles. Results indicated that community biophysical and socioeconomic characteristics had important impacts on participation in beetle-related actions and influenced the relationships of individual-level variables in the conceptual model with beetle-related activities. Our findings have implications for natural resource management and policy related to forest disturbances, and for developing a methodology appropriate to measure the general community context of human-environment interactions.
4602707|Matses women of the Peruvian Amazon rain forest hunt with men, and couples bring back more meat than men alone. This results from the association of women with capture of collared peccary, a large catch. Typical Amazonian beliefs about women persist, but some new features (like day care) are pertinent to Matses hunting adaptation.
41474627|Previously it has been found that an important risk buffering strategy in the Saami reindeer husbandry in Norway is the accumulation of large herds of reindeer as this increases long-term household viability. Nevertheless, few studies have investigated how official policies, such as economic compensation for livestock losses, can influence pastoral strategies. This study investigated the effect of received predation compensation on individual husbandry units' future herd size. The main finding in this study is that predation compensation had a positive effect on husbandry units' future herd size. The effect of predation compensation, however, was nonlinear in some years, indicating that predation compensation had a positive effect on future herd size only up to a certain threshold whereby adding additional predation compensation had little effect on future herd size. More importantly, the effect of predation compensation was positive after controlling for reindeer density, indicating that for a given reindeer density husbandry units receiving more predation compensation performed better (measured as the size of future herds) compared to husbandry units receiving less compensation.
40343978|The effects of swidden cultivation on carbon storage and soil quality are outlined and compared to the effects of the intensified production systems that swidden systems of Southeast Asia transform into. Time-averaged aboveground carbon stocks decline by about 90% if the long fallow periods of traditional swidden cultivation are reduced to 4 years and by about 60% if swidden cultivation is converted to oil palm plantations. Stocks of soil organic carbon (SOC) in tree plantations are 0-40% lower than stocks in swidden cultivation, with the largest losses found in mechanically established oil palm plantations. Impacts of tree plantations on soil quality are to a large extent determined by management. Conversion of swiddening to continuous annual cropping systems brings about substantial losses of time-averaged aboveground carbon stocks, reductions of SOC stocks and generally leads to declining soil quality. Knowledge of carbon storage in belowground biomass of tree based systems of the tropics is sparse but failure to include this pool in carbon inventories may significantly underestimate the total biomass of the systems. Moreover, studies that consider the ecological reasons behind farmers' land use decisions as well as spatial variability in biogeophysical and edaphological parameters are needed to evaluate the effects of the ongoing land use transitions in Southeast Asia.
4603512| Since the 1970s the Brazilian Amazon has received over 1 million migrant farm households from other regions of the country, many of whom were attracted to government-sponsored frontier settlement programs that offered free tropical forest land. As a result, pressures on tropical forests have intensified along several settlement corridors throughout the region. Despite their importance as agents of landscape change, surprisingly little is known about the land use practices of these farmers. This paper briefly reviews the research literature on smallholder land use patterns in Amazonia, describes the recent history of one important agricultural land settlement program in the western Brazilian Amazon state of Rondnia, and, based on 240 household surveys conducted in three separate settlement locations in the state, highlights key differences in land use patterns among the rural population. Typologies of farming systems are presented on the basis of cluster analysis of land use data and ANOVA tests. The findings indicate considerable complexity and heterogeneity in smallholder farming systems. Spatial variations in farming system types may be due to geographic differences in soil regimes, the social histories of specific communities, and site-specific responses to exogenous variables. 
4602900|Over the past decade international organizations and developing countries have been trying to promote agricultural diversification among smallholders under the assumption that smallholders are too dependent upon a narrow range of crops. The International Coffee Organization and the Government of Indonesia have promoted agricultural diversification among coffee farmers to curb production and, thereby, increase prices. In South Sumatra, Indonesia, coffee smallholders diversify on their own initiative and depend upon numerous resource systems. They diversify out of coffee and even agriculture because other investments yield attractive returns and because further diversification within agriculture is often limited by agronomic and financial constraints.
24013717|Discussions of maize agriculture in Mexico often treat "maize" as a uniform commodity, sold in a relatively homogeneous market, and for which there is a single, "economically rational" production strategy. Based on qualitative research on maize value chains, we suggest that this unitary notion entails significant oversimplifications. We offer a heuristic model of farm-size related "profitability crossover," based on observations of highland maize varieties' roles within a series of farm-cycle opportunities and constraints. We suggest that while improved maize varieties may be profitable for large-scale farms taking advantage of economies of scale, landrace cultivation may offer advantages to small- to medium-scale farmers, who utilize a diverse range of input strategies, and sell their products in specialty markets. Understanding maize agriculture as a multi-product and multi-market pursuit rather than uniform commodity production would add greater depth to policy and academic debates.
4602401|Hydrologic alteration of major rivers has the potential for environmental damage on an international scale. Soviet regulation of the Volga River is a case in point. Iran, bordering on the Caspian Sea to which the Volga is tributary, has been harmed by changes in the sea's physical and biological character which are partially attributable to Soviet modification of the Volga's natural flow regime. Soviet plans for southward diversion of flow from the European Arctic and Siberia, partially intended to alleviate the Caspian problem, could pose an even more serious international hazard. Possible adverse consequences range from further imperiling the survival of the Atlantic salmon to hemispheric, perhaps even global, climatic changes. The already apparent consequences of Volga development and possible future ramifications of related diversion measures emphasize the need for caution as well as international cooperation and consultation in planning the alteration of major river basins.
27654114|During the past decade the relationship between biodiversity and human diversity has received increased attention, resulting in the identification of what the Declaration of Belm calls an 'inextricable link' between biological and cultural diversity. Although the term biocultural diversity, introduced to denote this link, is being used increasingly, there has been little critical reflection on what it precisely refers to. I argue that it is used with particular reference to 'indigenous traditional' people, but that there is scope for extending its application within biocultural discourse. I therefore review the concept of culture and discuss what constitutes cultural values of the natural environment. I conclude that the concept of culture must be understood as involving a dynamic process of transcultural exchange and constant re-articulations of tradition resulting in the persistence of certain cultural practices. This approach ultimately reveals that the concept of biocultural diversity is also applicable to non-indigenous traditional communities.
23353256|Local communities in central Brazil harvest buriti palm (Mauritia flexuosa) fruit from swamp forests as well as using them for agriculture and cattle and pig farming. This study describes the intensity of forest use by buriti fruit harvesters and identifies how their socioeconomic conditions influence resource use. We visited 75 swamp forests where buriti fruits are harvested and interviewed the head of the nearest household. Agriculture was practiced in 72 % of forests and cattle farming in 52 %. For almost half (48 %) of households agriculture and buriti fruit harvest were the main sources income. Forests resources were equally important to all socioeconomic classes, even richer farmers. The intensity of fruit harvest did not differ between collective and private use regimes of forests. Market access was a limitation to fruit harvest intensity. The high intensity of swamp forest use suggests that their conservation will require change to current management practices.
4603227|We assembled information on the contribution and value of forests to world food security. An assessment was made of the role of forests and non-timber products in the food system of developing countries. We estimated that upwards of 300 million people annually earn part or all of their livelihood and food from forests. A total of about $90 billion in non-timber products are harvested each year. Forests also help to protect land, water, and biological resources, and they play an important role in maintaining the productivity of agricultural and environmental systems.
4603293|Archaeologists, geographers, and economists recognize a vital linkage between transport conditions and urban development. Archaeologists attribute aspects of the Mesoamerican urban tradition to the limiting effects of inefficient transport. The relationship between transport and population growth is evaluated here. A large sample of preindustrial European cities with known populations is categorized according to the navigability of their waterways, and their growth is monitored over three centuries. Median population sizes were consistently lower among landlocked cities than among seaports and cities on rivers. Effects of population stasis was more pronounced among landlocked cities. Capital cities appeared able to stretch population limits in each category, but not to elude them. The applicability of the model to prehistoric urban development is discussed, as are potential problems that would be encountered.
4603300|The paper first examines established theories on the population-environmental nexus. Farmers' options in responding to declining soil fertility or shortage of land vary from village to village and even household to household. Responses are conditioned by social relations with neighboring villages and the labor availability of individual households. The example from the Boulgou Province in Burkina Faso shows that some farmers have been able to expand their acreage in other villages' territories on a virtually permanent basis, thereby compensating for increased population pressure and for land degradation. Currently, labor availability, social relations, and distance to the land seem to be the main constraints on land expansion. However, the pattern of land use changes is expected to be increasingly influenced by the existence of more formally established rights than at present. In the light of the empirical findings, the relevance of the "Gestion des Terroir Villagois" concept as a tool for planning for sustainable natural resource management at the village level is discussed. This approach seems imperfectly suited to address a reality in which social and physical environments are superimposed in a spatially complex way.
4602456|The present research is based on a typology of crowding experiences incorporating two main dimensions: neutral-personal thwartings and primary-secondary environments. The thwarting dimension concerns the degree to which crowding experiences are associated with spatial inconveniences, alone, or with spatial as well as social constraints. The environmental dimension relates to the type of setting in which crowding experiences occur. A major assumption of this typology is that crowding experiences involving social conflict will be more intense and disruptive to the individual than those in which interpersonal conflict is minimal. The reported study examined the relationship between college students' evaluations of the physical amenity, social climate, and crowdedness of their residential environments, on the one hand, and their sensitivity to crowding in a classroom situation, their academic performance, and the frequency of their visits to the campus health center, on the other. Results indicated that perceived residential crowding and negative perceptions of residential social climate were strongly associated with increased sensitivity to crowding in a classroom situation, impaired course performance, and visits to the student health center. The implications of these correlational findings for future field-experimental research are discussed.
4603455|This study examined adaptive strategies of Huli-speaking migrants from the Tari Basin in the Southern Highlands Province to Port Moresby, the capital of Papua New Guinea. An interview survey of all migrant dwellers in two Huli communities, and time allocation and food consumption studies in their three primary settlements revealed that the subject households relied for their livelihood on a variety of activities in the informal sector (e.g., vending, small-scale retailing, moneylending, and chicken rearing) and jobs in the formal sector (e.g., driver, public servant, security guard, and storekeeper). Unexpectedly, the average income of households that exclusively depended on informal sector jobs was equivalent to, or higher than, that of households which included an employee in the formal sector. In addition, the average working hours were shorter in the former. Large interhousehold variation characterized the sample. The residential environment and composition of each household influenced economic strategies, which in turn determined the income, labor hours, and labor efficiency. However, food and nutrient intakes did not vary widely because leveling mechanisms among households, which are social norms in their homeland, still function in the urban settlements. The roles of settlements in Port Moresby are also discussed in relation to "urban problems" and rural-urban connections.
4603493|Archaeological and ethnohistorical evidence of "buffalo jumping" is concentrated in Blackfoot (Nitsitapi) territory. Although the "hardware" of buffalo jumps has been documented extensively, little is known of the "software," in particular the skills required to drive stampeding herds of bison over long distances to the deadfall, on foot, and often for days. The origins and nature of bison driving knowledge is explored on the basis of ethnohistory as well as Blackfoot chronicles, philosophy, and linguistics, and compared with the findings of recent field studies on the relationships between bison and wolves in the northern Great Plains. Blackfoot explanations of bison driving as knowledge learned from wolves are entirely plausible, and shed light on Blackfoot ecological methodology, as well as the development of human-canid hunting relationship generally.
4602729| Currently available models used for predicting human caloric requirements do not reflect the great variability in activity patterns observed among populations, and are insensitive to important anthropometric, demographic, and environmental variables. They are thus inadequate for application to many populations and problems of anthropological interest. We present a model for determining caloric requirements which more accurately accommodates the effects of variation in activity and in anthropometrics on individual needs, and which predicts population requirements based on individual needs and demographic parameters. The model is tested on four populations (the Andean community of Nuoa, Peru, the Dobe !Kung of Botswana, and two New Guinean villages) and is found to provide consistently better estimates of caloric requirements than are generated by the Food and Agriculture/World Health Organization's model. This model should be useful to anthropologists and human ecologists concerned with problems involving human energy consumption, such as the efficiency of subsistence strategies, optimum family composition, or certain consequences of increased labor migration or technological change. 
4603579|Wage work such as portage labor is one of several adaptive strategies by which rural households in Nepal supplement their subsistence agriculture. This study, conducted in the hills of eastern Nepal in 1997, surveyed the landholdings and household subsistence base of 50 commercial porters hired to transport loads from Jiri to various destinations in Solu Khumbu. A major goal was to test the hypothesis that porter households tend to have smaller landholdings than the average household in this region. An unexpected result was that porter households in this study owned nearly as much arable land (1.07 ha) as the mean of 1.15 ha for all hill families in eastern Nepal. Household grain sufficiency correlated significantly (P < 0.01) with farm size (r = 0.53). The majority of the porters lived in villages located at either the origin or the endpoint of their portage work. The study also examined several variables that might explain why portage labor is a full-time occupation for some Nepalis, but a part-time "casual" occupation for others. The most significant difference between households of full-time and part-time porters was the availability of workers at home for managing the household's land and livestock resources. Households of full-time porters were better able to spare a family member for full-time wage labor because they had significantly more adult workers of either gender (P < 0.05) than households of part-time porters. Full-time and part-time porter households did not differ significantly with regard to family size, land ownership, or number of food-deficit months.
23280263|We propose the integration of six data layers (topography, isohyets, soil potential, household localization, vegetation types and land lease titles) to assess the constraints facing food production in Vanuatu, Melanesia. All layers are digitalized allowing area computations of polygons associated with the various data sets. For each island, the following are computed: total area, good arable land area, coconut plantations, pastures/grasslands, area under land lease titles and average accessible good land per household. Although Vanuatu is often considered as not densely populated (19 hab/km 2 ), results indicate great variation among islands. The average area of good land per household varies from 530 ha on the island of Tegua (North) to 0.5 ha on Futuna (South). Shifting cultivation does not appear to be a serious threat to the environment. The establishment of coconut plantations and permanent pastures represents the main cause of deforestation and contributes to increased pressure on land used for food production. The integration of layers of data is a powerful tool for improving environmental planning in an archipelago under growing human pressure and natural changes.
4602784|Traditional Newfoundland horticulture has been a subordinate and compensatory element of the subsistence sphere in a plural economy centered on fishing. Criticized as inefficient and ruinous to the land, this tuber-root-brassica gardening has in fact been a valuable contribution to diet, is relatively efficient, and compensates for the inadequacies of land and weather. Field data from the Great Northern Peninsula, where some traditional practices persist, demonstrate that the practices conserve time and labor, and substitute massive applications of materials to assure a yield sufficient for household needs. The inefficiency in the tradition may be understood as a response to the constraints upon household labor and follows a kind of Leibig's law of the minimum. Recent changes in gardening practices reveal the dynamics of horticulture in the household's mixed economic strategy. As cash and land have become more common, they have been used to further reduce time while maintaining sufficiency.
4602356|The Andes are characterized by valley systems that differ according to the steepness of the environmental gradient as well as the human occupation and land use patterns. This article discusses the natural and crop zonation in one valley of the eastern Andes of northern Peru which includes many of the principal plant and crop zones of the Peruvian Andes. The entire valley is exploited by one peasant community. The article describes some of the land use patterns of the community and compares this valley system with others on the eastern slopes of the Andes.
4602732| Stocks (1983) suggested four reasons which motivate the planting of South American tropical forest swidden crops in concentric rings. His third proposal, that of protection from insect pests, is examined in the light of recent fieldwork with the Bar, and reformulated to suggest that protection from mammalian pests may be a more accurate explanation of the value of this type of field architecture. 
4602546|Changes in worldwide grain production area are analyzed to assess the impact of major agricultural activity on global biomass. During the 26-year study period, nearly 1% of the earth's ice-free land surface was converted to grain production. This increase in agricultural area reduced the planetary biomass; however, it had minimal effect on net primary productivity. Geographically, the overall change caused by increased grain production has been to redistribute the planetary biomass poleward.
27654156|Herd mobility is a tool for managing environmental variability in African pastoral systems. This study examines the monthly mobility patterns of 24 herds over six years in the 20,000 ha communal area of Paulshoek, Namaqualand, and assesses the social, economic, and ecological factors affecting the livestock movement of individual herds and all herds combined. When the mobility pattern of all herds was considered, no seasonal or between-year differences in response to rainfall were evident. An analysis of individual herd mobility patterns showed that half of the herds were relatively sedentary over the study period while the other half were regularly mobile. Although herders used mobility to manage their herds in the unpredictable semiarid environment, their daily decisions were often made in response to their social, economic, or personal situations. There was no significant difference in livestock production between herding strategies, but sedentary herders had a greater localized impact on the rangeland than mobile herders. Our analysis suggests that non-environmental factors play a significant role in herd mobility and may consequently affect the efficiency of livestock production and environmental management.
4603014|Birth seasonality at high latitudes is a complex phenomenon which is undoubtedly affected by a subtle interaction between environmental rhythmicity (most notably in photoperiod and temperature) and cultural adaption. There is intriguing evidence that human gonadotrophic activity (and hence fertility) may be affected by seasonal fluctuations in light intensity and duration. Nevertheless, cultural factors are important insofar as they mediate between environmental rhythmicity and human fertility/birth patterns. This article examines the distribution of births over several decades in an Inuit community located 300 miles north of the Arctic Circle. Several shifts in birth seasonality are noted, the most significant of which is a dramatic shift from pronounced seasonality in the 1970s to non-seasonality in the 1980s. Longitudinal ethnographic fieldwork has allowed an examination of social and economic changes accounting for the rather sudden disappearance of birth seasonality. These include increasing reliance upon wage employment and social assistance, decreased dependence upon subsistence hunting and trapping, changing attitudes on the part of young people entering their prime reproductive years, and the introduction of television, radio, and southern-style recreational activities.
41474580|Detailed ethnographic studies of individual subaks indicate that subaks are neither as homogeneous nor as harmonious as some other studies have suggested. Their internal workings are complex and often contradictory and contested. Processes of continuity and change co-exist in delicate dynamic equilibrium. These studies signal a need for wariness about generalization and a need for close study of specific cases. This paper is just such a study, not of a subak as such, but of an innovative and (to date) extraordinarily successful localized project to develop rice-cultivation in a more sustainable direction through a shift away from petrochemical-based agriculture toward a more organic approach based on locally produced compost. We use this case also to address questions about the relevance and role of the subak in such developments.
4603418|A single round household survey was conducted between October 1997 and May 1998. Information was collected on 1545 Maasai households in Kenya and Tanzania using a standardized questionnaire. These data represent the first large-scale, cross-border comparable survey of socioeconomic indicators for the Maasai. The structure of the study is similar to that of a natural experiment: one ethnic group living in two very different nation-states. The survey results describe a current "snapshot" of Maasai livelihoods. Living arrangements are described at both the household (olmarei) and multihousehold (enkang) level, together with changes in housing type. The roles of cultivation, transhumant migration, and employment are described, including a consideration of the prevalence of murranism (warriorhood). The implications of rising levels of sedentarization and cash crop production for Maasai economic diversification are explored. Participation by Maasai in the tourism industry is extremely low despite the proximity of Maasai to major international tourist destinations in East Africa. Levels of formal education show a marked sex bias in completed primary school education in both countries, with far fewer women than men having attended school.
27654138|Despite growing interest in traditional and local ecological knowledge for conservation and resource management, the role of migrant resource users is largely unexplored. Challenging many assumptions about what constitutes "local knowledge," migrant and immigrant harvesters of non-timber forest products on the Olympic Peninsula, Washington possess useful ecological knowledge of overstoryunderstory relationships and how forestry practices affect understory biological and commercial production. Harvesters of salal (Gaultheria shallon), a shrub used in the multi-million dollar floral greens industry, were interviewed in Mason County, Washington in 20012003. Interviews revealed that harvesters possess different kinds of resource management knowledge depending on whether they are experienced harvesters or more recent newcomers to the area. These differences may also correlate with differences in their harvesting practices. Understanding how resource management knowledge differs between experienced and newcomer harvesters can inform forest managers in their efforts to develop effective management and permitting policies for floral greens and other non-timber forest resources in the Pacific Northwest of the United States.
41432984|Marine protected areas (MPAs) are often met with reluctance by affected stakeholders, and in some instances outright objection. Some argue that this is due to insufficient understanding of the functions of MPAs. Others suggest that it could be because of a perception that they are losing more than they are gaining. It is also possible that stakeholders are generally supportive of the idea but think that the MPA should be located elsewhere. We argue that it is images people have about what the MPA is and does that determine how they react. Drawing from three MPA case studies in Spain, we illustrate the importance of critical examination of stakeholders' images and what they imply for the governance of MPAs.
25652783|An important component of urban green space functionality is the way in which such spaces are perceived and used by urban residents. Use is affected by many factors including the nature and dynamics of urban morphology at the city and neighbourhood scale. This paper demonstrates a method for conducting analyses of green space socio-ecological functionality and presents the results of its application to Karachi, Pakistan. The paper explores the use of the results of an urban gradient analysis for site selection and presents the results of an associated survey of functions using three case study green spaces. The results show that, although urban dwellers in the city use green spaces infrequently, when they do it tends to be for long periods of time and for a range of purposes. Levels of overcrowding at the more accessible sites indicate the value that urban dwellers place on these resources, and their importance to the city as a whole. The results of this study provide evidence for the need to protect green spaces from the competing demands associated with increasing urbanisation, especially if the wider goal of urban sustainability is to be achieved.
4603358|The impact of increase in population on land use and subsistence pattern was examined in two environmentally contrasting Huli-speaking communities, Heli and Wenani, in the Tari basin in Papua New Guinea Highlands. Despite the similar extent of population increase in both communities, the damage to land differed markedly. In Heli, a decrease in land productivity owing to excessive agricultural use has induced farmers to shorten the fallow duration, which in turn has led to further land degradation and difficulties in increasing food production. In contrast, Wenani villagers have coped with the population increase by enlarging areas for cultivation and possibly will be able to double their present production level, although increasingly frequent disputes over land rights have restricted peoples' access to fertile areas. During a period of climatic perturbations in 1994, land and labor productivities of crops were three times higher in Wenani than in Heli, which suffered a severe food shortage. This difference in ability to cope with climatic perturbations may have increased with population growth. The findings in the present study suggest that the effects of population pressure on food production may differ between communities, depending on the indigenous environment and subsistence pattern.
4603448| A large and growing number of agricultural households in less developed countries are also engaged in international migration. Thousands of farmers from the highland provinces of Caar and Azuay, Ecuador, have immigrated to metropolitan New York, where they work in menial jobs and remit, as a group, millions of dollars annually. This paper examines the effects of international migration on agricultural production and land-use in two regions of Caar Province. An agricultural survey was administered in two communities to determine land-use and agricultural production of migrant and nonmigrant households. Contrary to most reports on the subject, migration has neither led to agricultural abandonment nor have remittances been dedicated to agricultural improvements. Semisubsistence agriculture remains an important riskaverse economic and cultural activity, but cultivation is a poor investment. A large investment in housing and land has converted much of the region into a peri-urban landscape of cultivated real estate. 
4603331|Mobile livestock herders have long been seen as the main culprits of overstocking and rangeland degradation. In recent years, however, anthropologists and ecologists have argued that African pastoralists have developed sustainable modes of pasture management based on a sound knowledge of savanna ecosystems. Comparing indigenous knowledge on species' grazing values, plant succession, and ideas about the causes for environmental change in two African pastoral societies (the Kenyan Pokot and the Namibian Himba), it is shown that their knowledge is indeed fine-grained and complex but at the same time socially constructed and embedded in ideology. It relates to a cultural landscape and not to abstract considerations on climax vegetation and its changes over time. Pastoral knowledge is built up around the interaction between herds and vegetation rather than around the environment as such.
27654220|The prey choice model, previously applied among shellfish gatherers in Kiribati, Micronesia, has shown that they are foraging in a manner that matches the predictions of optimal foraging theory by maximizing their net energy return rates. Similar conclusions can be drawn subsequent to testing the patch choice model, including patch switching; patch sampling; and the analysis of risk. In light of these results, it is argued that natural selection probably never encouraged the persistence of conservation because individuals have nearly always benefited from short-term goals to ensure greater fitness. However, the possibility remains that as a result of changed circumstances brought about by increasing human population, more efficient extractive technologies, and expanding market opportunities, genuine, as opposed to epiphenomenal conservation, may become established in heavily impacted environments.
4603555|This study first explores the physical and psychological health effects of residence near industrial hog farms. The study compares differences in specific health symptoms, psychological distress, and perceived control between a group of 48 nearby residents and a control group (n = 34) with no exposure to hog farms. The process through which nearby residence affects psychological distress is then explored by examining for mediating effects of either physical health symptoms or perceived control. Findings suggest that nearby residence is associated with increases in 12 of the 22 reported physical symptoms. Most of these significantly different symptoms are related to respiratory, sinus, and nausea problems. Nearby residence is also associated with increased psychological distress and decreased perceptions of control. Nearby residence appears to affect psychological distress by increasing physical health symptoms. Although nearby residents report significantly lower perceived control, perceived control does not play a significant role in the process through which nearby residence affects psychological distress.
4602389|This article explores links between disease and social standing in a primitive New Guinea community. Social and cultural events have modified the incidence of certain diseases. Furthermore, the changing patterns of disease may have influenced the development and form of social distinctions.
23353207|A growing dilemma is how to conserve Amazonian forest while allowing local people to secure their livelihoods. Small-scale swidden farming in Amazonia is entirely dependent on the continued provision of ecosystem services (ES) that generate the conditions for agriculture. This study identified soil-related ES needed for, and enhanced by, productive swidden systems from the farmer's perspective. Workshops in six farming communities in northeastern Peru discussed various land uses, swidden systems that continue to be productive, and swidden systems on degraded land. The participating farmers noted changes in their production systems and described the ES (or lack thereof) in terms of soil quality, crop production quantity and quality, burning practices, forest regeneration, and farming skill. The central elements described in farmers' own strategies for managing soil-related ES were fallow management for biomass production and crop diversity, factors identified as central to future ES management work in established agricultural areas in Amazonia.
4602755|This analysis of G//ana territorial organization shows how land rights are acquired and how they affect patterns of land use. Both spatial and social boundaries are discussed. It is shown that the appearance of overlapping spatial boundaries is clarified through a focus on the land rights of individuals and a consideration of historical population movements over the region. The discussion of social boundaries shows that, while interterritorial marriage and mobility networks are extensive, increases in property and food production appear to be associated with a closing of social boundaries (increased social nucleation). This is suggested by greater endogamy and a trend toward patrilineal inheritance of land rights in recent years.
4603345|The optimal use of Amazonian flood-recession soils in contexts of dense settlement is, according to many anthropologists, agronomists, and ecologists, the cultivation of proteinaceous cereals and legumes. Storable protein is thought to be necessary for nutritional security through the fish-poor season. Campo Alegre, a Tikuna floodplain community of over 1300 people, is one of the largest indigenous Amazonian communities in the contemporary ethnographic record. Furthermore, some two-thirds of its agricultural production is directed toward market sale. However, in the summers of 1994 and 1995, residents cultivated no proteinaceous crops on their extensive floodplain to store for later consumption. Their utilization of these soils, a relatively new resource for them, is best understood in relation to the intensification of two traditional resource bases--fisheries and upland soils, the resulting pressures on their production flows, and the desire to maintain them.
4603104|Based on a year data collected over 1 year from a sample of 200 households living in a village in southwestern Bangladesh, the present study examines the prevalence of higher rates of unemployment and underemployment in agriculture particularly among the landless and small farmers and sharecroppers. When compared with the existing previous data from other parts of the country, growing rates of unemployment and underemployment in agriculture were evidenced. Population pressure, landlessness, environmental constraints, and technological changes in agriculture are some of the causes of unemployment in farming. Both male, female, and child laborers in the farm household perform various amounts and types of off-farm work to supplement low farm income. Off-farm income accounted for 66% of the family income. Contributions of female and child labor are significant. Education and urbanization show positive effects on the availability of off-farm work as well as off-farm income.
24013721|The role of humans in historic fire regimes has received little quantitative attention. Here, we address this inadequacy by developing a fire history in northeastern Oklahoma on lands once occupied by the Cherokee Nation. A fire event chronology was reconstructed from 324 tree-ring dated fire scars occurring on 49 shortleaf pine (Pinus echinata) remnant trees. Fire event data were examined with the objective of determining the relative roles of humans and climate over the last four centuries. Variability in the fire regime appeared to be significantly influenced by human population density, culture, and drought. The mean fire interval (MFI) within the 1.2 km study area was 7.5 years from 1633 to 1731 and 2.8 years from 1732 to 1840. Population density of Native American groups including Cherokee was significantly correlated (r=0.84) with the number of fires per decade between 1680 and 1880. Coincident with the Removal of the Cherokee and other native peoples from the eastern United States and immigrations into northeast Oklahoma, the MFI decreased to 1.8 years. After 1925 fire intervals were considerably lengthened (MFI=16 years) due to fire suppression and decreased fire use until the recent prescribed burning by The Nature Conservancy. Many of the historic fire years that were previously shown to be synchronous across Missouri and Arkansas during drought years were also fire years at this site. Overall the frequency of fires was weakly associated with drought compared to human population density.
4602801|Traditional subsistence pastoralists in East Africa tend to keep large herds, milk cattle in preference to eating them, and subject them to long foraging treks. Such practices are widely considered ill-suited to arid lands and are believed to arise because cattle are raised more for social prestige than food production. Whether this is true can only be judged by considering the responses of cattle to arid zones and, given the herder's goals and options, his management practices. In considering these factors, we show that indigenous East African cattle demonstrate energy-sparing capabilities during drought. Pastoralists can therefore herd cattle at great distances from water at little more cost than animals on the normal maintenance diet and watered more frequently. The physiological response of cattle to drought, the ecological constraints imposed by livestock and wildlife competition, and the energetic efficiency of mixed milk and meat pastoralism explain why herders traditionally select their characteristic management practices.
24015697|Terraces are ubiquitous, in some ways defining, features of Mediterranean environments, yet their longerterm history and relationship to human populations and food economies are not well understood. This paper discusses a complete system of terraces across the small island of Antikythera, Greece. We bring together the evidence from archaeology, ethnography, archival history, botany and geoarchaeology, supported by direct dating of buried terrace soils, and consider terrace investment in relation to major episodes in the island's punctuated history of human activity. This broad-spectrum approach leads to a range of interesting insights on the spatial structure of terraces, on the degree of correlation between terrace construction and changing human population, and on the implications of terrace abandonment for vegetation and soils.
41474637|Fear of an upcoming woodfuel crisis caused by increasing woodfuel consumption in Bamako has had great influence on forestry policies aiming to reduce the impacts of urban woodfuel consumption. During the last 20 years, energy gap analysesthe relationship between supply and demand of woodfuelshave been produced by the government of Mali to prove the impacts of woodfuel consumption in Bamako on surrounding woodlands. This study evaluates the methodology and data used to describe this woodfuel crisis through a comparison with regional and historical data. The results of the energy gap analyses are challenged by using different estimates of woody resource availability and woodfuel consumption to create best and worst case scenarios. These show either high surpluses or high deficits with a difference of 2.7 million tons/yr. The woodfuel system of Bamako is highly dynamic and it is very difficult to evaluate its sustainability using a simple methodology such as the energy gap analysis. Trends over the last 20 years show a highly efficient woodfuel system that has adapted to changing circumstances, ensuring a continued affordable woodfuel supply for the urban residents. Better data on the productivity of West African woodlands and urban consumption are needed to avoid misinterpretations of the impacts of woodfiiel harvesting on woody resources.
4603308|Chronic, heavy livestock grazing and concomitant fire suppression have caused the gradual replacement of palatable grass species by less palatable trees and woody shrubs in a rangeland degradation process termed bush encroachment in South Africa. Grazing policymakers and cattle farmers alike have not appreciated the ecological role fire and native browsers play in preventing bush encroachment. Unpredictable droughts are common in South Africa but have deflected too much blame for bush encroachment away from grazing mismanagement. Bush encroachment is widespread on both black and white farms, although the contributing socioeconomic, cultural, and political forces differ. Managers at Madikwe Game Reserve have reintroduced fire and native game animals into a formerly overgrazed system in an attempt to remediate bush encroachment, with encouraging preliminary results. A bush control program is needed that educates cattle farmers about the ecological causes of bush encroachment and encourages the use of fire and native browsers as tools for sustainable grazing management.
27654205|We explore the association between climate change and warfare in eastern China over the past millennium from a macro-historic perspective. High-resolution palaeo-temperature reconstructions and the complete record of warfare incidence in eastern China were compared. Results show that warfare frequency in eastern China (its southern portion in particular) significantly correlated with the Northern Hemisphere temperature oscillations. Almost all peaks of warfare frequency and dynastic changes occurred in cooling phases. We suggest that in historic China, the reduction of thermal energy during cooling phases significantly shrank agricultural production. Such ecological stress interacted with population pressure and China's unique historic and geographic setting to bring about the high frequencies of warfare over the last millennium. We recommend scholars take climate change into account as they consider the anthropology of warfare in the historic past.
4602928|The relatively low reproductive rates of hunter-gatherer populations have been attributed to high natural mortality, low fertility, and cultural practices such as infanticide and sexual abstention. While we currently lack the data necessary to determine the relative effects of each of these factors on reproduction in any hunter-gatherer population, an analysis of the relations between cultural practices and reproduction at a more general level can set the stage for further research in hunter-gatherer societies. This paper reviews and discusses the current literature on specific links between female nutritional health, fertility, and infant mortality. It begins with a consideration of food taboos, one potential source of hunter-gatherer female nutritional stress. In particular, it is argued that the timing of food taboos on females in many hunter-gatherer societies often coincides with critical periods in women's reproductive careers. Next, the paper explores the interrelationships between female nutritional health and fertility and infant mortality, using data from modern hunter-gatherer and agricultural populations. Finally, because data adequate to test specific relationships between patterns of food restrictions and reproduction are not yet available, the paper concludes with a brief discussion of the data necessary for testing these relationships in hunter-gatherer populations.
4603177|Waste management in developing world urban areas is an acute problem which is linked to high growth rates and abatement methods less advanced than in the developed world. Existing neighborhood waste management practices often include the use of organic waste as a feed supplement for urban livestock (mainly goats, but also sheep and cattle). These urban animals bring economic benefits to less affluent residents, who would suffer an economic loss if their supply of urban waste was reduced or eliminated by an organized waste collection and disposal strategy. This paper employs a survey of 319 Greater Khartoum households to derive an estimate of waste intake per urban animal, and illustrate demographic factors (e.g., rural or urban roots, income, education, number of children) which influence animal keeping. A loglinear/logit model is developed to predict animal-keeping households. This model can be applied by waste management planners to estimate the frequency of urban animals in developing world urban areas.
4602954|This research uses aggregate statistical sources to describe agricultural diversity in a 31 county area of Appalachian Kentucky over the period 1880-1910. In particular, it considers the distribution and duration of forest farming in this region. It examines the causes of agricultural diversity by testing a series of hypotheses conceptually based in ecological theory. For 1880, counties differed in the degree to which they had the characteristics expected for forest farming. This variation was geographically patterned. While there was still geographical variation in county agricultural characteristics in 1910, sufficient change had occurred so that none of the counties continued to closely conform to the pattern expected for forest farming. Variation and change in county agricultural characteristics were found to be related to population density and growth, soil quality, the presence of railroads, and the development of commercial coal mining.
4603064|Traditionally, the Shipibo economy was subsistence-based with shifting cultivation supplying calories, principally in the form of plantains and root crops, while fishing and hunting provided animal proteins to the diet. Some men, who recently began producing rice for sale in regional markets, now allocate less time to wild food procurement. Moreover, this trend has been accompanied by the nucleation of households, a growing cash market for agricultural labor, and the intravillage sale of faunal foods. This paper shows that with cash cropping, some Shipibo now freely distribute less food to others in relation to the amount they produce. To account for this change, a theory is developed based on time allocation and patterns of economic behavior reported throughout the Amazon. This theory is then applied to explain specialization and the formation of cash markets for food labor among the Shipibo.
4602317|Viruses normally associated with man, or antibodies to such viruses, were found in animals in two villages in West Bengal during a 6-month survey. Eleven serotypes were isolated from the feces of seven vertebrate species and one serotype from flies. In one of the villages, echovirus 7 was most frequently isolated at the start of the study and was obtained from six species, including both mammals and birds, whereas poliovirus 1 occurred in two species at the end of the study. Repeated isolations were made from two dogs over a 2- to 3-month period. The coprophagous, terrestrial species (dogs and chickens) yielded the highest number of isolates and the highest number of serotypes, whereas the primarily nonterrestrial species (monkeys and house crows) yielded the least number of isolates and serotypes. Most of the cattle and some of the goats had antibodies to a Hong Kong (
4603492|Among African pastoralists evidence that wealth is associated with other measures of household success is scant and the significance of wealth differentials for family welfare remains poorly understood. Predictions that wealth in livestock is associated with increased adequacy of household food supply and with improved child nutrition are tested with longtitudinal data on herd size, household composition, food supply, and anthropometric status collected in 1992 for a sample of traditional Datoga households (n = 20) living in the Eyasi basin in northern Tanzania. Although a majority subsisted below poverty cutoffs estimated for east African pastoral populations, there was large variation among households in measures of wealth and resource availability. Individuals in relatively wealthy households did not appear to benefit either in terms of adequacy of household food supply or in terms of average growth performance of young children. Theoretical and methodological challenges in the study of the relationship between wealth and health in nomadic pastoralists are discussed.
4602871|The Raphia palms in the southern part of Benin are confined to freshwater swamps, where the natural vegetation consists of a forest rich in Dicotyledons. Human activity has transformed this forest into a "raphiale" where Raphia hookeri has become the main arborescent species. The influence of this transformation on the vegetation results in a more regular distribution of Raphis hookeri trunks and a gradual disappearing of clumps of ramets. By now, the future of Raphis hookeri species is almost ensured except in situations of over-exploitation.
4603236|The transmission of 93 items of women's indigenous knowledge and bush skills was studied in two subarctic Omushkego (West Main) Cree Indian communities, Moose Factory and Peawanuck, Ontario, Canada. About half of all bush skills were still being transmitted at the "hands-on" learning stage. Some skills such as setting snares and fishnets, beadwork, smoking geese, and tanning moose and caribou hides were transmitted well. Many skills no longer essential for livelihoods, such as some fur preparation skills and food preservation techniques, were not. Loss of certain skills and incomplete transmission of others (a lower level of mastery than in older generations) were attributable to changes in the educational environment, diminished time available in the bush, problems related to learning bush skills at later ages, and changes in value systems. These factors seemed to impair the traditional mode of education based on participant observation and apprenticeship in the bush, which provided the essential self-disciplining educational environment. Policy measures to counteract these trends may include the institution of a hunters' income security program to provide incentives for family units to go on the land, rather than all-male hunting parties.
4603329| In this article data on household food consumption is used to further understanding of subsistence strategies in three Caboclo populations on Maraj Island, Amazonia, Brazil. Data were collected using participant observation and 24-hour food recalls in 16 households for 7 consecutive days during the rainy (March) and dry (July) seasons. Maraj-Au households (n = 6) had the highest levels of energy and protein intake relative to recommendations. This was probably related to their successful integration into the prosperous aai (a palm fruit) market of the riverine area. Praia Grande households (n = 6) had the lowest values for energy intake (rainy season), which supports the authors' ethnographic observations of some instability in the subsistence system of this population. Paricatuba households (n = 4) exhibited intermediate values of energy and protein intakes, but less seasonal variation in consumption than the other two populations. Despite the differences observed, food consumption does not appear to be a major limitation for any of the three populations. The data support recent hypotheses concerning the concomitant and multiple use of vrzea (floodplain) and terra firme (upland) environments by the Caboclos and integration into the local market economy as the central strategies in dealing with the so-called socioenvironmental constraints of the Amazonian floodplain. 
25652740|The effects of socioecological transformations such as climate change, the collapse of the Soviet empire, and civil war are examined for 14 villages in the valleys of the Pamir Mountains in the historical Badakhshan region, now divided between Afghanistan and Tajikistan. Preliminary findings indicate concern for food sovereignty, evidence of biocultural impacts of climate change, an increasing burden on women, debilitating opium addiction, the ecological importance of sacred sites, and other priorities related to sustainable livelihoods, such as energy needs (for fuel and lighting) and physical and social infrastructure in the form of roads and schools. In the complex setting of the Pamir Mountains, characterized by both cultural and ecological diversity and marked by artificial political boundaries, the creative and pragmatic interaction between indigenous and scientific knowledge sustains the best hope for survival. Applied research must combine communities of inquirers (research institutions) with communities of social practitioners (farmers, pastoralists, and civil society institutions) to facilitate indigenous participation in generating context-specific knowledge. The goal of such research is practical outcomes that will meet the urgent priorities of village communities. This paper establishes a baseline from which undertake applied human ecological research related to livelihood security.
27654181|This paper is an attempt to combine the results and conclusions of two independently designed research projects, in order to achieve a more complete understanding of the degree of exploitation of living marine resources by a small Tongan coastal fishing community. Results of a socioeconomic resource-driven survey and an anthropological study adopting a commons dilemma approach, agree substantially on the impact of tradition and changes, but disagree with regard to the driving forces. The socioeconomic study argues that dynamics between traditional and modern economic values best explain the state of the community's coastal fisheries; while the anthropological study argues that social values and obligations still determine to a great extent the goals people pursue with their economic activities. Current fishing pressure, the marine tenure system, and present and future marketing potentials are all factors which may result in conflict between the traditional Tongan system and the modern cash-based, remittance sustained system. These will ultimately affect the current and future status of coastal resources and the social cohesion of the community.
4603299|This descriptive study identifies patterns of land use among small farmer settlers in the Northeastern Ecuadorian Amazon using cross-sectional data collected among approximately 400 households in 1990. A "typology" of land use patterns is built and considered in relation to two household characteristics: duration of settlement and labor. Several variations in land use patterns are identified according to the degree of forest clearing they involve. Findings suggest that most settlers reflect a low cleared area pattern which may be related to a "brake" family-based coffee production cleared and places on the area cultivated. Reducing clearing by settlers already in the region may therefore mean reinforcing what most are already doing. However, since lower welfare may be associated with lower cleared areas patterns, reinforcing their use will involve making them more profitable. Improving the well-being of the human as well as natural resources of the Amazon frontier will inevitably entail policy measures which reconcile the needs of settler households with forest conservation.
27654207|In 1998, a decree issued by the Indonesian government enabled communities in Krui, Indonesia, to register for concession rights over the area of state forest land planted with their agroforests. Registration would provide farmers with the legal right to manage and benefit from these agroforests. In 2005, we found that even though none of the Krui communities has ever formally applied for their concession rights, the decree has been instrumental in stopping outsiders' attempts to appropriate these agro-forests. Farmers within the state forest zone felt secure enough to continue investing in their complex agroforestry systems, while planting trees reinforced their feeling of security. We conclude that it is not the legal status of tenure, but the perception of tenure security that is of significance in people's land-use decisions. These results are considered in the wider context of statecommunity conflicts over forest land in the tropics.
4602754|Traditional subsistence pastoralists are often seen as causing environmental degradation through overgrazing, and are also seen as responsible for a decline in wildlife numbers through resource competition and habitat change. This paper investigates recent ideas on the interaction of pastoralism and conservation that question the validity of the concepts of overstocking and overgrazing as applied to arid and semi-arid rangelands. The Ngorongoro Conservation Area, a Maasai pastoralist/wildlife conservation joint land use area in northern Tanzania, shows no clear signs of pastoralist-induced environmental degradation despite a preoccupation with this possibility by successive administrations. Ecological studies together with other considerations suggest that joint land use works to the long-term benefit of both pastoralism and conservation in this and other areas.
4603030| A study of spear fishing by the Bar of the Maracaibo Basin provides data demonstrating a benefit accruing to individual fishermen fishing in groups. An analysis of counts of successful and unsuccessful spear thrusts shows that fish are made more vulnerable to spear thrusts by companion fishermen who wear down and confuse the fish. Fish vulnerability is seen to depend on the number of encounters a fish has already survived. This Encounter History effect may be operative in other predator and prey relationships. 
24017344|Non-timber forest products contribute significantly to rural livelihoods in the West African savannas. This study investigates differences in use preferences for native woody species in six categories of plant use and their economic returns among five ethnic groups in Northern Benin. Ethnobotanical survey data from 230 households revealed that both ethnic affiliation and location significantly impact species' valuation. Of a total of 90 species, 61 % were used for medicinal applications, 41 % as firewood, 39 % for construction, and 32 % as human foods. While certain plant species were used by all rural dwellers, others were used exclusively by particular ethnic groups. Vitellaria paradoxa, Parkia biglobosa and Adansonia digitata are key economic species for all groups. Conservation measures should consider multi-purpose trees fulfilling subsistence and cash needs while taking into consideration cultural differences in use preferences.
4602657|This paper proposes models and examples of five principal modes of interaction between genes and culture in human evolution. Because genes and culture ultimately interact in the minds of individuals, the models are focused on individual-level processes of "constrained microevolution." The central hypotheses are (1) that cultural evolution as well as genetic evolution commonly proceeds by the differential transmission of alternative "instructions" among individuals, (2) that genetic and cultural processes directly interact through mutual influence on each other's differentials of transmission in a population, (3) that the cultural process is often self-selecting by its own criteria, and (4) that these criteria generally operate to enhance rather than oppose human adaptation. Evolutionary change at higher levels, which is particularly important in sociocultural evolution, is interpreted as restructuring the nature and extent of the variability available at the individual level. To clarify the conceptual differences of the models and hopefully to stimulate related analyses in other areas, I discuss selected examples of each of these interactions. I conclude with some remarks on the relative importance of the models to human ecology and evolution.
4602714|In view of the generally disappointing performance of colonization projects in the Amazon basin, unusual projects merit close scrutiny because they may suggest a more effective organizational form for the colonization of humid lowlands. With this end in mind, this article examines those aspects of the Upano-Palora project in southeastern Ecuador that are attributable to the project's unusual plan of establishing settlements first and building the roads afterwards. It concludes that the "settlements first, roads second" developmental sequence reduced the costs of the project, produced an egalitarian pattern of landownership, and contributed to a pattern of land use that had potentially damaging ecological effects. These findings suggest that variations in the timing of road building have an important impact on outcomes in new land settlement schemes.
41433089|Contemporary subsistence hunting practices of North American Indians have been questioned because of hunters' use of modern technologies and integration of wage-based and subsistence livelihoods. Tribal traditional ecological knowledge (TEK) has been questioned on similar grounds and used as justification for ignoring tribal perspectives on critical natural resource conservation and development issues. This paper examines hunting on the Lac du Flambeau Indian Reservation in North Central Wisconsin, USA. The study used semi-structured interviews with hunters from the reservation to document their contemporary hunting practices and the traditional moral code that informs their hunting-related behaviors and judgments. Subsistence hunting is framed in the context of TEK and attention focused on the interplay between TEK's practical and moral dimensions. Results indicate the importance of traditional moral codes in guiding a community's contemporary hunting practices and the inseparability and interdependence of epistemological, practical, and ethical dimensions of TEK.
4602786|Human carrying capacity for tropical agricultural populations can be estimated with a computer simulation of the agroecosystem. A stochastic model is developed for estimating carrying capacity in one of the government-directed small farmer settlement projects along Brazil's Transamazon Highway. Carrying capacity is operationally defined in terms of an empirically computed relationship between population density and probability of colonist failure with respect to various criteria. When high population density leads failure probability to exceed a maximum acceptable level, population can be considered to be above carrying capacity. Colonist failure probabilities are those that are sustainable over a long period of simulated years. High variability in crop yields appears to have a strong effect on failure probability based on comparison of deterministic and stochastic runs of the simulations. Failure probabilities are raised by variability at low population densities, but are lowered at extremely high densities where most colonists would fail in an "average" year. Effects can be tested for colonists with different backgrounds or with differing agricultural practices such as fallow times. Failure probabilities in standard runs are higher than those considered acceptable to government planners at all population densities simulated in the present study's stochastic runs (lowest density 24 persons/km
4603344| Mapuche Indians have a long tradition of using edible wild resources. The people of Rams (Neuqun, Argentina) consider themselves descendants of the Pehuenches, an Indian group that once inhabited the Pehun forest region. They now live in the steppe, far away from the forest. Our primary interests are how this community uses edible resources and in analyzing which plants are still utilized. We conducted an ethnobotanical study, which consisted in interviewing several Mapuche families and collecting plants with their help. Ecological variable of plant use, such as search cost, handling time, and nutritional content, were analyzed from the perspective of Optimal Foraging Theory. Our results indicate that the Rams inhabitants have a thorough understanding of their environment, expressed in a selective gathering of wild resources. Cost and benefit trade-offs seem to be considered when edible plants are collected. 
4602258|By introducing the concept of the natural selection of individual organisms, Darwin was able to cut through the mystification surrounding theological discussions of the origin of species. By placing the concept of an individual "struggle for satisfaction" in an analogous conceptual framework, a similar feat may be performed with regard to the mystification and reification surrounding much of contemporary social science. The proposed theory states that individuals are the generating force behind the origin, spread, and transformations of sociocultural complexes and that all sociocultural phenomena are explicable in terms of the differential replication of ideas by individuals as this is conditioned by selective pressures generated by particular material conditions of life. The theory is used to illuminate certain key issues in evolution, such as adaptation, group selection, and free will.
4602866|Much of pastoral development in Africa has been predicted on the assumed desirability of converting pastoralists to commercial beef producers. Such development has ignored two fundamental aspects of pastoral production: first, the greater human support capacity of a dual milk/meat production system, and second, significant wealth inequality within pastoral communities. This paper presents a case study based on several years of field research in Kenya Maasailand; it examines variations by wealth status in milking strategies and the level of milk offtake for human consumption. Rich households have five times the number of cattle per reference adult as poor households, but similar levels of milk consumption, due to differences in the allocation of milk between calves and people. Residential location and watering frequency also vary by wealth status, contributing to a difference in total milk production per cow.
40603026|The aim of this paper is to explore the relevance of a systematic application of resilience thinking to questions of pastoralist policy, a task that requires taking the concept of resilience beyond the level of a metaphor and operationalizing it. One approach to accomplishing this is the components-relationships-innovation-continuity framework (Cumming et al 2005), which, in this paper, we apply to analysis of the social-ecological system of the Gabra people in north-central Kenya. While some types of indicators, such as those monitored by humanitarian information systems, can help to identify when the resilience of a system has been eroded, indicators of the components, relationships, and sources of innovation and continuity help o make clear the dynamics of how resilience is being lost. In the case of the Gabra, our analysis suggests that there is a need to envision a third alternativea stability domain that is distinct both from traditional pastoralism whose viability has been undermined and from the perversely resilient poverty trap that is coming to dominate. While this kind of conclusion may not be new, a resilience-based analysis helps to uncover specific details regarding what such a third alternative might entail and what kinds of policy levers might help to make it possible.
4603158|Commercial cattle ranching began in east central Arizona during the late 1880s when thousands of head of cattle were introduced onto the previously unexploited grasslands of the Little Colorado River Basin. Most of these animals were imported from western Texas where serious overgrazing had resulted in both catastrophic cattle losses and widespread range deterioration. By the turn of the century, the Texas experience had been repeated in Arizona, because Texas cattlemen continued to follow the same destructive stocking practices in this new region. This paper examines: (1) the early development of cattle ranching in the Little Colorado River Basin; (2) the various factors which contributed to overgrazing in the region; and (3) the consequences that commercial cattle ranching had on the local environment and on the pre-existing farming communities of the region.
4603343|This paper examines the impact of very high population densities and agricultural intensification on farm diversity and food security. Geertz and other researchers have suggested that intensification is likely to lead to crop specialization and a loss of diversity. Others, especially for Africa, have argued that intensification maintains or even increases agro-diversity. The case of Hamisi, in western Kenya, one of the most densely populated areas in all of rural Africa, supports the latter scenario. Farmers engage in a wide variety of sophisticated practices that maintain exceptionally high levels of agro-diversity. Their farming system includes complex patterns of intercropping, polyvariety, an emphasis on multi-purpose crops, and the close integration of crops and livestock. Despite this agro-diversity, we find that the intense population pressure in Hamisi has resulted in such small landholdings that diet quality and food security are seriously jeopardized. Despite the diversity of their farms, most families are highly dependent on market purchases and they consume very limited quantities of nutritionally dense foods, especially protein.
40603014|The Cochabamba Water War of 2000 was precipitated by Bolivians' defense of common-pool water resources and institutions against privatization. This article examines the design of a water institution and its sustainability during periods of water scarcity in urban Cochabamba. Based on data collected via participant-observation and panel surveys conducted in 72 randomly selected households, I draw three main conclusions. First, the institution operated according to principles found in sustainable resource management institutions in the rural Andes (Trawick 2001) and across cultures (Ostrom 1990). Second, while the function of the commonpool resource institution was stable over the five study periods, the social structures that supported collective choice and operational rules were sensitive to external events including seasonal water scarcity. Third, while institutions with strong historical precedents for contingencies under resource stress may be sustainable, other forms of social organization on which the institution depends may be more vulnerable to water scarcity.
4603504|Companion animal overpopulation is a problem of human creation with significant human costs that can only be addressed through human action. A model was constructed to understand the dynamics of canine overpopulation and the effectiveness of various policy options for reducing euthanasia. The model includes economic and ecological factors in human and dog populations. According to the model, a "no-kill" society is an achievable goal at an acceptable human cost. Spay/neuter programs were generally found to be the most effective, with increasing adoptions also being an effective option. However, spay/neuter policies need to be evaluated over a very long time horizon since full impact may not be achieved for 30 years or more. Spay/neuter efforts can have a large impact even if they only effect a small portion of the human population. Adoption and spay/neuter programs were found to work well in combination, and to continue being effective as society approaches "no-kill" dynamics.
23280339|Manna grass (mainly but not exclusively G. fluitans) used to be widely gathered in most lowland areas of the present territory of Poland and western and southern Belarus. It had an important function as a component of tribute paid to local landowners by villagers, which led to the persistence of manna gathering even when this was not sustainable for peasants themselves. Manna grass was always an expensive food due to its time consuming gathering, but appreciated for its sweet taste and often served as dessert. In the nineteenth century marshes shrank significantly and the payment of tribute disappeared from the local economy, which gradually led to the total abandonment of Glyceria use around 1914. This article provides a detailed overview of Glyceria use as food within the borders of the former Polish-Lithuanian Kingdom (now Poland, Lithuania, western Belarus and western Ukraine) based on archaeobotanical, historical and ethnographic sources. The evidence for the continued use of manna since at least medieval times is abundant in historical accounts and ethnographic studies, but little has been reported in archaeobotanical findings due to the relatively small amounts of Glyceria consumed.
4603361|Conceptual issues of gender equity in development are examined and analyzed with respect to the Social forestry project (Village and Farm Forestry Project; VFFP) as a means to redistribute access to productive resources and household benefits. A random sample of 120 VFFP participants, both men and women, was interviewed regarding their division of labor and their access to resources and benefits in relation to the project. The survey suggests that women and men produce different quantities and types of labor for the VFFP. Although women supply more labor than men, it is possible that women's overall labor burden is reduced in relation to the national average. For VFFP participants called "core farmers," women enjoy the same access to productive resources and services as men, with the important exception that women do not generally have land rights. Yet 100% of interviewed women "core farmers" answered positively to six indicators of sociocultural advancement because of their participation in the VFFP. Among a second tier of VFFP participants called "participating farmers," a large majority of women respondents claim rights on most resources and services important in the VFFP, although these proportions are less than among men respondents. Most women "participating farmers" answered affirmatively to the six indicators of sociocultural advancement, but in lesser proportions than among women "core farmers."
4603564|Class, ethnic, and gender differences among fisherfolk powerfully influence how the benefits and costs of coastal resource management programs are perceived and experienced in Philippine fishing communities. These and other social differences also limit the efficacy of community participation in these programs and hence the role that local communities can be expected to play in fisheries co-management regimes. Greater attention to institutional changes is needed if the management potential of such regimes is to be realized.
41474608|The transmission of environmental knowledge and land skills was studied among Inuit men in Ulukhaktok, Northwest Territories, Canada. A list of 83 skills important for safe and successful harvesting was generated with 14 active hunters and elders, and examined with a sample of 47 men. This research found that land skills continue to be transmitted most often from older to younger generations through observation and apprenticeship in the environment. However there is a difference in the rate of skills transmission among generations, with average transmission rates lowest among younger respondents. Some skills were transmitted well among younger respondents including general hunting and camp-related skills, but others such as traveling on the sea ice and traditional navigation skills were not. Loss of certain skills and incomplete transmission of others were related to the absence of skills teachers, loss of native language, and changes in the educational environment.
41474640|It has been postulated that the emergence of adaptive co-management can be driven by crises that transform social-ecological systems with low resilience. We compared two concurrent case studies of grizzly bearhuman conflicts in northern Canada to assess whether such crises could effect such transformations in bear-human systems. We conclude that they can, evaluate the outcomes, and identify conditions that may explain these observations. For remote communities, horizontal and vertical institutional connections are important for facilitating learning and the integration of information in wildlife management, yet they can be difficult to establish. Events in Baker Lake, Nunavut, showed that without such connections local peoples' substantial ecological knowledge may not be integrated effectively into decision processes. In the Inuvialuit Settlement Region the quota system for grizzly bear harvests has been able to successfully incorporate both scientific and traditional ecological knowledge, largely because of its cross-scale institutional network. The leadership provided by individual champions was also an important determinant of both case studies' outcomes.
41474651|Despite complete legal protection, improvements in infrastructure, and market conditions that provide easier access to other protein sources, illegal poaching of sea turtles for consumption in Baja California Sur (BCS), Mexico remains a major threat to their recovery. Few studies have focused on understanding the economic and social drivers behind this activity, which is fundamental to determining best practices for discouraging it. From June 2007 to April 2008 we conducted eight in-depth, semi-structured interviews with sea turtle poachers at five coastal communities in BCS to determine the drivers influencing them. The most prevalent reasons for illegal poaching were direct economic benefits, lack of law enforcement and ease of escape from or bribery of authorities, and strong family tradition. Our results suggest that to reduce illegal poaching it will be necessary to better enforce existing environmental laws, reduce social acceptance of sea turtle hunting throughout the region, educate fishers on the ecological importance of sea turtles, and show fishers direct economic benefits from non-consumptive use of sea turtles, such as ecotourism.
41474600|Apartheid isolated South Africa economically and politically from the global arena and its citizens culturally from one another. Post-apartheid policymakers have sought to address prior inequalities in education, health care and employment, concerns central to biodiversity conservation initiatives. This article examines the role of school gardening programs on the distribution and transmission of local phytomedicinal knowledge. Urban Cape Town, an area of high biocultural diversity, presents a unique environment in which to observe cultural distinctions in medicinal plant utilization, the impact of school gardening, and the recent cultural amalgamation in local knowledge transmission. Local healers chose 16 common medicinal plants, which were used to examine fifth and seventh graders' knowledge of local remedies. Results indicate that knowledge of different plants was concentrated in specific ethnic groups and amongst recent migrants. It is proposed that ethnic separation during the apartheid era insulated cultures on socioeconomic and geo-environmental strata, thereby preserving local knowledge.
4603065| The community of Gamboa is located on Itacuru Island, Sepetiba Bay (State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) and includes 26 families, mostly of artisanal fishermen who use paddled or motor canoes, and encircling nets for fishing. In this study, predictions from optimal foraging theory (patch model), in particular of patch residence time, are compared to the observed behavior of fishermen on fishing trips. Fishermen's strategies differ depending on their intended prey. They spend more time in patches and use fewer patches for shrimp than for fish. Gamboa's fishermen tend to leave a patch later than predicted by the model. The difficulty in evaluating stock availability, the comparatively few patches available for shrimp, and the competitive aspects of fishing contribute to the explanation of this behavior. 
27654253|A coalition of environmental activists and professionals created the San Diego Fire Recovery Network (SDFRN) while the largest wildfire in California history was still burning at the city's edge in October 2003. Acting quickly while the citizenry questioned governmental ability to protect their rapidly growing region, SDFRN proposed to reduce fire risk in a way that altered residential knowledge practices and identity while reshaping governance relationships. While this effort stalled after governmental agencies restored public confidence through massive fire prevention initiatives, SDFRN's efforts may not have been in vain. Retained within collective memory, SDFRN contributed to community resilience by diversifying possible responses to environmental change and uncertainty. In this way, flexible, informal learning organizations such as SDFRN may serve as "skunkworks," seizing on disaster in order to incubate socialecological relationships that might avert greater tragedies to come.
40344002|This multidisciplinary study examines the strategy adopted by villagers in the Roviana Lagoon, South New Georgia, Solomon Islands, to cope with changing socioeconomic and demographic conditions. The study addresses land use, shifting cycles, land tenure, soil nutrients, subsistence production, vegetation, land cover change, and carrying capacity. The results suggested that even if a society had been integrated into the market economy and introduced cash cropping, they used a small island, which was fertile, mainly for traditional shifting cultivation under customary management. However, they used a large area of the main island for cultivation of potentially risky perennial cash crops for private income. This case suggests that a local society is able to develop a harmonized way of rural development, community welfare, and environmental preservation.
4602829| Studies of Ro Negro subsistence farming and fishing activities are used to estimate the human carrying capacity for the region and the likely pattern of human land-use during prehistory. Ceramic evidence suggests human presence in the region more than 3000 years ago. Traditional farming is labor intensive and relatively unproductive. Nevertheless, farmers achieve an energy return of 15.2:1, and produce 2600 kcal per work hour. Fish are the major protein source, but fish catch per unit of effort and fish yield per hectare of floodplain are very low; fishermen are probably exploiting local fish resources very close to their limit. The low human population density would suggest that the Ro Negro forest has been relatively undisturbed. Nevertheless, charcoal is widespread and abundant in forest soils. This charcoal is probably from anthropogenic or natural wildfires. These results suggest a much more complex history for Amazonia than previously thought. 
4602808|Genealogical, demographic, and economic data collected in a rural Trinidadian village indicate that: (1) individuals with more land have more offspring, (2) males with more land have higher mating success, (3) young adults with parents resident in the village have higher reproductive success, and (4) the residence of father has a strong effect on young adult male reproductive success, but apparently has no effect on young adult female reproductive success, suggesting a gender bias in nepotism. The results indicate that there are important gender differences in the effect of resources on reproduction and in patterns of parent-offspring interaction.
4602291|This paper examines the environment as a source of dimensions of stimulation that are directly related to the individual's affective response to his environment, and his behavioral adaptation to it. The concept of an optimal level of stimulation is introduced, along with a view of environmental stress as resulting from conditions of excessive deviation from such optimal levels, with particular reference to variations in intensity, diversity, and patterning of the stimulus input. This analysis provides the framework for a consideration of behavioral adaptation to the environment by reference to the concept of adaptation level. Levels of adaptation to particular environmental dimensions, established as a function of past exposure, are shown to act as potent determiners of the individual's evaluation of his environment, as well as representing a plausible basis for the optimal level of stimulation principle itself. The presentation proceeds to an examination of the process of adaptation to the environment as a multilayered process, and to a discussion of the concept of the cost of adaptation as it applies in the behavioral realm. Finally, adaptation is contrasted with an alternative mechanism, adjustment, involving active alteration of the environment by the individual, and the relative place to be accorded to these two processes in the individual's relation to the environment is considered.
4603090|A model of energy analysis is presented to study the concept of labor productivity from a biophysical perspective. It is argued that current methods of defining and assessing labor productivity in the fields of work physiology and input/output energy analysis are relatively poor operational tools for assessing productivity in the economy and society. We propose to adopt society as the hierarchical level of analysis rather than the individual, as labor productivity can best be studied as a function of parameters related to the technological development of society. Parameters considered are: the ratio exosomatic/endosomatic energy used in society, the ratio working/non-working population, the return on the circulating energy investment, and the profile of human time allocated to the economic process. The links between patterns of human time allocation, population structure, standard of living, technological development, and demand on natural resources are analyzed. The results suggest that the role and meaning of human labor differ widely in societies with different levels of technological development.
4603550|Common property regimes may contribute to environmental conservation and offer a complementary institutional model to state-run protected areas. The potential conservation value of common property management is of particular significance in Mexico, where a large majority of forests are held communally. Systems of common property management often exist in a context of close institutional overlap with state institutions. This project assessed the function of a common property regime nested within Lagunas de Montebello National Park (PNLM) in Chiapas, Mexico. We documented forest status and analyzed common property forest management institutions following severe fires that threatened forest conservation. Forests managed by the common property regime are less intact than federal forests, yet still moderately conserved, and many attributes necessary for common property management are functional, despite the recent fire crisis. Yet external authorities contest common property management by local institutions, resulting in limited joint management by the national park and the community. Formalization and expansion of de facto cooperation between the federal and community institutions may enhance forest conservation within PNLM.
23280338|Trade in non-timber forest products (NTFPs) has been touted as promoting forest conservation and enhancing the well-being of local residents through increased cash income, which is considered a positive outcome. However, research on cooperation has demonstrated that increased market access and income may strengthen or weaken cooperation. Because cooperation is essential for community resilience in small-scale societies, negative effects on people's well-being can be expected if increased NTFP trade reduces cooperation. To evaluate whether NTFP trade affected cooperation, we used household data (survey and systematic observations) to compare the frequency of cooperation in two communities of Brazilian Amazon Caboclos, one of which engaged in NTFP trade, while the other did not. Cooperation was less frequent in the community trading NTFPs, but neither household cash income nor household participation in NTFP exploitation was associated with cooperative behavior. Decreased frequency most likely derived from indirect effects of NTFP trade, such as less time to fish or socialize, or other outcomes observable only at the community level, such as income inequality, the influx of new residents and consequent population growth. Our results indicate that conservation and development projects based on NTFP trade may negatively impact social and economic well-being of local communities.
4602272| The history of growth in understanding of primary productivity and in making estimates of biosphere production is reviewed. Two approaches to estimation of land production are discussed. Production may first be estimated by mean values for ecosystem types and the areas of these. A total production of 100  10
4602252|Most observers agree upon the existence among traditional agriculturalists of a conservative attitude toward innovations and upon this conservatism being the rational result of a well-adapted set of existing techniques in combination with a marginal level of subsistence. This view, however, fails to take account of the readily demonstrated existence of both individual differences in agricultural practice and systematic experimentation within traditional agricultural communities. Such individuality and experimentation are probably pervasive in traditional societies, and must be seen as an essential component of their adaptive processes, as important as the more familiar processes of traditional transmission.
4603346|A survey was conducted from February to June of 1997 among livestock herders in two villages of Niger, Kodey and Toukounous, on their perceptions, practice, and problems of night grazing. Cattle and sheep were the species that were taken out for night grazing by the herders. Small herd size and labor constraints were mentioned as the principal reasons for not practicing night grazing. Major benefits of night grazing included good body condition, herd growth, increased milk production, prevention of diseases, and reduction in herd mortality. Insecurity, difficulty in staying awake at night, labor constraints, and damage to crops by animals were given as problems of night grazing. According to the herders, grazing time (duration) during the day and night was shorter in the wet season than in the dry season. In the wet season animals were herded (followed and closely supervised by herders), whereas in the dry season, animals were mostly left to range freely in both villages. In general, children herded the animals during the day, while adults were responsible for night-time herding. Herders' perceptions on night grazing as regards animal production parameters such as weight development, water consumption, fecal output and feeding behavior are consistent with available experimental results. Therefore, future technical research needs to recognize the constraints faced by herders and determine how to overcome them to improve technical and economic efficiency.
27654107|The study investigates traditional knowledge of forest plants in a community (La Quetzal) inhabited by people who returned to Guatemala at the end of the civil war, after 1012 years in exile in Southern Mexico, and now are in the process of constructing a new community in the Lacandon jungle in the Petn, Guatemala. We ask if the basis of knowledge and the use of natural resources change when people migrate. The relevance of vascular plant diversity for consumption and other daily needs of the population is explored. Relatively few species are presently used, with the exception of timber species, where knowledge seems to be increasing. Traditional knowledge has been maintained in certain areas such as medicine. Nature as such is regarded as important primarily as potential monetary capital and not for its subsistence capital. We find that the refugee situation has led to the introduction of global consumption patterns. Still there continues to be a dynamic local intuitive knowledge arising directly from practical experiences. Two interlinked factors have been the driving forces altering the knowledge and the use of natural resources by the people in La Quetzal: Change in the natural environment and change in the social and economic environment.
41432988|Global conservation discourses and practices increasingly rely on market-based solutions to fulfill the dual objective of forest conservation and economic development. Although varied, these interventions are premised on the assumption that natural resources are most effectively managed and preserved while benefiting livelihoods if the market-incentives of a liberalised economy are correctly in place. By examining three nationally supported payment for ecosystem service (PES) schemes in Vietnam we show how insecure land tenure, high transaction costs and high opportunity costs can undermine the long-term benefits of PES programmes for local households and, hence, potentially threaten their livelihood viability. In many cases, the income from PES programmes does not reach the poor because of political and economic constraints. Local elite capture of PES benefits through the monopolization of access to forestland and existing state forestry management are identified as key problems. We argue that as PES schemes create a market for ecosystem services, such markets must be understood not simply as bald economic exchanges between 'rational actors' but rather as exchanges embedded in particular socio-political and historical contexts to support the sustainable use of forest resources and local livelihoods in Vietnam.
4603194|Increased livestock production in developing countries is seen as one way to improve world food supply. However, the impact of increased livestock production on household health and nutrition is unknown. This paper examines linkages between commercialization of livestock production and household nutrition. Linkages include income, resource allocation, food consumption, and human disease risk. Data from Uasin Gishu district, Kenya, show higher consumption of animal products for large commercialized farms, along with greater control of milk sales by men. Effects of livestock development may thus differ by gender, and may include both positive and negative impacts.
27654145|Devolution of natural resource management is a widely claimed aim in policy discourse. The Government of Pakistan is undertaking devolution of Provincial Government, including the Provincial Forest Departments. In historical and current practice, forest management has been devolved to local, community-based jirgas. Jirgas achieve some of the aims claimed by devolution which often fail in community-based management organizations. They represent the interests of different asset-based groups and ensure use rights of all for subsistence. However, the internal logic on which they work is based on different principles than those envisaged by policymakers. A case study of Pukhtun agropastoralists in the Malakand Division, North-West Frontier Province, Pakistan, illustrates the jirga's role in forest management and questions some of the assumptions on which community-based management is founded.
4602673|To postulate an evolutionary advantage of the menopause is to address the paradox of how natural selection can favor cessation of reproduction. To do this, menopause is examined with reference to four criteria: (1) its species-specificity and genetic basis; (2) its evolutionary history; (3) its selective advantage in the context of human longevity; and (4) its possible role in human evolution. A brief review of the literature reveals that the first two criteria are satisfied. The third criterion is supported by a study of four New England genealogies which demonstrated that, among 1,890 women born between 1675 and 1874, those who died postmenopausally had greater inclusive fitness than those who died premenopausally. The finding that females with postmenopausal longevity also had greater fertility may represent age-independent improvement in survival. A theory for evolution of the menopause is advanced, based on the observation that population growth via decreased birth spacing among mobile hominid groups would be enhanced by the presence of postreproductives who served as infant-carriers.
25652742|Cuba's political and economic isolation in today's globalised world demands constant adaptation by its inhabitants. The Cubans' capacity to adapt increases their ability to cope with change and to reshape local ecological and social systems, creating a more resilient system. Worldwide, home gardens are a community's most adaptable and accessible land resource and are an important component in reducing vulnerability and ensuring food security. The role of Cuban home gardens in relation to political change and economic crisis was investigated in Trinidad de Cuba using standard ethnobotanical research methods. Major events, such as the collapse of the Soviet Union and the subsequent economic crisis as well as frequently changing Cuban policies on agriculture, food security, religious freedom and healthcare, have had an impact on household decision-making, influencing home garden composition and management. Social networking surrounding home garden produce plays an essential part in the continuous adaptation to change, aiming to increase a diversity of resources and strategies, hence resilience.
27654103|Despite the attention given to social relations in the pastoral literature, the role of livestock acquisitionsadditions of livestock to herds through bridewealth, exchanges, gifts, payments, and begging (requests)in herd build up has usually been assumed to be relatively minor compared to births and relevant mostly when the need for rebuilding arises after major losses. This study is based on an unusual set of datathe reproductive histories of the female cattle, camels, and goats and sheep of 13 Ngisonyoka Turkana nomadic herders in northwestern Kenya, collected in 1987. The article reports on the means by which mothers were added to the herd and how these changed through time. The results suggest that for this population in the late 1970s and 1980s, acquisitions were not merely relevant when disaster struck, but instead were a continuously important component of herd management. The results demonstrate the crucial role of social networks in the survival of Ngisonyoka pastoralists in their non-equilibrial ecosystem. Social exchanges, such as bridewealth, provide a resource security well suited to the challenges of coping with such unpredictable environments. Researchers and policymakers are urged to make efforts to support such indigenous networks if they want nomadic pastoralists to continue their effective use of arid, marginal lands.
4603237|While many studies have explored how agriculture changes when population density rises, this paper examines actions farmers may take to control whether population density rises. Using information from ethnographic fieldwork, colonial archives, and air photography, two agricultural groups migrating into an agricultural frontier in the Nigerian savanna are compared. Population density in Kofyar communities has risen to over 100/km
4602470|Ecological approaches within maritime anthropology are reviewed, particularly those concerned with resource management in fisheries and characterized by certain assumptions of systems ecology. The systems ecology approach used in anthropology exhibits certain problems, including the assumption of equilibria, the tendency to restrict analyses to immediate and "natural" environmental relations, and the reification of analytical systems. Under the rubric of "people ecology," data from research among commercial fishermen of Fogo Island, Newfoundland, are used to explore an alternative that emphasizes people rather than systems as starting points for study, and underscores the role of larger social and political processes in affecting local man -- environment relations.
4603224|Participatory management approaches are increasingly recognized as an effective strategy for enabling the sustainable use of natural resources. The southeast coast of St. Lucia is one of the sites where a particular form of participatory management, a co-management regime, was recently developed to control the sea urchin fishery. The Caribbean Natural Resources Institute (CANARI), a NGO based in Vieux-Fort, St. Lucia, played a key role in the development of this co-management arrangement. This case study of the sea urchin fishery in Vieux-Fort examines the extent of the devolution of authority to locally-based sea urchin harvesters, explores the potential contribution of local knowledge to the understanding of sea urchin behavior, and points to elements of a strategy aimed at strengthening the organizational capacity of the core group of sea urchin harvesters. The study addresses both present practice and future possibilities in response to concrete questions raised by participants in the study.
4602768|Anthropologists have frequently proposed that sexual division of labor is produced by childcare constraints on women's subsistence work. We present data on the forest activities of Ache women that show that differences in parental investment partially account for variation in food acquisition among individual women. Data also suggest that childcare constraints are important in understanding the sexual division of labor.
4602324|The possibility, desirability, and potential outcomes of applying ethological methods to the study of culture-specific human behaviors are investigated. Ethology and culture are explored. A new term, "instruction," and its use in cultural ethology are proposed. Genetics and survival value are related to cultural ethology. A cultural ethology is given a possible theoretical foundation, and current attempts at a cultural ethology are appraised. A research program in cultural ethology and related fields is proposed.
4603470|Environmental analysis increasingly utilize remote sensing (RS) and geographic information science (GIS) techniques to study the relationship between human societies and their biophysical environment. This paper considers the influence these techniques have had on environmental research. Using the case of the Sahel, the paper first relates contemporary applications of RS/GIS to the history of the environmental scientific practice in the region. While facilitating an expansion of spatiotemporal scales, applications of these new techniques continue the methodological failings of the past by relying on visual measures of environmental change and problematic indicators of human land-use pressures. The human ecology fields (human, cultural, and political ecologies), by emphasizing the causal connections between local management and environmental change, can address the problems inherent with the spatial analytical turn in environmental science. Using the author's experience with the use of GIS in a political ecology study of grazing management in western Niger, ways of more closely integrating RS/GIS techniques into human ecological research are discussed.
4603437|Researchers have used the amount of leisure as a yardstick to proxy for quality of life, but so far they have paid scant attention to the quality of leisure. Here I use spousal leisure sharing to proxy for quality of leisure and, by implication, for quality of life. I draw on life-cycle perspective, price theory, and on human ecology to frame hypotheses about the determinants of spousal leisure sharing. Drawing on longitudinal information collected over 2 years from 32 households in two villages of Tawahka Amerindians, a horticultural and foraging society in the tropical rain forest of eastern Honduras, I estimate the simultaneous effects of age and age squared, cash income, and climatic/seasonal variables on the amount of time spouses spend together in leisure. Analysis using different random and fixed-effect multivariate logit models suggests that (1) life-cycle determinants play a strong role in spousal leisure sharing and (2) neither climate/seasonal variables nor income correlate with spousal leisure sharing. As is true among couples in the United States, among Tawahka couples a change in the income of either spouse has a small effect on the amount of leisure shared by spouses. I find no evidence that economic development erodes spousal leisure sharing or that couples exhibit fissure in their pursuit of a common goal of leisure sharing.
23353199|The rotational nature of shifting cultivation poses several challenges to its detection by remote sensing. Consequently, there is a lack of spatial data on the dynamics of shifting cultivation landscapes on a regional, i.e. subnational, or national level. We present an approach based on a time series of Landsat and MODIS data and landscape metrics to delineate the dynamics of shifting cultivation landscapes. Our results reveal that shifting cultivation is a land use system still widely and dynamically utilized in northern Laos. While there is an overall reduction in the areas dominated by shifting cultivation, some regions also show an expansion. A review of relevant reports and articles indicates that policies tend to lead to a reduction while market forces can result in both expansion and reduction. For a better understanding of the different factors affecting shifting cultivation landscapes in Laos, further research should focus on spatially explicit analyses.
4603281|Despite emerging appreciations of contextual knowledge systems, elements of diversity in mountain farming systems are often characterized as irrational and as obstacles to achieving the production goals of 'modernized' agriculture. In this paper, I suggest that these negative representations are produced at least in part as a function of the normalization of a large-scale agriculture as rational. A case-study of a mountain farming system in the Karakoram mountains of northern Pakistan is presented to expose a contextual rationality in relation to risk minimization and to challenge characterizations of this system as 'backward,' unsophisticated and irrational. Specifically I examine the risk mediating characteristics of practices such as field dispersal, delayed planting, intercropping, and polyvarietal planting and conclude that the characteristic feature of this local farming system is a contextually rational diversity. This conflicts with the modernist paradigm of rationality and economic growth subscribed to by a local development agency. Intervention based on ill-informed interpretations of "traditional" practice have the potential to increase vulnerability of villagers by failing to appreciate the contextual rationality of diversity.
23280340|The management of residential landscapes occurs within a complex socio-ecological system linking household decision-making with ecological properties, multi-scalar human drivers, and the legacy effects of past management. Conventional wisdom suggests that resource-intensive turf grass yards are the most common landscaping outcome, resulting in a presumed homogeneous set of residential landscaping practices throughout North America. We examine this homogenization thesis through an interview-based, cross-site study of residential landscape management in Boston, Phoenix, and Miami. Counter to the homogeneity thesis, we find that yard management practices often exhibit heterogeneity, for example, in groundcover choice or use of chemical inputs. The degree of heterogeneity in management practices varies according to the scale of analysis, and is the outcome of a range of constraints and opportunities to which households respond differently depending on their existing yard and landscaping preferences. This study highlights the importance of multi-scalar and cross-site analyses of decision-making in socio-ecological systems, and presents opportunities for longitudinal and cross-site research to examine the extent to which homogeneity is actually present in the management of residential landscapes over time and in diverse places.
27654146|Enhancement of inland fisheries through stocking can potentially increase fisheries production in developing countries and improve rural livelihoods. However, results of stocking are often unexpected in terms of benefit distribution. Taking an environmental entitlements approach, this paper details the nature and extent of institutional change that accompanied stocking in Savannakhet Province, Lao PDR, and quantifies its impact on households from different socioeconomic groups. Stocking was a catalyst significantly affecting people's command over living aquatic resources. New rules changed who could go fishing for what and when, and how the fish could be utilized. Customary rights were transformed and decision-making power concentrated. Despite this, household surveys demonstrated that no socioeconomic group was benefiting disproportionately and this was due to the specific social, political and institutional context into which enhancement was placed. However, in different contexts, increased benefits for resource users, even in cases of increased fisheries production, cannot be assumed.
4603101|Native peoples have often been protrayed as natural conservationists, living in "harmony" with their environment. It is argued that this perspective is a result of an imprecise definition of conservation that emphasizes effects rather than actual behavior. Using foraging theory as a contrast, an operational definition of conservation is offered. Foraging theory assumes that foragers will behave to maximize their short-term harvesting rate. Hunting decision that are costly in terms of short-term harvest rate maximization, yet increase the sustainability of the harvest are deemed conservation. Using this definition, alternative hypotheses are tested using data on the inter-specific prey choice decisions of a group of subsistence hunters, the Piro of Amazonian Peru. Results indicate that hunters do not show any restraint from harvesting species identified as vulnerable to over-hunting and local extinction. Decisions are made that are consistent with predictions of foraging theory.
27654118|While "Pygmy" hunter-gatherers have generally been assumed to be the original inhabitants of the central African rainforest, recent studies dispute the viability of subsistence in tropical rainforests through foraging alone. There are, however, few studies that are based on sound data of actual long-term foraging. This paper examines the viability of "pure" foraging in tropical rainforests, based on data from participant observation of a long-term foraging expedition among the Baka in the northwestern Congo Basin. The group was observed to subsist solely on wild food resources, particularly wild yams, for two-and-half months. The study was carried out during the dry season when food resources are generally thought to be scarce in tropical rainforests.
4603400|Beginning in the late 1980s, the Irakia Awa commenced changing their basic subsistence adaptation. This included altering gardening practices, changing basic food consumption patterns, and most importantly, eliminating the production of domestic pigs. These changes were undertaken as part of an effort to improve the life experience of local residents and usher in a new plan of village improvement. The plan promoted the disintensification of subsistence production and increased involvement in cash-earning and recreational pursuits, as well as Christianity. If successful, the promoters of the plan hope that the village will become a more attractive place to live, migrants living away will return home to help revitalize the community, and Irakia will flourish in the new cash-oriented modern economy.
4603317|Establishing secure tenure is widely recognized as a fundamental component of sustainable forest management. Policy-makers generally prefer privatization to achieve these ends, although common property institutions may also be appropriate. But if common property tenure is insecure and fails to control exploitation, theory predicts that private tenure should lead to better forest conditions. In this case study of a western Honduras community, forest mensuration data were collected from four private forests and two relatively open access common property forests. Statistical analyses failed to find consistent, significant differences in vegetation structure or soils related to tenure. Notable contrasts between forests reflected historical conditions and owner preferences. Neither form of tenure appeared to emphasize concerns for sustainable management, and ongoing processes of change constrained the possibility for limiting common property forest exploitation. The study adds to others which show that the outcomes of private or common property tenure relate substantially to the socioeconomic, political, and ecological context.
27654295|Energy flows were studied for the 20022003 agricultural cycle in four households for which agriculture is part of a diversified survival strategy and four that practice agriculture as a business. Home garden inputs and outputs were measured monthly. Quantified inputs were: household labour, household agro-system production, and purchased external renewable and non-renewable energy. Outputs measured were: sales, family and animal foods. While both strategies had similar indicators in biomass and energy production, vegetable richness, and soil quality, household garden function and sustainability differed between subsistence and commercial householders. Subsistence gardens complemented family diet and contributed to household system resiliency. They relied heavily on renewable energy sources from within their agro-system. Gardens in commercial households reduced fruit tree area and increased animal husbandry for the market. They depended more on purchased nonrenewable energy sources and were less sustainable and much less energy efficient than traditional gardens.
25652763|Traditional and small-scale farmers may know of practices that control weedy species. When these species are also problematic in restored or managed areas, a collection of this knowledge might assist control efforts. However, past criticisms of using local ecological knowledge (LEK) from small-scale farmers state that small sample sizes and highly variable responses among informants hinders LEK's utility in management. Here I document weed-control knowledge held by New Jersey salt-hay farmers to control common reed and adapt strategies to control its invasion in two restoration settings. Accounts indicated that repeated cutting could eradicate the invasive, and subsequent experimental treatments in restoration settings demonstrated this technique to be very effective. However, only one farmer knew of this technique, and this farmer's accounts seemingly contradicted other farmers' accounts of cutting. This study demonstrates that small sample sizes and highly variable responses are more problematic to studies of knowledge, per se, than in finding valuable knowledge, which simply must be held by a community member rather than be common or well-distributed.
41474612|An ethnobiological study concerning the medical ethnobotany and ethnozoology of two neighbouring communities of Serbians and Albanians living in the Peter plateau (south-western Serbia) was conducted, the latter representing a diasporic community that immigrated to the area approximately three centuries ago. Sixty-two botanical taxa used in 129 plant-based remedies and 204 folk plant uses were recorded. In addition, 31 animal-derived remedies and 27 mineral or non-indigenous products were also documented. Approximately half of the recorded phytotherepeutical uses have been recorded for the first time in the ethnobotany of the Western Balkans and more than onethird of these uses have no correlation with Western evidence-based phytotherapy. Moreover, while both communities use approximately the same number of medicinal plants, two-thirds of the botanical taxa, but only one-third of plant folk medical uses are found in common among the two communities. These findings demonstrate that the two communities, although having lived in close proximity to each other during the past three centuries and in a relatively low biodiverse environment, have maintained or developed unique phytotherapeutical trajectories. The differences between the two folk medical biologies of these communities are reflective of the specific history of the Albanian diaspora, and of the complex processes of its cultural adaptation over the last three centuries.
4602986| This issue of "Human Ecology" is devoted to studies of household organization, originally presented at an invited session of the American Anthropological Association annual meetings in New Orleans in 1990. These papers share an empirical orientation and an interest in demographic processes and economic change, particularly in rural and non-Western societies, including !Kung foragers and Herero agro-pastoralists of Botswana, Ariaal and Rendille pastoralists of Kenya, Gainj horticulturalists of highland New Guinea, and a Euro-Caribbean population of St. Barthlemy, West Indies. These papers demonstrate both the vitality of household studies and the utility of empirical approaches in understanding household formation, continuity, and adaptation to social, economic, and political change. 
4603307|Through a case study of the grassland system of the Mkambati area in the Eastern Cape, South Africa, the paper explores the interaction of social institutions and ecological processes in the creation of a diverse grassland environment. A number of different transitions between grassland states are examined in detail, highlighting a range of social and institutional factors influencing grassland change. The spatial patterning of different grassland types and the frequency of transitions between them are shown to be dependent on the institutional relationships between different social actors. Understanding such complex and multifaceted processes of environmental change requires analytical tools which combine social and ecological perspectives; an extended form of qualitative "state-transition" modeling, which incorporates institutional dimensions, is therefore explored.
4602881|Hunters and bushmeat retailers in Bendel State, Nigeria were interviewed from May through August 1982. Hunting was found to take place in all months of the year, but became more intense during the dry season. Twentyseven species of mammal were reported to be hunted, while 22 species of mammal and five species of reptile were found on sale. Retailers reported that the grasscutter (Thryonomys swinderianus) was the most popular species among their customers, followed by Maxwell's duiker, the brushtailed porcupine, and the bushpig. The grasscutter was also the most widely sold species, followed by the giant rat, monkeys, and Maxwell's duiker. Game animals were found to be shot and sold with little regard to existing laws, with the result that the larger mammals have become rare in Bendel and populations of the smaller ones have come under severe pressure. The bushmeat trade is highly commercialized, and substantial profits accrue to middlemen. Recommendations are made for the conservation of a natural resource, wildlife, that not only provides a significant amount of animal protein but also supports a large rural economy.
4603161|This issue of "Human Ecology" focuses on the interrelated nature of crisis in human and environmental systems and argues that the right to a healthy environment is a fundamental human right. In this article I present a conceptual framework for the "human rights and environment" special issue, followed by a brief review of significant insights offered by each contributor. Collectively the cases presented in this issue explore connections between international and national policy, government action or sanctioned action, and human environmental crises. Cultural notions are seen to play a key role in influencing social relations, legitimizing power relations, and justifying the production and reproduction of human environmental crises. And finally, these cases explore the ways in which political, economic, and cultural forces influence and at times inhibit efforts to respond to human environmental crises.
4603491|The Sakha of northeastern Siberia, Russia, are the highest latitude contemporary agropastoralists practicing horse and cattle husbandry. In the last 100 years their rural livelihood has gone from household-level subsistence food production in clan clusters of single-family homesteads scattered across the landscape, to village-level state agribusiness farm production in compact settlements dependent on Soviet socialist infrastructure, to the presentday post-socialist reliance on household-level subsistence food production. This paper explores how Viliui Sakha are adapting in the post-Soviet context. Since the fall of the Soviet Union and the concomitant dissolution of the centralized state farm system, rural inhabitants have developed household and interhousehold food production capacities based on keeping cows and relying on exchange among kin. One of the basic tenets of Robert Netting's smallholder-householder theory is that in times of change, the household system is the most resilient subsistence production unit because of specific qualities including intimate ecological knowledge and implicit labor contracts. This research shows in what ways Netting's householder theory applies for subarctic agropastoralists.
24013748|Forest transition  i.e., the shift from decreasing to expanding forest cover  in the northern mountains of Vietnam was analyzed at the local scale in four villages from the 1970s to 20072008 to understand feedbacks from local environmental degradation on land uses, the conditions under which such feedbacks occur, and their possible roles in the transition. Remote sensing data were combined with field surveys including interviews, group discussions, mental and participatory mapping, observations and secondary sources. The feedbacks from environmental degradation and changes in the provision of ecosystem services to land practices via environmental cognitions were analyzed. The case studies showed that forest scarcity was perceived, interpreted and evaluated before possibly affecting land use practices.
4602811|The social organizations of two closely related nomadic pastoral societies of northern Kenya, the Rendille and Ariaal, are compared in the context of the relative constancy and variability of their herding environments. It is concluded that the application of Brooks and Yellen's model of stability and resilience in human populations is of value in understanding the impact of environmental constraints on social organization, but it is argued that other social features including the organization of labor and ownership of different livestock types directly bear on the differences between the Rendille and Ariaal.
23353257|Using data from a three-year study of socioeconomic factors influencing hunting in 23 indigenous communities, we assess the influence of indigenous and Christian beliefs and practices on dietary taboos among Makushi and Wapishana peoples in the Guyanese Amazon. We found that members of Evangelical and established (Anglican and Catholic) churches do not differ significantly in terms of their adherence to dietary restrictions and members of Sabbatarian churches show a stronger tendency to adhere to dietary taboos than Evangelicals or members of established churches. Counter to expectations, we found no significant difference in avoidance of meat between households belonging to established and Evangelical churches. Furthermore, members of all church groups deviated in terms of dietary restrictions from indigenous norms as exemplified in dietary advice given by shamans. We conclude that, despite doctrinal opposition to shamanistic practices associated with indigenous taboos, there is continuity in terms of dietary practice among Makushi and Wapishana households that have converted to Evangelical and, to some degree, Sabbatarian forms of Christianity.
4602789|The relatively small number of passenger pigeon bones found in prehistoric sites in the eastern United States is at variance with the tremendous population recorded between the seventeenth and nineteenth centuries. It is argued that, prior to European contact, the population of passenger pigeons was small due to human-wildlife competition over tree nuts. This competition restricted the pigeon's access to food and limited its prehistoric population. When this competitive network was disrupted by European colonization, the availability of food for the pigeon increased. The enormous population that then emerged represents an outbreak population precipitated by enrichment in food and space. The structure of the prehistoric food web in the forests of the eastern United States is diagrammed, and the process leading to the growth of the passenger pigeon population described.
4603169|This commentary outlines the conflict of interests inherent in the state-transnational corporation relationship, and briefly discusses the failure of bilateral and multilateral mechanisms to ensure corporate accountability and compliance with basic human rights and international environmental laws.
4602645|Machiguenga Indians of the Peruvian Amazon, like other low population-density, technologically "simple" peoples, produce ample food for a nutritious diet. Assuming that this is an intended outcome of their food-production strategy, to what extent is it a labor-efficient solution to the problem of producing a "balanced diet"? A linear-programming model of the "diet problem" is constructed with parameters reflecting the Machiguenga economy, and solutions are computed. These are then compared to observed Machiguenga food production; the degree of fit between model and behavior is examined and reasons for discrepancies are discussed.
27654293|How can a single landscape, a shantytown on the USMexico border, symbolize environmental devastation for some and progress and 'the good life' for others? Our analysis of this landscape and the people who are a part of it highlights the complexities of the environmental justice movement in the current era of neo-liberal economic policies. Although the colonia that we studied, "Derechos Humanos," is located on top of an abandoned landfill near an open sewage canal, living here represents a step forward for many residents. However, to many US environmentalists, this landscape represents a toxic wasteland and the people living here are simply victims of border industrialization. Contributing to critical environmental justice studies, our analysis of "Derechos Humanos" highlights the injustices of the global political economy, creative responses to these forces by individuals most adversely affected by them, and the potential limitations of conventional framings of environmental justice and mainstream Northern environmentalism.
4602722|A model of extinction probability, based on the general theory of island biogeography [MacArthur and Wilson, 1967], is proposed for humans on oceanic islands; extinction probability is determined by island carrying capacity, frequency and amplitude of fluctuations in resources determining carrying capacity, and the net costs of contact and exchange between population units. The model predicts that extinction probability will determine island settlement patterns within an island group resulting in nonsettlement of islands with low carrying capacities and settlement of all islands with high carrying capacities. Data examined from the Marshall Islands tend to support the model. The model is extended to initial atoll colonization patterns. Possible requirements for initial settlement are suggested.
25652768|In spite of the remarkable downward trend in fertility that characterizes Portugal, birth seasonality is still evident. A time series analysis of the data shows that, in general, May and September are months where more births take place and that December and February are the months with the lowest figures. In particular, the September peak in births, which is the most remarkable result, is shown to be related to end-of-year (economic) expectations.
27654191|This article is based on a 2003 case study of the Special Program for Food Security in two dry, upland regions of Honduras and Nicaragua. In particular the research sought to identify factors influencing farmers' interest in various "best practices" being promoted as alternatives to the use of fire in cropping and ranching systems. The economic feasibility and/or affordability of several of these practices are questionable in light of most farmers' priorities, risk concerns, or limited resources. The technical feasibility of several of the practices is unclear, at least in the marginal agroecological environments in which most of the farmers in these regions operate. The study highlights the weaknesses of agricultural development initiatives designed without a sufficient understanding of existing agricultural strategies and their purposes. It also reveals the limitations of technological approaches to problems of food insecurity and land degradation, and the need for broader, more integrated rural development strategies. The findings support critiques regarding the biases of many development professionals that may prevent them from giving sufficient attention to local knowledge and perspectives.
4602890|Studies of fertility behavior in the Third World have relied heavily on two variables, income and education, to explain variations in fertility rates. If the socio-economic variables traditionally employed to account for variations in fertility rates are invariant, what other factors could influence fertility rates and child spacing? On the basis of data from 180 slum households in Calcutta, India, the paper indicates that in a situation where material and social conditions are comparable, cultural and demographic variables play a major role in influencing reproductive behavior. In this case study, caste and family type are shown to have a significant effect on the numbers of surviving children. As regards child spacing, the woman's age is of paramount importance.
40343987|Literature on the mobility of pastoralists and resource access is widely available, but conceptualization and understanding of the socioeconomic processes expected to affect the outcome are inconsistent. In this article, drawing on research conducted in the Yerer and Daketa Valleys, eastern Ethiopia, we use the notion of entitlements to examine how, under increasing pressure for resource access, various agro-pastoral households manage conflicting interests in common grazing resources. We observed that in times of drought and resource scarcity incumbent agro-pastoralists find peaceful sharing arrangements with intruding pastoralists. Asset-poor agro-pastoralists enter into mutually beneficial arrangements with pastoralists, trading their resource endowments to grazing land for other assets from the pastoralists, whereas wealthier households prefer a reciprocal riskmanagement strategy. These multiple arrangements have distributional effects because asset-poor agro-pastoralist households can stabilize or enhance their household assets and their capabilities in times of drought, and thus benefit from assisting pastoralist migrants to the common grazing land.
4602858|It has been generally assumed until recently that tropical rain forests are food-rich biomes for human foragers, and that prehistoric hunter-gatherers once lived completely independent of cultivated foods in such environments. An alternative hypothesis that such forests are actually food-poor for humans is proposed here. Specifically, that wild starch foods such as yams were so scarce and so hard to extract that human foragers could not have lived in such biomes without recourse to cultivated foods. The symbiotic relationship found today between tropical forest hunter-gatherers and farmers is not a recent phenomenon, but evolved long ago as an adaptive strategy for successfully exploiting the tropical forest.
4602838|The Northern Ache comprise a small continuously interacting population with a shared community history. Full-time hunter-gatherers until recently, they now divide their time between mobile foraging and settled farming. Here we describe adult time allocation at the settlement and contrast it with our previous descriptions of time allocation during foraging periods. We report that at the settlement men and women work fewer hours each day than they do in the forest, people eat less, women do more work apart from their children, and men invest more in direct parental care. Explanations for differences in time allocation between foragers and farmers should apply to the variation in work effort, production goals, division of labor, and parenting strategies reported here, and conversely.
4602683| The proposition that tropical forest swidden gardens mimic the extraordinary species diversity of the forest by the use of extensive intercropping is examined in the light of the field architecture of the Bar, a people of the Maracaibo basin. Bar fields manifest annular zonation rather than intercropping. It is concluded that Bar horticulture is an inversion of the jungle rather than an imitation of it. 
4602992| The population of Saint Barthlemy, French West Indies, consists of descendants of French peasants who emigrated to the West Indies nearly three centuries ago. As in rural France, new households are formed on the island upon marriage. This study analyzes changes in marriage patterns that have occurred in the 99 years between 1878-1976. These changes include increase in marriage distance, increase in completed family size, increase in celibacy, decrease in the frequency of cousin marriage, and decrease in the percentage of mothers bearing children out of wedlock. The data are derived from the parochial and civil records of birth, death, and marriage of nearly 10,000 individuals. Despite changes in marriage patterns and modernization of the island, there has been little change in household form or the process of household formation. 
40344003|Human population growth has been identified as a primary cause of ecologically destructive phenomena and, if left unchecked, will threaten the survivability of the human species. It has been demonstrated that genetic feedback is the mechanism by which species achieve ecological balance. The present analysis shows the applicability of this mechanism to human population regulation. In this model, the traits of behavior and culture are explained as following a four step process, similar to, and nested within genetic evolution. As species extinction is part and parcel of evolution, and environmental circumstances are changing rapidly, the population regulatory change that would take place on the genetic level of integration would be human extinction. However, the change on the cultural level, requiring a revision of the social contingency from "food production must be increased to feed a growing population" to "food production increases cause population increases," would lead to human sustainability.
4603440|We studied consumption and preference of meats of wild species (bushmeat) by inhabitants of Bioko Island, Equatorial Guinea. The aim of the study was to quantify frequency of consumption and stated preferences of the two main ethnic groups (Bubi and Fang) in the island. Although members of both ethnic groups lived on the island, the Fang originated from the continent and maintained strong links with this area. Thus, preference and consumption of the Fang reflected exposure to animals found in the continent as well as on Bioko. A sample of 196 subjects (115 Bubi and 81 Fang) was interviewed using semistructured questionnaires. A total of 55 different bushmeat species was identified as preferred or consumed by interviewees. Principal component analyses of stated consumption and preference indicated differences between ethnic groups in their general responses. Further analyses of the effects of preference and other factors on consumption of the three main species mentioned (blue duiker (Cephalophus monticola), Emin's rat (Cricetomys emini), and brush-tailed porcupine (Atherurus africanus) were undertaken. Proportional odds logistic regression models for ordered categorical response data were employed. Results indicated that age and sex of the respondent did not affect consumption, but ethnic group was statistically significant for the threestudy species. Consumption and preference of the different meats (N = 11 species) in relation to their availability in the market and price was studied using multiple linear regressions. Consumption is driven predominantly by availability but there is some influence of preference; price of the meat did not have a significant influence.
40343985|During the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, indigenous communities in the Viceroyalty of Peru suffered forced resettlement, introduced disease, and onerous colonial tribute levies. These produced an onslaught of petitions for new tribute counts, as their diminished populations were obliged to pay the head taxes set by earlier censuses. The resulting visitas (administrative surveys) provide a wealth of information on the demography and agricultural systems of colonial Andean communities. However, comparatively little quantitative research exists on the distribution of agricultural resources and the nutritional demands of households. We model agricultural production and nutritional demand using household demographic and landholding declarations in the visitas from the Coica Valley of southern highland Peru, combined with ethnographically-derived estimates of agricultural production and nutritional demand. The results indicate that despite surplus agricultural production in the aggregate, there were significant differences in intra-and intercommunity land wealth and production sufficiency ratios, leaving about 30% of households with caloric shortfalls. In contrast to regional-scale carrying capacity-type models, this simulation characterizes agricultural inequality within colonial Andean communities, and thus accounts for the hardship evidenced by tributary recount petitions, even in a breadbasket province from which much surplus production was extracted to fill colonial coffers.
4602753|The competition between the two major user groups of fishermen in northeastern Lake Erie is analyzed in terms of models of interspecific competition used in animal ecology. Treating the two user groups as two "cultural species," neither the fishing areas used (geographical distribution of the "species") nor the composition of the catch (food of the "species") shows significant overlap. Nevertheless, both parties believe that a conflict exists. There are two possible explanations for this discrepancy: (1) the conflict may be real in some areas and seasons, even though on the whole there is no significant competition under the usual standards used in ecological niche overlap studies, and (2) the conflict may be due to perceptions, and may therefore be of cultural rather than of ecological origin, suggesting that biological models provide incomplete tools for the analysis of problems in human ecology.
4602807|A sample of children from the Nembi Plateau, Papua New Guinea, is monitored for nutritional status, episodes of sickness and disease, diets, work activity of mothers, and weight changes; and health and census records are examined for seasonal patterns of disease, deaths, birth, and birth weights. A seasonal pattern in birth weight reinforced by a seasonal pattern in growth performance and compounded by a seasonal pattern of disease suggests that the time of year in which a child is born is important to the child's growth and health. Yields, labor, and ritual surrounding the gardens give rise to the seasonal pattern of events that impinge upon the health of children.
27654308|Conservation conflicts are often difficult to resolve due to a combination of poorly defined property rights, inadequate funding, high transaction costs, and contrasting value systems among stakeholders. This paper explores these barriers to collaboration in the context of the emerging deer crisis in the Scottish Highlands, where deer numbers are now higher than at any time in recorded history. In particular we explore the potential role of recreational hunting in the government's strategy to contain rising deer numbers from the landowners' perspective. Using both qualitative and quantitative analysis we find that hunting traditions and personal preferences, reinforced by antipathy to conservationists and their perceptions of land stewardship, are the major barriers to shooting more deer for conservation objectives. We conclude that an expansion of commercial hunting opportunities is the best practical approach to resolving the current conflict over deer, but conservationists and landowners must work together to create a more positive context for hunter-conservation initiatives and activities.
4603207|Landholding fragmentation is a common feature of the agricultural systems of small farmers in the tropics. This paper presents a case study from an ejido in central Chiapas, Mexico, where this pattern is common. Farmers recognize soil types of different quality, embodied in a folk soil taxonomy. They argue that fragmentation is the result of their desire to maintain an equitable distribution of all land types among them, independently of the amount of land each controls. The evidence shows that while not all farmers have all soil types, farmers belonging to all ranges of socieconomic strata control soils in all the soil classes. There is no marked concentration of any soil type by any specific group, types are distributed among farmers by their abundance. Farmers have rejected previous government proposals to consolidate their landholdings. Fragmentation is associated with a high degree of social control over the land and a participatory process present in this community.
40343991|Previous studies on the hillside farmers of northern Thailand often focused on their swidden (slashand-burn) agriculture of upland rice and cash crop cultivation and paid little attention to livestock production and consumption, including that of pigs. I describe the household-level pig production and consumption in terms of the number of pigs slaughtered and the number of pigs supplied to others, or acquired from others, in a Hmong village of smallholders in northern Thailand. Study results are based on pig consumption in 17 selected households over two years (January 2005 to December 2006). The number of pigs slaughtered in each household ranged from zero to ten, with an average of 2.4 pigs per household per year. Pigs were slaughtered mainly for ritual events, particularly for annual ancestor worship and New Year ceremonies. A total of 80 pigs were slaughtered, with 78% being killed during ritual events including Christmas and 22% for non-ritual events including children moving up a grade in school. Most Christian households stopped slaughtering of pigs in ancestor worship conducted by a shaman, but continued to do so in Christmas and New Year rituals. A total of 23 pigs were supplied to others, of which two were given to people outside the village, while of a total of 37 pigs acquired, 17 were obtained from outside the village. A total of 80 pigs were slaughtered, including one improved-breed pig that was killed during a marriage ceremony soon after it was acquired from the city. The following changes in pig consumption are inferred to have taken place due to recent socioeconomic changes: (1) diversification of the type of events in which pigs are slaughtered as a result of the introduction of Christianity and the national educational system; (2) active pig acquisition from outside the village as a result of the use of motor vehicles; and (3) the acquisition and slaughtering for events of improved-breeds of pigs which are not kept and used for breeding.
4602355|An ecological approach to the persistence of communal tenure in a Swiss village suggests that such rights are neither historical anachronisms nor aspects of the closed corporate community. The adaptive value of group holdings in alpine pasture, forest, water, and access routes is compared to that of individual rights in arable land, meadows, and buildings within the same community. The nature and exploitation of resources are related to communal acquisition, conservation, and distribution.
4603075|This article discusses the change among Yucatec Maya farmers from traditional shifting milpa agriculture to intensive horticultural production for the Mexican market. The process of agricultural intensification among this group of peasant farmers has involved movement toward an increasingly sedentary form of production which has heightened reliance on the use of chemicals with negative consequences for the environment. The research, which focuses on the pressure on producers to abandon more sustainable forms of cultural controls against crop loss in favor of modern chemical controls, raises the issue of the transferability of sustainable traditional technology to small commercial farmers in the tropics. More specifically, the article draws attention to the sometimes overlooked issue of economic, as well as environmental, sustainability in discussions on agricultural development and resource management.
4602728|Seasonal variance in the diet of Ache hunter-gatherers is examined. Fluctuation in the number of calories of honey consumed daily contributed most to the differences in total calories consumed daily during different seasons of the year. Meat, the most important resource in the diet, provided the greatest number of calories daily, and varied little across seasons. The vegetable component of the diet is characterized by low variance in absolute numbers of calories, but high variance in species composition. The mean number of calories consumed daily per capita is high (3827 calories) compared to that reported for other hunter-gathers. Differences in energy expenditure and consumption among modern hunter-gatherers is discussed.
41474583|The Batur Temple (Pura Ulun Danu Batur) in Kintamani is located at the geographic apex of a so-called ritual water hierarchy and has conventionally been described as a purely religious institution responsible for the coordination and distribution of the irrigation water. However, an analysis of historical palm leaf manuscripts reveals that the temple had a firm economic base with corresponding interests and that it was one of the most important land-owners in late pre-colonial Bali. The article therefore explores from a socio-political and economic perspective the implications of this form of temple landlordism and its combination with ritual water control, particularly for the peasants and the portion of their annual surplus that they were obliged to deliver to this temple.
4603328|In recent decades, Pacific Region indigenous sea tenure regimes have received considerable attention from social scientists who believe that marine-localized common entitlements and fishing practices can aid modern littoral fisheries management. The endorsement of sea tenure institutions as managerial tools, however, has proceeded without adequate consideration of their vulnerability to social and economic changes. The general view held by researchers is that Pacific Island sea tenure regimes are generally undermined by the influence of exogenous forces resulting in an open-access commons. In this article, it is argued that the contemporary transformation of sea tenure regimes emerges not only from exogenous agency, but from a complex set of autochthonous processes. A case study from New Georgia, Solomon Islands, is presented to show how sea tenure regimes can vary within an ethnically and culturally homogeneous region. Three tenure models are presented to show how different pre- and post-European contact regional settlement patterns, localized processes of political expansion and contraction, and dynamic indigenous sociocultural principles have resulted in institutional differences between each sea tenure model. The effect of the market economy on the organizational structure and managerial outcomes of each model also is discussed.
40343996|Ecosystems are complex and difficult to predict and control. Western science-based societies have tended to simplify ecosystems to manage them. Some indigenous and other rural groups who interact closely with a given resource system seem to have developed practices that are adapted to live with complexity. This paper examines how indigenous Cree hunters in James Bay, subarctic Canada, understand and deal with ecological complexity and dynamics, and how their understanding of uncertainty and variability shape subsistence activities. The focus is the Canada goose (Branta canadensis) hunt which is adaptive to shifts and changes in local and regional conditions. Ecological understandings of Cree hunters allow them to account for and deal with a very large number of variables at multiples scales. The Cree deal with these variables qualitatively, an approach consistent with some scientific ways of dealing with complexity, such as adaptive management and fuzzy logic.
4603011|The hypothesis that energy-rich wild plant foods are too scarce in rain forest to allow subsistence by foraging peoples independently of agriculture lacks a firm empirical basis. Data on availability of wild plant foods such as wild yams are sorely lacking, and where quantitative information is provided to support the hypothesis, it usually concerns extent of use of wild plant foods: low availability is tacitly inferred from low use. We explore the alternative hypothesis that "extent of use" underestimates availability of wild yams and other wild plant foods; these foods are present in large enough quantities to support hunter-gatherers, but have become increasingly neglected with increasing availability of cultivated plant foods. Thus, the subsistence of contemporary rain forest foraging peoples, in which extensive relationships with sedentary farmers appear to be universal, may be a somewhat distorted reflection of their subsistence in the pre-agricultural past. Drawing on data from ecology, archeology, ethnohistory, and linguistics, we argue that pygmy foraging peoples of the western Congo basin were present in rain forest environments before the advent of farming villagers.
4602243|Current research on environmental decision-makers at the professional and nonprofessional levels is reviewed. The potential utility of this research for achieving more adaptive man-environment relations in modern industrial societies is examined. A broader framework of research is suggested for viewing the antecedents and consequences of environmental decision-making from an ecological perspective. Mechanisms for promoting research on man-environment relations are considered. In particular, issues in the training of scientific man-power in this interdisciplinary field are discussed.
4603584|This study in the wake of 1990s fire catastrophes identifies and analyzes underlying causes of vegetation fires in eight locations across Borneo and Sumatra. Multidisciplinary and multiscale analysis integrates geospatial technologies with varied social research approaches and participatory mapping. It helps fill a void of site-specific evidence on diverse underlying causes of the Indonesian fires, despite emerging consensus on macrolevel causes and impacts, and policy debates on preventing future fire disasters. Our most important findings include confirmation of multiple direct and underlying fire causes at each of the eight locations, no single dominant fire cause at any site, and wide differences in fire causes among sites. Conclusions emphasize the importance of location specific studies within a regional analytical context. Our "hybrid" research methods demonstrate the explanatory power of integrating geospatial and social analysis techniques, and the benefits of analyzing fire causes and impacts at multiple scales in varied locations across diverse regions.
4602909| This essay examines ritual and ceremonial activities among the Arawak-speaking Wakunai of the Venezuelan Amazon as processes of constructing power relations in changing historical and ecological conditions. Ritual evocations of the vertical dimension of power relations between mythic ancestors and human descendants adapt local populations to conditions of relatively severe stress, such as epidemics and scarcity of fish in long wet seasons. Other rituals evoke the horizontal dimension of power relations between affinally-related groups as a way of expanding the local descent group in conditions of lowered stress. These two ways of exercising ritual power link human populations to specific natural habitats and provide flexibility needed to adjust to demographic and other historical changes. Through ritual performances, the Wakunai transform the natural environment into a cultural landscape of socialized objects and, conversely, remember the history of political relations among peoples through spirit-naming of natural species, objects, places, and geographic landmarks. 
4602316|There has recently been great interest in the demography of primitive human populations. This can often be dealt with successfully by the use of demographic theory and model life tables; however, small populations present problems not encountered in large national censuses. This paper discusses some of these problems and illustrates the determination of model life tables in anthropology with a particular population, the Yanomama Indians. The concern is for the methods to be used, and their applicability, and not with the specific population illustrating them. By applying theoretical models, one can derive information that is otherwise unavailable but is necessary in the important biomedical, social, and ecological understanding of primitive societies.
4602772|This paper examines the question of why the total fertility rate of the !Kung San hunter-gatherers of the Northern Kalahari desert is as low as 4.69 births. When the intermediate variables involved are examined through the employment of a reproductive equation, it becomes clear that low fecundity is a major issue. Arguments offered previously to explain the low fertility of !Kung women, depending on factors such as nutrition, health status, and lactational practices are insufficient. Drawing upon recent data from sports medicine and endocrinology, I suggest that the pattern of San female energetics in their gathering and subsistence routine has a direct effect upon their fecundity. Such a correlation between activity patterns, endocrine function, and reproductive capacity may also be important for understanding the fertility of other mobile hunter-gatherer groups.
4603176|The trend of pastoral sedentarization in Africa presents new economic opportunities to women through the sale of dairy products, agricultural produce, and labor. This study of Rendille of northern Kenya shows a variety of economic strategies pursued by women in nomadic pastoral, settled agro-pastoral, and town communities. Results of household budgets and interviews with married women indicate that urban centers attract both wealthier Rendille women selling milk and poorer women engaged in wage-labor and petty commodity trade; time allocation data shows that women living in towns work as strenuously as those in pastoral communities, while men in towns work less than in pastoral communities and less than women in both communities; and anthropometric data of women and children suggest that increases in women's income may have a beneficial effect on the nutrition and well-being of their children.
4603026| We examine whether among the Bar sex ratios at birth or later ages deviate from the value of one expected by chance. We find no significant bias toward sons or daughters. We also examine whether the costs and benefits associated with sons and daughters are similar or if one sex is more expensive than the other. We contrast our results with predictions derived from Fisher's and the Trivers-Willard hypotheses on sex ratios. 
40343999|Availability of annually reproducing wild yam species (Dioscorea praehensilis and Dioscorea semperflorens) is considered to be a key factor for the viability of forest hunter-gatherer subsistence in the African rainforests. I here describe the habitat and distribution of wild yam patches, and discuss possible human impacts on the formation of wild yam patches, which currently support long-term forest expeditions by Baka hunter-gatherers in southeastern Cameroon. An analysis of canopy photographs shows that annual yams favor a habitat of canopy gaps which receive sufficient sunlight. However, the fact that annual yams patches are limited to specific locations even though gaps in the canopy occur throughout the forest, combined with the mostly vegetative reproductive system of the yams, suggests annual yams do not propagate extensively in the wild. Moreover, areas with abundant annual yam patches that are presently situated far from any villages contain several abandoned village sites. Since the Baka often transplant parts of yam tubers to encourage their spread, it seems that human activities may have contributed to the formation of locally concentrated annual yam patches.
4603010|It has recently been argued that hunter-gatherers do not, did not, and could not live in tropical rain forest without some access to agricultural produce. This opinion challenges models of past non-agricultural subsistence patterns that are based in analogies derived from modern rain forest-dwelling groups. In this paper, the socio-ecological bases of the hunting system of the Kubo people of lowland Papua New Guinea are described. It is argued that this system lacks necessary dependence upon the agricultural system with which it co-occurs and, in fact, can be connected with a system of carbohydrate procurement that is not agricultural. The hypothesized connection provides the basis of a model of non-agricultural subsistence in lowland tropical rain forest.
4602646|The Pearl River Delta offers humans a variety of land-use alternatives. A complex ecosystem which has been in existence in the Delta for centuries has greatly contributed to the region's agricultural productivity. The principal components are mulberry trees, silkworms, pond fish, and humans, interrelated in a harmonious and mutually beneficial way. The system is not only highly efficient and soundly balanced ecologically, but provides much higher economic returns than do other agrarian practices in the Delta.
4603008|Bailey et al. (1989) and Headland (1987) have recently proposed hypotheses stating that human foragers are unable to live in undisturbed tropical rain forests without some reliance on cultivated foods. The present discussion considers these hypotheses, as well as some of the evidence by which they have been tested. Four conceptual problems in the way these hypotheses have been formulated are identified: (1) assumptions about the relationship between key features of tropical forest ecosystems and human subsistence potential, (2) inconsistencies in the definition of "pure foraging," (3) adherence to a dichotomy between foraging and agriculture, the result being that conscious and unconscious effects of exploitation on the demographic parameters of key resources is ignored, and (4) problems in defining the significance of ecotones. I consider the case of Penan hunter-gatherers of Borneo, a population which, by virtue of their reliance on the sago palm Eugeissona utilis, contradicts the conclusions of Bailey et al. and Headland. I consider salient aspects of Penan reliance on Eugeissona, and describe how Penan exploitation of this resource may positively effect its availability. This case is seen to provide a challenge to the hypotheses of Bailey et al. and Headland, not only in the extent to which it contradicts their conclusions but, more significantly, in what it reveals about the assumptions upon which their hypotheses are based. This points to the need for greater precision in the definition of future hypotheses about foraging in tropical forests.
4602879|Six villages in upland West Bengal, India were resurveyed in 1987 and the results compared with the data from a larger area studied in 1977-1978. There has been a 6.4% increase in the human population, but the number of households has decreased 1.7%. The cattle population has increased 14.4% with male cattle accounting for the bulk of the increase. A crossbreeding program implemented 8 years ago has had virtually no beneficial effects. Other observations on the general welfare of humans and domestic animals are presented.
40603003|Home gardens are land use units embedded in a larger land use system, in this case in Candelaria Loxicha, Oaxaca, Mexico. Using a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods, we investigated how home gardens are integrated into local farming practices and how these influence biodiversity. Our findings suggest that home gardens harbour high levels of biodiversity, which are maintained and enriched by farmers' practices, particularly plant and seed exchange. Plant diversity is higher in younger home gardens and in home gardens where owners actively exchange plant material with other people. Through plant exchange, seed storage, and the dispersion of seeds and plants in different land uses, farmers encourage plant diversity and consequently increase the resilience of their farming system in changing climatic, demographic and economic conditions. Both men and women participate in the establishment, care and management of home gardens, but they are responsible for different plants and home garden functions. For economic reasons, the inhabitants of Candelaria Loxicha are increasingly engaging in international migration. Migrants, upon their return bring new ideas and plants that might transform the rural landscape.
41474641|The invasion of exotic earthworms in the Northern Forest of the United States alters carbon and nitrogen cycles and reduces forest litter and native plant cover. Humans are the principal agents of dispersal, spreading earthworms both inadvertently via horticulture, land disturbance, and in the tires and underbodies of vehicles, and voluntarily through composting and the improper disposal offish bait. A study in Webb, NYa town located within the Adirondack State Park, one of the most celebrated cultural and ecological regions in the USexposes the human dimensions of earthworm invasion. Environmental history research, interviews with residents and bait sellers, and a mail survey of town residents show that positive attitudes towards earthworms and their ecological effects lead to casual disposal or use of them. Earthworm use is a strong cultural practice and the risk of their continued introduction in the Adirondacks is high.
40981191|Medicinal plants are indicators of indigenous knowledge in the context of political volatility and sociocultural and ecological change in the Pamir Mountains of Afghanistan and Tajikistan. Medicinal plants are the primary health care option in this region of Central Asia. The main objective of this paper is to demonstrate that medicinal plants contribute to health security and sovereignty in a time of instability. We illustrate the nutritional as well as medicinal significance of plants in the daily lives of villagers. Based on over a decade and half of research related to resilience and livelihood security, we present plant uses in the context of mountain communities. Villagers identified over 58 cultivated and noncultivated plants and described 310 distinct uses within 63 categories of treatment and prevention. Presence of knowledge about medicinal plants is directly connected to their use.
41474584|The subak has a long history as an lirrigators' institution on Bali. It has also spread across Indonesia along with Balinese farmers who were resettled by colonial and post-colonial governments or who have migrated spontaneously since colonial times. While subaks have been much researched in Bali itself, little is known about subaks outside Bali. Luwu District in South Sulawesi is one of the areas where thousands of Balinese families settled in the last four decades. Based on research in this transmigration area, this paper analyzes the emergence and development of the subak in relation to the development of irrigation infrastructure of a state-built irrigation system. A comparison between two Balinese settlements in the same system shows that differences in infrastructural and managerial conditions and arrangements between parts of the irrigation system were major determinants of the institutional space allowed for the subak and ways in which the subaks developed.
4603081|Prehistoric Anasazi Pueblo Indians relied on a diverse set of agricultural strategies, each uniquely suited to specific micro-environments, in their attempts to mitigate subsistence risk. One variant strategy used during the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries A.D. was pebble-mulch gardening. The Rio Grande Anasazi of northern New Mexico occasionally mulched some of their garden plots with pebbles in order to increase soil moisture, reduce erosion, moderate soil temperature, and increase crop yields. This labor intensive technique was primarily employed as a drought-evasive measure. And while pebble mulching is an effective agricultural adaptation to the constraints of a dryland environment, construction was limited to sites with natural gravel deposits and it never replaced more traditional food stress-coping mechanisms. In spite of their potential, pebble-mulch gardens were used for only a short period of time, never contributed much to the total food yield of pueblos, and remained always a peripheral innovation outside of the Anasazi cultural core.
4603216|Shifting cultivation is important to many of the inhabitants of tropical forest regions. Much scientific research has been conducted on this form of agriculture in the humid tropics, but the drier portions of the tropics remain less studied. The shifting cultivation system practiced in the tropical deciduous forests of western Guerrero, Mexico, provides insight into such production systems, especially with regard to crop diversity and fallow characteristics. This system is characterized by low crop diversity, based primarily on maize (Zea mays) cultivation, and a general lack of fallow management. The farmers also utilize several strategies not common to many other regions, including highly seasonal labor allocation patterns, varying fallow cycle lengths, and the occasional application of chemical inputs.
41474674|In earlier publications we have proposed a model to explain the functional role of water temple networks in the agro-ecology of wet rice irrigation on the island of Bali. We argued that the key ecological effects of temple networks are best understood as emergent properties of a complex adaptive system. This argument implies that important aspects of the temple system are largely opaque from the perspective of conventional social science. We proposed that the Green Revolution created a real-world test of our model, by effectively removing the temple networks from their functional role in ecological management. The idea that water temple networks represent a hitherto-unknown kind of institution has been met with appropriate skepticism by other social scientists, who have run a fine-toothed comb through our evidence. Here we evaluate their critiques.
23353258|The emergence of 'new commons' poses theoretical challenges that require empirical efforts and in-depth case studies. Three years of ethnographic work at an Ecuadorian coastal community brings us to propose the emergence of a new commons, historically born from an unstructured group of inhabitants, and refunded as a community seemingly able to convert a degraded socio-ecological system into a more sustainable configuration. To understand this process, we study how institutions and rules developed for the environmental management of strategic common pool resources (CPRs), transforming humanenvironment relationships. This socioecosystem constitutes a co-managed multi-level system of governance, developed through a community building process and a particular community based tourism model. Its analysis suggests that the balanced development of different levels of management with a firm base at the community level bringing into play new CPRs, can be key factors for the emergence of new commons.
41474582|This paper discusses issues of agrarian change in south-central Bali. The proximity to urban areas, especially the tourist centers along the southern coast, provides many off-farm employment opportunities for small-scale farming households. Although rice farming continues, for many households it has become a side business. The flexible nature of rice farming in terms of labor input and available casual off-farm work allows farming households to allocate their available labor to a variety of on-farm and off-farm income generating activities. The subak which unites farmers in the irrigation and cultivation of the rice crop plays an important role in supporting this flexibility. Still, the future of rice farming and the organization behind it looks rather dim with a younger generation unwilling to work in the "mud" and little appreciation of the many benefits the subak provides not only to the farming but to the wider community.
4602400|In southwestern North America, agriculture is limited by both arable land and available water supplies. In the upper Rio San Miguel, as well as in other narrow river valleys of eastern Sonora, Mexico, floodplain farming is dependent upon living fencerows for its environmental stability. Propagated fencerows of willow and cottonwood maintain, extend, and enhance floodplain fields. These ecological filters also protect fields from cattle, harbor agents of biological control of pests, and provide renewable supplies of wood. Traditional Sonoran farmers do not perceive cottonwoods and willows as phreatophytic pests, as their Anglo-American neighbors do. The stability of the upper San Miguel agroecosystem contrasts with severely eroded conditions within the region's other arid watersheds.
4603529|Through a process of participatory mapping, this research assessed the impacts of the 1984 change in Alaska fire policy from one of exclusion to one of management on Native land use in the Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge. Findings suggest that while the change in policy has had little measurable effect on community land use the continued suppression of fire on Native owned lands is having a direct impact on the current availability of wildlife resources to the point of necessitating territorial expansion among Native resource users. However, given the complexity of human nature, the impacts associated with the 1984 policy change should not be reduced to a simplistic cause-and-effect relationship. Rather this analysis demonstrates the interaction as well as the contradiction that occur between policy, culture, and ecology as these factors together have come to influence Native land use.
4603531|While economic development has proven elusive in African pastoral systems, change is pervasive. The majority of the Kajiado Maasai, for example, have endured marked declines in per capita livestock holdings and other aspects of human welfare over the past 50 years. We surveyed 317 Borana households to see if similar patterns occurred in southern Ethiopia, and our predictions were largely confirmed. Once viewed as the epitome of sustainable pastoralism, the Borana system now confronts numerous challenges. Decline in per capita cattle holdings has spurred household-level diversification to include maize cultivation and camel husbandry in some areas. Resource pressure has encouraged local annexation of some formerly common access grazing areas. Economic links between pastoral households and local towns still appear rare, however. Our results suggest that patterns of internally induced socioeconomic change due to population pressure in such semiarid systems are broadly predictable, and that development intervention priorities should reflect system dynamics and address emerging issues. A focus on improving risk management by facilitating household economic diversification and restoring some aspects of opportunistic resource use may be the most appropriate development options among the Ethiopian Boran at this time.
4602962|The conservation of scarce land resources is essential to the long-term viability of agriculture in Rwanda. High population density, steep slopes, and abundant rainfall prevail in the highland portions of this African country, making the task of erosion control uncommonly difficult for the peasant farmer. The specific use to which land is put, e.g., cultivation, fallow, pasture, woodlots, and, if it is cultivated, the particular combination of crops grown, can be seen as contributing to both the cause and the solution of the land degradation problem. Based on data from a nationwide survey of over 4800 agricultural fields in Rwanda, this study reviews the extent to which the land use and croping patterns employed by farmers are appropriately suited, in terms of erosion control, to the topographical and environmental characteristics of their landholdings. Analyses of other aspects of the traditional agricultural system, e.g., variations in relative soil fertility, the use of organic fertilizers, and the location of fields relative to the household, are introduced to help explain why farmers often fail to maximize erosion control through land use and cropping practices. Adjustments to current land use practices that can be expected to reduce soil loss are discussed.
24013719|The socioeconomics and the ecological impact of nomadic pastoralism were analyzed using interviews with 87 herder families and secondary information in the western Khangai, Mongolia. The pastoralists had an income above the national average for rural areas in Mongolia. Most herders continued traditional seasonal migration patterns, which involved ca. 10 moves per year over a total distance of ca. 100 km between summer and winter grazing grounds. As elsewhere in Mongolia, the number of goats owned by herders has greatly increased and cashmere has become the main source of cash income. Total livestock numbers rose considerably after decollectivization of the livestock sector in 1992, but in recent years have periodically been reduced by harsh winters, often combined with drought. Due to the high economic risk of these periodic livestock losses, many herders invest in better education for their children to enable them to migrate to the cities.
4602572|Prior explanations of the distributions of crime have tended to emphasize the criminal intentions of people without considering adequately the circumstances in which criminal acts occur. This paper examines how community structure generates these circumstances and applies Amos Hawley's human ecological theory in treating criminal acts as routine activities which feed upon other routine activities. For example, we consider how married women in the labor force, persons living alone, and lightweight durable goods provide offenders with circumstances favourable for carrying out certain illegal acts. We examine in particular how direct-contact predatory violations require the convergence in space and time of offenders, suitable targets, and the absence of effective guardians. Various trends in the social structure can alter crime rates by affecting the likelihood of this convergence, without necessarily requiring changes in the criminal inclinations of individuals.
4602331|An attempt is made to argue for a more dynamic view of hunter-gatherer population behavior in place of the largely static one that has been widely accepted. Following a review of how the concept of carrying capacity has been used in both hunter-gatherer and ecological studies, attention is drawn to the role of stochastic factors in producing fluctuations over time among populations that are small in size. Some of the implications of this alternative view are briefly discussed.
4602740|Ciguatera fish poisoning is a significant health and resource problem in the tropical world, largely because of its uneven and unpredictable distribution in space and through time. Here, the problem is reviewed with evidence from the Pacific Basin. The contemporary distribution of ciguatera and the species commonly perceived to be toxic are considered and a hypothesis relating the greater prevalence of ciguatera in the eastern Pacific to reduced species diversity is presented. The problem is also considered as a public health phenomenon (the mean reported incidence for the Pacific region as a whole in 1981 was 109/100,000) and attention is given to island dwellers' adaptation to the problem, their explanations of its etiology, as well as its detection, prophylaxis, and cure.
23353200|This paper discusses transitions in land use evidenced by the case of the Suoi Muoi catchment area in NW mountain of Vietnam. Land use transitions were detected from LANDSAT and SPOT satellite images taken over the last 40 years. The maps showing changes in land use were linked with biophysical properties of the land such as slope gradient, elevation and soil type, and cultural characteristic of various ethnic groups by means of logistic regression model. The combination of research methods and instruments from several disciplines, including statistical spatial analysis such as the multiple logistic regression (MLR) models and the multiple correspondence analysis (MCA) on household interview data, and key informant interviews allowed us to identify and validate a number of factors that drive land cover and land use changes in Northwest Vietnam.
4603084|In Canada, there has been a marked increase in the relative frequency of dual earner families, and especially of dual career families, compared to breadwinner/homemaker families. Effects of this change on the handling of incomes inside the household are examined here. In this paper, quantitative survey data and qualitative data on strategies of financial management are described and analyzed for co-resident couples in Winnipeg. Findings are presented on control over income, financial possession, and access to household money. These findings are interpreted as evidence of a shift in the form of companionate marriage toward greater equality of economic agency. It is suggested that the most common household financial strategy among Canadian couples today is that of flexible shares.
24015744|Climate change is a significant future driver of change in coastal social-ecological systems. Our knowledge of impacts, adaptation options, and possible outcomes for marine environments and coastal industries is expanding, but remains limited and uncertain. Alternative scenarios are a way to explore potential futures under a range of conditions. We developed four alternative future scenarios for the Great Barrier Reef and its fishing and tourism industries positing moderate and more extreme (23 C above pre-industrial temperatures) warming for 2050 and contrasting 'limited' and 'ideal' ecological and social adaptation. We presented these scenarios to representatives of key stakeholder groups to assess the perceived viability of different social adaptation options to deliver desirable outcomes under varied contexts.
4603419|Maasai pastoralists in Kenya are rapidly diversifying. Maasai may now derive their main livelihoods (and sometimes considerable income) from farming, wildlife tourism, and/or the leasing of land for large-scale cereal cultivation. The spread of large-scale commercial cultivation competes with wildlife for grazing land, and wildlife populations around protected areas are rapidly declining as a result. This paper presents new data to analyse the way returns from different land uses, and the social structures affecting their distribution, influence the land-use choices being made by Maasai around the Mara National Reserve in Kenya. Returns to different interest groups from livestock, cultivation, and wildlife enterprises, seen in the light of current social, economic, and political trajectories, can help to clarify likely future land-use trends in the Mara. In particular, community conservation initiatives that seek to make conservation worthwhile to reserve-adjacent dwellers inevitably have a strong economic dimension. However, the choices made by Maasai landowners are not a simple function of the economic returns potentially accruing from a particular enterprise. They are as much or more influenced by who is able to control the different flows of returns from these different types of enterprise. These findings are relevant not only for the wider Serengeti-Mara Ecosystem, but also for pastoral livelihoods and wildlife conservation elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa.
41474609|A large number of East African pastoralists reside around protected areas (PAs). Over the last few decades pastoralists have been affected by the loss of grazing lands and increasing climatic variability. Many pastoralists who reside around PAs have resorted to grazing inside PAs to counter environmental variability. However, there is little information on how PAs influence the herding strategies of pastoralists. This case study from southern Kenya employs a spatially and temporally explicit mixedmethods approach to understand and evaluate the herding strategies of pastoralists around a PA. The results find that pastoralists access PAs on a regular basis, regardless of seasonality or herd size. Movement into PAs was partly driven by the loss of grazing land to conservancies. PAs affected pastoral herding by presenting differential opportunity costs to disparate groups. However, households with large herd sizes utilized the most flexible strategies to counter environmental variability and uncertainty.
41432986|Many fisheries management interventions are in the form of spatial regulations that change fishers' access to fishing grounds. How fishers respond to regulations directly affects the ecological and socioeconomic outcomes of management objectives, but little attention is paid to fishers' willingness and ability to make spatial adjustments. We investigate the spatial preferences of small-scale fishers in Sabah, Malaysia, within a framework of mental maps and perceptions. We find that the majority of fishers fish within preferred resource spaces that were heavily influenced by perceptions of safety. Most fishers exhibit low flexibility to adapt to spatial changes, based on i) unwillingness to travel beyond preferred resource spaces; ii) unwillingness to leave the fishery; and iii) low to no alternative employment opportunities. We emphasize the need to uncover and understand human dimension parameters to reduce uncertainty surrounding human behaviour, and ultimately facilitate the attainment of fisheries management objectives.
27654184|This study focuses on individuals' subjective reasons for complying with rules for common pool resource management. We examine the topic of individual rule compliance, which the commons literature has addressed only marginally, and outline recent empirical findings. Hypotheses are derived based on rule compliance theory and explored using data gathered in a Cuban community sharing a solar energy system. The statistical analyses reveal that compliance with rules for energy management is influenced by various factors. Depending on the particular rule, factors such as sanctioning, legitimacy, and compatibility, among others, influence the frequency of individual rule compliant behavior to differing extents.
24013747|The discussion about the impact of pastoralists on ecosystems has been profoundly shaped by Hardin's tragedy of the commons that held pastoralists responsible for overgrazing the range. Research has shown that grazing ecosystems are much more complex and dynamic than was previously assumed and that they can be managed adaptively as commons. However, proponents and critics of Hardin's thesis continue to argue that open access to common-pool resources inevitably leads to a tragedy of the commons. A longitudinal study that we conducted of pastoral mobility and primary production in the Logone floodplain in the Far North Region of Cameroon suggest that open access does not have to lead to a tragedy of the commons. We argue that this pastoral system is best conceptualized as an open system, in which a combination of individual decision-making and coordination of movements leads to an ideal-free type of distribution of mobile pastoralists. We explain how this self-organizing system of open access works and its implications for theories of management of common-pool resources and our understanding of pastoral systems.
40981186|Previous research has examined the influence of values on human-ecological decisions, yet disparate approaches render inferences across studies difficult. In this paper, we present a robust conceptualization of values, encompassing general life values, broad-based environmental orientations, and specific yard priorities, while comparatively examining how these influence residents' land-management practices. Coupling a social survey with observational field data in Phoenix, Arizona, we address how 1) diverse values affect residents' multifaceted landscaping practices, 2) yard structure impacts water and chemical applications, and 3) land management varies across distinctive geographic contexts. Overall, values were not strongly related to land management decisions. Of those that were significant, most were related to groundcover and herbicide use. Yet diverse environmental values influenced landscaping practices in varying and complex ways. In addition, the historic and socioeconomic setting of neighborhoods affect the extent of lawns and related management inputs, while heightened use of pesticides in rock-based, drought-tolerant yards challenges the notion of these lawn alternatives as an environmentally friendly and low maintenance choice.
4603036|Most of the studies on seasonality in food supply and nutritional status have been carried out in areas characterized by extreme climatic conditions. This study was conducted in an area where the climate is favorable for grain cultivation. However, a large part of the population was found to face seasonal variations in food availability, most critically three to four months before the main harvest. Women lost about 3 percent of their weight in this period compared to the post harvest period. The nutritional status of preschool children declined in the lower socio-economic group. These changes also coincided with a period of hard agricultural work, especially for women. The paper deals with factors affecting the duration of the maize stocks as well as strategies used when maize stocks are exhausted.
4602813|The concept of adaptation has been used differently in studies of biological and cultural evolution, and this divergence raises the question of whether genetic and cultural adaptations are truly comparable. This paper compares genetic and cultural traits associated with endemic malaria in Sardinia, Italy. Thalassemia and G-6-Pd deficiency, two genetic traits of the Island's population, are believed to enhance fitness against malaria, despite increased risk for the diseases of thalassemia major and favism. Two cultural traits, a pastoral pattern of inverse transhumance and rules limiting the geographical mobility of lowland women, limited exposure to the malaria vector, Anopheles labranchiae; these are used as examples of cultural adaptations. The distribution, costs, and benefits of the adaptive cultural and genetic traits are compared, and the theoretical difficulties of finding a common measure of adaptive value are discussed.
4602889|Mexico is within the center of origin of Zea mays and has among the highest levels of maize genetic diversity in the world. This diversity is traced to factors at the regional and farm levels. Loss of crop genetic diversity has been related to economic and agricultural development, although opposed views of this exist for the Mexican case. Agricultural development appears to be affecting virtually all types of farms in Mexico. A case study in Chiapas suggests that the adoption of some improved varieties has enhanced genetic diversity in maize, but one improved type competes with landraces in the most favorable land. The adoption of this improved type is associated with greater access to capital and with lower risk.
41433095|Much of the literature on common-pool resources has focused on elucidating the social mechanisms and local institutions that lead to the regulation of common-pool resources. There is much less information about how management regimes translate into environmental impacts or how environmental impacts influence the emergence of management decisions. We use quantitative and qualitative methods to investigate the link between forest condition, agricultural change and the emergence of common-pool resource management regimes in two indigenous Kichwa communities in the Ecuadorian Amazon. We show that forest condition is linked to agricultural production and that the perception of common-pool resource scarcity influences the emergence of management regimes. We argue that population pressure, market forces and resource scarcity, which are usually associated with measures of agricultural change can also promote the emergence of common-pool resource management regimes.
27654252|In 2005, a hurricane named Katrina hit the states of Louisiana and Mississippi in the US, destroying properties and flooding areas. Many people left the region and still have not returned. While some of these people may eventually return, some may not, becoming "migrants." Assuming this phenomenon will occur, is it unique? What is the role of the environment in migration? Can there be violent conflict between such migrants and residents in areas absorbing migrants? We evaluate these questions in the cases of Hurricane Katrina, the US Dust Bowl in the 1930s, and Bangladesh since the 1950s, demonstrating that environmental change can trigger large out-migration, which can cause violent conflict in areas receiving migrants. These findings have important policy implications. Climate change is expected to degrade the environment considerably in this century. Minimizing climate change-induced migration and violent conflict in receiving areas requires an engineered economic slowdown in the developed countries, and population stabilization and economic growth in the developing countries financed by the developed countries.
4603371|Understanding landscape-scale patterns of herding is critical in identifying and assessing the impacts of pastoral grazing. Here, a general model of herding is developed based on the Sukuma agropastoral system in the Rukwa Valley, Tanzania. Using this conceptual framework, the factors affecting the maximum distances herds travel from home and the distribution of grazing around pastoral settlements are examined. The distribution of dry season water structured the landscape-scale distribution of grazing throughout the year, not just during the dry season. Water availability strongly affected the distances herds ranged from home in the dry season and the distribution of grazing around pastoral settlements throughout the year. Associations between cattle productivity and herding practices were also examined. The effects of traveling further from home, keeping cattle in large herds, and using/living in areas of high settlement densities were examined on the following measures of productivity: intake rates, foraging behavior, milk yields, and body conditions. Cattle from larger herds were observed to walk more while actively foraging and engage in more walking bouts (taking ten steps without taking a bite). The increased walking of large herds may explain why they range farther from home and highlight the importance and ubiquity of herd splitting among pastoralists. However, herd size effects were not apparent in intake rates or milk yields. Milk yields were negatively affected by traveling farther from home. These data demonstrate substantial variability within herding populations and show interesting similarities with herding systems in substantially more arid areas.
41474596|Introduced species are a major driver of negative ecological change, but some introduced species can potentially offer positive benefits to society. Asian swamp buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) were introduced to the northern Australian mainland in 1827 and have since become a serious pest. However, buffalo have also supported various profitable industries, including harvesting for hides, meat, and live export. We investigate an indigenous wildlifebased enterprise that harvests wild buffalo from indigenousheld lands in remote northern Australia. We used ecological modelling and social research techniques to quantify the buffalo dynamics and to examine their contributions to sustainable livelihoods in a remote Aboriginal community. Results suggest that the current harvest rate will not drive the species to extinction and it is thus unlikely that the population size of buffalo will be reduced enough to alleviate ecological damage. This enterprise is profitable and provides regular royalty payments to traditional land owners and wage income for employees, along with several additional non-financial capital assets. We demonstrate that the commercial exploitation of introduced species can provide additional or alternative sources of protein and income to promote economic development for indigenous people. This type of enterprise could be expanded to more communities using harvest rates above maximum sustainable yield to provide greater positive social and ecological outcomes for indigenous communities.
4602509| Whenever introduced into Amazonia and its neighboring regions, the shotgun has quickly replaced the bow and arrow and other aboriginal weapons of the hunt. The quick and widespread adoption of the shotgun is plainly a matter of its superiority over most aboriginal weapons. This paper compares the hunting efficiencies of the shotgun and the bow by means of a controlled field experiment among the Ye'kwana and Yanomam Indians of the Upper Orinoco River of southern Venezuela. It also examines the impact of the shotgun on local animal populations and the economic changes brought about by the need to cash-crop in order to purchase Western hunting technology. 
41474594|We use agent-based modeling to study osotua, a gift giving system used by the Maasai of East Africa. Osotua's literal meaning is "umbilical cord," but it is used metaphorically to refer to a specific type of gift-giving relationship. Osotua relationships are characterized by respect, responsibility and restraint. Osotua partners ask each other for help only if they are in need and provide help only when asked and only if they are able. We hypothesize that under the ecologically volatile conditions in which Maasai pastoralists have traditionally lived, such a system is particularly suited to risk pooling. Here we explore whether osotua increases the viability of herds by comparing herd survivorship and stability under osotua rules to a) no exchange and b) probabilistic rules for requesting and giving livestock. Results from this model suggest that this gift-giving system can dramatically increase herd longevity through a limited pooling of risk.
40343984|Globalization induces changes in the combinations of productions and activities within farming systems in all parts of the world. These changes can only be apprehended through an in-depth understanding of the mechanisms and diversity of these farming systems. Labor, as a major technical determinant of differences in competitiveness, is central in these transformations. The technical and economic analysis of labor in Andean dairy production in this paper illustrates this issue. Combining various scales of analysis of labor and productivity highlights the technical obstacles faced by Andean dairy farmers, demonstrates the technical and economic principles of these production systems, and puts them in a competitive context. This analysis also discusses the benefits of a labor-centered approach of farming systems.
27654307|Petroleum and natural gas are the primary fuels in the US food system. Both fuels are now in short supply and significant quantities are being imported into the USA from various nations. An investigation documented that fossil energy use in the food system could be reduced by about 50% by appropriate technology changes in food production, processing, packaging, transportation, and consumption. The results suggest that overall, farmers benefit as well as consumers.
4603259|This paper investigates the links between migration and ecological change by focusing on environmentally-displaced populations. The discussion is based on a case study from the Usangu Plains, Tanzania, a receiving area for displaced herders and cultivators from elsewhere in Tanzania. I focus on two of these groups--the Nyakyusa and the Sukuma--in analyzing the ecological causes and consequences of rural-rural migration. The spread of cash crop production, leading to degradation and resource scarcity, was a key factor underlying displacement from both locations. I emphasize social and cultural variables influencing resource use and management in assessing the ecological impact of migration on the Usangu Plains. Migration is not always ecologically destructive; this paper indicates some of the conditions under which it can have this outcome. In this case study, environmental displacement caused environmental problems to be transferred elsewhere, to be translated into new forms, and to increase in complexity, a phenomenon I call the "cascade effect."
23280335|This paper shows how the prospect of a forest carbon market in Papua New Guinea added a new element of instability to national forest policy and property processes that were already moving in contradictory directions. In particular we examine attempts by foreign investors to forge voluntary carbon agreements with customary landowners after the Bali climate change conference of 2007, and the mobilization of state institutions to counter these 'private dealings'. We highlight the connection between the ways that these processes played out at both national and local scales, with a focus on the highly contentious Kamula Doso forest area in Western Province. We conclude with some observations on the way that the constitutional protection of customary land rights inhibits the formalization of marketable rights in forest resources, including forest carbon, and creates an inconclusive circularity in the operation of forest policy and property processes at different levels of social and political organization.
4603118|In the last few decades, advances in understanding and modeling climate have paralleled the growth of an impressive log of radiocarbon dates and quantitative analyses of climatic indicators including pollen, tree rings, and lake levels. At the same time, archeological research has given us an impressive assemblage of cultural information. We also have the tools for sorting out the diverse sources of variance in our datasets. The time has come to begin to integrate these lines of scientific endeavor to produce a mutually coherent picture of at least one of the mechanisms that have affected the history of humankind, and one that undoubtedly will affect the future as well.
24015700|Among many indigenous peoples of Amazonia, shamanism and Christianity co-exist as central cultural elements shaping the ways in which people interpret and interact with the world. Despite centuries of co-existence, the relationship between shamanism and Christianity has entered an especially dynamic era as many of Amazonia's indigenous peoples abandon Catholicism for Evangelical and Sabbatarian churches. Testing the relationship between Christian church affiliation and shamanism in 23 Makushi and Wapishana communities in southern Guyana, we found that Evangelicals and Sabbatarians are less likely to visit shamans or accept their legitimacy than are Anglicans and Catholics. However, conversion does not necessarily imply a complete rejection of indigenous religious systems as many self-identified Evangelicals and Sabbatarians continue to adhere to some indigenous beliefs and practices. We conclude by positing possible implications of religious conversion for natural resource use on indigenous lands.
4603204|Floodplain fisheries make an important contribution to the total freshwater catch of Africa. Rules and institutions controlling access to these fisheries have received little attention in the literature. This paper explores property regimes operating in the Hadejia-Jama'are floodplain fishery, Nigeria, with a focus on a case-study village. Private, communal property, and open-access tenure regimes exist. The physical characteristics of the resources under each of these categories are differentiated. The economic cost of making resources more exclusive appears to be a key factor affecting tenure. However, the social benefits of communal access are also extremely important. In a risky environment that is characterized by spatial and temporal variation in the distribution of resources, maintaining rights of access to a wide geographical portfolio of resources is an important consideration. This is especially true considering recent environmental changes in the floodplain caused by dams and drought. This suggests that recommendations to improve productivity of the fishery by making access more exclusive may not maximize overall benefits from the fishery, since gains in productivity may be outweighed by losses in social benefits.
4602791|Retrospective data collected in two urban neighborhoods of Tianjin, People's Republic of China, reveal a decline in the rate and duration of breastfeeding since the mid-1930's. There is no reason to suppose that this decline was stimulated by policies intended to discourage breastfeeding, or by pressures from commercial interests determined to expand the use of milk substitutes or supplements. The evidence indicates that breastfeeding declined as women became involved in work outside the home, as they adopted a form of postmarital residence that separated them from other relatives, as income increased, and as their rural origins decreased. No evidence was found to indicate a relationship between breastfeeding and parity or sex preferences.
27654179|In order to assess possible contributions of climate change to the human ecology of the North Atlantic islands we evaluate the utility of cumulative deviations from the mean, calculated for the Greenland ice core storm frequency proxy (GISP2 Na+) and sea ice proxy (GISP2 chloride excess). Our aim is to identify episodes of unpredictable change in the context of long-term trends of cultural and environmental development. Key changes are identified in the proxy climate records in 975 and 980 AD, 1025 and 1040 AD, 1180 AD, 1425 and 1450 AD, and 1520 and 1525 AD. Some of these changes are consistent with those inferred from new studies of the palaeoecological record of the Faroes. This indicates that the cumulative deviation measure could give greatest prominence to the most important climate changes affecting landscapes and settlement (such as the changes of 1425 and 1450 AD and their immediate aftermath), rather than extreme events, such as great single storms.
4602997|This article examines the rhino and elephant conservation policies of Zimbabwe, focusing on the historical experiences of rural farmers with colonial and post-colonial wildlife policies. It begins by defining the social and political ramifications of the current environmental conservation debate in Africa, and how these are crucially affected by rural people's perceptions of environmental goods. Next, the paper explores the exploitative colonial legacy of wildlife conservation in Zimbabwe, and how that legacy has or has not been transformed since independence. The paper pays close attention to the development of linkages between rural farmers, local conservation NGOs, and local and national governmental bodies. Finally, the paper finds that, while many positive linkages have been made between conservation authorities and rural farmers and ranchers in elephant conservation programs, few such linkages have been made in the various rhino conservation schemes. Since Zimbabwe has been relatively successful in conserving its elephant population, but relatively unsuccessful in stopping rhino poaching, the paper concludes that the development of positive linkages between rural farmers and the state, which include heavy doses of popular participation at the grassroots level, is crucial for any successful natural resource policy.
4602380|Using faunal analysis, this article outlines a coastal mammalian harvesting pattern involving a few terrestrial mammals whose biomass appears to have been greater when associated with man than under "natural" conditions. Archeological evidence suggests that these animals fed regularly on cultivated crops and were hunted in house gardens and cultivated fields. By concentrating the supply of both carbohydrates and animal protein, "garden hunting" may have eliminated seasonality and scheduling problems. And because it artificially increased the biomass of selected animals, it may have functioned as a substitute for animal domestication.
4602901|The present study focuses on the characteristics of human adjustment strategies to cope with river bank erosion hazard among inhabitants of the Jamuna floodplain of Bangladesh. Based on a sample survey of 547 randomly selected households, the study found that the strategies taken at the community level fall in the preventive category while at the individual level adjustment measures were more of the corrective type. Overall, such patterns are indicative of a divergent goal and role of individual and institutional measures to minimize hazard loss.
4603436|We studied edible crop species diversity at homegardens of two Chibchan Amerindian Reserves in Costa Rica: Talamanca and Coto Brus. We visited six settlements at Talamanca and five at Coto Brus. We recorded the number of edible crop species growing homegardens; we found 46 edible plant species at Talamanca and 27 at Coto Brus. The mean number of species per homegarden ranged between 3.80 and 6.80 at Coto Brus and 4.50 and 8.63 at Talamanca. We identified species that were common, i.e., found in most households and all settlements, and species that were rare. We estimated diversity indexes for each settlement and each Reserve. Also, we compared crop species composition between both Reserves and among settlements within each Reserve, using the Jaccard coefficient of community similarity. Settlements from the same Reserve were grouped together, with the exception of Villa Palacios from the Coto Brus Reserve.
4603372|The temporal and spatial distribution of fires for an area in east-central Senegal was determined on the basis of multi-temporal NOAA AVHRR satellite images. Three years of data (1990-1992) were analyzed defining the boundary between two different fire regimes: very few and scattered fires to the north with the majority of fires south of the boundary. This boundary was stable for the three dry seasons examined and was identical to the northernmost extension of fires as determined by visual inspection of a hard copy Landsat image mosaic. Fire frequencies were analyzed in relation to dominant vegetation types and yearly precipitation, and the findings compared to results of a field survey of the local population's perceptions of the causes and implications of fires. Survey results clearly showed that the use of fire in the study area is closely linked to the utilization of the environment for livestock grazing and crop production. We conclude that the local population has a high degree of awareness about the application of fire, that different fire use practices concerning can be identified respectively in the grasslands of the northern and the savanna of the southern parts of the study area, and that these practices reflect a well adapted production strategy. Finally, we recommned policy decisions be more flexible in the light of local understanding of fire use.
4602353|In this article, I argue that human social behavior is a product of the coevolution of human biology and culture. While critical of attempts by anthropologists to explain cultural practices as if they were independent of the ability of individual human beings to survive and reproduce, I am also leery of attempts by biologists to explain the consistencies between neo-Darwinian theory and cultural behavior as the result of natural selection for that behavior. Instead, I propose that both biological and cultural attributes of human beings result to a large degree from the selective retention of traits that enhance the inclusive fitnesses of individuals in their environments. Aspects of human biology and culture may be adaptive in the same sense despite differences between the mechanisms of selection and regardiess of their relative importance in the evolution of a trait. The old idea that organic and cultural evolution are complementary can thus be used to provide new explanations for why people do what they do.
40343957|Coupled human-environmental timelines are used to explore the temporal coevolution of driving forces and adaptive strategies from the 1960s to 2006 on Bellona in the SW Pacific. Climatic events and agro-environmental conditions are assessed in conjunction with issues such as population dynamics, agricultural strategies, non-agricultural activities, transport and infrastructure, migration, education, political conditions, etc. Satellite imagery and aerial photos reveal relative stability in agricultural land use intensity despite an increase in de facto population (51% from 1966-2006). Results of questionnaire survey of 48 households show that the utilization of natural resources (notably shifting cultivation and fisheries) remains widespread, although it is increasingly supplemented by other income generating activities (e. g., shopkeeping, private business, government employment). Group interviews are used to discuss ways in which the local communities' adaptive resource management strategies have been employed in the face of climatic and socioeconomic events and changes in the recent past. Fifty years' development is described as a combination of continuity and change. Resource management practices are only marginally impacted by different stress factors, but the importance of agriculture has been decreasing in relative terms. Culturally determined bonds have become a main ' mechanism' to cope with environmental or socioeconomic stress and the Bellonese have become less vulnerable to external shocks.
4602910|The role of introduced epidemic disease in highland New Guinea is considered in light of recent debate concerning pre-contact adaptations. Seroepidemiological studies of the Hagahai, a small isolated groups of hunter-horticulturalists in the fringe highlands of Papua New Guinea, document the recent introduction of mumps, hepatitis B, specific types of influenza, and rotavirus. Results are related to ethnographic findings, detailing past levels of intergroup contact and recent changes in settlement patterns, travel, feasting, health care, and other cultural factors. Data suggest that inter-group disease transmission is greatly increased decades before officially recorded time of contact and that mortality levels documented soon there-after are not indicative of the pre-contact adaptation.
4602771|To date, no wholly satisfactory explanation has been proposed for the division of the Mbuti Pygmies into two types of hunting economies: net hunters to the southwest and archers to the northeast. Examination of the literature suggests that this economic subdivision may rest on differences in seasonality and overall patterns of wild food availability between the southwestern and northeastern sectors of the Ituri Forest. The southwestern sector is described as consisting of almost pure stands of the leguminous tree species, Gilbertiodendron dewevrei, growing on white sand soils. This area appears to be floristically (and probably faunistically) less diverse than the northeastern area. Perhaps in response to relatively low availability of human food, Pygmy bands in the southwest have turned to net hunting and a subsistence economy resting on the meat trade in order to secure a dependable, high-quality source of dietary energy on a year-round basis. Conversely, in the less seasonal and apparently more diverse and dietarily productive northeast, Pygmy bands may face less variation in food availability and therefore be under less pressure to alter their traditional hunting and gathering lifestyle.
27654259|The results of an analysis of the viewpoints of Celestn community members regarding the Ra Celestn Biosphere Reserve, Mexico, are used as the basis for recommendation to improve the community/natural protected area (NPA) relationship. Participant observation was used to record the opinions of 80 people (883 years of age) between April and August 2002. Twenty semistructured interviews were held with local young people randomly selected from the participant observation group and their fathers; one interview was held with a municipal officer. Results indicate that the informants perceived a lack of communication between community members and the Reserve concerning its objectives and action areas, minimal community participation in Reserve regulation development, an absence of alternative productive activities and unjustified restriction of natural resources. These perceived conditions can potentially generate conflict between the community and the Reserve administration, preventing fulfillment of the Reserve's environmental protection mission and negatively affecting community welfare. It is suggested that communication between the Reserve and the community be mutual and free-flowing, that Reserve objectives be identified in conjunction with the community, that community members be included in Reserve activities and administration, that interdisciplinary teams be formed to encourage communication and participation and that alternative productive activities be developed. Particular emphasis is placed on the need to listen to and address the concerns of young people because they will define the community/Reserve relationship in the near future.
4603509|Genealogical data, land clearance patterns, and garden inheritance histories from a patrilineal clan in the Highlands of Papua New Guinea are used to reconstruct population size and agrarian resources for the descent group over a period of 170 years. The resulting analysis reveals a strong relationship between fluctuations in population pressure on agrarian resources and changes in the composition of social groups that in turn accelerates change, then regulates it. Two quantitative relationships show that numbers of outsiders incorporated into the group and their kinship distance both covary closely with pressure on land as measured by an occupational density index.
4603416|Family systems exert substantial influence on the demographic processes of populations. The Moso in Southwest China feature an institutionalized visiting sexual system, which differs from marriage, and a grand household system without conjugal units. Moso women enjoy virtually unlimited reproductive autonomy. On the basis of surveys of 127 Moso households conducted in 1988 and 1989, this paper analyzes the fertility experience of Moso women during the twentieth century and the mortality rates of the Moso population in the PRC era. Moso fertility patterns are characterized by a late age at first birth (median 23 years), long interbirth intervals (median 3 years), and a high rate of childlessness (16%). We conclude that this pattern of low fertility is an outcome of the unique Moso cultural practices. For the cohorts of Moso women born between 1905 and 1929, pathological sterility caused by STD is likely to have depressed fertility as well.
4602611|Bedouin of the Middle East have been considered to subsist exclusively as nomadic herders. A regional approach to the subsistence economy of Bedouin considers their articulation with agricultural systems. The economy of Jebaliyah Bedouin of the southern Sinai is unusual in that they directly practice both herding and orchard agriculture. A survey of historical records and contemporary data explicates the thesis that Jebaliyah Bedouin were not and are not an isolated and economically autonomous group.
4602511|A review of models of agricultural intensification and their application to the agricultural systems of the humid tropics is presented. Taken into account are the distributions of these systems at various population densities, available data on labor efficiencies, the costs of establishing continuous cropping, and data regarding soils under cultivation and various types of fallow. The findings that fallows much longer than 10 or 15 years serve no known agronomic function, that given preindustrial technology, grass fallows are disadvantageous, even environmentally destructive, and that continuous cropping usually entails a considerable amount of environmental modification support the interpretations that agricultural intensification in the humid tropics is best understood in terms of ecologically optimal strategies at different population densities. Points needing further investigation are highlighted: the reasons for very long fallows, and the comparative labor efficiencies of fallow and continuous cropping systems where crops and environments are similar.
23280337|Forest carbon is a new commodity to be produced and traded through market mechanisms that reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD). This paper examines the likely origins and effects of forest carbon through analysis of property relations associated with a REDD-like scheme in Cambodia. Two contracts in the Cardamom Mountains are compared, both implemented by an international conservation organisation with the Cambodian Forestry Administration since 2006. Although the contracts do not yet enable the sale of forest carbon, they do illustrate its processes of production, which are essentially interventions in land and forest property because they involve land-use planning, delineation of forest boundaries, and identification of rights-holders. Ethnographic examination of these processes shows how, in spite of technical standardisation, they interact with local property relations in unpredictable and paradoxical ways. The fictitious and ephemeral nature of forest carbon is therefore exposed, along with the ideals and assumptions of REDD-market proponents.
4602598|Recent changes in the area of the Plan Chontalpa in Tabasco have greatly reduced the production of subsistence crops by rural families, resulting in decreased crop diversity and a concomitant increase in the degree of dependence on outside sources of food. Results from a nutrition survey of 149 families demonstrate that dietary diversity, dietary quality, and nutritional status of preschool children are negatively associated with lower crop diversity and increased dependence on purchased foods. Dietary deterioration is illustrated by the negative relationship found between nutritional status and increased sugar consumption. The assumption that a rise in income accompanying the adoption of commercial production will automatically lead to improved nutrition is challenged: income levels were not found to be consistently related to nutritional status. Children of families that have converted to cattle production, despite greater land availability and family incomes, do not have improved nutritional status. In the study area, where wages are low and food prices are very high, the value of a higher degree of self-sufficiency in food is recognized, yet families continue to switch to cash crops due to the environmental, economic, and time constraints imposed by the system of commercial agriculture in which they participate. The solution is not to return to traditional subsistence farming, however, but to determine under what conditions a more progressive form of agricultural change can occur.
4603551|The process of industrial modernization was characterized by fundamental changes in the interaction of socioeconomic systems with their natural environment. This paper reflects on this transformation process from an ecologically informed perspective, focusing on the interrelation of local populations, their specific mode of production, and the (agro-) ecosystem. Four Austrian villages in different agro-ecological zones serve as case studies for a comparative analysis of different types of farming systems and changes in these systems over time from the early nineteenth century to the present. The paper presents empirical results and aims at contributing to the discussion of relevant topics in human ecology and environmental history. Focusing on the changing significance of livestock in agricultural production systems, it addresses issues including the relation of population density to intensity of land use; soil fertility and nutrient management; the sustainability of preindustrial agriculture; and the gradual opening of locally closed cycles during industrialization and its effect on the landscape.
40603025|Over the past four decades, Maasai pastoralists in Tanzania have adopted agriculture, integrating it with their traditional pastoralism. This livelihood diversification has complex origins and profound implications for Maasai social organization, culture, and demography, and ultimately for their health and well being and for the local and regional environment. In this paper, we examine the process by which this engagement with, and increasing dependence upon, agriculture came about in Ngorongoro District, northern Tanzania. The process there was more complex and influenced by a wider variety of factors than has been reported by previous descriptions of Maasai livelihood diversification. It generally involved two stages: planting a garden first, and later expanding the garden to a farm. We found that some households adopted cultivation out of necessity, but far more did so by choice. Among the latter, some adopted cultivation to reduce risk, while for others it was a reflection of changing cultural and social norms. Motivations for adopting cultivation differed among people of different wealth categories. Diversification was part of wider cultural changes, and was also influenced by power differentials among Maasai age sets and by government policies.
41474615|Most researchers defend cocoa agroforests as a model, which guarantees sustainable cocoa production while protecting biodiversity. However, in most countries, farmers' strategies favour "full sun" cocoa farms, close to the concept of monoculture. Why this apparent paradox? Field surveys were conducted in 2005 and 2008 with 180 migrant and autochthon farmers in four districts of Ghana, including some measurements at the farm plot level and satellite images in a fifth district. An analytical grid shows how factors interact. Adoption of sun-loving hybrids; farmers' negative perception of ecological services in relation to hybrids; legislation excluding smallholders from the legal timber market; recent expansion of the timber industry; and the migratory phenomenon. Most smallholders consider complex cocoa agroforests as a thing of the past. They were designed at a time when land and forests were abundant. The future of cocoa and timber may lie in 'light commercial-oriented agroforests' or a kind of mosaic landscape.
4602325|Lobstermen from each community along the coast of central Maine claim inshore fishing rights in particular areas. Although their claims are unrecognized by the state, they are well established and backed by surreptitious violence. Two kinds of lobstering territories exist, here termed "nucleated" and "perimeter-defended," which differ essentially in the extent to which exclusive fishing rights are maintained. These differences in territorial organization affect the fishing effort of lobstermen, which in turn has a strong biological and economic impact.
27654113|A major challenge for contemporary conservation policies and practices is formulating workable compromises between wildlife conservation and the people who live with wildlife. We strongly support the view that anthropology has a critical role to play in contributing to our understanding of human-environment interactions. The study of complex biophysical and human systems can be greatly assisted by appropriate simulation models that integrate what is known about ecological and human decision-making processes. We have developed an integrated modeling system for assessing scenarios in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area in northern Tanzania to modify the situation there to improve human welfare without compromising conservation value. We present the results of some scenarios that indicate that the current situation there is not sustainable, and that tough policy decisions need to be taken if household well-being of the pastoralists who live there is to be improved or even sustained.
4602570|Marine turtles long have been of great value to peoples of the Indian Ocean, nutritionally, economically, and culturally. Once directed primarily toward subsistence, the hunting of marine turtles for international trade has increased; today their populations are often so depleted that they are not only insignificant as resources, but are endangered. An understanding of exploitation is imperative to guarantee future populations, yet available information is sketchy. "Subsistence hunting" is an ambiguous term, since the most intense exploitation is for export. Historically this has involved Chelonia and Eretmochelys, whose populations are now much reduced. Yet, newly "discovered" populations (Lepidochelys especially) are being exploited, under the stimulus of new foreign markets (e.g., leather), and their fates seem even less hopeful than those of longexploited populations. Moreover "subsistence hunting" for immediate local consumption has led to depletion of nesting and feeding populations of turtles in areas where protein sources are in great demand and human population densities high. Neither the future nor the solution to this dilemma is clear, but it is obvious that economic considerations must be carefully considered, and ecological arguments alone are insufficient to manage these resources.
4602610|Analysis of faunal remains from prehistoric southwestern pueblo sites reveals certain commonly occurring species of mammals and birds, the latter including ducks and geese, hawks and eagles, American Kestrel, Mourning Dove, owls, Horned Lark, Common Raven, and jays. This phenomenon is examined with the analysis of bird bones from four New Mexican pueblos located in north-central and west-central New Mexico. Recovered faunal remains date to specific periods between A.D. 1250 and the present. Over 70 species of birds represent various ecological situations; many of these species presently do not occur near the pueblos and a few occur only in the extreme southeastern portion of the state. Marsh and riparian areas along the river systems and richer grasslands on the floodplains would account for most of these species occurring near the sites prehistorically. However, rather than attribute unusual species to climatic change, trade, or longdistance hunting expeditions by the Indians, an alternative explanation is offered which attributes high species diversity to areas of human disturbance. Disturbed areas such as agricultural fields can increase species diversity in an area and aid in the range extension of many animals. The primary factor in this situation, besides the crops themselves, is believed to be insects, which attract other animals, particularly birds and their predators. In addition, field irrigation systems act to extend riparian growth from the river across the floodplain, creating habitats for these animals. Finally, certain groups of birds and mammals have developed a natural attraction to human settlements and agricultural areas and these include species whose remains commonly occur in prehistoric pueblo sites. The avifauna from these sites also reveals information on the prehistoric use of birds as inferred from bone modification, cut marks, burials, and articulated wings.
4603287| A survey of 102 Mojeo and 62 Yuracar Amerindian households in the department of Beni in the Bolivian rain forest was done to measure the effects of household and village attributes, ethnicity, and markets on the adoption of chemical herbicides and insecticides for farming. We hypothesized: i) that village attributes would matter more among households with weak links to the market, ii) that education and income would matter more in households integrated to the market, and iii) that ethnic membership would not matter because, as a null hypothesis, we assume all cultures are equally adept at processing information about technological innovations. The results of a probit model with Huber robust standard errors did not confirm any of the hypotheses. Village variables were statistically significant at all levels of integration to the market. Contrary to human capital theory, income and education played a more prominent role in relatively autarkic villages. Ethnicity was statistically significant in the pooled sample and at different levels of integration. Results suggest that conventional determinants of adoption of new farm technologies may need reappraisal in more autarkic settings. 
4603577| Indigenous peoples have been using fire in the cerrado (savannas) of Brazil as a form of management for thousands of years, yet we have little information on why, when and how these fire practices take place. The aim of this paper was to explore the traditional use of fire as a management tool by the Krah indigenous group living in the north-eastern region of Tocantns state, Brazil. The results indicate that the Krah burn for a variety of reasons throughout the dry season, thereby producing a mosaic of burned and unburned patches in the landscape. The paper discusses this burning regime in the context of contemporary issues regarding fire management, and in the face of changing perceptions to fire by the Krah themselves. 
40343944|The maintenance of exceptionally high numbers of folk varieties by the Piaroa people of the Venezuelan Amazon is considered. We cataloged 113 manioc folk varieties, their nomenclature, use and relevant characters, revealing significant insights into the role of manioc in Piaroa social life. Through a qualitative investigation of the cultivation, processing and symbolic significance of manioc (Manihot esculenta) in two Piaroa regions over a period of 18 years, we have found that such agrobiodiversity can only be fully explained by a combination of multiple factors, including pragmatic and ecological considerations, the subtle and complex diversity of Piaroa manioc preparations and a variety of sociocultural factors, such as manioc's role as a mediator of social relationships and as a marker of cultural and social heritage.
4603522|Women are important stakeholders in natural resource policies since rural women in developing countries are responsible for most of the collection of food, fuel, and firewood for commercial and domestic use. When it comes to the management of these natural resources, gender inequality due to societal traditions could limit the ability of women to participate in policy-making, even when they are not formally excluded. This paper analyzes the effect of gender stratification on women's participation by undertaking an empirical study of a participatory environmental policy program in Indian villages. It endeavors to answer the question of how gender stratification affects participatory environmental policy-making. Using the case study of a community forestry program, it finds that women are still marginalized in decision-making, even in participatory environmental policies. Gender stratification continues to impinge upon forms of democratic decision-making in developing societies. Using facilitating policy tools that seek to empower such marginalized groups would be one way of making participation meaningful for all groups in society.
4603195|This article is based on a study of time allocation and decision making patterns among the Keiyo in three ecological zones of Elgeyo-Marakwet District, Kenya. It finds that age and gender are important factors to consider when examining livestock production among African smallholder farmers. This is especially true where males are absent from home for wage labor. In these situations women, young males between the ages of 6-15, and persons of both sexes aged 65 and over spend considerable amounts of time engaged in livestock-related activities. These women are also more actively involved in decision making concerning the marketing of milk. The results indicate that there is a definite need to consider the contributions of these other persons when efforts are being made to improve elements of the livestock sector.
4603238|Hunting by Iban forest farmers in West Kalimantan, Indonesia, is an important part of their subsistence economy, and as such became a focus of study as part of a conservation project in the Danau Sentarum Wildlife Reserve. In this paper, we examine Iban hunting of nonhuman primates with comparison to other large mammals. We analyze rates of encounter and capture, comparing encounters, hunting trips, and animal numbers. Information on habitats hunted shows the importance of secondary and old growth forest. Also examined are Iban attitudes, game preferences, and taboos. The significance of these findings is discussed with regard to the threats to wildlife from increases in the use of shotguns, human population, and habitat destruction, showing that conservation may be aided by promoting or enhancing certain aspects of the traditional Iban agroforestry system.
4603143|This research was designed to test the following hypothesis: Among traditional (nonliterate and minimally literate) people residing in their home environment, traditionally derived knowledge of specific cases of ecological processes can approximate scientifically derived knowledge of those same cases. After locating three minimally literate peasant family lineages in Lijiayang and Linfengkeng villages, Shouning County, Fujian Province, China, not applying science-based systems of agroforest management, a decision-tree model of an indigenous agroforest management system was constructed from extensive interviews. The system was centered around shamu (Cunninghamia lanceolata), an important timber species with a long history of management in China. A major part of the management system is agricultural intercropping with a wide variety of cereal, cash, medicinal, and oil-producing crops. Intercropping is practiced in the initial phases of afforestation; is an integral aspect of site preparation and the tending of the young stand; and contributes to tree establishment, growth, and survival. The cases presented demonstrate that local peasant knowledge of the effects of burning, site preparation, crop selection, crop tending, and intercropping duration on soil quality and the survival and development of shamu is strongly analogous to the knowledge derived through systematic scientific research. This process of deriving scientifically valid ecological knowledge through traditional means is called proto-science.
41474598|This paper investigates the impact of human out-migration on long-standing commons institutions in the Sierra Norte of Oaxaca. Local communities have been increasingly engaged with national and international markets for wage labour, with many losing a significant percentage of their resident populations. This paper shows how demographic and cultural change is impacting the two social institutionscargos and tequiosthat underpin the highly autonomous form of governance the region is famed for. The loss of able-bodied men and women has meant that these customary systems are struggling to remain operational. A number of responses and institutional adaptations have been introduced by community authorities, including the forging of translocal ties that show potential for reducing the vulnerability of affected villages. While migration was temporary or circular from the 1970s to the 1990s, more permanent forms of migration have come to dominate since that time. Such a shift undermines adaptation efforts at the community level. Within this context, the lessons for commons theory are discussed, while a new layer of complexity is added to the body of work examining the consequences of rural depopulation on Mexican village life and landscapes.
4603483|This paper traces the evolution as well as key elements, and provides examples of implementation of participatory development and community-based conservation, two concepts that resemble distant cousins in the intersecting worlds of development assistance and environmental conservation. The paper examines the connections between the concepts, the implications of participatory development for community-based conservation, and the reasons for the differences in their conceptualization and implementation. The paper is based on a review of the literature in both fields and on the authors' research and experience with participatory development and community-based conservation. Several keys to understanding the disconnection between the concepts emerge; intellectual and pragmatic origins of and impetus for the concepts, the expertise and interests of their promoters, and the differing emphasis on participation as means versus end. Results may inform our understandings of why many participatory approaches to conservation have failed to achieve meaningful participation in practice.
4603532|The number of birds' nests harvested in the Niah cave today is only a fraction of what it used to be. This article focuses on the socioeconomic causes of the decline. It argues that the present situation is not directly linked to the tragedy of the commons, since the ownership of cave and nests is private. The tragic aspect is, rather, linked to an attitude of free riding which was threatening the private system of ownership in the 1980s, and which forced Penan owners to lease their caves to the former "free riders" (thereby diluting management responsibility), and to harvest nests as soon as possible (before the birds can lay eggs and reproduce). It is therefore the tragedy of a management system whose rules, intended to avoid open access and free riding, lead to unsustainable behavior. Since the birds cannot be privatized, it is also the tragedy of a system in which actors are unable to reach a consensus on how to manage sustainably a de facto common property resource.
27654197|Human preferences will increasingly determine many species' prospects for survival. However, aside from a small number of survey-based studies of preference among disparate taxa, human species preferences have received little attention. I determined human aesthetic preferences among a relatively homogenous group, the penguins, from representation in all recently published, comprehensive, popular books of photographs of penguins (n=4 books; 304 photographs). Representation of visually distinguishable types of penguins, measured by total photograph area, was highly skewed and rankings were highly concordant across books, suggesting large and commonly held differences in aesthetic appeal. Multiple regression analysis indicated that amount of warm color was the only significant determinant of representation, and warm color was highly correlated (r2=0.96) with mean representation of the penguin types. Body size and neotenic form, traits found to influence human preferences among other animals, were not significant, suggesting that the bases of human species preferences differ by species type. The results of this study indicate that human aesthetic preferences discriminate finely among species and may be based on minor features. Conservationists must be vigilant to the potential for aesthetic responses to influence conservation efforts.
40343983|Based on the U.S. Federal Mortality Schedules from the years 1850-1880 infant deaths <1 year were investigated in order to determine whether mortality attributed to "smothering" or "overlaying" followed known SIDS trajectories. By comparing a case sample of 2,236 smothered/overlaid deaths with an age-, regionally and time-matched control sample of all-cause infant deaths (N= 58,293), striking similarities with SIDS became apparent, which were not mimicked in the control sample. These epidemiological traits included a disproportionate vulnerability during the second to fourth month of life (Poisson RR 12.94, p<0.001), a remarkable birth and death seasonally, as well as pronounced racial disparities. The study could also corroborate sex-specific discrepanciessuch as differential impact of month of birth on age-at-death. Results of a Cox regression furthermore indicate that age, sex, race and death season were significant predictors of mortality. This strongly supports the hypothesis that these infant deaths represent empirical evidence of 19th century SIDS.
25652779|In Suriname, the Maroons have practiced shifting cultivation for generations, but now the increasing influence of modern society is causing a trend of decreasing fallow periods with potentially adverse effects for the vulnerable tropical soils. Adoption of appropriate soil fertility management (SFM) practices is currently slow. Combining methods from cultural ecology and environmental psychology, this study identifies two groups with divergent behavioral intentions which we term semi-permanent cultivators and shifting cultivators. Semi-permanent cultivators intend to practice more permanent agriculture and experiment individually with plot-level SFM. Shifting cultivators rely on traditional knowledge that is not adequate for their reduced fallow periods, but perceive constraints that prevent them practicing more permanent agriculture. Semi-permanent cultivators act as a strong reference group setting a subjective norm, yet feel no need to exchange knowledge with shifting cultivators who are in danger of feeling marginalized. Drawing on a political ecology perspective, we conclude that cultural ecological knowledge declined due to negative perceptions of external actors setting a strong subjective norm. Semi-permanent cultivators who wish to enter the market economy are most likely to adopt SFM. We conclude that any future SFM intervention must be based on an in-depth understanding of each group's behavior, in order to avoid exacerbating processes of marginalization.
4602785|This paper develops an analytical method for assessing the interplay of economic behavior and ecological energetics among the Metis Cree, offspring of Cree Indian-European unions in north-central Canada. Business account-book analysis provides unique insights into the production and exchange behavior of individual laborers and their families during the twilight of the fur trade in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The evidence generally supports conventional interpretations of the subartic Metis as economically and socially intermediate between Indian hunting bands and the Euro-Canadian managerial class. However, fine-grained account-book analysis also reveals that this general adaptation exhibited highly variable coping strategies, forming a continuum in work regimens and level of integration into trading-company hierarchies. A focus on individual variability reflects the growing interest among ecological anthropologists in individual strategy, theories of choice, and actor-based decision models.
4602597|How useful are gaming simulations for the study of problems that interest human ecologists? Anatol Rapoport, a principal contributor to the development of game theory, raised this issue with the editors of "Human Ecology", who in turn invited him to express his views in print. In brief, Dr. Rapoport calls into question the real-world applicability of gaming simulations, and explores its limitations. The educational function of simulation, he argues, should not be confused with the research aims of laboratory experimentation. The addition of "realistic" conditions in a gaming simulation merely complicates the experiment and reduces its theoretical significance. It does, however, have some pedagogical utility, whose implications have not yet been adequately taken into account. Dr. Rapoport considers this matter with reference to the problem of "social traps," such as the "tragedy of the commons," an issue which concerns many human-ecology researchers.
4602832|Ecological events which recur with a period of 5-30 years are perceived as "discontinuities" and culturally interpreted. A cultural model of environmental expectation and intervention is inferred from Malagasy games, dwellings, and forecasts. In a series of examples from Malagasy communities, we shall first identify a set of underlying principles. We shall refer briefly to the nearest corresponding concepts in western scientific thought, known as catastrophe theory, and show the relevance of the concepts to four practical problems of environmental management.
4603566|Resurgent protectionists advocate a return to strict nature protection characterized by excluding most people from ecologically fragile areas. Certain groups of indigenous residents, namely those with low population densities, simple technologies, and subsistence economies, are seen as conservation friendly, but groups who are experiencing demographic growth, using Western technologies, and producing for the market are perceived as incompatible with biodiversity conservation. Using insights from common property theory as well as ethnographic observations of the Huaorani Indians of Ecuador, I illustrate how such assumptions constitute a "conservation Catch-22" in which cultural conditions deemed compatible with biodiversity conservation are precisely those from which we would not predict conservationist practices to emerge. Romanticized conditions deemed harmonious with nature lack the incentives necessary for people to develop conservationist practices. Conservation is not a state of being, but a social process inextricably linked to social and political institutions influencing resource management.
27654312|Pastoralists of the high Andes Mountains raise mixed herds of camelids and sheep. This study evaluates the land use of herdsmen who are confronted by both socioeconomic and climate changes in Huancavelica, central Peru. Land use/land cover change (LULCC) was measured through satellite imagery, and pastoralists' capacity to adapt to socioenvironmental changes was evaluated through interviews and archival research. The most dynamic LULCCs between 1990 and 2000 were large increases in wetlands and a loss of permanent ice. We conclude that the people's responses to these changes will depend on availability of institutions to manage pastures, other household resources, and perceptions of these biophysical changes. Socioenvironmental change is not new in the study area, but current shifts will likely force this community to alter its rules of access to pastures, its economic rationales in regards to commodities produced, and the degree of dependence on seasonal wage labor. In this scenario, households with a greater amount of livestock will fare better in terms of assets and capital that will allow them to benefit from the increasing presence of a market economy in a landscape undergoing climate change.
4602814|French farm policy has created incentives for certain production strategies which theoretically require little or no land and which would therefore be particularly suited for small holders. Through credit and subsidies for the construction of pigsties, and through contractual arrangements for the production of hybrid seed corn and tobacco, the government has encouraged these activities. However, because of certain constraints, these activities are more successfully pursued by holders of larger farms. Small holders, because they are small, cannot fully benefit from these strategies which would compensate them for their smallness.
25652778|Self-organization is a key condition to the success of community-based conservation initiatives, including those recognized by the Equator Initiative of the UNDP. This paper contributes to emerging scholarship that focuses on community-based conservation in South Asia and in particular examines self-organization strategies within a small-scale community-based conservation initiative in a cross-cultural setting to further understanding about how such initiatives originate, sustain and grow. This is achieved through a case study of the Baripada Forest Protection Initiative in India by utilizing in-depth interviews and focus groups. In addition to certain often-cited strategies for self-organization, the Baripada initiative included unique features of self-organization such as village community design, implementation and adaptation of rules for local natural resources use and conservation, little need for financial support, and significant mobilization of human resources. These strategies, along with emerging social learning opportunities (e.g., a community plant diversity register) inspired by the Baripada initiative, inform and enrich the criteria for designing and evaluating conservation and development initiatives, irrespective of their scale.
27654292|Resin producing agroforestry in the Krui area of Sumatra in Indonesia is presented as an environmentally friendly, income generating land-use system which contributes to both development and conservation objectives. We studied the change in household income portfolios in three communities in the Krui area. The studies revealed that in the period 19952004 agroforestry remained the main source of income. We predict, however, that due to declining resin productivity per hectare, and rising price and demand for timber, an increasing number of farmers will cut their mature agroforests in the near future. At the same time our data suggests that farmers will continue tree planting activities. In result old agroforests may vanish while new ones will be established.
4602770|Historical factors and lineage affiliation are interpreted as constraining choice of sweet potato or sago as a major source of starch by Etolo family groups. The annual scheduling regime encouraged an association between the primary mode of starch production and the primary technique for obtaining game mammals. An emphasis upon sweet potato was linked to trapping and an emphasis upon sago was linked to hunting. For larger family groups whose membership was older, the preceding constraints were relaxed. By manipulating residential affiliation or the composition of "economic units," people could offset constraints of history, lineage affiliation, and family size. Within the framework of those constraints there was much flexibility in the food-getting choices people made. At the level of household communities, trapping and hunting behavior were not obviously patterned around concerns of available prey or energetic efficiency.
4603575| From approximately 1952-1995 the Copn Valley in western Honduras was the site of intensive production of flue-cured tobacco. Local growers and laborers produced flue-cured tobacco for the transnational corporation, British-American Tobacco (BAT) under a contract farming arrangement. BAT introduced new tobacco varieties, cultivation techniques, mechanization and agrochemicals, as well as the flue-cured processing technique, and then purchased tobacco leaf for the manufacture of cigarettes in their Honduran subsidiary. Using ethnographic data and the interpretation of time series aerial photographs, this article documents the social and ecological impacts of this production system including extent of production, labor requirements, deforestation, exposure to agrochemicals and reinforcement of a hierarchical social system based on low-wage employment among landlessness agricultural workers. The paper also explores the reasons for, and consequences of, the decline of this system. 
23280334|Interventions to conserve carbon stored in forests are central to the emerging global climate change regime. Widely referred to as REDD+, these interventions engage local resource holders in contracts to restrict their use of land and forests in exchange for conditional benefits, effectively creating a market for forest carbona new and intangible commodity. Delving into the social and material implications of this, three case studies (Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Cambodia) examine property relations in the early stages of forest carbon production in different tenure contexts. The case studies reveal that: (a) the risk of local exclusion from forest and lands under REDD+ is real, but is mediated by dynamic negotiations over knowledge and property; (b) the relationship between forest carbon and underlying property relations around land and forests is recursive and mutually constitutive; and (c) due to ongoing and entrenched property contests in REDD+ locations, there remains an unstable foundation for forest carbon markets.
23280268|It is well known that wild game provides a significant proportion of the dietary protein of the indigenous people of the eastern half of New Guinea (PNG), but almost nothing is known of its importance in the western half (the Indonesian province of Papua or Irian Jaya). We quantified hunting effort, harvest rates and wild meat consumption and sale in the Jayapura region of north-east Papua through interviews with 147 hunters from 21 villages and meal surveys in 93 households. Ten species of mammals, seven species of birds and at least two species of reptiles were harvested in our study area, but the introduced wild pig and rusa deer were the major target species. Hunting in our study area has shifted from a purely subsistence activity towards a more commercial form at least partly due to the emergence of markets created by Indonesian transmigrants. Although the hunting of non-indigenous and certain native species might be sustainable, the maintenance of populations of large threatened species will require sensitive management.
4603502|This paper assesses the impact of South Africa'a land reform program on land use change in rural areas of Limpopo Province. Land use change was examined on five Communal Property Associations using remotely sensed images and quantitative and qualitative survey techniques. Land was abandoned or used less productively after redistribution. The primary reason for the lack of land use change to more productive states was that the land redistribution policy was not sufficiently sensitive to the diversity of rural livelihoods. Other reasons include farm-level general disorganization, lack of capital and labor, gender inequities, and age distribution. Regional political diseconomies also hindered change, namely poor tenure relations and a persistent urban bias.
4602965|Existing transhumance practices in the Gredos Mountains are studied and the origin, destination, number of livestock, livestock raiser characteristics, and environmental variables of winter and summer pasture areas and drovers roads are analyzed. The important ecological, economic, and cultural role of transhumance is emphasized and attention is drawn to the need for its support and conservation.
4603142|Four predictions are made on the future of space age technologies in human and cultural ecology: first, remote sensing systems will generate a need for more fieldwork, not less; second, the services and skills of anthropologists will become essential to the interpretation of satellite data, especially as these relate to areas characterized by non-Western cultural practices; third, training in remote sensing and the use of geographic information systems will become a regular offering for anthropology students; and fourth, since these new systems and methods can be applied retrospectively to the re-analysis of earlier ethnographic works, space age technologies will be with us for some time to come.
4602800|How accurate international nutritional standards are for recommending and assessing adequate nutrient intake and nutritional status of different national populations has been debated by nutritionists, economists, and others. This paper reviews the assumptions and possible motivations behind the design and interpretation of standards in particular countries, with a special emphasis on India and Mexico. The analysis suggests that comparative studies of the "ethnonutrition" concepts of policy-makers are useful for understanding how standards are set, and their nutritional implications.
4603538|Throughout the arid regions of Africa formerly mobile pastoral populations are becoming sedentary. Although pastoral sedentarization is encouraged by international development agencies and national governments as solutions to food insecurity, poor health care, and problems of governance, it has not been demonstrated that abandoning the pastoral way of life, and particularly children's access to milk and other livestock products, is beneficial to the health and well-being of pastoral populations. This paper reports the results of a 3-year study of one pastoral and four settled Rendille communities of northern Kenya based on data from 17 repeated bimonthly surveys of childhood dietary, growth, and morbidity patterns and household level economic strata. Bivariate analysis of 5,535 measurements from 488 children from birth to 9 years revealed that age-specific height and weight measurements for the pastoral community are uniformly heavier and taller than children from the sedentary villages. Multivariate analysis using Generalized Estimating Equations methodology showed that the amount of milk consumed was always a statistically significant determinant of child weight and height growth, regardless of drought or non-drought times and breastfeeding status. Other significant determinants of child growth include morbidity and poverty, both associated with sedentary communities. These results indicate that international development assistance should not neglect improvements in livestock production and support of pastoral movements in Africa's arid lands.
40981185|Rattan cane is an important non-timber forest product (NTFP) harvested from Indonesian tropical forests. However, the extraction of NTFPs such as rattan cane may conflict with forest conservation efforts. A better understanding of harvesting practices can help assess the extent of this conflict and guide forest management decisions. This study assesses the accessibility factors that influence rattan cane harvesting levels in Lambusango Forest, Buton Island, Indonesia, and whether the harvesting of rattan cane is affected by the designation of conservation areas. To this end, the analysis adopts participatory mapping, Geographic Information Systems and a questionnaire survey and employs multiple regressions and analysis of covariance. The results show that accessibility, particularly slope and distance, can play a role in the quantity of rattan canes harvested. The presence of conservation forest does not significantly affect rattan cane harvesting levels. This could be due to limited awareness of the harvesters going to the vicinity of the designated conservation areas and mixed sentiments towards conservation efforts due to the long tradition of forest dwelling and harvesting activities. The study concludes that the successful establishment and management of conservation areas require consideration of the specificity of the local context such as the abundance of forest resources, accessibility and historical forest-people interactions, in addition to biological factors.
27654244|The actual evidence observed in studies of LEK (local environmental knowledge) is nearly always talk about the environment, or what we refer to as LET (local environmental talk), with the claim of studying LEK usually being built upon the implicit assumption that talk about the environment is the expression of knowledge about the environment. We suggest that it is critically important for researchers to question this assumption, especially when the distinction between LET and LEK is also emphasized by local people themselves. In the case we present here, residents of small fishing villages on the Northern Peninsula of Newfoundland are routinely skeptical about what other local residents say about the environment; that is, they engage in LES (local environmental skepticism). We suggest that paying explicit attention to LES can help distinguish LEK from LET.
27654160|Over the last two decades, demands by fish harvesters for greater input into policy-making, combined with government cutbacks to fisheries management agencies, have resulted in a proliferation of community-based fisheries comanagement projects in many countries. One such example is found on Newfoundland's Eastport Peninsula, where a group of lobster harvesters have formed a unique partnership with federal government bureaucrats and university researchers in an effort to protect local lobster stocks from increasing fishing pressure. This paper draws upon interviews with lobster harvesters and others with close ties to the Eastport project in exploring the reasons for the development of this initiative and identifying existing and potential obstacles to its long-term success.
27654241|Because social capital shapes many desirable socioeconomic outcomes, we ask what incentives drive private investments in social capital. We estimate the association between private investments in social capital (outcome variable) and the following explanatory variables: (a) individual-level variables from an optimal investment model, (b) spillovers from group social capital, (c) village income inequality, and (d) market openness. We draw on information from Tsimane', a native Amazonian society of foragers and farmers in Bolivia, and equate social capital with gifts, help given, and communal labor offered by the household. Age bore an inverted U-shaped and income bore a positive association with social capital, but geographic mobility, wealth, and schooling bore no significant association with social capital. We found strong group-level associations even after instrumenting social capital; the association probably stems from strong kinship ties which tend to blur the line between the group and the individual. Village measures of social capital were positively and significantly associated with private investments in social capital. We found some evidence that village income inequality and market openness were negatively associated with private investments in social capital.
41474665|A fundamental assumption in nearly all research on social adaptation to environmental change is that there is a concomitant and inverse relationship between human communities' dependence upon particular natural resources affected by environmental change and those communities or societies' resilience to disturbances. However, recent theoretical and empirical developments suggest resilience is a dynamic social process determined, in part, by the ability of communities to act collectively and solve common problems. The interactional approach to community is utilized to develop a framework whereby various patterns of social interaction define the process of social resilience. Data come from multiple mixed methods case studies of forest dependent communities within Southern Appalachia. The findings reveal varied processes of social resilience can occur in communities with similar levels of resource dependence; a community's composition of internal social ties and their cross-scale linkages to external agencies and organizations define these processes.
4603048|This article employs temporal and intracultural frames of reference to examine patterns of variation in fertility among the caste-Hindus of West Central Nepal. Before the onset of major socioeconomic development in the region, three groups, the large-farm high castes, the small-farm high castes, and the low castes, exhibited distinct patterns of reproductive behavior which have been traced over the course of 25 years. Analysis of age-specific fertility rates suggests that one group, the small farm high-caste, maintained relatively low fertility before major development of the region occurred, and, over time, began using modern contraception in order to keep fertility low. Evidence from the low castes suggests that they are beginning deliberately to reduce fertility, but the large-farm high castes continue to have high fertility.
4603054|Based on a representative sample of 449 different individuals, food avoidances are shown to be nutritionally insignificant on average for a population of horticulturalists and foragers living in the Ituri Forest of northeastern Zaire. However, due to variability in food-related beliefs, nutritional costs may be biologically significant for a few individuals. Less than 2% of potential dietary calories are restricted to horticulturalists on average due to food avoidances, while less than 1% is the average cost of these beliefs among foragers. When nutritional costs are calculated from reported avoidance rules rather than consumption practice, estimated costs are significantly inflated. These lower actual costs arise because individuals make use of rules that permit them to eat otherwise restricted foods. For example, eating specific plants is believed to prevent the illness that would otherwise follow the consumption of a tabooed food. Use of such exception rules significantly reduces the nutritional cost of food avoidances for many individuals in this population.
41474607|On the basis of two case studies in rural Morocco, one in a mountainous area of the Central High Atlas and the other in the argan tree area of the southwest Atlantic coast, we show how local Berber populations have actively shaped their forest areas through endogenous management systems at different scales: 1) at the individual tree level by differential cutting or trimming which lead to specific conformations of the tree, 2) at the tree stand level, by determining the type, structure and level of resources, and 3) at the landscape level in which complementary patches of forest areas with particular functions are consciously organized within the overall territory. These practices are strongly linked with the overall socioeconomic organization of the local communities, and mix individual with common rights of access and uses. Forests are viewed as part of the domestic sphere of local livelihoods. Hence, they typically constitute what we refer to as rural or domestic forests since they integrate production and conservation with social, political and spiritual dimensions. These features are of importance for considering foresterlocal community relationships, and for developing alternative forest management policies.
4603028| Risk-sensitive behavior can be defined as the active choosing among probability distributions in an attempt to maximize expected utility of returns. An analysis of human foraging behavior is examined in terms of risk sensitivity. Foraging data collected from Bar hunting and fishing trips were tested according to the prediction that future foraging behavior will be dependent on or at least be sensitive to the success of the previous day's trip. An analysis of protein foraging data yields statistically insignificant results, suggesting risk indifference on the part of the Bar. 
27654276|Access to seed is crucial for farming, though few studies investigate household-level access in the informal 'farmer seed systems' which still supply most seed in poor countries. This paper uses empirical data of seed exchange practices for sorghum in eastern Ethiopia to analyze how social relationships influence access to off-farm seed for a major crop. Seed shortfalls are common, and farmerfarmer exchange is important for providing locally-adapted seed to fill this gap, but access varies considerably among households, also affecting quantities supplied and terms of exchange. Preferred sources for off-farm seed (neighbors, government, market) also vary among farmers, reflecting agroecology and asset-ownership, but also differing access to these sources. Social network theories highlight the importance of reciprocal ties, and the cultural norms underpinning them, in accessing seed. These cultural norms are contested, with some claiming that commercial transactions are increasingly common. Implications for interventions supporting farmer seed systems, particularly emergency seed aid, are discussed in relation to the socially-mediated nature of seed access.
25652745|In many developing countries, conservation is regarded in a negative manner and this supports critical framings of conservation as a form of government or imperialism. This article examines debates about conservation and forests in Laos, and in particular, at the site of the World Bank supported Nam Theun 2 hydropower project that has featured prominently in international and national critiques of conservation. In Laos, foreign-driven conservation initiatives have at times challenged nationwide aspirations for development. But a fuller understanding of Lao concerns requires attention not only to international interventions, but also to perspectives of forests and management of these resources by the Lao state. Most significantly, a widely shared idea of foreign conservation as opposed to Lao development is used to elide the emergent competition between the state and rural villagers over forest resources. Anti-conservation sentiments, like their converse, can thus be used as strategies of government.
40343956|A major challenge for ecologists has long been to develop a model to explain the coexistence of grasses and trees in the savanna. The recent shift in emphasis to nonequilibrium-based theories has resulted in a rethinking of this problem. As resource allocation models have been replaced by demographic ones, the focus has shifted to plant life histories. The tree/grass ratio is now conceptualized as a function of disturbance history. Empirical studies demonstrate that repeat fires trap tree sprouts in perpetual juvenile states. Ecologists suggest natural pathways for juveniles to escape, reach maturity, and maintain tree/grass ratios. This study documents how long-fallow agriculture serves as an anthropogenic pathway. The study compares tree cover on longfallow and unfarmed savanna plots in southern Mali where burning is annual. Tree height, girth, and species were recorded for 29 quadrats. The results demonstrate a significant difference in the size, number, and species of trees; those on fallow plots were taller, more numerous, and more diverse.
4603425|Data are presented indicating a seasonal mosaic pattern of burning in the savanna of southern Mali. A seasonal mosaic is a landscape that is annually re-created by people, and which contains patches of unburned, early burned, and recently burned vegetation. A survey of over 100 farmers and in-depth interviews demonstrates that rural inhabitants of southern Mali begin an annual burning regime early in the dry season in order to fragment the landscape, with the goal of preventing later fires that can damage natural resources. The process of gradually burning off the driest vegetation creates a seasonal mosaic of habitat patches that increases the potential of the landscape for a variety of dry season land uses, including hunting, gathering of savanna products, and grazing. An analysis of a series of Landsat images shows that the practice of mosaic burning is widespread in the wooded savanna, in which burning usually begins early and large fires are rare. On the basis of recent developments in ecological theory and empirical evidence from similar burning regimes in parts of Australia, it is suggested that seasonal mosaic burning in Mali not only prevents damaging late-season fires but increases biodiversity. It is concluded that discourse on African savanna burning overemphasizes the ecologically detrimental aspects of fire, while neglecting the beneficial ones resulting in misguided policies that pose a threat to human livelihoods and savanna ecosystems.
4602448|The case study, located in the Kennett region of southeastern Pennsylvania, illustrates an approach to planning which uses ethnographic and ecological research. Here, information was gathered concerning local values with reference to land use in an effort to consider the consequences of the use of particular sets of values in the planning process. The approach is illustrated by reference to water resource use by different groups in the region.
27654144|Problems with studies, claims, and assumptions that have been made about the causes of fires in Indonesia's tropical moist forests are identified, and the kinds of concepts, methods, prioritizing, and data needed to resolve the problems are discussed. Separate sections are devoted to studying ignitions, studying fire susceptibility and fire behavior, and using the goal of causal explanation to guide interdisciplinary research.
40603015|While there is a general assumption that labor has a positive effect on pastoral production, studies that have tried to quantify this relationship have found no effects. This is most likely because these studies have been looking for effects only at the household level of social organization, although it is well documented that nomadic pastoralist households share and exchange labor in socalled cooperative herding groups. This study investigates possible labor related effects on production among Saami reindeer herders in northern Norway and whether these effects are scale dependent. Contrary to previous studies, we found both a general effect of labor on Saami reindeer husbandry production and the presence of a scale dependent effect, i. e., the more robust results were found on the level of social organization where cooperative herding is undertaken.
4603352|Labor productivity is a major component of agricultural development. Boserup is the scholar most associated with the view that labor productivity declines with intensification of agriculture. This paper reviews the theoretical argument and empirical support for the decline thesis. An empirical test is conducted by means of a comparative study of traditional rice agriculture in Southeast Asia. The decline thesis is rejected. The implications for agricultural development are discussed.
4602721|Based on a sample survey collected from randomly selected farmers inhabiting the Jamuna floodplain of Bangladesh, this study deals with the perception of and agricultural adjustments to both normal and abnormal floods. The study found that the respondents' perception of flood is conditioned by the key role played by floods in their lives. The study further observed that the respondents successfully cope with the normal floods. In cases of abnormal floods, they practiced several adjustments to reduce damages.
4603172| Many of the processed palm hearts consumed throughout the world are derived from the aa palm (Euterpe oleracea Mart.), which grows abundantly in floodplain forests of the Amazon estuary. Palm heart extraction began in the estuary in the 1970s and there are now hundreds of canning factories and some 50 distribution firms in this region. Annual profits of the canning factories range from $30,000 to $50,000 while profits for distribution firms frequently exceed $500,000/year. But there are several indications that this economic boon will be short-lived: factory closings are frequent, palm hearts are much smaller now than in the past, and mortality of palm trees is high in stands subjected to frequent palm heart harvest. However, the aa palm is well suited for management because of its abundance, rapid growth, and multistemmed life form. Under management, palm hearts can be harvested from the same clump over many years through controlled thinning. The management of aa stands could result in significant long-term savings for palm heart factories. Indeed, aa management may offer one of the best opportunities to date for sustained use of some Amazonian forests. 
41474667|By reconstructing the nutrient balance of a Catalan village circa 1861-65 we examine the sustainability of organic agricultural systems in the northwest Mediterranean bioregion prior to the green revolution and the question of whether the nutrients extracted from the soil were replenished. With a population density of 59 inhabitants per square km, similar to other northern European rural areas at that time, and a lower livestock density per cropland unit, this village experienced a manure shortage. The gap was filled by other labour-intensive ways of transferring nutrients from uncultivated areas into the cropland. Key elements in this agricultural system were vineyards because they have few nutrient requirements, and woodland and scrublands as sources of relevant amounts of nutrients collected in several ways.
27654280|This paper uses a variety of historical evidence from Indonesia to explore the conditions for sustainable management of natural resources. In the agricultural sphere, history gives reason for optimism regarding the ability of individuals to conserve and improve soil resources on an uncoordinated, anarchic basis under systems of intensive smallholder farming and agroforestry. It also suggests that this ability may be enhanced, rather than eroded, both by population growth and by the commercialization of agriculture. When it comes to the management of forests and fisheries and the conservation of nature, by contrast, there is less reason for optimism. If sustainable solutions are to be found in these spheres, the historical evidence suggests that they will involve political hierarchy, and will depend on the honouring of a social contract in which the state serves the public interest while retaining the powers of coercion which it needs in order to do just that.
4603435| This study focuses on knowledge of medicinal plants among the Caiaras (rural inhabitants of the Atlantic Forest coast, Brazil). In particular, we examine the use of medicinal plants according to sex and age to reveal general patterns of Caiara knowledge and use of plant resources. Data collected through 449 interviews at 12 Caiara communities (Rio de Janeiro and So Paulo coastal sites) include citations of 249 plants and identification of 227 species. We show the importance of introduced as opposed to native plants and of key individuals of the conservation of the Caiaras-Atlantic Forest. 
27654167|In Zambia's Southern Province, where a history of climatic and political fluctuation have played out in peoples livelihood choices and ecological impacts, the Gwembe Tonga people have learned to respond to uncertainty by expecting the worst. This outlook emerges from at least 50 years of experience. The building of the Kariba Dam on the Middle Zambezi River in the late 1950s resulted in the forced relocation of Gwembe people. Since resettlement in 1958, Gwembe people have lived under conditions of increasing uncertainty, both environmental and sociopolitical, that have enormous implications for environmental change. Understanding environmental change in this region demands an exploration of the social, political and economic context of Gwembe Tonga lives. In looking for broad patterns of adaptation and response, one point emerges clearly. For the Gwembe Tonga, the most recurrent pattern, and most reliable response to living in conditions of extreme uncertainty, is an increasingly opportunistic use of the environment and other resources. This article presents ethnographic data collected over more than 50 years (through the Gwembe Tonga Research Project) in Southern Zambia.
4603568|Homegardens are integral part of rural households in Bangladesh. The present study examines some physical, biological, and socioeconomic characteristics of 32 homegardens randomly selected from four villages representing different agro-ecological conditions, variable population densities, and market opportunities. The study results suggest that large numbers of plant and animal species occupy homegardens, and their composition and intensity of cultivation vary directly with the household physiologic density and access to urban markets, and inversely with environmental constraints to agriculture. Homegardens form the activity space for household women and children, who perform most homegarden farming tasks. Uses of home generated inputs at no or low cost make homegardens economically more efficient and sustainable compared to non-homegarden rice farming. In the context of the intensive subsistence agriculture patterns that dominate Bangladesh, homegardens contribute significantly to smallholder household income.
23280262|Literature on environmental change often highlights the importance of public policies as a key driver of land use and land cover change. However, demonstration of policy impacts in agricultural settings has been hampered by the lack of systematic analysis across landholders, who may not universally adopt government policy incentives, or time periods, which may be associated with differing policy regimes. This paper evaluates the importance of voluntary adoption of policy incentives offered by Peruvian government administrations over two decades for land-use among small farmers in the Peruvian Amazon. The analysis focuses on whether farmers adopted one or more policy incentives in order to observe the effects on land uses including mature forest, agricultural crops, cattle pasture, and secondary growth. We employ multivariate statistical models to estimate the effects of policy adoption while controlling for other factors. The findings show that distinct policies are associated with particular land-uses and largely follow expectations. Specifying policy incentives promulgated by governments and differentiating among adopters and non-adopters advances understanding of the impacts of public policies on land use.
27654275|This study focuses on community-based knowledge to analyze the impacts of range enclosures, crop farming, fire suppression and bush encroachment on the communal rangelands of Borana, southern Ethiopia. The knowledge of local herders is the basis for decision making in the utilization and management of grazing lands. We used Borana oral history associated with the period of the gada system to reconstruct environmental change that spans a period of 48 years. Our results show that the use of communities' perceptions as a basis for evaluating the impacts of land use change on the environment makes an important methodological contribution. Communities' responses to changing land use resulted in the development of range enclosures, the expansion of crop farming and the fragmentation of the communal rangelands, while the suppression of fire contributed to the expansion of bush encroachment. The overall impact was forage scarcity and greater vulnerability of stock during drought years. We conclude that policymakers could use communities' knowledge of environmental change to improve the use of the rangelands. We propose that sustainable use of the southern rangelands in the future will require a greater focus on regulating the expansion of enclosures, crop farming and ranching, as well as reintroducing fire where necessary, to control the expansion of bush cover.
4602926|BaMbuti of the Ituri Forest, Zaire, employ two primary hunting techniques: net hunting, in which women routinely participate, and bow hunting, in which women rarely participate. We hypothesize that the value of women's labor devoted to different subsistence activities, combined with the exchange value of meat, will determine whether women participate in hunts. Field observations were conducted in four different areas: two exploited by archers and two by net hunters. Results indicate that women in net-hunting areas earn more calories per unit time by hunting than by working in agriculturalists' gardens; whereas women in archer areas earn more calories by working for agriculturalists than by hunting. We found no significant difference in the composition or diversity of the forests exploited by net hunters and archers. The results are discussed in light of the long-standing debate concerning the factors that account for distribution of net hunting and archery in the Ituri Forest.
4603417|Mobile pastoralists are subject to potentially conflicting needs for secure resource tenure and socially and spatially flexible patterns of resource use. This paradox of pastoral land tenure poses problems for the application of common property theory to the management of pastoral commons. The vagueness, permeability, and overlap of boundaries around pastoral resources and user groups complicate the implementation of formal tenure regimes designed to address insecure pastoral tenures and unsustainable land use patterns. A case-study from postsocialist Mongolia is used to illustrate the problem of spatial and social boundaries for managing pastoral commons. Three solutions to the paradox are evaluated: tenure formalization, rangeland comanagement, and regulation of herders' seasonal movements. An approach that develops and tests institutions to coordinate pastoral movements is recommended over formal tenure for pasturelands, which should be approached with caution in Mongolia.
23280266|Environmental migration, in its different forms, is an aspiration toward stability domains amidst dynamic system change. This paper assesses critical system relationships that couple human and natural systems and change in due course of a regime shift affecting Garfuna villages in Northern Honduras. The specified resilience of these relationships influences the course that migration takes after a flooding event. In impacted villages, migration is a mechanism for demographic fragmentation, 'down-grades' livelihood chains, and reinforces a class divide. Villages systems that experience a shift to uninhabitable and unproductive state spaces become shallow stability domains and consequently, perpetual exporters of migrants over an extended period of time. In the end, migration itself is a cascading aspect of a regime shift that is both ecological and social, forced and chosen.
4602498|The monthly distribution of live births was analyzed over a 51-year period, 1926-1976, for a rural Taiwan fishing community. Unlike previous studies of birth seasonality, monthly distributions of births did not deviate from what would be expected by chance. This new case is shown to be consistent with the suggestion, developed by Pasternak during a study of birth seasonality in two Taiwan farming communities, that for peasant cultivators the annual cycle of production exerts a more decisive influence on birth seasonality than time of marriage or attributes of temperature, rainfall, or workload. An hypothesis that links the productive cycle to conceptions through the intervening variable of diet is presented and successfully tested using several sets of data on monthly births. A direct effect of nutrition on human fertility, suggested by recent studies of reproductive performance under conditions of nutritional stress, may largely explain seasonality of conceptions and births in populations that experience significant seasonal variation in diet.
40343964|Many of the world's forests are being destroyed at a rapid rate. This article analyzes the decisions of landowners in Maine, where forests have been heavily harvested and much land has been converted to non-forest use. Data on these landowners and their land were obtained from primary and secondary sources, satellite change detection analysis, and structured interviews. We found that there are several different landowner groups making different harvesting decisions in response to different incentives. In northern Maine, deforestation occurred at a rapid rate in the 1970s-1990s due to the activities of paper companies, which were harvesting heavily in the aftermath of a spruce budworm epidemic and which were doing liquidation harvesting preparatory to leaving Maine. In the southern area of the state, deforestation is due primarily to small landowners converting land for development and contractors doing "cut and run" forestry. The Maine case shows that even in a small area, there can be multiple causes for deforestation.
23353205|Swidden cultivation was observed to be under pressure but still persisting in many areas in Sarawak, Malaysia around 20002003. Since then rapid development of smallholder oil palm and rubber, continuing urbanization and rural to urban migration appear to have considerably reduced the area under swidden cultivation. With the aim of understanding the extent and impacts of this development, 55 households in three communities that were interviewed in 20022003 were re-interviewed in 2011. In an area with rapid oil palm development, the households engaged in smallholder oil palm production have experienced considerable improvements in income and wealth whereas the other households have experienced more limited wealth increases or even a decline in income. Many households have decreased or abandoned cultivation of upland rice, which used to be the core of the swidden cultivation system, and the upland soils in the area are now dominated by oil palm. In another area, where no oil palm development has taken place because of a hydroelectric dam, upland rice fields under swidden cultivation have also decreased and new high yielding rubber is now being planted because of the favorable rubber prices. Moreover, tourism has in this area gained further economic importance and overtaken agriculture as the main economic activity of households. The demise of swidden has not yet occurred in Sarawak, but a continued decline has been observed. However, there is a possibility that the new smallholder oil palm and rubber may provide an opportunity for a new type of 'productive fallow' that will allow continued cultivation of upland rice on a small scale.
4603318|This paper presents evidence of emerging waterfowl conservation practices and attitudes among certain groups of contemporary Yup'ik subsistence hunters in the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, a remote, wetlands dominated region of western Alaska crucial to several species of Pacific migratory birds. By examining what factors motivate hunters to follow restraint practices and evaluating how federal goose management policies impact these factors, I argue that recent policy has succeeded not by enforcement of regulations but by providing minimum necessary conditions for voluntary conservation to emerge as a cultural practice. This example of cooperative management may serve as a model for future, sustainable wildlife policies that involve indigenous resource users.
4603264|This study of a Vincentian community in the Eastern Caribbean explores the impacts of income on dietary quality and food import dependency. It finds that two forms of income -- total household income and the income that women control -- are positively correland with total dietary diversity as well as with frequency of consumption of numerous imported foods. However, no relation is evident between banana incomes and consumption of imported foods, thus questioning the general belief in the literature that the growth of banana production has been responsible for increasing dependence on food imports in the Windward Islands. The beneficial impacts of income on dietary quality that have been found in many other developing areas are more limited here because malnutrition is not a widespread problem. But income is closely linked to consumption of foods that contribute to overnutrition and obesity, growing concerns in the English-speaking Caribbean.
4602695| A human ecosystem model, NUOA, simulates the yearly energy balance of individuals, families, and extended families in a hypothetical farming and herding community of Quechua Indians in the high Andes. The yearly energy demand of each family, based on the caloric requirements of its members, is computed by simulation of agricultural and herding activities in response to stochastic environmental conditions. The family energy balance is used in determining births, deaths, marriages, and resource sharing. The model user has the opportunity to investigate the effect of changes in marriage patterns, resource sharing patterns, or subsistence activities on the ability of the human population to survive in the harsh Andean environment. Results from the model suggest that the substructuring of a population into extended families provides a mechanism for sheltering the population from control by exogenous influences. A population without substructures for resource sharing is shown to be unstable in such an unpredictable environment. 
24015695|When adult males are temporarily away from the household, observational evidence suggests cross-cultural and intra-cultural variation in the effects of their absence on the labor of other household members. In subsistence-based economies, we predict that other adolescent or older members will work more in essential production activities that otherwise would be performed by the missing men. We test this hypothesis using spot-check time allocation datasets from rural Nicaragua and Peru and the methodology of mixed-effects statistical models. In Nicaragua, we find that the absence of male household heads rarely necessitates substitute labor by household co-residents, apparently because men typically time their absences to coincide with the non-peak agricultural season. In Peru, the absence of male household heads results in increased men's work by co-residents only under unusual circumstances, as households apparently rely on other strategies to mitigate for the loss of labor. In addition to the comparative empirical analysis of the two cases, we show how mixed-effects models allow for individual heterogeneity and data structures that confound more familiar statistical techniques and occasionally produce spurious results. Mixed-effects modeling techniques will be necessary if we are to realize the analytic potential of the extensive, standardized time allocation datasets gathered by anthropologists.
27654294|We examine the ways both deforestation and conservation are viewed by people of two villages with different ethnic composition located within the biosphere reserve of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. The rain forest is considered to be important, since it provides many resources and environmental benefits. Residents do notice forest degradation, although deforestation is not one of their major concerns. In the "mestizo" village, 65% of interviewees indicated they felt responsible for deforestation, while only 30% of indigenous villagers felt the same. In both communities, nearly half the respondents see themselves as powerless to take actions to preserve the forest. We analyzed the management plan for the reserve in light of our results, and found authorities' perceptions differ from that of local communities. This study emphasizes the lack of factual data and common goals for biodiversity conservation. Our work points to the urgency to build conservation efforts that involve the different social actors, who diverge in interests and views, particularly in countries like Mexico, where rich biodiversity regions are also broadly inhabited.
40343990|The concept of the keystone species has a long history in ecological analysis, although its validity remains controversial. Anthropological researchers have recently coined the term cultural keystone species, but have not demonstrated any significant differences from existing treatments of culturally important species. We define cultural keystones according to their systemic function, as having essential roles in maintaining any level of complexity within a social-ecological system. Examples include bitter cassava consumption among lowland South American groups such as the Wapishana in Guyana, and commercial cultivation of carrots in Rurukan Village in Minahasa, Indonesia. These examples are both essential at one level of systemic reproduction: within the domestic and village economy in the cassava case, and carrots within regional markets. While each is centred upon a single biological species, the cultural keystone itself is not this species, but a complex incorporating several material and non-material system elements.
40343947|This paper presents the results of interviews and a questionnaire study on public knowledge of the concept of biodiversity and of plant species richness in Switzerland. Despite its extensive use in science and policy making, the concept of biodiversity is not widely recognized or known to people in Switzerland. Overall, 60% of all study participants (161 grammar school pupils, 110 non-graduates, and 96 graduates in the Canton of Zurich) had never heard the term biodiversity, while the others had come across it primarily in the media. Few study participants considered their school education a relevant source of information about biodiversity. Study participants most frequently referred to the diversity of plants and animals when defining biodiversity, but also quite often believed that biodiversity had something to do with ecological concepts such as the equilibrium between all components of nature. Both young people and adults held widely inaccurate ideas of the plant species richness of communities. Particularly for Switzerland, plant species richness was strongly overestimated.
4603428|The disease barrier hypothesis is one long-standing explanation of the temporal discrepancies between the initial colonization of North and South America. The model postulates an epidemiological barrier that prohibited or slowed the initial migration into South America during the Late Pleistocene. Using data from ethnographically documented hunter-gatherers, the theoretical foundations of the hypothesis are explored. In addition, likely demographic effects to colonizing populations are postulated and compared to disease-response mechanisms in foraging societies. Based on identified disease conditions deemed necessary to maintain a prohibitive barrier, it is suggested that disease transmission rates in the initial colonizing populations of the New World were likely extremely limited and insufficient to support the disease barrier concept.
4602422|Cree Indians of Fort George, James Bay, northern Canada, maintain a large and successful subsistence fishery. Methods used in the fishery, seasons and locations of catch, and yield levels were studied, together with the population biology two sea-run Coregonus species, cisco and whitefish, that dominate the catch. The fishery was characterized by a high degree of order, social regulation of the fishing effort and the gillnet mesh size, and practices that were identified as adaptations to the subarctic ecosystem. Fishing methods used permit the Cree to control the magnitude of the harvest and the species and size composition of the catch. There is evidence that fishers can alter the scarcity-abundance patterns of the fish stocks, and have a biologically measurable effect on the populations.
24013752|Households in China's Yunnan Province were surveyed to understand the impacts of hydropower development and resettlement on the agricultural livelihoods of rural villagers. Household-level data from this survey are analyzed to test whether income and landholdings vary by resettlement status. Independent sample t-tests and oneway ANOVAs are used to examine how resettlement status relates to income, land allotments, agricultural crops, and government subsides. Results showed that, contrary to predictions, resettlement corresponds to higher household incomes, while differences in landholdings were mixed. Results indicate that while productive landholdings are less for resettled households, new wage labor, government subsidies, and intensified agriculture may contribute to a higher annual mean income at the household level. However, the tradeoff of receiving wage income for reduced landholdings may be a significant vulnerability for the affected households of the Mekong River Basin, since this loss in productive land corresponds to a long-term loss in social security.
40603006|In this article we argue that in order to understand why some governance systems deliver while others do not, we need to assess contributions and limitations of governability. Here, governability refers to a measure of how governable a particular fisheries and coastal system is. Such a system is always comprised of two parts: a systemto-be-governed and a governing system. Governability also depends on the interactions between these two systems. We provide key variables that must be assessed in order to determine governability related to these systems and their interactions. A governability assessment framework is proposed here to suggest that governance performance can only be judged from what is in the potential of the governing system, given the limitations of the governabiltiy of the system-to-be governed, the governing system itself, and their interactions. Such an assessment helps identify what exactly governing systems can and should do in order to enhance their performance.
40343971|Swidden systems consisting of temporarily cultivated land and associated fallows often do not appear on land use maps or in statistical records. This is partly due to the fact that swidden is a diverse and dynamic land use system that is difficult to map and partly because of the practice of grouping land covers associated with swidden systems into land use or land cover categories that are not self-evidently linked to swiddening. Additionally, in many parts of Southeast Asia swidden systems have changed or are in the process of changing into other land use systems. This paper assesses the extent of swidden on the basis of regional and national sources for nine countries, and determines the pattern of changes of swidden on the basis of 151 cases culled from 67 articles. Findings include (1) a majority of the cases document swidden being replaced by other forms of agriculture or by other livelihood systems; (2) in cases where swiddening is still practiced, fallow lengths are usually, but not always, shorter; and (3) shortened fallow length does not necessarily indicate a trend away from swidden since it is observed that short fallow swidden is sometimes maintained along with other more intensive farming practices and not completely abandoned. The paper concludes that there is a surprising lack of conclusive data on the extent of swidden in Southeast Asia. In order to remedy this, methods are reviewed that may lead to more precise future assessments.
24017343|The Inter-Oceanic Highway is among the first wave of large infrastructure projects under the auspices of the Initiative for the Integration of Regional Infrastructure in South America, which proposes regional integration as a means of economic development. Such projects have reignited debates over infrastructure impacts, which in many ways center on the ramifications for natural resource management. We pursue an analysis of the implications of highway paving for local livelihoods by focusing on the effects of market connectivity on livelihood diversity. Given that infrastructure brings shocks to affected regions, we argue that livelihood diversity is usefully interpreted in terms of household resilience to such shocks. We draw on rural household surveys from the tri-national frontier where Bolivia, Brazil and Peru meet in the southwestern Amazon, where the Inter-Oceanic Highway has recently been paved. The findings show that households more connected to markets in terms of travel time and road paving have less diverse livelihoods. This confirms concerns about regional integration and rural household vulnerability.
24017349|The connection between religion, nature and conservation has become a prominent topic among scholars and conservation practitioners. Numerous studies have shown that spiritual beliefs have contributed to preserving important biodiversity in sacred areas around the world. In Western contexts, however, that link has been underexplored, perhaps due to a common view of Christianity as anti-naturalistic. Here, I rely on a literature review and first-hand observations to identify patterns and trends characterizing Catholic sacred sites in Central Italy. I show that a high proportion of the sites are located in natural areas, and that some types of sites and strands of Catholicism are associated with natural settings more frequently than others. Further, these natural sacred sites often display ecological features that highlight their important conservation role. Greater awareness and consideration of local spiritual heritages are recommended to guarantee more effective and integrated management of the sites.
4603334|Katarko village in the Sahel region of northeastern Nigeria relies entirely on natural sources of water such as rainfall and ground water. The latter is potentially the only constant source of water. This study is based on primary data collected in Katarko during a period of 8 months in 1996. Analysis indicates that per capita daily water consumption is higher (44.9 l) in the rainy season than in the dry season (26.1 l). The proportion of households who use less than 150 l per day, the minimum daily requirement recommended by the World Health Organization (Dieterich & Henderson, 1963) increases from 29% during the rainy season to 67% during the dry season. Most households prefer to use water of poor quality that is to be found closer to their homes to traveling long distances to or spending extra time at the water sources to obtain good quality water. Poor water quality, appalling sanitation, and unhygienic water-handling practices, particularly during the dry season, contribute to the high incidence of diarrhea in the village.
24015692|People's perceptions of the risk posed by wild animals to human lives and/or livelihoods can influence the rate at which people intentionally kill these species. Consequently, humanwildlife conflict (HWC) management strategies may benefit from the inclusion of actions which reduce risk perceptions. This study uses Participatory Risk Mapping (PRM) and semi-structured interviews to explore local perceptions and the wider socio-economic context of humantiger conflict (HTC) in the Bangladesh Sundarbans area. Of the 24 locally-relevant problems identified by the PRM process, tigers were the only problem to be cited by >50 % of respondents. The 'tiger problem' was also perceived by villagers to be of relatively high severity. Negative perceptions of tigers in the Sundarbans communities are exacerbated by other locally-experienced poverty-related problems, as well cyclones, floods and soil erosion. Interactions between the problems experienced by villagers, including HTC, result in a complex 'risk web' which detrimentally affects lives and livelihoods and ultimately perpetuates poverty levels in the Sundarbans communities. This research demonstrates that PRM and in-depth, qualitative research can enhance understanding of the perceived magnitude and wider socio-economic context of risks from wildlife and aid the identification of risk perception management actions which may help to reduce the number of animals killed by people.
4602548|Human evolution and ecology analyses argue that environment is a major factor influencing biological and sociocultural adaptation, but they rarely analyze environmental properties. Multiple problems of perspective and method can arise from the normative and nondynamic environmental description which pervade these analyses. This paper examines human adaptation frameworks to identify theoretical guidelines for environmental description in ways appropriate to available theories of biocultural evolution or congruent with known ecosystem qualities. Concepts and terminology are given for describing the spatial and temporal properties characteristic of ecosystems and central to hypotheses about ecological adaptation. These include: patchiness and grain; stability and resilience; persistence and recurrence; and predictability, constancy, and contingency. Field experience, theory, and the qualities of ecosystems themselves suggest that detailed, historical (long-term) environmental analysis is necessary to determine the role of ecological factors in human evolution and adapation.
41474669|A basic ecological and epidemiological question is why some women enter into commercial sex work while other women in the same socio-economic environment never do. To address this question respondent driven sampling principles were adopted to recruit and collect data for 161 female sex workers and 159 same aged women who never engaged in commercial sex in Kibera, a large informal settlement in Nairobi, Kenya. Univariate analysis indicated that basic kinship measures, including number of family members seen during adolescence and at present, not having a male guardian while growing up, and earlier times of ending relationships with both male and female guardians were associated with commercial sex work in Kibera. Multivariate analysis via logistic regression modeling showed that not having a male guardian during childhood, low education attainment and a small number of family members seen at adolescence were all significant predictors of entering sex work. By far the most important predictor of entering sex work was not having any male guardian, e.g., father, uncle, older brother, etc. during childhood. Results are interpreted in light of the historic pattern of sub-Saharan African child fostering and their relevance for young women in Kibera today.
41474652|Whaling remains one of the most contentious issues in global conservation. In South Korea, where commercial and subsistence whaling are both illegal, domestic sales of cetacean products such as skin, blubber and red meat are allowed if they are accidently caught. However, environmental groups have claimed that the high price of meat may be acting as an incentive for illegal hunting and 'deliberate by-catch' where whales are intentionally killed or left to die by fishermen when they become trapped in their nets. In this paper we investigate the issue of deliberate by-catch and illegal hunting of the protected Minke J-stock population in Korean waters using grounded theory, an approach that allows theories and understanding to emerge from the analysis of both qualitative and quantitative data. Our research suggests that deliberate bycatch is almost certainly taking place but that illegal hunting and/or illegal importation from Japan may be far more significant sources of Minke whale meat. We discuss possible measures to reduce incentives for deliberate bycatch and illegal hunting such as the introduction of mandatory reporting of quantities supplied and consumed in restaurants and a tax on meat sales at auction. More generally, our research illustrates how the analysis of price movements can shed light on the scale of illegal wildlife trade and how a combination of both qualitative and quantitative methodologies can provide understanding of a complex, multifaceted conservation issue.
4602730|This article tests the hypothesis that in the Nepal Himalayas the Tibetan sociocultural system (fraternal polyandry) reduces aggregate fertility whereas the Hindu system maximizes by early and virtually universal monogamous marriage. It is shown that while fraternal polyandry does reduce aggregate fertility, the hypothesis that it would lead to a substantially lower fertility rate is false because the effects of fraternal polyandry are roughly balanced by the effects of postwidowhood celibacy among the Hindus.
4602309|The history and nature of the new environmental movement in the United States are reviewed. Since understanding of a social movement is enhanced by learning the views and perceptions of outsiders, the continuing debate between the environmental movement and its critics is examined. First, disagreements over the nature and the severity of the so-called environmental crisis are described. Second, the ideological differences between environmentalists and their critics are reviewed, particularly their contrasting views of man, society, nature, and economic growth. Finally, the political critique of the movement is examined, with attention given to the composition of the membership, the alleged superficiality of its proposed solutions to environmental problems, and the alleged discrimination against both poor people in the United States and the poor nations.
4602446|This study questions the assumption that there is an immutably positive relationship between per capita GNP and per capita energy consumption among human societies. A ratio of per capita GNP to per capita energy consumption ($U.S./kg coal equivalent) is proposed as a measure of energy efficiency for a cross-national analysis of 118 world nation-states and a subset of 25 developed market economies. This ratio is found to vary considerably, between 0.19 and 9.80. A review of literature suggests possible relationships among several sociodemographic characteristics of nations and levels of efficiency with which energy is converted into goods and services. Among the total sample, level of production (measured in terms of per capita GNP) bears a substantial inverse association with energy efficiency. When per capita GNP is held constant, agricultural share of gross domestic product and percentage of labor force in agriculture continue to be positively associated with energy efficiency among the total sample. Variables measuring defense expenditure, urbanization, and population density exhibit somewhat smaller multivariate relationships with energy efficiency when per capita GNP is controlled, i.e., these variables have significant multivariate parameters, but are less closely related to energy efficiency than level of production and agricultural composition of the economy and labor force. Agricultural composition of the economy and labor force is the major predictor of energy efficiency among the subset of 25 developed market economies. The results suggest that among the developed industrial societies level of production is less important than the composition of production activities in determining aggregate energy efficiency.
40603011|This paper provides ethnographic and historical evidence for the existence, in time and space, of a network of well-established trails connecting most Inuit settlements and significant places across the Canadian Arctic. The geographic and environmental knowledge relating to trails (and place names associated with the trails) has been orally transmitted through many generations of Inuit. I use historical documents, ethnographic research, and new geographic tools such as GPS, GIS and Google Earth, to show the geographic extent of the network and its historical continuity. I particularly draw on a trip following Inuit along a traditional trail connecting the communities of Iglulik and Naujaat (Repulse Bay). Inuit have made systematic use of the Arctic environment as a whole and trails are, and have been, significant channels of communication and exchange across the Arctic. There are some types of oral history and knowledge that can be accurately transmitted through generations, and I propose that some aspects of Inuit culture are better understood in terms of moving as a way of living.
4603548| This article explores how anthropogenic modifications of soil condition human adaptive processes on the Amazonian uplands. The occurrence of black earth (a nutrient-rich anthrosol) in nutrient-poor blackwater environments and its cultivation by contemporary residents provide a unique opportunity for understanding the ecological praxis of Amazonian groups. Two years of ethnographic, ethnoscientific, and agronomic research among caboclo residents of the Lower Rio Negro and Rio Urub confirm that unique cognitive and behavioral orientations characterize black earth and adjacent environments. When compared with cognitive and behavioral orientations to these two environments in distant blackwater regions, data suggest that political-economic, technological, cultural, and ecological factors have had a strong influence on the trajectory of human-environmental interactions. Data in large part illustrate the utility of historical ecological models, yet point to an interactive role of diverse histories in shaping the range of human responses. 
4603267|Despite a global trend toward settlement, the incidence of pastoral nomadism is on the rise in the Marwar region of Rajasthan, India. Typical explanations for this change use models of population pressure; increasing herds and decreasing pasture are held to blame. This explanation, however intuitive, is unsatisfactory. Instead, changing institutional and economic patterns are creating new contexts for strategic movement. Bottlenecks in the yearly resource calendar, caused by the disintegration of obligatory social relationships, force migrations during periods of scarcity. Changes in the volume and pattern of the meat and wool markets have also created opportunities for migrating pastoralists. Producers increase their access to markets and the reproductive rate of their herd through long, annual, migration. While nomadism is a general adaptation to changes in the socioeconomic conditions of the region, differential resource endowments account for the range of strategies; wealthy herders have opportunities not enjoyed by more marginal producers.
41474587|Traditional resource management (TRM) is largely based on local ecological knowledge (LEK). In regions where formal institutional control of natural resources is limited due to a lack of coordination or stakeholder involvement, communities rely on TRM to manage common-pool resources. This paper examines TRM among the Sonjo in rural Northern Tanzania, with particular reference to catchment forest protection and water quality. We first document the ecological knowledge of traditional resource managers, and then describe the differences between traditionally managed water sources and formal, government managed resources. Using both qualitative and quantitative methods to examine water use, perceptions of water quality, and bacterial water quality, significant differences were detected among river basins within seasons and between seasons. Our findings indicate that the Sonjo, well known for their traditional forest conservation practices and irrigation management, may also benefit from TRM through improved water quality. The examination of traditional methods of water conservation provides insight into how communities in resource-stressed regions thrive despite seasonal droughts and flooding.
27654116|A cave system in the eolianite deposits of the Mh'ulep/P' area of Kaua'i, Hawai'i, contains a rich fossil record of prehuman Holocene conditions and also preserves a thousand-year record of human activity. Details concerning pre-Contact Polynesian life have been extracted from subaqueous middens and artifacts, including perishable materials such as wood, gourd, and cordage. Oral traditions concerning the cave and vicinity generally show good agreement with the archaeological and paleoecological record and provide rich stories said to derive from as early as the fourteenth century a.d. Fossil evidence highlights biotic and landscape changes before, during, and after initial Polynesian and subsequent European settlement. The approximate temporal coincidence of evidence for human arrival and last occurrence of some now-extinct species is too great to ignore the possibility that humans played a role in some extinctions of native taxa before European colonization. Old maps, an 1824 sketch, records of the Land Court Awards, and old photographs confirm stratigraphic inferences and oral accounts concerning demographic and ecological conditions of the early historical period. Feral livestock proliferated in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, with loss of vegetative cover to overgrazing, decline of most of the native flora, and subsequent dune reactivation. Sedimentation rates reach their peak later in the twentieth century after the establishment of agricultural and mining operations nearby.
4603155|A dynamic nonlinear optimization analysis of subsistence patterns of the Mountain Pima of Chihuahua, Mexico, included requirements for adequate amounts of calories, calcium, vitamin A, vitamin C, and balanced protein. Two methods of incorporating nonenergy nutritional needs into a time minimization program were compared. The first was a constraint model with sharp boundaries between adequacy and fatality. The second involved multiplying the total work time by a series of nutrient indexing factors. Each factor was calculated as a function of the ratio between the recommended and actual rates of intake for all months and nutrients considered. Oxalate composition of some resources and seasonal variation in resource availability were taken into account. Two sets of data were analyzed, one for a year of adequate rainfall, the other for a year of severe drought. The predictions of the indexing model agreed more closely with observed intake patterns than did the predictions of the constraint model.
27654243|This article compares how public protection of forests and common-property forest institutions serve to control outside encroachment into frontier forests in Honduras and Nicaragua. The article combines institutional analysis with ethnographically based fieldwork and analysis of land-cover images to evaluate how property-rights arrangements influence monitoring, enforcement, and compliance with rules to restrict agricultural expansion in two biosphere reserves in the Mosquitia Corridor. Findings show that territorial demarcation and common-property rights are important components for frontier forest conservation. In areas with weak enforcement mechanisms and heavy reliance on social norms over official regulatory measures, the findings suggest that the perceived legitimacy of tenure arrangements and their respective land-use rules are fundamental to controlling the agricultural frontier.
4602584|Five concurrent systems of agricultural resource management in the Viru Valley in Peru's arid northern coastal plain are discussed as adjustments to microenvironmental variations in soil humidity. Widespread dependence on canal irrigation in an environment characterized by uncertainty in the availability of river water affects the agrarian population in several ways. The upper socioeconomic class has adapted to uncertainty by implementing a deviation-counteracting mechanism (tubular wells) that provides water on demand, giving them flexibility in choice of agricultural activities. Another class of farmers is unable to introduce this mechanism, however, and consequently must depend on a repertoire of inflexible decisions to cope with uncertainty. Each group exploits different opportunity costs to increase economic gain. One pattern provides for expansion, whereas the other at best establishes stability and maintenance. Noncanal techniques permit expansion of cultivation in conditions where canal irrigation is not feasible, thereby improving the overall level of effectiveness of resource use. Alternative techniques do not involve regulatory mechanisms nor do they require complex, interlocking social, economic, and political components. Their presence and persistence in the agricultural system provide variation that may ultimately be amplified as the need to intensify resource exploitation increases in the future.
4603541|A comparative qualitative study of Norwegian and Newfoundland inshore fisheries revealed that compliance with the state's fisheries regulations was governed by a set of moral distinctions which were strikingly similar in the two cases. Violations of government regulations were followed by informal sanctions only in commercial fisheries. Illegal food fishery was generally accepted. A fisherman could also break the law in commercial fisheries without being met with significant sanctions provided that it was generally perceived to be the only way to ensure a necessary outcome. The empirical findings are connected to the moral meanings of money and food, and it is suggested that the economies of natural resource harvesters include two different moral spheres. One of these spheres is linked to subsistence, small-scale operations and local exchange, and is perceived as morally safe. The other sphere is connected with money, large-scale operations, and exchange with strangers, and is seen as morally perilous.
4603444|Early arable activity in Iceland, introduced in the late ninth century A.D., has been characterized as marginal and at a subsistence level, largely abandoned by the 1500s as a result of climatic deterioration. This view has been advanced without considering soils data, the medium in which crops are grown and in which evidence of early land management is retained. Soil thin section micromorphology together with soil total phosphorus values are used to assess land manuring and cultivation strategies at two sites in south-west Iceland, where place name and palynological evidence indicate that arable activity has taken place. Agro-ecosystem modeling, using the CENTURY model, is undertaken to predict grain yields at these sites, and to assess the significance of soil properties and soil management in determining yields. The results of these analyses demonstrate that manure application rates were low, and support the view that grain yields were at a subsistence level. The results also suggest soils, and the management of soils, rather than climate was the major limitation to arable production. Shortages of both available manure and labor are suggested as barriers to soils and grain productivity improvements in early Iceland. The paper highlights the need to include soils analyses in discussions of early agricultural economies.
27654224|Beluga whale hunting is one of the most social subsistence hunting activities to take place in the Canadian Arctic. Through the harvest, distribution and consumption of beluga whales, Inuit identity and social relationships are affirmed. The whale-hunting complex is influenced by beliefs that beluga whales are sentient beings who inhabit a shared social space with humans. Yet, across the region beluga whales are perceived by wildlife managers as scarce resources and as such require protection through the imposition of management plans. There is currently no management of whales on the west coast of Hudson Bay, in Nunavut. In 2002, Inuit there were requested to sell part of their whale harvest to Inuit in Nunavik, northern Quebec, where hunting quotas exist. The outcome of this event was concern in Nunavut for the future of the whale hunt, and a deepening sense of powerlessness in Nunavik due to the management of the whale harvest.
4602413|The spatial organization of economic production in contemporary subarctic Indian society is illustrated by an analysis of geographical mobility and commercial fur trapping among the English River Chipewyan of Patuanak, Saskatchewan. Quantitative comparison reveals the positive linear relationship between selected "performance" variable (numbers of animals captured and cash income) and "locational" variables (trapping area size, distances traveled between settlements and bush camps, and distances between neighboring trappers) for a population of 76 male trappers. At present, trapping performance varies positively with trapping area size and linear distance from the largest settlement. Variable social adaptations in the trapping work force are in part the result of complex compromises and adjustments between traditional familycamp organizations and emerging all-male partnerships. However, the relationship between size and structure of trapping teams, degree of team interaction, and economic efficiency requires further investigation. Finally, the formal analysis of productivity is reappraised in terms of community definitions of trapping success.
4602750| Cognitive models of natural decision making (Quinn, 1978; Gladwin, 1980; Gladwin and Murtaugh, 1980) work well for decision situations in which the decisions are made infrequently, the number of alternatives to be evaluated is small compared with the number of constraints that affect the decision, and the alternatives to be decided among are mutually exclusive of one another. However, it is difficult to apply these models to a decision-making situation that lacks any of these characteristics, such as in the case of Aguaruna Jvaro manioc selection. As an alternative to a cognitive model, this paper infers the process of Aguaruna manioc selection by comparing the properties attributed to the varieties with the actual frequency with which the varieties occur in Aguaruna gardens. It thereby reduces the possibility that the reasons elicited from informants for their choices are instead post hoc rationalizations of decisions reached on other grounds. Although more modest in its objectives than the cognitive approach, it is argued that this use of a linear model provides a more accurate description of a decision situation in which the diversity of alternatives is maintained for its own sake. 
4603187|Two fishing castes, Ambiga and Harikantra, of Karnataka employ different techniques for throwing cast nets in the same habitat. Ambigas throw the net from above the head, as opposed to the far easier Harikantra method of throwing at the waist level. These different techniques are described here as memes, transmitted through learning. A logico-deductive hypothesis is developed here to explain the origin and maintenance of the memetic difference between the castes, with the help of circumstantial semiotic and anthropological evidence.
4603082|Ecological aspects of traditional swidden cultivation by Bine-speaking groups in wetland areas of lowland southwest Papua New Guinea are examined. A notable feature of the area is the coexistence of extensive, polycultural forest cultivation and more intensive, specialized savanna cultivation. Both agrosystems occur on soils of inherently similar properties. The savanna vegetation is secondary in character and, once established, is better suited to more intensive swidden cultivation based on taro (Colocasia esculenta). The agrosystems in question represent stages in the local development of agriculture, and, although multiple causes of intensification may be involved, the study confirms that lowland, as well as highland, areas of New Guinea have provided development opportunities for traditional cultivators.
4603519|The ability to develop institutions is constrained by human capacity to cope with complexity. But complexity is multidimensional and it is not clear which forms of complexity present the greatest challenges for institutional development. In the context of natural resources, the predictability of resource availability affects expectations that an individual or group will be able to capture the benefits of management. In addition, incomplete understanding of cause-and-effect relationships creates uncertainty about the consequences of alternative management options. These features influence calculations about resource management. The importance of resource complexity relative to various social, political, and institutional factors known to influence collective choice remains an open question. We evaluate the relative importance of several forms of resource complexity and characteristics of resource users for the development of rules for management for forest products in Indiana.
4603557|In Indonesia, with the recent eruption of local struggles over resources and now with the new decentralization reforms, there is renewed interest in the role of customary adat institutional arrangements in village government, land tenure, and forest management. On the basis of research carried out in one locality in Sumatra over 1996-99, this article considers the nature of local institutional arrangements, how they have evolved under various conditions, their complex interaction with the parallel State order, their response to economic fluctuations, and how particular institutional patterns lead to certain environmental outcomes. This article finds that as farmers adjust to the economic and political dynamics and the changing scarcity and value of different resources in this site, the adat arrangements are constantly renegotiated. Adat customary orders are tied to local notions of identity and associated notions of appropriateness, and as such constitute patterns of social ordering associated with both implicit deeply held social norms and more explicit rules. Considering the institutional pluralism characteristic of this area, this article concludes that, while the State and adat regimes often compete to control the direction of social change, they also constantly make accommodations, and in some respects need to be considered as mutually adjusting, intertwined orders.
41474650|Interethnic marriage represents a major trend in the demographic history of American Indians. While the majority of these unions involved Indian women and Caucasian men, a sizeable number occurred between Indians and African Americans. The children of these bicultural marriages were "mixed bloods" who in turn typically married non-Indians or other mixed bloods. Using data from the 1910 Census on American Indians in the United States and Alaska, this article explores why American Indians with African ancestry enjoyed high fertility. Differential rates of fertility among American Indians in the past were due to a number of underlying genetic, cultural, and environmental factors. By identifying these factors, the paradox of why Indian women with African heritage did so well in terms of fertility largely disappears. African admixture, however, greatly complicates Indian social identity.
4603601|This landscape-scale study combines analysis of multitemporal satellite imagery spanning 30 years and information from field studies extending over 25 years to assess the extent and causes of land use and land cover change in the Loitokitok area, southeast Kajiado District, Kenya. Rain fed and irrigated agriculture, livestock herding, and wildlife and tourism have all experienced rapid change in their structure, extent, and interactions over the past 30 years in response to a variety of economic, cultural, political, institutional, and demographic processes. Land use patterns and processes are explored through a complementary application of interpreation of satellite imagery and case study analysis that explicitly addresses the local-national spatial scale over a time frame appropriate to the identification of fundamental causal processes. The results illustrate that this combination provides an effective basis for describing and explaining patterns of land use and land cover change and their root causes.
4603528|The impact of fire use and hazard in frontier settlement is a critical environmental concern that has been historically overshadowed by deforestation issues- and thus underexamined at local and regional scales by social scientists. Consequently, conceptual frameworks of LUCC change consider fire use as an outcome of land use decisions and neglect the capacity of burning choices to influence these decisions and subsequent land cover change. This paper examines the relationship of settlement, land use, and fire use. It considers recent LUCC frameworks, and then uses household surveys on fire use practices to discuss how the study of fire use can contribute to understanding frontier landscape change. Planting decisions, settlement history, location desires, and burning logistics work in combination to influence burning choices and thus LUCC.
41432983|Greenlandic governance institutions have been criticised for their colonial heritage of centralisation and lack of democratic participation. In the same manner, Greenlandic fisheries management is notorious in the academic literature for its centralised and locally illegitimate character. While recognising the lack of localised co-management fisheries governance institutions in Greenland, we argue that something has yet to be said about power and user participation in the centralised institutions that have developed. From a symbolic interactionist perspective we dissect the centralised institutions in terms of a differentiated cast of actors and their interaction and argue that participation and power come in many institutional guises as the complex cast of actors within the centralised system represent themselves and others. If we are to understand power and participation in Greenlandic fisheries governance, we need to understand the creation of alliances of the subject-positions that seek control of the self-rule fisheries governance decision-making.
4602680|Geertz's famous hypothesis that horticulturalists practicing shifting cultivation intercrop their plots to mimic the protective structure of the tropical forest is evaluated in view of data on the structural ecology of the tropical forest and swidden plots in Amazonian Ecuador. The cultivation practices of the Siona-Secoya Indians reveal a three-fold typology of cropping patterns (high-diversity intercropping, low-diversity intercropping, and monocropping), with variation among the types in terms of plot size and distribution, cultigen inventory, structural complexity, and function. These gardens and the tropical forest are compared and analyzed in terms of morphology, ecological characteristics, and human manipulation and utilization. Gardens with high-diversity intercropping show certain similarities to the tropical forest, as Geertz's model predicts, but their highly transient structure does not function as a mature ecosystem. Furthermore, plots with low-diversity intercropping and monocropping show few similarities to the forest. Garden structure is best understood in terms of the economic utilization of tropical cultigens displaying specific habits, rather than by analogy to tropical forest physiognomy and function.
4602973|Agricultural development projects in the fertile and most well-watered areas of arid and semi-arid Africa usually deny access to nomadic pastoralists whose production system and livelihood depend upon such areas in the dry season and during frequent droughts. The result can be degradation of range resources through overgrazing, and greater vulnerability of pastoralists. Recent calls for "compatible" land use schemes or "non-exclusionary" agricultural development projects in the context of pastoralist transhumance, suggest allowing pastoralists structured access to project sites in the dry season in order to utilize forage and water supplies. This paper examines the capacity of an irrigation scheme to support the seasonal influx of transhumant livestock in dry seasons of varying severity. The livestock carrying capacity of the existing mosaic of land use patterns and practices is used in the determination of the proportional areas of land use needed to absorb large seasonal concentrations of livestock.
4603265|Research concerning the value of communal resource management is limited in two respects. First, while many studies present evidence that communal management is common among traditional societies, a strong theoretical basis is lacking to explain why individuals participate in monitoring and sanctioning efforts. Second, few studies have actually demonstrated resource conservation. There are several ecological and economic reasons for thinking that groups may find it harder to design appropriate conservation measures than to prevent free-riding. However, if groups can surmount these problems, communal management may have advantages over privatization or government control. These arguments are illustrated using results from a pilot study of the communal management of mother-of-pearl shell (Trochus niloticus) in the Kei Islands of Eastern Indonesia. It is found that villagers successfully cooperate to defend access to, and regulate their own harvest of trochus. In doing so, they are able to prevent free-riding, and to provide themselves with a long-term source of cash income. However, it is here argued that their aim is "gain rather than restraint."
25652767|Attitudes towards the management of the natural environment have been described mainly as building on individuals' images of nature and the humannature relationship. However, in previous qualitative research I found strong evidence that in order to understand public views on environmental policies we also need to understand individuals' beliefs about their fellow humans. The present study tested the hypothesis that beliefs about human nature and preferences for certain governance approachessuch as regulations and collective actionare related to individuals' attitudes towards concrete management measures. Survey results (n = 155), analysed by means of structural equation modelling, suggest that effects of beliefs about human nature are discernible, but not significant. I could, however, identify generic preferences for particular approaches to environmental governance. These significantly explained variation in attitudes towards environmental governance in an applied context, suggesting a strong need for further research in this politically highly relevant field.
4602742|The introduction of steel tools and new crops radically transformed the Yanoama Indians' pre-Columbian economy. A consideration of the impact of these innovations allows for the reconstruction of that economy which suggests a higher dependence upon foraging, a lower population density, more mobile settlement pattern, and heavier workload, than today. This reconstruction challenges both current speculations about pre-Columbian Amazonian economic systems which apply Sahlins' concept of "aboriginal affluence" and those concerning the relationship between Amazonian environment and "cultural development." This reconstruction, confirmed in part by fragmentary historical sources, explores some of the dramatic changes which must have taken place since contact. The Yanoama's agricultural subsistence base is a recent innovation, made possible since contact by new tools and new crops.
4603018|This paper presents a case study of the relationship between farmers' knowledge of maize varieties and their selection and management of these varieties under conditions of technological change. Research for this paper was done among Spanish-speaking small farmers in an ejido of central Chiapas, Mexico. This ejido is well integrated into the market, and the use of modern technologies is widespread. This research demonstrates that farmers have an extensive and widely shared knowledge of their maize varieties. This knowledge reflects objective maize characteristics. Variation occurs in the farmers' selection and management of maize varieties, but on average the variation deviates from a random pattern in the direction predicted by the farmers' knowledge base. They have incorporated the technological changes brought about by development into their knowledge base. Farmers maintain maize varieties with contrasting traits, and their knowledge base provides important information about which traits and constraints are important to them.
4602357|Shepherding among the highland Gurungs of Nepal is examined in its historical and contemporary settings. Change from pastoral nomadism augmented by hunting, swidden agriculture, and trade to sedentary rice agriculture augmented by transhumance and migrant labor (soldiery) is considered in terms of adaptive response to change in cultural and physical environments. A brief examination of adaptive strategies in one village is presented to highlight the interplay of ecological, economic, and social variables. Data from Gurungs studies are compared with recent Magar village studies in the Himalaya by John Hitchcock. Throughout the article, a methodological stance is pursued by which many dynamic adaptations, such as those of the Gurungs, can be understood by comparing past and present ecological-cultural processes.
23353208|To analyze the relationships between local livelihoods and vulnerability to food insecurity, using a resilience approach, we interviewed 350 households from seven mixed-heritage Caiara communities in Paraty, Brazil. Fishing was a livelihood activity for 70 % of the households, and the main declared activity for 16 %. Fishing was combined with other activities such as day-wage jobs, tourism, agriculture, and commerce. Livelihood activities were not homogeneously distributed among communities, and a higher proportion of fishing households were found in generalist communities. Food insecurity appeared to be transitory (and not chronic), and fishing is central to food security. Small-scale fisheries cannot be seen in isolation from the diversity of activities that make up the livelihood portfolios of coastal communities. In view of rapid change in the area, pressures from protected areas, large-scale fisheries, tourism development and economic change in general, threaten the resilience of Caiara livelihoods, with implications for future food insecurity.
4602923|The paper presents a study of settlement processes in western Nepal. It emphasizes the linkages between settlement history, cultural ecology, and political economy as these relate to resources, marginality, and territory. Regional settlement trends are examined in accordance with land occupancy and tenure arrangements. Village settlement strategies are analyzed within a micro-processual framework that incorporates political economic perspectives on village land use and resource distributions. The past, present, and future roles of settlement in the human adaptation process of west Nepal's mountain populations is critically examined in the contexts of historical land policies and current rural political and environmental systems.
4603240|Scholars have rarely reflected upon dune sand in any context other than that of environmental hazard. Yet recent anthropological research conducted among ethnic Mongol herders in the Keerqin Sandy Lands of Northeast China indicates that native inhabitants exhibit a surprising degree of tolerance, appreciation, and even preference for dune sand at specific spatio-temporal scales. Survey data, gathered primarily through the use of photographic prompts and pile sort exercises during household interviews, reveal that many residents even regard dune sand as the constituent element of a distinctive home environment and cherished way of life. This research underscores the relevance of perception to the policies and practices of human resource management. It also calls into question the authority with which officials and scholars in China and elsewhere indiscriminantly depreciate the various social utilities of dune sand in stock-herding populations.
24015693|This study evaluates the introduction of quotas on narwhal hunting in East Greenland with respect to effects on Inuit culture and based on trends in narwhal killed per hunter and assessment of migration patterns. Cultural aspects were assessed through group discussions and comparison between East and Northwest Greenland. Trends in narwhal killed/hunter were modeled from catch statistics using information on number of hunters and climate and ice cover data for the period 19932004. Results indicate negative impacts of quotas on Inuit culture; did not detect negative trends in narwhal killed/hunter; and suggest southwest-bound migration, implying potential immigration from non-hunted populations that was not considered in quota setting. The implementation of quotas without local consultations and legal basis in the relevant executive order is therefore in our opinion inappropriate. Conservation and sustainable use of narwhal stocks may be more likely to succeed if local communities are involved through comanagement agreements.
27654255|Should pastoralists in dryland Africa diversify or specialize in their productive activities? To investigate this question, we analyze data from a consumption survey and two surveys of the nutritional status of children in addition to qualitative interviews comparing nomadic and sedentary population groups in the Gourma area in northern Mali. We show how the children of pastoralists seem to be better nourished than children of sedentary farmers and that the children of the sedentarized nomads seem to be the worst off. Based on these findings, we first argue that sedentary farming appears to be a poorer adaptation than nomadic pastoralism in arid environments such as the northern Sahel. Secondly, we argue that the diversification argument (better to stand on two legs than one) is flawed for mobile pastoralists in the northern Sahel because the logistical and organizational costs of combining different modes of livelihood are large and easily become insurmountable for a single household.
4602306|A model of the subsistence economy of an insular population is proposed in which the various factors that might influence the potential carrying capacity of the environment are made explicit as a set of ecological and cultural constraints on subsistence production. The application of the model to the Polynesian Outlier Atolls is discussed, and a formula is suggested whereby the population potential of any stable and bounded ecosystem can be calculated, using data on agricultural area, productivity, and diets. The actual size of precontact populations of the Outliers and other atolls appears to have been 70-80% of the predicted carrying capacity, which accords well with ethnographic evidence for population homeostasis.
4602806|Peasant and state perceptions of two common weeds, Imperata cylindrica and Chromolaena odorata, are compared in four case study areas in Indonesia. Peasant perceptions are found to vary according to the similarity between these weeds plants and the fallow period vegetation in any given system of cultivation. All peasants attribute the origins of these weeds to external political authorities. State perceptions of both weeds are unvaryingly negative, based on its generally negative perception of systems of cultivation that employ fallow periods, and on its self-interest in expensive eradication programs and the alternate use of weed-covered lands. Both peasant and state perceptions of the two weeds are seen to be part of a broader structure of beliefs concerning not only plants and land, but also the relations between peasants and states themselves. This analysis demonstration that functional/ecological analysis is not restricted to local level relations, but can with equal validity be applied at the level of the state.
4603460|Despite new research on agricultural intensification, we still have limited knowledge of the determinants of technology adoption in low-density, limited-market regions, particularly in humid tropical forests. This lacuna has led to divergent opinions about the impacts of intensification on land use in the Brazilian Amazon, well-known for deforestation of fragile tropical ecosystems. This paper takes up the case of the Amazon to address two questions concerning the adoption of agricultural technologies: 1) what are its social determinants, and 2) what are its land use correlates. Empirical data come from a recent survey of smallholders along the Transamazon highway. The first part of the analysis, consisting of models of eight agricultural technologies, shows that households with more labor and capital are more likely to adopt technologies. The second part shows that for all technologies, adopters have more land cleared than do non-adopters. These findings raise questions for further research on intensification while also suggesting policy prescriptions to mitigate deforestation.
4602857|Recent theories of socio-economic change in hunter-gatherer societies have referred to associated changes in intensity and mode of resource exploitation. These ideas are examined in the light of pollen and charcoal analyses of an Australian coastal wetland system which allow, at the local scale, (1) documentation of resource availability, (2) identification of resource use, particularly where fire technology is involved, and (3) examination of the effect of environmental change on the archeological record. Evidence of plant food management through fire around 6800 BP suggests a longer history of deliberate swamp exploitation than indicated by the archeological record, and lends support to models which propose long-term gradual change in zones of high productivity.
4603174|Recent studies suggest that wild agave (Agave spp.) plants in Sonora, Mexico, are being over-harvested by mescal makers on communal lands. Using the conceptual framework of regional political ecology (Blaikie and Brookfield, 1987), I discuss the ecological processes of agave depletion, and investigate the social, economic, and political contexts in which unsustainable harvest practices arise. Whereas all the mescal makers have knowledge of sustainable harvest methods, population growth, expansion of agriculture onto ecologically marginal lands, and increasing dependence on wild harvested products from communal lands created the socioeconomic context for increased demand for mescal income. The ideology of household autonomy, and the belief that the village has no right to internally regulate use of the commons, created the political context for rapid, unsustainable harvesting--a tragedy of the commons. However, recent cultural changes have caused a reversal of this trend, and some wild agave populations may be recovering.
4602723|From 1972 to 1976 rainfall in Kajiado District of Kenya was below normal. The capacity of the farming and herding systems to cope with the consequent reduction in production is discussed within a context of changing land-use patterns and altered resource availability. It is concluded that land-use planning to allocate the available land and water resources and to promote off-farm employment is required to reduce the vulnerability of the population to future drought conditions.
4602379|International research and practices are reviewed with regard to cultural, social, economic, health, and physical-technological features of needs, standards, and codes regulating the residential environment. Housing and building codes, as well as zoning and subdivision ordinances, are influenced by nonscientific considerations that have significant cost and other policy implications. Noxious and promotive influences are examined for public health codes regulating potable water, waste disposal, and safety in the home, as well as density and congestion for cities, neighborhoods, and individual dwelling units. Density is distinguished from congestion, and the policy implications of both are examined. Cost-benefit ratios indicate that many standards can be appreciably lowered. Vague definitions of health, as adopted by WHO, also invite cost-inducing moral judgments.
27654136|Lessons in conservation are often seen as resulting from cycles of overexploitation and subsequent depletion of resources, followed by catastrophic consequences of shortage and starvation, and finally, development of various strategies, including privatization of the commons, to conserve remaining resource stocks. While such scenarios have undoubtedly occurred on many occasions, we suggest that they are not the only means by which people develop conservation practices and concepts. There are other pathways leading to ecological understanding and conservation, which act at a range of scales and levels of complexity. These include: lessons from the past and from other places, perpetuated and strengthened through oral history and discourse; lessons from animals, learned through observation of migration and population cycles, predator effects, and social dynamics; monitoring resources and human effects on resources (positive and negative), building on experiences and expectations; observing changes in ecosystem cycles and natural disturbance events; trial and error experimentation and incremental modification of habitats and populations. Humans, we believe, are capable of building a sophisticated conservation ethic that transcends individual species and resources. A combination of conservation knowledge, practices, and beliefs can lead to increasingly greater sophistication of ecological understanding and the continued encoding of such knowledge in social institutions and worldview.
4603289|Kombu is a kind of seaweed growing in northern Japan. In Hidaka District, Hokkaido Island, it comprises an important source of income. In the harvest of wild kombu, competition among the harvesters tends to be intense because of its high price and the fact that it is a limited resource. About a century ago, severe competition caused resource depletion and decline of kombu quality. Today, however, the resource is used sustainably by the villagers, who observe complex communal regulations for the use of common property. This study examines the ecological role of these regulations in the management of kombu as common property, and demonstrates that these regulations facilitate equal access to the resource, maintaining the unity of the local community, as well as efficient resource use.
4602288|The significance of economic stratification in several highland Guatemalan Indian peasant communities is investigated in terms of its impact on physical growth of the inhabitants. Studies are mentioned from more industrialized countries which associate differences in growth with wealth. The question of whether richer people in such poor communities eat significantly better diets and so achieve larger size is explored by correlating economic status with the height and weight of children. The lack of a positive association in this case leads to a consideration of factors which might militate against it.
4603007|It has often been assumed that peoples living today as foragers in tropical rain forests are remnants of paleolithic populations that have been subsisting in their forest habitats for millennia and have only recently come into contact with sources of domesticated plants and animals. Independently, the two of us have published articles that challenge this view and propose the hypothesis that hunter-gatherers could never have lived in tropical rain forest without direct or indirect access to cultivated foods. This article serves as an introduction to six articles in this issue of Human Ecology, all devoted to this hypothesis. To provide background for this journal's readers, we summarize here our original articles.
4602752|Rappaport's (1968) study of self-regulation in the Tsembaga Maring ecosystem is an important substantive contribution to human ecology. Rappaport hypothesized that the Maring pig festival cycle is the dominant mechanism by which the quality of the Tsembaga ecosystem is maintained. In this paper, we demonstrate that the pig festival cannot serve this function. Simulation models of the Tsembaga ecosystem show that a stable, self-regulating equilibrium of the kind proposed by Rappaport is highly dependent upon a carefully chosen set of parameters which do not represent the most accurate choice from the available data. In the simulation model of Rappaport's hypothesis constructed by Shantzis and Behrens, equilibrium depends upon fixed population growth rates that lead to regularly scheduled pig festivals, whose timing insures that a fixed rate of removal of Tsembaga individuals in warfare prevents net population growth. More realistic models uniformly suggest that the pig festival plays no essential role in ecosystem regulation. We conclude that the evidence provided does not support the hypothesis.
4602869|Ethnographic studies have established that, until shortly after World War II, Indians in northern Alberta regularly and systematically fired habitats to influence the local distribution and relative abundance of plant and animal resources. In ways similar to what has been reported for hunter-gatherers in other regions, this pyrotechnology contributed to an overall fire mosaic that, in this case, formerly characterized northern boreal forests. Crosscultural comparisons of these practices with those in other parts of North America, as well as in several parts of Australia, illustrate functionally parallel strategies in the ways that hunter-gatherers employed habitat fires, specifically in the maintenance of "fire yards" and "fire corridors" in widely separated and different kinds of biological zones.
25652758|This study tests the hypothesis that herd accumulation can be a risk reducing strategy aimed at increasing security in an unpredictable environment. Saami reindeer husbandry in Norway is characterized by environmental unpredictability and occasionally harsh winters can have dramatic negative effects on reindeer population densities. While herd accumulation has been found to be an adaptive risk reducing strategy in stochastic environments (i.e., individually rational), the accumulation of large herds may also result in collectively negative density dependent effects, which may negatively affect individual herders (i.e., collectively irrational). We found that individual husbandry units' strategies, such as accumulating reindeer, have a larger effect on individual husbandry units' herd size than a negative density-dependent effect.
23280336|Several Southeast Asian states have been working feverishly to design and implement REDD policy frameworks to fulfil their commitment to global climate change mitigation. In doing so, state agencies will be challenged to design REDD plus policies that value and conserve forest carbon in ways that align with national policies and local priorities for managing forest landscapes defined by complex property rights regimes. However, as with other market-based policies, the expeditious delivery of REDD could bypass critical analysis of potential interactions with national tenure regimes, customary property rights, and local livelihoods. Drawing on the case of Palawan Islanda forested frontier island in the Philippineswe examine how nascent REDD policies can articulate with state sanctioned tenure, customary tenure, and forest uses in changing livelihood contexts. This paper draws on research among Tagbanua and Pala'wan people to illustrate how complex and changing tenure structures, commodity markets and livelihood dynamics may influence how REDD plus interventions affect indigenous customary lands and forest use. We argue that the ability of indigenous forest users to maintain stored carbon and improve livelihoods is contingent upon the 'socio-material' form of carbona commodity defined in relation to the resources and social processes of which it is part.
4602647|It has been suggested that indigenous tropical forest agriculture, in contrast with other agricultural systems, is characterized by a high degree of polyculture, and, being similar in diversity to the forest itself, has little disturbing effect on the generalized ecosystem that surrounds native gardens. Our comparative study of four Central Brazilian Indian groups shows, however, that while each of these groups practices polyculture to some extent, the crop mix found in their swidden plots is highly patterned, and includes single crop stands at certain stages of garden life. Different crops are planted in the same swidden plot from year to year, in accordance with variation in soil fertility within the swidden cycle. None of the swiddens we observed compares in complexity to the surrounding forest. We suggest that polyculture, rather than being regarded as the distinguishing characteristic of swidden cultivation, should be considered as a varying dimension -- along with other variables such as use of wild plants, soil fertility and exhaustion, tillage practices, the introduction of novel crops, and production for the market -- within the overall subsistence strategy of a group.
4603279|In the early 1960s, Robert Netting described households in the Kofyar homeland in Nigeria and explained their size, composition, and other characteristics as adjustments to agrarian ecology. Household changes attending movement to a frontier were analyzed in the same framework. By the 1980s, the economic rationale for homeland farming had all but disappeared, and some villages seemed on the verge of abandonment. Yet deliberate strategies for preserving homeland settlements had prevented abandonment. The demographic characteristics and household composition in the homeland now provide a window into a wholly different set of processes than what Netting described 30 years ago. Home settlement is kept viable as a facility to support ethnic identity and to attract government resources. Beneath superficial similarities are profound changes in the nature of the household and factors shaping it, reflecting the changed rationale for keeping the home fires burning.
25652762|This paper describes a participatory mapping method field tested with agro-extractive settlements in the Bolivian Amazon. A regional transition from customary to formal property rights resulting from sweeping 1996 land tenure reforms has led to confusion and conflicts over resource rights, a problem compounded by recent high market prices for Brazil nuts. In response to community requests to clarify resource rights to Brazil nut trees, CIFOR offered to train community members to map trees, trails and other key features themselves. This experience indicates that local residents can map their resources in an effective and efficient way and in the process gather necessary information to mediate competing claims, demonstrate their legitimate resource claims to external stakeholders and make management decisions. We argue that maps and properties are more likely to be seen as legitimate reflections of de facto rights if local stakeholders are involved as a group from the outset.
4602343|The energy crisis is an aspect of the larger approaching crisis of expanding industrial society in a world in which certain critical parameters are finite. This megacrisis involves the role of growth in population, production, consumption, and waste. The insitutions of modern industrial society have been better adapted to promote this growth than to control or direct it. Even in societies where mechanisms of state planning should, in theory, enable government to deal rationally with the growth problem, ideological commitments to general growth have, in effect, prevented the problem from being addressed. In the United States, the pervasive commitment to growth has been built into institutional arrangements to a degree that handicaps efforts to consider the energy problem in its full context. Energy policy therefore tends to be reactive to events rather than the result of a comprehensive long-range assessment of needs and priorities.
25652744|While much research on forest partnerships hitherto has been focused mainly on the drivers behind their formation, the kind of actors and deals involved, and the factors that promote or hinder their success, much less attention has been paid to the dynamic relationships and processes inherent in these partnerships. Based on the study of a partnership process in an indigenous reservation in Colombian Amazonia covering a variety of projects, this paper seeks to fill part of this lacuna by analyzing the partnership as a dynamic 'discursive battlefield,' in which objectives and actions are being constantly negotiated. Actors in the Matavn partnership strategically incorporate discursive elements in order to pursue their own interests while also endorsing those that ensure the continuation of collaboration. We conclude that discourses are embedded in partnership micro-politics. On the one hand, discursive shifts occur as a reflection of power balances at given moments. On the other hand, discourses constitute indispensable resources with the potential to both enhance individual actor's negotiating power and to create opportunities for compromise. Within an ongoing discursive tension between 'conservation' and 'indigenous autonomy,' flexible notions such as 'territorial ordering' prove to be successful in allowing space for manoeuvre and granting conceptual coherence to shifts occurring 'on the ground.'
4602831|This paper inquires into the reasons for the comparatively lower fertility and population growth among the Maasai (than among other Kenyan communities, particularly cultivators). It hypothesizes that a number of factors including male elder control of society, sexually transmitted diseases, seasonal food shortages, and general environmental health hazards all act together to suppress fertility. This situation must certainly change with further socioeconomic progress.
41474625|This paper analyzes the material, discursive, and biophysical dimensions of fuelscapes, or energy landscapes. Ethnographic and ecological fieldwork was conducted in the Machu Picchu Historic Sanctuary, Peru. Andean land use studies have focused on agricultural patterns such as vertical production zones. Fuelscapes are an important, energy-based means of producing and representing landscape. They show how uncultivated lands fit into livelihood strategies and reflect historic sedimentation of landscape. Fuelscapes are shaped by ecological characteristics, historic settlement patterns and property rights, gendered and intergenerational divisions in household labor, and state conservation policies. Conservation policies delimit fuelscapes to privilege live trees, but the resultant denudation of dead wood may carry implications for ecosystem health. This study elucidates how official policies intersect with household and communal resource use strategies to produce Andean fuelscapes. It provides insight into how uncultivated ecosystems fit into land use politics, practices, and representation.
4602840|The primary components of Tlaxcalan corn agriculture are described, including cropping patterns employed, resource management strategies, and interactions of human and biological factors. Tlaxcalan farmers grow corn in an array of polyculture and agroforestry designs that result in a series of ecological processes important for insect pest and soil fertility management. Measurements derived from a few selected fields show that trees integrated into cropping systems modify the aerial and soil environment of associated understory corn plants, influencing their growth and yields. With decreasing distance from trees, surface concentrations of most soil nutrients increase. Certain tree species affect corn yields more than others. Arthropod abundance also varies depending on their degree of association with one or more of the vegetational components of the system. Densities of predators and the corn pest Macrodactylus sp. depend greatly on the presence and phenology of adjacent alfalfa strips. Although the data were derived from nonreplicated fields, they nevertheless point out some important trends, information that can be used to design new crop associations that will achieve sustained soil fertility and low pest potentials.
4602521|Under certain environmental and social conditions, intensive dialect borrowing can yield situations in which alternate phonemes may occur with such frequency in items elicited within a single speech community as to give the appearance of free variation. Such "social variation," in which members of a single speech community utilize different reflexes of the same historic phoneme within their own vocabulary -- thereby creating a superficial impression of free variation within the community -- occurs within Shoshoni phonology.
4603412|Changes in prehistoric Southwestern architecture have been interpreted as the result of increasing dependence on agriculture through time which promoted greater sedentism. Recent archaeological research has produced data that point to changes in labor organization rather than agricultural productivity as the factors that most likely favored new forms of domestic architecture. In fact, some of the most striking temporal shifts in residential architecture may have been associated with declining agricultural productivity.
4603033|Very little explicit attention has been paid to the determinants of political borders and why they from at one location rather than another. With a statistically significant frequency, the political borders on the island of Tahiti at contact coincided with ridge formations that radiated from the island's interior and crossed the coastal plain to meet the sea in steep cliffs or bluffs. Since warfare had become the primary means of political expansion by contact, the determinants of this striking correlation appear to have been the strategic problems these features posed to the extension of armed might. These same processes were at work on many other Polynesian islands with the result that contact-era variations in the degree of political unification and even sociopolitical development can be traced in considerable part to variations in island topography.
4602998|Surveys of pastoral households in a semi-nomadic Borana community during 1987-1988 were used to test the hypothesis that poorer families living closest to a market town would be most affected by the enhanced opportunity to sell dairy products, which would intensify competition between people and calves for milk and have negative implications for calf management. These poorer families indeed reported the highest rates of milk offtake per cow, and the milk increment was probably sold to purchase more grain for human consumption at the expense of milk intake for the calf. Consequently, this strategy may increase the susceptibility of malnourished calves to disease, especially those from lower-producing dams. Benefits of improved human energy intake from grain and retention of livestock capital must be weighed against risks of calf death and possible malnutrition of people from milk restriction when assessing dairy marketing trade-offs that are most acute for the poor. Opportunity to sell dairy products at favorable terms of trade helps the poorest people survive, and their risks could be mitigated by policies that facilitate grain marketing in the rangelands and interventions that improve calf feeding management, diversify human diets, and create alternative opportunities for women to generate income. The households postulated to be most at risk were identified from a complex, but logical, interaction among factors of distance to market, household wealth, and the quality of milking cows held. This indicates that targeting such needy groups for development assistance may require a more detailed and interdisciplinary analysis of production systems than is commonly practiced.
4602987|Fieldwork done in the late 1980s shows that !Kung San are living in settled villages with subsistence based on stock keeping, gardening, government distribution of surplus foods, foraging, and in some cases, employment by neighboring cattle-keeping groups. The !Kung villages differ in the degree of dependence on Bantu neighbors. Four village types are distinguished. The least and most dependent villages contrast on several measures including size of the ethnic !Kung population, adult sex ratio, percent of individuals of mixed parentage, and the availability of primary kin.
4603013|A recent debate in ecological anthropology concerns the availability of wild foods for human foragers in tropical forests. This article is a response to the five essays in this same issue of Human Ecology that examine the hypothesis that hunter-gatherers could never have lived in tropical rain forest without direct or indirect access to cultivated foods. We clarify the hypothesis and assess the evidence offered to date. Archeological evidence suggests foraging without cultivation in Malaysia. We propose a program of ecological studies and archeological research which, if undertaken, should provide the evidence necessary to falsify the hypothesis.
27654123|In recent decades, approaches to evaluating irrigation efficiency have undergone a radical reevaluation. Classical models considered drainage water "lost" to irrigation by flowing out of the system. The recognition that drainage water can remain in the system and become available for use by downstream irrigators has forced the reassessment. Irrigation may be relatively inefficient at the irrigation system and field levels but quite efficient at the basin level. The implications for small-scale, gravity-flow canal systems managed by farmers, which constitute 85% of the world's irrigated area, are significant. These implications are explored in an historic and ethnographic analysis of the chain irrigation system of the Orbigo valley of northwestern Spain. This system of drainage and reuse helps to account for high and sustained agricultural productivity by farmers in the region over several centuries. The property rights institutions devised by farmers to manage this system are discussed and its internal organization compared with south Asian cascade irrigation.
4603016| It has been widely argued that children and females are most severely affected during periods of food scarcity. This proposition is tested using dietary and anthropometric data from the Andean community of Nuoa, Peru. Contrary to expectation, children (ages 12 years and under) are relatively protected from seasonal food scarcity while adults experience severe caloric stress. Anthropometric measures of nutritional status corroborate the dietary analysis, indicating significantly better nutritional status in children. Sex differences in dietary adequacy are not evident. Adult males, however, have significantly poorer measures of nutritional status than adult females. These differences in dietary adequacy and nutritional status reflect adaptations to marked seasonality in work demands and energy availability. 
4603242| This is an ethnobotanical study of Atlantic Forest coastal communities located at Sepetiba Bay, Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil. Atlantic Forest remnants are top priority conservation areas, and include native communities that depend on fish and small-scale agriculture. We conducted fieldwork in the community of Calhaus (Jaguanum Island) from 1989 to 1991, and interviewed adults on their use of plants. We examined the diversity of medicinal plants used among communities of different islands and found results similar to previous research at Gamboa (Itacuru Island); communities living in smaller islands and on islands further from the coast use a lower diversity of plants. Also, older islanders show a deeper knowledge of medicinal plants than younger islanders. 
4602366|The manner in which cultural factors affect fertility has become an important area of anthropological concern. In this article, it will be shown that while fraternal polyandry does not affect individual fertility it does have a significant depressing effect on aggregate fertility and functions, unperceived and unintended, as an important mechanism for reducing population growth.
4603252|Recent research in the western Aleutians addresses two primary issues: the nature and extent of cultural exchange along the Aleutian chain, and Holocene environmental change and its effects on the development of Aleut culture. Cultural isolation is a major paradigm of researchers working in the Aleutians. Review of the distribution of several cultural traits suggests the Aleuts adopted many cultural elements originating outside the chain, but the distribution of these to the western islands was uneven.
4603166|Today, the search for new energy sources continues unabated throughout the North. At the same time, scientists are increasingly concerned over the degradation of the Arctic and sub-Arctic environment stemming from fossil fuel and other large-scale energy projects already underway. Similar apprehensions are expressed by indigenous peoples who have often suffered from the impact of such development. While the most dramatic evidence of environmental devastation and social disruption is found in the Russian North, serious problems are by no means confined to that area alone. Nor are these negative effects necessarily limited to the borders of the country in which they originated. Indeed, the deleterious environmental impact of our global industrial economy has become sufficiently profound that social analysts are beginning to ask whether development strategies that cause such harm to the Arctic and sub-Arctic region should continue; and if not, what should replace them. This article addresses these issues as they relate to questions of sustainability, equity, political empowerment, and human rights in northwest Siberia and northern North America.
4602846|Women's fishing in Oceania has been overlooked in most subsistence studies in the region and, as a consequence, there are few quantitative data available upon which to base an assessment of its importance. However, in the present study, the few data available on women's fishing in Oceania are examined, and these show that women contribute significantly to marine food yields in the region. Also, it is suggested that the highly regular nature of women's fishing makes women more reliable, and therefore more effective than men as suppliers of protein for subsistence. The implications of these findings for future development policies in the region are then discussed.
4603290|The relationship between Native Americans and the Euro-American settlers has evolved from the latter seeking to end the separate identity of the former to one in which the U.S. government uses Native rights to control large-scale resource problems. This new relationship arose out of a need to control water in Western states for irrigation, but has expanded into other areas. The Navajo sheep reductions of the 1930s and 1940s may be seen as an instance of this relationship. Concerns about siltation behind the Hoover Dam justified a program that dramatically transformed the Navajo economy. A second case concerns conflict over a caribou herd in northwestern Alaska. The conflict eventually led to the Federal government taking management of fish and game on Federal lands back from the state government. Both these cases show the development of a technocracy, based on Federal trusteeship over Native resources, concerned with the control of nature similar to that observed in Wittfogel's writings on Chinese irrigation.
4603511|Recent environmental "narratives" suggest that local people are effective stewards of forest resources. Local restoration and management of mangrove forests, in particular, are now widely advocated as a solution to achieve both economic and environmental conservation goals. This paper presents findings from a study of 2 coastal sites in the Philippines that are renowned and often showcased as success stories in community-based, mangrove reforestation and management. These cases are especially intriguing because local tree planting and management emerged in both areas long before governments and nongovernment organizations began to promote such activities. These management systems are a successful economic innovation in that planted mangroves protect homes and fish pond dykes from wave and wind damage, and the production of high-value construction wood is dramatically enhanced through intensive plantation management. Mangrove plantations are an efficient alternative to harvesting from unplanted, natural mangroves and their spread may reduce harvesting pressures on existing forests. However, mangrove plantations are structurally and compositionaly very different from unplanted forests, a finding of particular concern given that such plantations are increasingly encroaching into and replacing natural forests. Furthermore, planted forests are not typically viewed by planters in terms of their environmental conservation values and are frequently cut and cleared to make space for alternative uses, especially fish farming and residential settlement. The suggestion that these local mangrove management systems are successful for conservation thus needs to be qualified.
40928136|The ability to transform historical learning into institutional reform is a key to success in the management of common pool natural resources. Based on a model of institutional inertia and a comparative analysis of Northeast Atlantic fisheries management from 1945 to the present, the paper aims to identify drivers and obstacles to learning-based institutional reform. We argue that the ineffectiveness of implementation systems has been a key driver of reform requirements, but that the need for agreement amongst a large number of interdependent decision makers has been an obstacle to required reform. In such situations, distribution systems, especially, tend to become important obstacles to reform. Institutional inertia tends to be reinforced by tacit discourse frames: however, strong tensions between institutional inertia and needs for reform may also create room for innovation. Institutional inertia entails that large-scale management reform tends to be crisis driven.
40343989|Social learning approaches have become a prominent focus in studies related to sustainable agriculture. In order to better understand the potential of social learning for more sustainable development, the present study assessed the processes, effects and facilitating elements of interaction related to social learning in the context of Swiss soil protection and the innovative 'From Farmer - To Farmer' project. The study reveals that social learning contributes to fundamental transformations of patterns of interactions. However, the study also demonstrates that a learning-oriented understanding of sustainable development implies including analysis of the institutional environments in which the organizations of the individual representatives of face-to-face-based social learning processes are operating. This has shown to be a decisive element when face-to-face-based learning processes of the organisations' representatives are translated into organisational learning. Moreover, the study revealed that this was achieved not directly through formalisation of new lines of institutionalised cooperation but by establishing links in a 'boundary space' trying out new forms of collaboration, aiming at social learning and co-production of knowledge. It is argued that further research on social learning processes should give greater emphasis to this intermediary level of 'boundary spaces'.
40343977|The hydrological and geomorphological impacts of traditional swidden cultivation in Montane Mainland Southeast Asia are virtually inconsequential, whereas the impacts associated with intensified replacement agricultural systems are often much more substantial. Negative perceptions toward swiddening in general by governments in the region beginning half a decade ago have largely been based on cases of forest conversion and land degradation associated with (a) intensified swidden systems, characterized by shortened fallow and extended cropping periods and/or (b) the widespread cultivation of opium for cash after the Second World War. Neither of these practices should be viewed as traditional, subsistence-based swiddening. Other types of intensive agriculture systems are now replacing swiddening throughout the region, including semi-permanent and permanent cash cropping, monoculture plantations, and greenhouse complexes. The negative impacts associated with these systems include changes in streamflow response, increased surface erosion, a higher probability of landslides, and the declination in stream water quality. Unlike the case for traditional swiddening, these impacts result because of several factors: (1) large portions of upland catchments are cultivated simultaneously; (2) accelerated hydraulic and tillage erosion occurs on plots that are cultivated repetitively with limited or no fallowing to allow recovery of key soil properties, including infiltration; (3) concentrated overland flow and erosion sources are often directly connected with the stream network; (4) root strength is reduced on permanently converted hillslopes; (5) surface and ground water extraction is frequently used for irrigation; and (6) and pesticides and herbicides are used. Furthermore, the commercial success of these systems relies on the existence of dense networks of roads, which are linear landscape features renowned for disrupting hydrological and geomorphological systems. A new conservation focus is needed to reduce the impacts of these intensified upland agricultural practices.
4603401|Development of extension in agroforestry draws on the application of the innovation-diffusion process in agriculture. To be effective, agroforestry extension needs to fit the dynamics of the target farming system, the local socioeconomic and technological systems, and land use constraints. Failure of agroforestry extension has been blamed on inadequate and inappropriate methods, but there have been few studies to identify those factors that determine a farmer's awareness of, or attitude to, agroforestry. The present study focused on the modes of communication used in extension and how they affected adoption of agroforestry in a subsistence farming region of eastern India. The decision to adopt agroforestry was found to be determined by the farmers' attitude to agroforestry, which in turn was shaped by information received through farmer-to-farmer and farmer-to-extension contact. The mode of communication was important and, to be effective, needs to be customized for each target group.
25652746|Bushmeat hunting plays an important role in many rural African households; however, hunting pressures are growing, threatening the survival of many bushmeat species. Wildlife resources are rapidly dwindling; yet effective conservation strategies have been difficult to develop and implement. Many dimensions of bushmeat resource use have not been sufficiently explored and are consequently ignored in conservation interventions. To improve understanding of hunting practice, we conducted semistructured interviews with 74 hunters in three Malink villages in Guinea, West Africa regarding motivations to hunt and hunting processes. In addition, we investigated the local bushmeat trade in a nearby city. Using data from previous studies, and Robinson and Redford's (1991) model, we find that Red-flanked duiker, bushbuck and buffalo are unsustainably harvested. Malink hunters' perspectives offer both opportunities and obstacles for conservation which will be valuable for the development of conservation strategies in this area.
4603319| The relationship between investments of labor to agricultural production and environmental degradation in rural areas of the developing world is complex. This paper reports on qualitative and quantitative research focused on the effects of labor availability and its compensation on the way in which cattle are herded in the Maasina region of Central Mali. Within this particular region, two social relationships determine the level and form of herder compensation: that between herd patriarch and cattle owner, and that between herd patriarch and herder. Both the nature of these relationships and variations in herding practice are described prior to a presentation of statistical analyses of the effects of household labor availability and cattle wealth on travel and grazing management decisions. Reductions in both the availability of herding labor and in the economic security of Fule households are shown to lead to reduced herd mobility and more constricted grazing patterns with significant environmental implications. 
4603193|As livestock disease control programs in Africa begin to rely more upon para-professionals and livestock producers as deliverers of animal health care services, understanding the role different household members play in providing animal health care becomes increasingly important. This paper presents a framework for the analysis of gender aspects of livestock disease control based on a similar framework developed by Feldstein and Poats (1989). The utility of this framework is illustrated using household-level data collected from a district in central Kenya. Adult women and elderly men in the sample have primary responsibility for livestock care, and are therefore well placed to diagnose illness. Dipping and spraying of animals to prevent tick-borne and other diseases is the primary responsibility of adult males. Decisions regarding use of milk from the morning milking are more likely to be made by adult men. It is morning milk that is most often sold. Adult women, however, make decisions about use of evening milk, which is most often kept for household consumption. Knowledge of livestock diseases did not appear to vary significantly by gender, although some elderly men did possess extensive knowledge of indigenous disease categories and traditional remedies. The importance of recognizing gender issues in planning and implementing livestock disease control programs is discussed.
27654225|While economic literature inspired by the "tragedy of the commons" has emphasised people's tendency to increase fishing effort beyond desirable levels, sociologists and anthropologists who have studied the social aspects of fishing have often emphasised the capacity of these factors to restrict fishing effort. The article addresses the influence of social norms and communication on fishing effort in an empirical study of the Atlantic blue whiting fishery. The data were generated at a time when this fishery had yet to see efficient quota regulations, and had been subject to a rapid growth in fishing effort, making it the largest fishery in the Atlantic. The article argues that social norms and communication patterns in the fishing fleet create a synergic effect of co-operation and competition on fishing effort. The article questions the view that social norms and communication necessarily represent a solution to the tragedy of the commons.
4603494|We describe the diversity and dynamism of social, agricultural, and livestock husbandry practices in a traditional mountain production system in the Indian Trans-Himalaya. These are interpreted in the context of their role in mediating environmental risk. The production system is a little known Buddhist agropastoral system in the high altitude Spiti Valley (agriculture up to 4450 m, livestock grazing 4900 m, total area ca. 12,000 km
27654254|In the context of development and changes in two small-boat fisheries on the eastern Black Sea coast of Turkey, this article discusses how institutions are embedded in tradition, and what is "traditional" in "traditional knowledge". Taking new institutional economics' focus on institutions and approaches to traditional ecological knowledge as vantage points for discussion I compare systems of informal management in one discontinued and one new fishery to address questions such as: What kinds of knowledges and rules are involved in these kinds of fishing? What constitutes a tradition of knowledge? What is the role of tradition in working out new rules? I couple theories of situated knowledge (Ingold) and embeddedness of rules (Varela), both of which are inspired by Merleau-Ponty's phenomenological approach, to show how institutions and traditional ecological knowledge are embedded and come together in practice.
4602911|While optimal foraging theory has been of considerable value for understanding hunter-gatherer subsistence patterns, there is a need for a complementary approach to human foraging behavior which focuses on decision-making processes. Having made this argument, the paper proposes the type of modeling approach that should be developed, using decision making during encounter foraging as an example. This model concerns the individual decision maker attempting to improve his foraging efficiency, rather than maximize it, under the constraint of limited information and with conflicting goals. This is illustrated by applying it to the Valley Bisa hunters using computer simulation.
4603429|At least 42 insects have been reported as used in folk medicine in the state of Bahia, northeastern Brazil. These resources are distributed in nine orders, with Hymenopterans the most prevalent with 22 specimens. Medicinal insects, which are used live, cooked, ground, in infusions, in plasters, or as ointments, provide honey, nests, eggs, cocoons, sting, wax, and parts of their bodies for the elaboration of folk remedies to treat a great variety of locally diagnosed ailments. Most of the folk remedies are administered in the form of teas made using the powder produced by grinding the toasted or scraped part of the body of the insects or the whole toasted animal. Traditional knowledge concerning entomotherapy in the state of Bahia is very important since folk medicine is still one of the most important resources for discovery of unknown natural drug resources.
27654194|There is a continuing controversy over Native American fishing and hunting rights. We show that Native American (Menominee) and European American fish experts have a common knowledge base and share values and attitudes associated with fishing practices (though organized around different ethical principles). Nonetheless, perceived group differences are dramatic (especially European American perceptions of Native Americans). Cultural differences in models of nature and associated inference processes appear to mediate these stereotypes and may hold the key to reducing intergroup conflict over resources.
40343972|Swidden cultivators are often found as a distinct category of farmers in the literature, but rarely appear in population censuses or other national and regional classifications. This has led to a worldwide confusion on how many people are dependent on this form of agriculture. The most often cited number of 200-300 million dates back to the early 1970s, but the source is obscure. We assess available, published data from nine countries in Southeast Asia and conclude that on this basis it is not possible to provide a firm estimate of the number of swidden cultivators in the region. A conservative range of 14-34 million people engaged in swidden cultivation in the region is suggested, however. We argue that along with improved knowledge of swidden livelihoods, there is an urgent need to develop techniques that will allow for better estimates of swidden populations in order to secure appropriate rural development and poverty reduction in swidden areas. is suggested, however. We argue that along with improved knowledge of swidden livelihoods, there is an urgent need to develop techniques that will allow for better estimates of swidden populations in order to secure appropriate rural development and poverty reduction in swidden areas.
4603159|There is continuing uncertainty surrounding the safety of nuclear power stations in Eastern Europe, among them the one at Kozlodui, Bulgaria. It is argued in this paper that attempts on the part of the state to assert the safety of nuclear power stations are expressed in terms of an official "nuclear-safe" discourse, while the local inhabitants near the Kozlodui nuclear power station employ a vernacular mode of expression to explain possible radioactive pollution.
4603112|The articles in this special issue range across such influences on climate as solar emissions, orbital precession, atmosphere, oceans, and precipitation, and generally approach, each in some context, human implications of these phenomena. The common underlying theme of all of the papers is the effect the phenomena have on radiation balance as measured by global average temperature. This introductory paper undertakes a formulation of radiation balance theory that makes it serviceable to students of regional science. The objective is to go beyond inference of cause and effect by correlation to causal accounts of cause and effect through regional climatic and cultural processes. This is accomplished primarily by revisualization of the energy system with regions as dependent spatiotemporal entities, and temporally through a protocol for regional episode definition.
4603457|Conceptualizing environmental problems as sustainability problems contributing to local and global environmental change requires an understanding of how societies cope with their natural environment. Indicators for society-nature interactions are fairly well developed for national-level analyses. This study adapts some of these indicators to the local level and relates them to a qualitative assessment of economic and cultural change in a single community. Indicators are derived from material and energy flow accounting methods and address two major objectives: Firstly, to identify mutual influences between the global and the local level. Secondly, to assess future potentials of environmental pressures and impacts that can be expected to occur as such communities follow a path of further modernization. This study of a small rice-farming community in Northeast Thailand deals with physical as well as sociocultural aspects in order to produce a broad picture of society-nature relations. The indicators developed portray a society in the midst of transition and rapid modernization. This becomes apparent when comparing the results to those of similar studies in traditional and industrial societies. What we see is a community struggling to adapt to global influences, while at the same time maintaining subsistence with traditional coping mechanisms.
4603439|In the past few decades, Latin America has encountered two related developments that are transforming indigenous peoples' ownership, use, and management of land and resources. The first has been a wave of political organizing among indigenous communities. International linkages, national and regional confederations, and local, intercommunal organizations have proliferated across Central and South America. Secondly, there has been a swift rise in the number and influence of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), which have brought unprecedented financial support and political leverage to the struggles of indigenous people. This paper examines development, natural resource management, and ecopolitics in the Chiquitano communities of Lomerio in the Bolivian lowlands. I discuss the impact of NGO and government policies and practices on Chiquitano political organization, and present examples of political agency on the part of the Chiquitanos, and features of the structural conditions that frame relations among the different groups.
41474599|Management of plant resources is a complex process that involves the interaction of numerous cultural, environmental, economic, and ecological factors Therefore, understanding factors influencing management decisions requires multidisciplinary approaches, including both quantitative and qualitative perspectives. This study explores quantitative approaches as methodological tools with which to identify patterns underlying more intensive management of plant resources. The research was conducted in the village of Santa Mara Tecomavaca, Oaxaca, in south-central Mxico, within the semiarid Tehuacn-Cuicatln Biosphere Reserve. Three models explaining the management intensity tendencies were identified, consistent with the pattern of multiple variables influencing plant management.
4603197|The system of rights in cattle among the Nandi of western Kenya is built on a paradox: wives' predominant rights in certain categories of cattle vs. a strong public ideology assigning cattle control to men. Various Nandi categories of cattle and the structure of rights in them are described. Husbands' and wives' interests at times conflict; the negotiation of such conflicts is explored through analysis of several case studies. These studies show that it is possible, though not common, for wives to use traditional legal processes to counter husbands' herd management decisions. It is suggested that this possibility, and the potential loss of face it entails, explains why husbands rarely take actions contrary to wives' rights in livestock. Different rhetorical strategies of men and women in talking about rights in cattle, and emphasis on different aspects of customary law, are also discussed. This discussion is related to the emerging theory of "customary law" as the result of conflicts negotiated in the political context of colonialism. Ongoing economic changes are eroding wives' positions in negotiations over cattle "ownership." Literature on other African societies is reviewed, showing similar patterns of erosion of women's property rights, and differing interpretations of customary rights from those formalized in customary law.
4602672|Archaeological evidence for prehistoric strategies of marine exploitation in Oceania may be profitably analyzed from an ecological perspective, in which individual sites and assemblages are viewed in the context of adaptation to local environmental constraints. This perspective is illustrated through the contrastive analysis of environment, technology, and faunal remains at three prehistoric Hawaiian sites. Differing strategies of marine exploitation evidenced for each site are shown to reflect local marine environmental conditions. An ecological approach shows greater promise for an understanding of prehistoric adaptation to marine environment than the typological analyses current in much archaeological work on fishing.
27654204|During the last millennium in the Pacific Basin (islands and continental rim) there was a marked contrast between 'times of plenty' and 'times of less' for its human societies. This contrast is attributable to climate and sea-level variations, notably the Medieval Warm Period (a.d. 7001250) and the Little Ice Age (a.d. 13501800) separated by a time of rapid cooling and sea-level fall called 'a.d. 1300 Event.' Outlines of the times of plenty during the Medieval Warm Period and the times of less during the Little Ice Age are given, supported by a number of examples. These confirm a general picture of societal collapse as a result of the a.d. 1300 Event. Well-dated human responses to the a.d. 1300 Event (establishment of fortified settlements, end of ocean voyaging) allow links to potential nonhuman causes to be strengthened. Although more data referring to both (natural) changes and their human effects are needed, a conclusion involving environmental determinism is inescapable.
27654222|Littorals in the in the Exuma Cays, Bahamas and the Bath Plantation, Barbados are comparative in many ways. These edges of the sea have provided critical services to local people during the time of slavery and since. More than food and medicine, the littoral is the nightly sea bath, where children are instructed, and the last ecosystem effectively used by the elderly. Independence and self-respect derive from use and protection of these littoral by individuals and communities. Local patterns of conservation and use are argued to be essential in the ecological structure and functions of the littoral. Development projects and marine protected areas alike are seen as potentially breaking local ties with the littoral causing trophic skew and damaging local society. If development occurs, mitigation solutions potentially derive from legally recognizing local people as partners in the co-management of their traditional littoral.
4602582|Data on hunting success, game habits, and vegetational cover in one area of the Philippines indicate that as farmers expand the area under cultivation, they create on the growing forest-field ecotone the biotope upon which some game animals are dependent. This accounts in part for the distribution of hunting populations on the peripheries of farming settlement. Contrary to the usual interpretations of Southeast Asian prehistory and of the distribution of contemporary populations, agricultural expansion may, because of edge effect, support a higher density of game, and consequently may be conducive to the persistence of a hunting-gathering way of life.
4602674|This article examines birth seasonality in two environmentally and ethnographically distinct societies: the Copper Inuit of the Central Canadian Arctic and the Samukundi Abelam of Papua New Guinea. Although the regions inhabited by these societies differ dramatically in degrees of seasonal variation, both populations display significant seasonality in conceptions and births. For the Copper Inuit, such seasonal variation was found to be the consequence of social and economic responses to extreme environmental change. Birth seasonality for the Samukundi Abelam is also pronounced and was determined to be the result of social ideologies which are only indirectly linked to environmental factors. The article also proposes a research paradigm designed to facilitate the cross-cultural investigation of birth seasonality in human populations.
4603336|This paper uses a political ecology approach to examine whether ecotourism along the Pacific Coast of the Baja California peninsula in Mexico promotes stewardship of marine resources, which have been devastated in recent years by uncontrolled commercial harvesting. This case illustrates how conflicts over access to common-pool resources that fueled the demise of area fisheries are now emerging in the rapidly growing industry of recreational whale watching. Even if ecotourism provides a significant new source of income through environmentally friendly, nonconsumptive resource use, it may not be sufficient to discourage local people from engaging in other, more destructive forms of consumptive resource use. But resource conflicts may not preclude efforts to promote conservation through ecotourism. Along the shores of Baja's gray whale calving lagoons there are nascent, community-based organizations that could serve as vehicles for mobilizing local people into conservation efforts, if local access rights to marine resources were both secure and accorded preference over outside claims to the same.
4602599|It is argued that the Shipibo Indians follow a meat-procurement strategy that (1) takes into account seasonally variable exploitation costs of fishing and hunting, and (2) helps them satisfy their nutritional requirements for meat in a way which minimizes the amount of time they must allocate to meat procurement. To test this idea, linear programming theory is linked with Bergman's ethnographic description of the Shipibo system in order to construct a mathematical model of the Shipibo meat-procurement strategy. Statistical procedures and Bergman's data are used to estimate parameters in the model and the predictions of the model are then compared to observed values. This paper concludes by proposing a conceptual approach to human adaptation which distinguishes cognition from behavior, but interconnects the two in indigenous decision-making.
27654238|Shifting cultivation practiced by indigenous peoples living at low population densities in tropical forests has often been described as sustainable and compatible with conservation. However, shifting cultivation at increasing population densities has historically been, and still is, a main cause of deforestation worldwide. As many indigenous peoples in tropical forests currently experience rapid demographic growth, this raises the question to what extent their agricultural activities actually contribute to deforestation. This paper examines land use change in an indigenous community in the Ecuadorian Amazon which is only loosely connected to the market economy, and where agriculture is almost exclusively subsistence oriented. During the last seven decades, people have increasingly begun to clear fallows instead of old-growth forest to farm. Although the population was growing at an estimated 1.6% per year, the expansion of the area of land used for agriculture was only 0.4% per year, corresponding to an annual deforestation rate of only 0.015%. Whereas these changes may seem negligible in terms of deforestation, they do cause hardships to the local people, because of increasing walking distance to old-growth forest, and problems with weeds, pests, and decreasing soil productivity when farming after reclearing fallows.
4602460|This article describes the recent transition from subsistence to market hunting of some net-hunting Mbuti, a nomadic society of the Ituri Forest of Zaire. The history of this development dates to the late 1950s, as the Mbuti began to have increasing contact with commercial meat traders, called bachuuzi, from outside markets. Before this, the Mbuti had a long history of contact with local swidden agriculturalists, called bakbala, a relationship that continues today. It is sanctioned by religious beliefs, but material exchanges are also important. The Mbuti provide bakbala with meat and other forest resources and receive in return iron implements, tobacco, and cultivated food. The Mbuti view such items now as necessities; however, this does not allow the bakbala to subjugate or control them. Most exchanges take place in the bakbala's village at the Mbuti's discretion, and exchange rates are not fixed. Finally it appears that such trade does not undermine the resource base of either group. The Mbuti's commercial exchanges contrast with this subsistence-oriented system. Unlike the bakbala, the bachuuzi traders establish themselves in the Mbuti's forest camps, where they can promote intensified net hunting and monopolize trade of meat. The Mbuti tolerate the alien traders in camp because they are often a convenient source of food and other desired material goods; however, they do not share the traders' commercial motives. The Mbuti freely manipulate credit to their own advantage and they are often able to evade the traders' efforts at economic control. The future of market hunting is uncertain. Mbuti material needs are changing and the antelope fauna (Cephalophinae) upon which commercial trade depends is being reduced in some areas.
4602741|A basic assumption of the Pleistocene extinction, or "overkill" hypothesis, is that rates of human predation on numerous genera of megafauna exceeded prey replacement rates. Previous assessments of this hypothesis have often stressed the technological or organizational capabilities of Paleolithic hunters to harvest prey in sufficient numbers to threaten extinction. Optimal foraging models and ethnographic observations of modern hunters-gatherers provide a logical basis for assessing the feasibility of alternative reconstructions of Paleolithic hunting strategies as well as their compatibility with the concept of critically high rates of predation sufficient to cause extinction.
27654127|Effective biodiversity conservation in national parks depends to a large extent on adjacent forest cover. While deforestation and forest fragmentation as a result of colonization and agriculture have been widespread in neotropical countries over the past few decades, in some places agricultural intensification, wage labor, and rural to urban migration are becoming the most important emerging trends. Changes like this have resulted in forest recovery in other places, mostly in temperate zones, but there have been few studies of this phenomenon in the tropics. This paper presents a case study from a national park buffer zone in Costa Rica. An expansion of Braulio Carrillo National Park (BCNP) in 1986 forced the closing of a frontier that had been characterized by spontaneous colonization and widespread forest-to-pasture conversion. After that time, the Sarapiqu region surrounding the northern sector of BCNP underwent a dramatic social and economic transformation. Population more than doubled, new roads created easy access to a coastal port and the capital city (San Jos), industrial agriculture and ecotourism enterprises expanded, and population and urbanization along major highways increased. In spite of government reforestation and forest protection programs and changes in rural people's attitudes favoring forest conservation, we find that there has been only slight detectable forest recovery in satellite imagery and that forest fragmentation continued, even in remote rural areas near BCNP with stable or shrinking population. We attribute this to the consolidation of landholdings into large cattle ranches and smaller hobby ranches, driven by an inflow of capital from urban areas and developed countries. This pattern has important implications for the management of this and other national park buffer zones. We suggest that strategies focused only on sustainable land use inside buffer zones are unlikely to succeed when carried out in a context of certain macro-level changes. Conservation of endangered biological resources will only be possible if we broaden our thinking about national parks and adjacent lands in the tropics to address new land ownership and use patterns that are occurring as a result of globalization, urbanization, and expanding wage labor employment.
4602500|Klausner has hypothesized that female-headed households are less efficient in the use of energy than male-headed households because they are less "disciplined" and "ordered." The present study used multivariate analyses to determine whether female-headed households were less efficient in the use of electrical energy than male-headed households in a representative sample of 4638 Anglo, Spanish-speaking, and black homeowning Texas households. The results indicated that, after controlling for the effects of other variables known to affect the use of electricity, sex of household head had no statistically significant independent effect on electricity consumption in any ethnic or marital status group. The authors compare their results to those obtained by Klausner and discuss implications for social organizational theory of household energy consumption.
4603408|This paper explores local perceptions of internationally financed conservation and development projects in Madagascar and the success of these projects at influencing perceptions. Interviews, surveys, and focus group sessions were conducted in the peripheral zones of three Malagasy national parks: Ranomafana, Andohahela, and Masoala. Relevant questions explored community demographics, socioeconomic status, and local perceptions of the parks. The principal finding is that while a majority of people living in the peripheral zones do find conservation a valuable goal, they see it as a luxury they cannot afford. Despite their efforts and innovation, conservation and development projects have had a minimal impact on socioeconomic or associational life in the Ranomafana and Andohahela peripheral zones, and a significant but modest impact in the Masoala peripheral zone, by providing economic alternatives to destructive resource use. As a result, they are limited in their success at promoting conservation outcomes.
41433093|Establishing private property in land through registration and titling has been promoted in developing countries due to the anticipated benefits of private ownership in access to credit, productivity enhancing investments, and productivity gains. Evidence of such benefits is limited, however. In this paper, we examine a related question: What is the impact of privatization on cooperation in farm labor? Data collected in 2005 from Samburu District in Kenya is analyzed, comparing one community where land has been privatized to a second where land is communally held in a group ranch. It is hypothesized that households with title deeds are less likely to cooperate in farm labor than households without deeds. The hypothesis was confirmed, as the odds of cooperating in communal farm labor are 93.0% lower for households with deeds compared to those without. This effect has negative implications for collective action efforts in Siambu.
41432985|A transition to programmes adopting a governancebased approach in encouraging value-added and innovation in rural economies is often described as offering new opportunities for marginalised rural communities that have not benefited from top-down development policies. In practice, however, it is noted in Ireland and elsewhere in the EU that traditional fishers and farmers have been slow to engage in economic activities favoured by contemporary policies. I discuss how traditional small-scale fishing communities can be estranged from contemporary rural development policies that are focused primarily on providing high value-added serviceoriented and processed goods. I approach the problem of poor integration of fishing communities by focusing on how contemporary rural development programmes -though shrouded in language of local participation, governance, and indigenisation -can fail to actively engage with indigenous socio-cultural identity and resources. Exploring how intricate human ecological relationships involving custom and local knowledge of physical resources are not readily commoditised, I raise questions in relation to some of the central claims of the governance and rural development model, such as that it has the capacity to empower and generate confidence through locally appropriate economic activity.
40603029|Inuit in Canada's Arctic conceptualize both human hunters and their polar bear prey as active participants in the hunt and as part of a larger socio-economic system requiring the involvement of both humans and animals. Although often treated through the lens of common-pool resource theory, the Inuit viewpoint conflicts with Western wildlife management systems that typically treat animals, and nature in general, as passive. When polar bears are understood as active participants in the hunt, the rights associated with common property regimes and assumptions about collective-choice decisions in common-pool resource management require significant revision.In this paper we argue that common-pool resource theories which assume natural resources are inherently passive cannot adequately account for the system of active relationships operating among Inuit in Arctic Canada. The comanagement system of Nunavut Territory, Canada, uses a flexible quota approach, which, while following conservation guidelines, allows some space for the traditional Inuit-polar bear system to operate. This example shows how commonpool resources may be managed sustainably without the attendant assumption that natural resources exist passively outside of common-pool resource regimes.
4602282|This paper examines the question of the nutritional value of cannibalism. Although other authors have concluded that the practice does not have such value, we argue that this cannot properly be determined except in the context of the total subsistence economy and local human ecology. The paper also presents a format for the empirical investigation of food-getting and new ethnographic information about New Guinea cannibalism. Our major conclusion is that this practice does have nutritional value for certain human groups, specifically tropical peoples living at low-medium population densities and exploiting a diverse range of animal foods.
4603481|Land tenure has been considered one of the key factors that define patterns and change in land-use systems. This paper examines the implications of land reform for household decisions regarding patterns of land use, agricultural intensification, and forest conservation. We look at an Amazonian caboclo settlement in the Lower Amazon that had experienced land reform by the end of the 1980s. Results show that defined land tenure is not enough to guarantee agricultural intensification and forest conservation. In fact, several factors working at different scales are affecting land-use change in the region. At the settlement level, privatization of upland forest has led to an overall increase in cultivated land--pasture and annual crops--and increasing deforestation rates. However, at the farm-property level, different systems of agricultural production--intensive, extensive, or abandonment of land--occur according to availability of labor, and capital, and access to different natural resources.
4603354| The Gitksan of northwestern British Columbia live in a mountainous, densely forested environment. In Western ecology, plant communities are based on the dominant species or geomorphic features (e.g., floodplain cottonwood forest, sphagnum bog). Gitksan landscape perception is organized with reference to mountains and rivers, to drainage basins and divides. These orienting perceptions are bound up with the territory system, where the landscape, including drainage basins, slopes of mountains, and river fishing sites, are delimited as owned properties of House groups. Boundary landmarks and significant places within the territory are named. Places are most frequently discussed by name. Vegetation is usually discussed from the perspective of individual plant species. Gitksan terms collected for habitat types include swamp, laalaxu; meadow or treeless area, lax 'amaaxws or lax'aamit; and a generalized bush/forest term, sbagaytgan, 'among the trees'. Generalized habitat descriptions such as 'in the swamp' or halfway up the mountain indicate ecological setting. 
4603521|Integration into a market economy or economic development can erode the quality of life of indigenous people by, for example, increasing income inequalities. The Kuznets hypothesis predicts that the link between income inequality and income (a proxy for economic development) resembles an inverted U. We test the hypothesis using a survey of 511 households from 59 villages of Tsimane' Amerindians, a horticultural-foraging society in the tropical rain forest of Bolivia. We measure village inequalities of three economic outcomes: income, imputed annual value of rice production, and wealth. We used three indices of inequality: the coefficient of variation, the standard deviation of the logarithm, and the Gini coefficient. Explanatory variables include either income and income squared, wealth and wealth squared, or imputed annual rice production and production squared. We used village-to-town distance as a control. We find little evidence that integration to the market increases inequalities of economic outcomes, with two exceptions: Wealth bore the predicted inverted U-shaped relation with wealth inequalities, and imputed rice production bore a U-shaped relation to inequality, but only when (a) using adult equivalents to express household size and (b) the Gini coefficient and the coefficient of variation to measure inequality; in no case were results robust to different econometric specifications. We advance several explanations for why economic development might not accentuate economic inequalities among relatively autarkic rural economies.
4603320|Anthropologists have described, but seldom explained, the existence and persistence of common pool resource systems among hunting and gathering populations. Land tenure practices in the Fort Irwin area of the Mojave desert, California are explored. Ecological, ethnographic, archeological, and ethnohistoric information suggests that this area was jointly owned and intermittently used by several distinct ethnic groups. Although the region was important as a buffer against resource shortfall during certain seasons, sporadic use and meager and variable resource yield may have made exclusive ownership difficult and costly. A jointly managed region with common pool resources better served surrounding groups, while simultaneously creating a spatial buffer to diffuse social tensions. Following presentation of the Fort Irwin case, the paper considers the formation of such land tenure practices among hunting and gathering populations.
27654258|Among the remaining tropical forests of lowland Latin America, many are inhabited by indigenous peoples, and the sustainability of their land uses is a point of heated debate in the conservation community. Numerous smallscale studies have documented changes in indigenous land use in individual communities in the context of expanding frontier settlements and markets, but few studies have included larger populations or multiple ethnic groups. In this paper we use data from a regional-scale survey of five indigenous populations in the Northern Ecuadorian Amazon to describe their agricultural land use practices and investigate the factors that affect those practices. We find the areas cultivated by indigenous households to be small compared to those of nearby mestizo colonists, but a large proportion of indigenous cultivated area is in commercial land uses. We also construct multilevel statistical models to investigate the household and community-level factors that affect indigenous land use. The results reveal significant influences on cultivated area from contextual factors such as access to markets, oil company activities, and the land tenure regime, as well as from household characteristics such as demographic composition, participation in alternative livelihood activities, and human, social and physical capitals. Overall the results are most consistent with market integration as an underlying driver of land use change in indigenous territories of the study area.
41474586|This paper examines villagers' efforts to secure a reliable supply of drinking water in Ten Mile Inn, a rural community in North China. For most village residents, the Maoist era was a period of attacks on their religious beliefs and practices. It was also a time of often costly attempts to secure a more reliable supply of water. Village politics and factional disputes attended all these efforts and closely track the rise, fall, and ultimate reinstatement of the Ninth Dragon God, an important deity in Chinese pantheon, who many believe has full charge of rainwater, rivers, lakes, and seas. Those associated with the god constitute a source of authority and respect in addition to that of local state sanctioned leaders.
4603269|This paper examines the regional dynamics and natural resource use strategies related to the deforestation of tropical rain forests west of the Ecuadorian Andes for the period 1983-1995. Research was based on regional level analysis of remotely sensed and secondary data and local level analysis of the ways local populations use the resources at their disposal. The process observed departs significantly from what has been described in the literature for Latin America and should be seen as a window into a broader environmental process occurring in most tropical forests on the Pacific side of northern South America. Deforestation in the Northwest Ecuador is primarily related to a complex productive structure, made up a countless number of timber producers and middlemen, ranging from fully informal to fully formal, and from small scale to large scale. A key finding is that local traditional populations play a critical role through productive coalitions between small primary producers and large timber firms. These have been shaped by the articulation of local conditions with external markets, settlement processes, and the convergence of local populations in an economic system which relies on the unsustainable exploitation of natural resources. If deforestation rates in Northwest Ecuador remain at current levels, forests in the region will disappear completely within 30-35 years, a fate that is likely to be the same for most tropical rain forests west of the tropical Andes.
24015747|Amenity transition, a major socio demographic trend in areas rich in natural resources, is characterized by economic and population growth as a result of retirement inmigration, increased rates of second home ownership, and increases in the number of industries that do not need to be proximate to a specific geographic location. Amenity transition is also characterized by increased intra-community conflict between long-term residents and in-migrants. This research analyzes whether the population growth accompanying amenity transition is associated with variations in the structure and characteristics of intra-community informational networks, as sociological theory would suggest. Methodologically, this is accomplished through a comparative analysis of the structure and characteristics of informational networks in three communities undergoing amenity transition. The analyses suggest population density is not related to either the structure of informational networks or the concentration of trust/distrust within them. When considered in conjunction with previous empirical work, these findings suggest the conflicts associated with amenity transition are more likely to arise because of conflicting value systems and ideologies as opposed to social structural changes in the communities themselves.
4603496|The sustainable harvest of aquatic vegetation is not accounted for in the national economy, in decision-making, and environmental policy in the Kizilirmak Delta, a Ramsar wetland of international importance and a major agricultural area on the Black Sea coast of Turkey. This paper describes the harvesting and marketing of sharp-pointed rush (Juncus acutus) using information obtained from interviews with villagers who were harvesting rush, wholesalers and retailers, government officials, and NGOs. The gross market value of the harvested rush amounts up to U.S. $494,000 annually in 1998 prices, of which U.S. $217,000 is retained by villagers. The economic contribution of the harvest and especially its livelihood for the villagers must be accounted for in projects and policy-making. Encouragement and continuity of the conditions of economic, social, and ecological sustainability of the harvest is essential for the conservation of the delta and its biodiversity.
4603445|The ecological impacts of early agriculture in the Near East remained localized prior to the intensified production of derivative plant and animal products, beginning in the fourth millennium B. C. One aspect of this "secondary products revolution" (Sherratt, 1980a, 1983) involved the adoption of animal traction and increased production of rendered animal commodities (e.g., wool and dairy). However, most of the pervasive regional effects of this revolution followed from the domestication and increasingly intensive cultivation of orchard crops that generated marketable secondary products (e.g., olive oil, wine, and dried fruits) and encouraged widespread deforestation. In the southern Levant this revolution encouraged, and was encouraged by, the rise and fall of Bronze Age towns and their mercantile influences. Botanical and palynological data from the Jordan Rift reveal a complex discontinuous legacy of changes wrought by the secondary products revolution that have molded the agrarian ecology and anthropogenic landscapes characteristic of the region today.
27654271|Native Amazonians traditionally use two methods to feather, or fletch, arrowsthey either tie feathers to the shaft or use an adhesive. This paper discusses the latter method, analyzing the use of "black beeswax" arrow cement, derived from an insect product, the waxresin cerumen of native stingless bees (Meliponini). Such mixtures of beeswax and plant resins, prepared by cooking, have a long history of human use in the Old World: in encaustic painting, beaumontage for furniture repair, sealing waxes, and varnishes for fine musical instruments. This study explores the special properties of meliponine cerumen, containing a resin compound, geopropolis, which makes an excellent arrow cement. Like their Old World counterparts, native Amazonians discovered that cooking a mixture of cerumen and plant resins from bee nests produces an adhesive that dries to a hard finish. We compare both raw and cooked samples of cerumen with infra-red spectroscopy. The waxresin compound yields adhesive material that is tough, flexible, and has many qualities of both sealing wax and varnish. The Yuqu of the Bolivian Amazon provided the cerumen samples for this analysis, and we describe their methods of preparing and applying arrow cement. We also discuss how social change and globalization negatively affect Yuqu traditional knowledge, which survives, in this case, largely because there is a modest market for bows and arrows in the tourist trade.
4602660|Our study of cultural transmission in Taiwan is based on a survey of 1000 students, their families, and friends, for characters ranging from religion to various customs and beliefs, as well as entertainment and hygienic habits. The effects of father, mother, and an older sib on a propositus are tested by an additive model of transmission, using a novel statistical procedure, and compared with correlations with friends. For many traits there exist significant influences; older sibs are almost as important as father and mother, with effects differing somewhat with their sex. Formulas for recurrences and equilibrium frequency of a cultural character for which father, mother, and sib are active in transmission are given in the appendices along with formulas for estimation of their effects from real data.
4602620|The Huastec have interacted with elements of a diverse flora in northeastern Mexico for 30 centuries. A Huastec plant-management model is derived from patterns reflected in all anthropogenic vegetation zones, from the dooryard to the forest, and used to discuss the possible effects of human activities upon the prehistoric rain forest. Huastec plant management is discussed from an analytical perspective which views plant management as resulting from the integration of two types of plant manipulation: the manipulation of vegetation en masse and the manipulation of individual plants. Decisions about plant manipulation reflect a concern for minimal labor investment to place the resource at hand. Noncrop plant manipulation practices potentially influence the evolution of individual plants and plant communities primarily by affecting species' distribution and population parameters. Since the impact of plant-management practices clearly goes beyond domestication, ways of evaluating such practices in order to expand our understanding of ethnobotanical interactions and their impact are suggested.
4603117|The Arizona monsoon, a major source of precipitation in the Southwest, shares many features with the monsoons of other continents. Computer modeling and fossil data indicate maximum extent of the African and Asian monsoons 9000 years ago. Fossil data indicate increased summer precipitation 9000 years ago, synchronous with the maxima of the African and Asian monsoons and, paradoxically, with the early-Holocene xerothermic of the Pacific Northwest. Climate model runs for 6000, 9000, 11,500, 13,000, and 18,000 years ago indicate increased summer precipitation 9000 years ago and a reciprocal relationship between precipitation in the Northwest and Southwest, but they relegate insolation to a role secondary to the North American ice sheet in regulating climate, and suggest a non-monsoon source for much of the summer precipitation in the Southwest prior to 9000 years ago.
40343942|Caribbean archaeologists have tended to focus exclusively on the prehistory of the largest islands, perhaps because large islands are believed to provide the landmass necessary to support long-term population growth and cultural development. Yet, as research here and elsewhere, e.g., the Pacific, is showing, small islands provided access to resources and landscapes that were not always readily available on the larger islands. Small islands often have superior terrestrial and, especially, marine resources; isolated ritual spaces; and more easily defended locations; although they are susceptible to more rapid overexploitation. This paper examines in detail human needs with regard to island size, demonstrating that small islands were crucial in the development of pre-Columbian Caribbean societies. Four case studies are presented to illustrate that small islands often were preferred over large islands throughout the Caribbean archipelagoes. Finally, these studies show that the prehistoric exploitation and overexploitation of small islands can provide significant insights for establishing baselines that can be used for modern management and conservation efforts.
4602663|In a recent article Alexander et al. (1979) argue that intersocietal variation in human sexual dimorphism of stature can be explained by differing degrees of male-male competition for mates found in different types of societal marriage systems. In this paper we reexamine their data and suggest that their results may be more simply explained by reference to the latitude of the societies in their sample. Our investigation indicates that latitude has a significant influence on the degree of societal sexual dimorphism of stature. Peoples of the arctic region and the short peoples of the equatorial regions are less dimorphic in stature than midlatitude peoples. Thus, we conclude that the sociobiological hypothesis presented by Alexander et al. cannot alone explain the intersocietal variation in sexual dimorphism of stature and that environmental factors must be taken into account in the explanation of such variation.
4603392|In this paper we analyze the fishing effort allocation of fishermen in the artisanal fisheries of the Turks and Caicos Islands (British West Indies). These fishermen use a free-diving technique to simultaneously exploit the local stocks of queen conch and spiny lobster. Using an integrated framework combining a set of analytical tools within a multi-disciplinary holistic approach, we attempt to identify the biological, economic, and social mechanisms which govern the fishermen's effort allocation between the two targeted stocks. The analysis shows that the seasonal dynamics of the whole system are essentially dictated by the very remunerative lobster fishery. Although this result tends to espouse the predictions of classical economic theory, a closer analysis reveals that the economic rationality approach does not entirely explain the observed fishermen behavior. Information from a series of socio-anthropological surveys shows that the fishermen's decision making is further influenced by collective and individual constraints related to the specific diving abilities required to operate in the two fisheries and by the socio-historico-cultural environment within which the fishing community has been evolving over the last century.
4603393|This paper examines the role of traditional religious beliefs and traditional leaders in conserving remnant patches of a unique type of dry forest in the Zambezi Valley of northern Zimbabwe. We examined aerial photographs spanning more than three decades, interviewed and surveyed local residents, and met with communities to learn about the environmental history of the forests and the factors that have affected land use in the area. Our results show that forest loss is dramatically less in forests that are now considered sacred, or were in the past connected to sacred forests. This supports our hypothesis that traditional spiritual values have influenced human behavior affecting the forests, and have played a role in protecting them until now. We also found that rates of forest loss have been much higher in an area where traditional leaders are relatively disempowered within the post-independence political system compared to an area where traditional leaders have more power. These findings lead us to conclude that a strategy that links the conservation of culture and nature is likely to be more effective in conserving forests than a strategy that ignores traditional beliefs, values, and institutions.
27654192|Over the last decade, historically low market prices for Coffea arabica have affected smallholder shade coffee-growing households throughout northern Latin America. In an effort to better understand household response to the coffee crisis and associated landscape changes, this paper examines agricultural production choices and land use patterns among Huastec Maya coffee-growing households. Using data compiled from 47 household interviews, I describe the cultural-geographical landscape in which the Huastec Maya land use system is embedded. In addition, I examine the economics of household production through a financial cost-benefit analysis and through an exploration of the relationship between land availability and land use patterns. Results show that economic inputs and returns from agriculture are highly variable, and that, in 2001, coffee cultivation was not a viable cash-generating strategy for most households. Land availability was found to have a significant effect on land use decisions, especially the proportion of land area devoted to fallow. Most importantly, however, the case study suggests that a purely economic approach does not suffice in explaining why the Huastec Maya continued to grow coffee in 2001, after years of low prices. Household production choices and livelihood strategies must also be viewed within a cultural context.
27654117|This paper explores social arrangements associated with seed transactions among small-scale maize farmers in the Central Valleys of Oaxaca, Mexico, where no formal seed supply system exists. We test the hypothesis that individual farmers have strong incentives to participate in some form of collective action to ensure their access to seed. Six communities were studied, three of them in detail, using in-depth, semistructured interviews with key informants; focus group discussions; and a tracer study that followed seed flows among farmers. Farmers mostly saved seed and only occasionally acquired seed from outside sources. We found no evidence of a specialized social organization based on collective action to mediate seed flows. Seed transactions are infrequent, bilateral, and ad hoc, although trust is an important component, as it ensures reliable information about the seed is provided. Implications of these findings are discussed, especially for genetic diversity if the current supply system breaks down.
4602469|A resource management simulation was devised in which players could harvest points for individual short-term gain, causing the premature destruction of the resource pool, or they could curb their own individual harvesting to preserve the pool for a longer overall supply. Although the first strategy was explained to be self-defeating, most groups opted for it, as they did even when an optimal harvesting strategy was provided that would avoid pool destruction. Groups whose members were allowed to communicate generally made better resource managers and achieved larger individual harvests.
4602496|A quantitative analysis of major rural energy flows in the People's Republic of China shows that the nation's countryside still depends predominantly on solar radiation transformed by green plants through photosynthesis into food, feed, fuel, and raw materials, Although a large-scale modernization effort currently under way aims to greatly increase the consumption of fossil fuels and electricity, it is argued that the country should not completely abandon its renewable rural energetics.
23353263|We explored how the forest-dwelling Soliga community of South India views and explains biological invasions, and how local knowledge can inform scientific knowledge on biological invasions. We used an interview schedule with open-ended questions to solicit Soliga opinion on Lantana camara (lantana) invasion. The Soliga cited three reasons for lantana spread: its prolific fruit output and wide seed dispersal, change in fire management, and historical extraction of grass and bamboo. The Soliga believe that lantana invasion has had negative effects on the ecosystem and their livelihoods. Tabling scientific knowledge with local knowledge has improved our understanding of lantana invasion. The role of existing lantana in colonizing neighboring areas, and the response of native tree communities to lantana were common to both local and scientific sources. However, the Soliga view provides a more nuanced perspective of the lantana-fire relationship (contextually based on lantana density) with fires suppressing lantana when lantana density was low. This is contrary to views held by foresters and biologists, that fires are uniformly detrimental and promote lantana. Our study shows that examining Soliga observations has improved understanding of the invasion process and presents avenues for future lantana management.
4602425|The relation between fertility and cultural change in a Peruvian Amazon Indian village was studied initially in 1964 and in more detail in 1969. The 1969 study included observations concerning social, economic, environmental, cultural, and health changes. Population growth in the village is nearly 5% per year, and fertility appears to exceed that previously recorded for other groups. The factors that may be contributing to the high fertility are explored. They are thought to include early and prolonged parity, nearly universal marriage and fertility, high reproductive efficiency, short birth intervals, Western health intervention lowering both infant and maternal mortality rates, and a decline in the prevalence of polygyny.
27654256|The broader ecological and social contexts within which livestock husbandry of Sudano-Sahelian West Africa operates have changed significantly over the past thirty years. This study concerns how: (1) these broader trends have affected the quantity and quality of labor investments into livestock herding; and (2) the ecological and animal nutritional implications of observed variation in labor investments into herding. The study was conducted in a 500 km2 area of western Niger using a combination of qualitative interviews of herders and herd managers, household composition surveys, herd composition monitoring, grazing management monitoring and georeferenced vegetation and livestock grazing itinerary data. Statistical analyses were performed using a two-staged approach: (1) analysis of the factors affecting the allocation of labor to herding at the level of the managing household; and (2) analysis of the effect of herd characteristics, season, microgeography and herders' social position on herders' effort and the nutritional and ecological impacts of these efforts. The results of these analyses support the conclusion that the changing regional context of livestock husbandry leads to a reduction in labor (quantity and quality) investment or an "extensification" of herding with significant implications for livestock productivity and the environment.
4602950|Hardin's Tragedy of the Commons model predicts the eventual overexploitation or degradation of all resources used in common. Given this unambiguous prediction, a surprising number of cases exist in which users have been able to restrict access to the resource and establish rules among themselves for its sustainable use. To assess the evidence, we first define commonproperty resources and present a taxonomy of property-rights regimes in which such resources may be held. Evidence accumulated over the last twenty-two years indicates that private, state, and communal property are all potentially viable resource management options. A more complete theory than Hardin's should incorporate institutional arrangements and cultural factors to provide for better analysis and prediction.
4602913|Cultural theory utilizes concepts drawn from social anthropology, sociology, and organization theory to explain the social and cultural biases of policy actors and interest groups. Certain ideas of nature are associated with each cultural bias; these ideas of nature are in turn associated with types of resource management institutions. By identifying an actor or group's culture bias, analysts can explain the success or failure of different management activities. This paper explains the evolution of cultural theory from its anthropological roots to its applications in ecological management. It then applies cultural theory to a typology of common property resources and illustrates its usefulness by examining grazing subsidies in the American southwest.
40603019|The influence of local actors and socioeconomic constraints on biological invasions is often ignored. Wetland plant harvesters appeared to intentionally influence cattail (Typha domingensis) invasion around Lake Ptzcuaro, Mxico, by altering their harvesting regimes, according to interviews with 44 expert respondents and botanical surveys. The oldest and most experienced harvesters reported controlling Typha initially, sometimes through organized eradication efforts, in order to protect Schoenoplectus californiens, an economically and culturally valuable wetland plant. Later, outsiders commoditized Typha by introducing new weaving designs popular with tourists, while industrial products and new livelihood activities reduced Schoenoplectus harvest. Harvesters from several communities began to promote Typha re-growth. Some harvesters, however, continued to combat Typha to maintain Schoenoplectus production, especially where supply was limited. Interviews suggested novel ecological cause-effect mechanisms and restoration strategies; some local harvesting regimes could efficiently conserve rare plants. An understanding of local ecological knowledge and incentives can inform invasive species control and conservation policy at a broader scale.
4603012| Questions concerning the availability of resources in tropical rain forests have given rise to the current debate centering on whether human subsistence based solely on foraging is possible in these biomes without agricultural subsidies. This paper takes the position that changing perspectives on ecological pattern and process in tropical forests and the significant variation among tropical forests on a worldwide as well as regional scale must be taken into consideration. Human disturbance is also proposed as a cause of dependence on agriculture by modern human foragers rather than as a necessary precondition for successful exploitation of the tropical forest. These issues are discussed against the background of a case study of the Yuqu, who, until very recently, were true foragers in the Bolivian Amazon. For the Yuqu, the sustainability of their subsistence system depended on a fine-grained knowledge of their environment and the freedom of movement over a large territory to access resources within it. 
4602823|Quality of Life (QOL) is a difficult yet valuable concept to use in regional analysis. It is more telling than purely economic measures, such as per capita GNP, but requires caution in the choice of indicators. The Physical Quality of Life Index (PQLI) is used to evaluate the small island developing countries (SIDCs) of the Indian Ocean. It employs infant mortality, life expectancy at age one, and literacy, which are broadly indicative of a wider range of social and physical attributes. In the Indian Ocean, a bimodalism of results is seen, with Reunion, Mauritius, and Seychelles consistently performing very well, while Maldives and Comoros perform poorly. Other QOL measures are examined as supplementary indicators. The PQLI is seen as an excellent comprehensive device for regional QOL analysis.
40603005|Overintensification and subsidies have long made American commodity farmers the enemy of conservationists. Yet, environmental conditions are improving in the Mississippi Delta where farmer-based groups, water management districts and conservation organizations have improved environmental quality and redefined the role of agriculture in environmental preservation. This work is all the more remarkable given the region's deeply conservative politics that discourage regulation. This paper examines this mainstreaming of environmental values in light of debates on the role of the state in fostering environmental subjectivities. Following cultural examinations of the state, we caution that the presence or retreat of the state is insufficient to understanding environmental subjectivities. Instead, an ethnographic focus is necessary to identify connections between the state and particular humanenvironment relations. In the Delta, this focus shows that local environmentalism is consonant with a politics of unsustainability, one that simultaneously advances radical ecological change and defense of the region's social hierarchies.
4602739|What are famines, what causes them, and how can they be controlled or prevented? How extensively have they been studied by social scientists? Some of the theoretical and policy implications of these issues are considered, and pressing needs for future research are discussed.
41474644|Despite improved national censuses and "microdemographic" studies, demographic processes and health conditions among indigenous populations in Amazonia and elsewhere in lowland Latin America are not well understood. A new source of demographic and health data has emerged in the past decade, namely meso-scale surveys initiated and administered by indigenous organizations. These surveys offer the potential for filling information gaps, shedding light on culturally specific factors that shape demographic processes and health, and empowering indigenous organizations with data that could inform health initiatives. This article assesses the indigenous-run survey "2005 Health Analysis of the Shuar and Achuar Nations" of eastern Ecuador in which the authors were involved, which reached 1,943 households in 257 communities in Morona-Santiago Province. We present findings on fertility, migration, sanitation, and health, and assess the strengths and weaknesses of the survey. We argue that despite flaws in the survey design and implementation, this survey revealed important linkages among fertility, migration, and health. Such surveys have the potential to provide much needed detail, representativeness, and cultural specificity that macro and micro data sources cannot provide. We conclude with recommendations to improve surveys of this type.
4603144|Aspects of the culture, resource exploitation and beliefs of the Gitksan and Wet'suwet'en peoples of northwestern British Columbia are examined to explore the relationship of their cultural practices, land tenure, and beliefs to resource conservation. Traditional Gitksan and Wet'suwet'en practices and beliefs contain a number of elements which acted to promote conservation, including territoriality, prescribed burning, and proscription of waste, and other elements which are more difficult to reconcile with a biological model of conservation. The concept of humans as part of the natural world, and the requirement for respect for all natural entities are the fundamental to mediating human interactions with other species in the Gitksan and Wet'suwet'en cultures.
4602609|The belief that high density is stressful and unhealthy has contributed to a decline in urban density in many countries, particularly North America and Australia. Yet many physical planners are calling for an increase in urban density. Many human or individual-oriented studies (which involve ethological models, sociological models, and psychological models) have been used to suggest negative effects of urban density. This article raises questions about these conclusions and presents evidence from recent studies which suggests more positive human aspects of urban density. The physical or systems-oriented studies (which involve economic, ecological, historical, and engineering models) suggest advantages in costs, energy, environment, and transport from increasing urban density. The resolution of the conflict between populace and planner is suggested to include greater awareness of mutual benefits from increased density, better planning and design, and encouragement of the more positive human aspects of higher urban density.
4603587| Depending on quantity and composition of food as well as on production conditions and techniques, the space needed to sustain an individual's nourishment varies. The amount of space needed also depends on the use of resources such as energy, water, and fertilizers, as well as potential land degradation and water pollution. Our study focuses on the changing spatial imprint of an average inhabitant of an expanding Swedish city, Linkping, from 1870 to 2000 taking into account both shifts in consumption as well as agricultural productivity and practices. Despite the distinctly larger amount of animal food products, such as meat and fish, consumed in 2000, we calculate the area needed to sustain an individual's annual food consumption could be less than one fourth of that needed in 1870. However, if the import of various globally produced foods is included in our calculations, the land needed to sustain the consumption of an inhabitant of Linkping in 2000 doubles. We also argue that an examination of this regional imprint can be used to explore and evaluate possibilities for regional development. 
4603196|Welfare impacts of an intensive dairy technology package on women and their families are investigated on 32 smallholder crop-livestock farms in the sub-humid zone of Kilifi District, Coast Province, Kenya. Farms were stratified according to male or female extension contact. A female enumerator interviewed the wife or female head of household on each farm regarding her present and past household responsibilities and the affects of the intensive dairy enterprise on these duties and upon the welfare of the household. On three-quarters of the male contact farms, dairy operators were women. Across all farms, women performed half of all dairy-related activities, but only on female contact farms did income from the dairy enterprise accrue to women in proportion to their labor input. The equitable return of benefits to labor corresponded with better dairy unit performance on female contact farms, where women also indicated greater access to and autonomy over household resources and decision-making. Irrespective of extension contact, there was broad consensus among the women interviewed that intensive dairying has led to improved household welfare, primarily through increased household income and milk consumption. There was also wide agreement, however, that these gains have been achieved at the expense of more work for women. Women on female contact farms were observed spending dairy income on food for the household and childrens' schooling more often than their counterparts on male contact farms. Based on these and other findings, the study concludes that gender of the extension contact, dairy operator and farm owner were determinants of the intra-household impacts of intensive dairying on the smallholder farms in this study. Recommendations for design and delivery of livestock technologies for crop-based farming systems, with special emphasis on how to minimize negative impact on vulnerable household members, are inferred from study findings.
4602622|Empirical measures of fire-service quality and efficiency are examined for New York City in the period 1968-1979. Marked decreases in the ability to control and contain structural fires are found to result from a program of fire-service reductions begun in 1972. Exacerbated by the New York City "fiscal crisis" of 1975, decreases in fire-service efficiency since 1972 appear to have initiated a geographically spreading and apparently recurrent fire epidemic. The decreases have accelerated since 1976, implying that recurring epidemic episodes could be more severe than the 1974-1977 crisis, which destroyed large areas in some neighborhoods of the city, including the South Bronx, Bushwick, Brownsville, East New York, East Harlem, and others. The results of an extensive data analysis are contrasted with the methods and conclusions of a widely circulated study entitled Setting Municipal Priorities 1981.
4602713|In this article, comparison is made between the two major types of water allocation systems in Yemen: seasonal flood (sayl) and highland spring flow (ghayl). Constraints in the nature of water as a flowing resource are defined for each system. The major distinctions between the two types of systems are variability in water flow (which influences the determination of access rights), techniques of water control, measurement of water turns, the need for supervision of irrigation activities, and the potential for economic expansion of the production system. It is argued that tribal political organization is an adaptive response to highland spring flow allocation in Yemen, but undergoes stress in coastal flood systems where competition for the same water source extends across tribal boundaries in upstream-downstream conflict.
4603282|Robert Netting had a central role in establishing agricultural anthropology. Many people rightly remember him as an astute ethnographer of farming communities, focused on analyzing the empirical details of changing patterns of household composition, land holding size and labor use. Yet, during his career he was increasingly concerned about the sustainability of smallholder vs. conventional industrial agriculture models on a global scale. Thus, Netting also had an important role in laying the foundation for the development of an agricultural anthropology for the twenty-first century, an anthropology that shows how smallholders "balancing on an Alp" can help us to understand how we might balance on this planet. This paper analyzes Netting's contribution to the future of agricultural anthropology in three key areas: the environment, population, and agriculture relationship; farmer knowledge and epistemology; and models for global sustainability.
4602704|Theoretically or practically significant research results concerning transitory as well as persistent phenomena can be obtained by human ecologists while avoiding commitment to long-term, expensive projects, rigid frameworks, traditional disciplinary goals, and unwarranted assumptions about the stability and purposiveness of units or systems. The procedures to be followed, as illustrated by research on people-forest interactions in East Kalimantan, involve a focus on significant human activities or people-environment interactions and the explanation of these by their placement within progressively wider or denser contexts. Guides for progressively contextualizing activities or interactions include a rationality principle, comparative knowledge of contexts, and the principle of pursuing the surprising.
4602638|The Gavlis are a pastoral caste of the forested hill tracts of India's Western Ghats region. This paper examines their shift under British colonial rule from buffalo-keepers to goatherds to cultivators of increasingly marginal hill tracts, the context of forest exploitation and malaria control as well as more recent dairy development programs of the Indian government. It concludes that if present trends continue Gavlis everywhere will follow the same progression, eventually becoming landless migrants.
4603597|The introduction of domestic livestock, particularly sheep, and rangeland grazing by Norse settlers to Faroe during the ninth century has generally been described as a major pressure on a sensitive landscape, leading to rapid and widespread vegetation change and contributing to land degradation. This view has, however, been developed without consideration of Norse grazing management practices which may have served to minimize grazing impacts on landscapes as well as sustaining and enhancing vegetation and livestock productivity. These alternative scenarios are considered using a historical grazing management simulation model with Faroese climate and vegetation inputs and given archaeological, historical and palaeoenvironmental parameters. Three contrasting rangeland areas are investigated and, based on the maximum number of ewe/lamb pairs the rangeland could sustain, modeling suggests that utilizable biomass declined with the onset of grazing activity, but not to a level that would cause major changes in vegetation cover or contribute to soil erosion even under climatically determined poor growth conditions. When rangeland areas partitioned into what are termed hagi and partir are modeled, grazing levels are still within rangeland carrying capacities, but productivities are variable. Some rangeland areas increase biomass and livestock productivities and biomass utilization rates while other rangeland areas that were too finely partitioned were likely to suffer substantial decline in livestock productivity. Partitioning of rangeland is a likely contributor to long-term differentiation of landscapes and the relative success of settlements across Faroe beyond the Norse period.
4603055|This paper examines the contrasting responses to short- and long-term droughts shown by cattle populations in two different savanna ecosystems in a communal area in southern Zimbabwe. It illustrates how ecological responses are modified by differential management inputs-herding, transhumant movement, and supplementary feeding. The impacts of drought on cattle herds can thus be understood only with insight into this interaction of ecological and socio-economic factors. Such detailed study of drought response can most effectively inform development planning.
4603321| Farmers in the Upper Caete valley have both disintensified and intensified land use. The direction of land use change depends on the production zone in which it takes place. Although land in the distant rainfed agropastoral zone is disintensified through land abandonment and an increase of the fallow period, land in the nearby irrigated agropastoral zone is intensified through more frequent cropping, and the use of high-yielding potato varieties, fertilizers, and pesticides. Simultaneous intensification and disintensification contradicts Boserup's theory of agricultural intensification, which predicts unilinear change for all land use systems within a village territory. Population has decreased in the Upper Caete valley, but this factor alone cannot explain the dynamics of land use. Land use change is also driven by differences and complementarity between production zones, their distance from the villages, and social, economic, and technological change. 
40981188|The discussion about the impact of pastoral systems on ecosystems has been profoundly shaped by Hardin's "tragedy of the commons" argument that held pastoralists responsible for overgrazing the range. Recent studies have shown that grazing ecosystems are much more complex and dynamic than was previously assumed and that pastoralists adaptively manage these systems. However, we still have little understanding how everyday herding affects ecosystems at the landscape level. We conducted a study of daily herd movements and grazing strategies in a mobile pastoral system in the Logone floodplain, Cameroon. We integrated GPS/GIS technology, video recordings of animal behavior, and ethnographic methods to develop a more accurate measurement of grazing pressure that takes into account both livestock densities and grazing behavior. We used the resulting grazing pressure data to evaluate existing conceptual models of grazing pressure at a landscape level. We found that models that predict that grazing pressure is skewed towards the direction of water most accurately reflect the situation in the Logone floodplain in the dry season. However, we found that the higher grazing pressure is not only the result of a higher density of cattle but also a change in the grazing behavior of animals after watering. Finally, we caution that the models of grazing pressure in the dry season cannot simply be extrapolated to the landscape level because mobile pastoralists do not remain in one central place.
40343943|Understanding the factors that influence the adoption of synthetic pesticides has to date overshadowed explanations of variation in pesticide intensity. I conducted a survey of vegetable farmers in Northern Cartago and the Ujarrs Valley, Costa Rica, in 2003-2004 with the goal of explaining differences in pesticide intensity with reference to socioeconomic, political economic, and agroecological characteristics and relationships. Using ordinary least squares regression models, this paper explores the factors that influence pesticide use intensity in potato and squash production. Results indicate that many variables strongly influence pesticide intensity, including variables related to the farmer, farm household, political-economic relationships, the biophysical environment, and agroecological relationships. Conclusions discuss the need for an integrated approach to adequately understand pesticide intensity and potential policy interventions including agroecological education and extension, increased enforcement of pesticide residue limits in the national market, and land reform to allow for longer fallow periods.
4602289|The present paper examines the use of dung for two essential human resources, fuel and fertilizer, in a highland community of southern Peru. The limited energy availability and the poor soils of the region, primarily the result of high-altitude climate and topography, necessitate this practice. Alternatives to dung use are costly or unavailable. Grazing herbivores transform the widely dispersed puna grasses into a compact and easily gathered source of energy and nutrients. Native choice among available dungs corresponds to their qualities: sheep dung, richest in nutrients, is applied as fertilizer; llama and cattle dungs, each with a high caloric value, are burned as fuels. Dung use is interpreted as an energetically efficient response to the highland environment and as central to the subsistence pattern in the area.
27654309|Conflict is inherent to development, but the intensity of conflicts over small-scale projects is often severely underestimated. Effectively managed conflict can strengthen relationships and enhance productivity, but unresolved conflict undermines relationships, morale and projects. This paper examines conflict management during the development of ten South African outreach nurseries situated within communities experiencing high levels of poverty. Sources of conflict included: (1) Contestations over scarce or limited resources, or (2) ownership; (3) Disputes over accountability; (4) Struggles over social boundaries or (5) individual or collective identities; (6) Deteriorating interpersonal relationships; (7) Power struggles between community participants and (8) Structural imbalances between implementing organisations and community stakeholders. Conflicts spiraled into violence or near-violence in two cases, with threats of violence in two others. Fostering cooperative relationships and operational environments requires concerted effort from the outset, including the development of effective institutions. Development fundamentals cannot be exchanged for expediency; adequate time, staff, and resources have to be allocated to projects.
40928142|This paper explores institutional arrangements governing reciprocal grazing resource sharing among different pastoral and agropastoral clans in eastern Ethiopia. It describes and compares multiple institutional arrangements that define non-exclusive property rights in order to increase the social and economic efficiency of grazing resource uses in a risky environment. Results indicate that social capital, explained using lineage as a proxy, plays a crucial role in facilitating the establishment of and negotiation for non-exclusive forms of rights to grazing resources. Nonetheless, socio-political factors, such as clan politics and regulations restricting cross-border herd mobility, limit the role of customary institutional arrangements in sustaining interclan cooperation. Increased threat from climate change (rainfall variability) and the absence of insurance for the livestock increase the necessity to sustain interclan cooperation over the reciprocal sharing of the grazing commons. This suggests the need for a policy shift in favor of reinforcing customary systems of resource governance to ameliorate interclan cooperation to respond to these challenges.
23353204|Over the last decades, political, economic and environmental pressures have encouraged changes from swidden to more intensive agricultural practices, resulting in the hypothesis that swidden cultivation systems are disappearing. In Calakmul, southeastern Mexico, communities decreased the area under milpa, the traditional maize swidden system, but a collapse did not occur. To document and explain the persistence of swidden we employ a variety of data: (1) 59 standardized household surveys from 2003 and 2010 in five villages, (2) in-depth interviews in one village, and (3) coupled humanenvironmental timelines in this same village. Droughts, hurricanes, and remittances were important drivers of decreases in milpa cultivation. Market crop profitability and conservation programs were also reported to affect the area under milpa. Off-farm employment and governmental transfers have tended to stabilize household economies and decrease dependency on agricultural production, but have also allowed households to maintain their milpas for subsistence and cultural reproduction. Findings in Calakmul point to the need to consider swidden as an evolving and active response to changing policy, economic, and environmental conditions.
4602841|Shifting cultivation has traditionally been characterized as a highly productive system in terms of the ratio of energy outputs to inputs. This characterization, however, does not take into account the energy contribution of the natural vegetation cleared in preparing the field for cultivation. As a result, the central feature of shifting cultivation, the exploitation of the natural vegetation-soil complex as a substitute for human labor, has been ignored. The omission of the biomass contribution can be attributed to both a focus on the practices involved rather than the underlying strategy of the shifting cultivator, and an excessive preoccupation with the renewability of the energy sources involved in different agricultural systems. A definition of shifting cultivation is proposed that focuses attention on the relationship between the natural vegetation-soil complex and the shifting cultivator. Two methods of including the energy contribution of forest biomass in calculating the productivity of shifting cultivation systems are compared. When the biomass contribution is included, shifting cultivation appears to be an extremely unproductive system of agriculture.
4602482|Some of the behavioral-ecological variation in the primate order can be explained by reference to a general model known as the Jarman/Bell principle. This principle involves a scaling relationship between metabolism and body size which suggests that body size is a fundamental tactic in an animal's feeding strategy. Relatively accurate predictions regarding the diets of primates of known body weight follow from this model. In addition, it can be expanded to predict the kinds of adaptations that would appear in animals that deviate from the expected size/diet pattern. The model is general enough such that, when joined with feeding strategy theory, it can be applied to extinct organisms. In this context it is suggested that Pleistocene hominid ecology was characterized more by omnivory than carnivory.
23353202|This study investigates four decades of socio-economic and environmental change in a shifting cultivation landscape in the northern uplands of Laos. Historical changes in land cover and land use were analyzed using a chronological series of remote sensing data. Impacts of landscape change on local livelihoods were investigated in seven villages through interviews with various stakeholders. The study reveals that the complex mosaics of agriculture and forest patches observed in the study area have long constituted key assets for the resilience of local livelihood systems in the face of environmental and socio-economic risks. However, over the past 20 years, a process of segregating agricultural and forest spaces has increased the vulnerability of local land users. This process is a direct outcome of policies aimed at increasing national forest cover, eradicating shifting cultivation and fostering the emergence of more intensive and commercial agricultural practices. We argue that agriculture-forest segregation should be buffered in such a way that a diversity of livelihood opportunities and economic development pathways can be maintained.
4603353|The Huerta de Murcia is a traditionally irrigated land located in the middle lowland area of the Segura River around the city of Murcia, Southeast Spain. During the twentieth century several factors, such as the creation of new irrigated lands and the urbanization of traditionally irrigated lands, have changed the use of natural resources, giving rise to a growing imbalance between water resources and irrigation demands and a loss of fertile soil and other environmental and cultural values of this traditionally agricultural area. Such factors constitute environmental problems that will need to be controlled if more sustainable conditions for agriculture are to be achieved. The objectives of the present work are to develop a dynamic system model containing the main social, economic, and environmental and to use this model to explore the long-term effects of several policies designed to promote the sustainability of this agrolandscape. Some preliminary conclusions suggest that regulation and agricultural policy are not enough to stop the loss of traditionally irrigated lands and that additional water management and environmental policies are necessary.
4602242|The amounts of native animals taken in hunting and fishing by Amerind peoples are almost unknown. The interrelationships of cultural and ecological systems determine to a large extent hunting and fishing returns, focus, and strategies. This study presents data obtained in a coastal Miskito Indian village in eastern Nicaragua. Measurements were made of meat yields by species and of the time and distance inputs involved in securing fish and game. Hunting and fishing focus and strategies are adaptive mechanisms enabling the Miskito to achieve high and dependable returns from a limited number of species. Several factors are examined which influence hunting and fishing focus: dietary preferences and prohibitions, costs involved, differential productivity and dependability of particular species, seasonality and scheduling, and the impact of cash market opportunities for faunal resources. Under the impetus of population growth and rising aspirations, the Miskito's efforts to secure increasing numbers of animals for both subsistence and market are leading to severe pressures on selected species and to cultural and ecological disruptions.
4603171|The past failure of large-scale, rural development in Amazonia has emphasized the value of small-scale, swidden-fallow management practices. The management strategies used by indigenous cultivators are well-documented, but few studies have examined how absorption by market-based economies may affect the economic and ecological stability of the agricultural system. In this study, we provide a detailed account of swidden-fallow management as it is practiced at Las Palmeras, Amazonas, Colombia; moreover, we assessed the effect of a shift from subsistence to market-directed production. A total of 68 species were selectively managed in the swidden/fallow system. Seventy-seven percent of species at the site were managed for subsistence only, 22% were managed with a view to selling surplus at market. Only one species, Cedrela odorata, was managed solely for market production. A shift from subsistence-based to market-directed production may lower the ecological and economic stability of the system at Las Palmeras. Nonperishable production strategies, such as for timber production, appear to provide the most secure approach toward market integration.
4603057| The current interest in non-timber forest products as an economic option for the Brazilian Amazon represents a radical departure from the policies that have guided development in the region during recent decades. Despite this interest, little is currently known about the forms of resource management or economic strategies practiced by populations dependent on such resources. In this study, we measured the annual income and expenditures of ten households on Combu Island, located in the Amazon estuary near the major port city of Belm; in addition, we documented local uses and management of natural resources on the island. Average annual income per household was found to be over U.S. $4000, derived primarily from the harvest and sale of non-timber forest products. The results of this study show that the combination of proximity to a major market and appropriate resource management can lead to high and apparently sustainable economic returns. 
27654193|Previous studies have shown there is a wide spectrum of incipient management practices between gathering and agriculture, that include resources commonly considered "wild." Based on the study of 20 species used as foodstuffs in the community of Santa Mara Tecomavaca (Mexico), we evaluated nonagricultural management forms such as gathering, incipient nonselective management, incipient selective management and occasional ex situ cultivation to learn if they represent a gradient in the intensity of manipulation of a resource. The way in which the intensity of manipulation of a resource can vary as a function of cultural importance and the species' biology was also analyzed. Using an index that measures the intensity of management of a resource, it has been established that the degree of intensity depends on: the specialization of the practices directed to the environment as well as to the individuals; the number of persons performing these practices; and the number of different practices taking place. The degree of management intensity is also a consequence of the joint action of cultural importance and of species' biology.
40343961|This paper examines the relationship between plant use and plant diversity in 36 transects of 50x2 m laid out in the surroundings of Apillapampa, a community of Quechua subsistence farmers in the Bolivian Andes. Use data were obtained through individual interviews with 13 local key participants and were organized in eight plant use categories. Regression slope analysis showed that for nearly all plant use categories the proportion of used species to available species decreased with increasing plant diversity in transects. Two main groups of plant use categories could be distinguished: diversity followers, for which the number of useful plant species in transects keeps abreast with increasing plant diversity (e.g. medicine) and diversity laggards, for which the number of useful plant species increases only moderately with increasing diversity (e.g., food). We hypothesize that the main difference between both groups is related to the human process of plant selection. In categories that are diversity followers, plants are partly selected and used in an immediacy context, whereby emic perception of efficacy may be of secondary importance. By contrast, plant use in categories of diversity laggards is strongly guided by emic perception of efficacy because plant use takes place in a context in which plants are generally not needed on a short notice.
4602678|Results of recent ethnographic research in indigenous agricultural systems in the South American tropical forests indicate that the Geertzian model of the highly intercropped swidden that mimics the tropical forest it replaces is not the appropriate description of the agricultural regimes of several rainforest peoples. A model is proposed relating degree of intercropping to amount of agricultural labor.
4603351|This study of a rural Malian community in West Africa investigates food procurement patterns that combine subsistence grain production with a variety of income generating activities. It finds dependence on food purchases widespread and revenue from the own-account activities of nonhousehold heads essential to food security. Gender and the wealth of households are found to influence some, but not all, income generating activities and expenditures. Three household food procurement profiles are identified: investment in cattle, market gardens and bush extraction, and remittances. The case study village has agroecological characteristics and market proximity, which set it and other urban hinterland villages apart from the more cotton- and cattle-based zones of southern Mali. Own-account income generating activities may be able to increase revenue for women and junior men through a reallocation of household resources without entirely undermining the basis for a larger subsistence-oriented household.
40343958|The concept of common-pool resources (CPRs) has evolved from consideration of single-use to multipleuse resources, though the focus remains predominantly on single natural resources such as water. However, both ecological connections and human actions mean that one CPR can exist interdependently rather than in isolation from others. This article investigates this interdependence with a case study of a set of nested CPRs in the Lockyer, the Brisbane River, and Moretn Bay catchments in Southeast Queensland, Australia. An in-depth case study involving a review of relevant literature, conceptual analysis and 6 years of participant observation by one of the authors, shows that the catchment has several interdependent CPRs, linked through ecological processes and mediated by human actions that create positive or negative externalities for many resource users. We argue that the concept of "externality" can enhance our understanding of, and ability to recognize, the socioecological interdependence among CPRs and their users in a catchment, which is critical to clarify the extent of shared interests needed to underpin the design and use of appropriate collaborative management approaches.
4603266|Using a political ecology framework, this research analyzes the recent entry of recent Latino and Southeast Asian immigrants into the harvesting of non-timber forest products in the Pacific Northwest. Using both permit data and interviewing, it suggests that a world market for these products, government policy, and environmental conditions have the potential for driving harvests to unsustainable levels and exacerbating incipient conflicts.
4602833|Vital statistics on pastoral nomadic and sedentarizing nomadic societies are by-and-large non-existent. Such information is highly important for both academic and policy-making reasons as pastoral nomadism as a mode of life is disappearing. This paper attempts to gather and present as much information as possible on crude birth and death rates and natural increase rates for various pastoral nomadic societies in different African and Middle Eastern countries. The information is arranged by a subdivision into nomads, seminomads, and sedentarized nomads. A summarization of this information suggests a possible pattern by which birth rates rise, death rates fall (but may rise in certain circumstances), and natural increase rates rise along the nomadism-sedentarism continuum. Such a possible pattern has several policy implications for governments assessing the needs of a nomadic society undergoing a process of change in its socio-ecological relationships.
4603219|Sri Lanka has a long tradition of forest product use. The relationship of people with a dry zone forest was studied using a sample of 48 households in two villages that varied in distance to the forest and access to the market. All households interviewed collected subsistence forest products and a majority of them also collected commercial products. The daily peak-season income from commercial gathering was 4.5 to 7.7 times the daily labor wage. There is a strong gender specialization, with commercial gathering dominated by men whereas subsistence gathering is almost exclusively the task of women. The average forest-derived household income in the village closer to the forest and with better market access was nearly double that of the other village. Family size as a proxy of labor availability was the main discriminating factor between those households who did and those who did not gather commercial products. A small inverse relationship between forest gathering and size of household agricultural land (particularly paddy rice) was observed. No clear relationship was found between total household income and forest derived income, contradicting the view that commercial forest gathering is an exclusive activity of the poorest households.
4603139|Satellite images were used to determine rates of deforestation over the past 35 years and to identify current deforestation "hotspots" in the eastern rainforests and in the dry endemic forests of southern Madagascar. The analysis of population trends, topography, and coincident ethnographic research points to a number of different factors influencing deforestation in these regions. Each of these factors generates different problems for conservation and development, most of which are not being dealt with adequately.
4602368|The tactics of shifting cultivation are reviewed with particular reference given to techniques of forest regeneration. The desirability of a forest-fallow system of agriculture is explained. Also discussed are the causes, indicators, and consequences of a breakdown of forest-fallow cultivation. In conclusion, the future of tropical forests for agriculture and habitats for man is considered.
27654172|This paper explores the grazing management systems in operation in communal areas of central Eastern Cape Province, South Africa, through two contrasting case studies from the region. Considerable differences in current management systems are identified and are shown to depend primarily on the degree of control that can be exercised by communities over communal grazing resources. This in turn can be related to the social and ecological heterogeneity that characterises the region and how this influences pressure on grazing resources at the local level. On the basis of this study three broad levels of grazing management system are identified in these communal areas. These are: complete lack of management with grazing taking place in an 'open-access' manner; grazing being controlled on a community basis and grazing taking place on private land and being controlled entirely by the landowner. Many aspects of these scenarios find reflection in struggles over common property which are taking place in other parts of Africa. Understanding the variation in these systems from both a social and ecological perspective will be fundamental in challenging previous management paradigms, and facilitating the development of effective common property institutions for grazing management systems in communal areas of South Africa.
27654170|This article contributes to the encouraging recent trend toward more critical examination of the linkages between remote sensing and social analysis of environmental change. Using two case studies from Malawi, we explain the importance of thinking about temporal scale when using remote sensing data. Specifically, from our on-the-ground research, we came to appreciate three important issues: (1) multiple causation and multiple temporal scales operating simultaneouslymaking inference of casual relations between particular social factors and observed land use changes difficult; (2) 'visible' vs. 'invisible' processes and events; and (3) 'continuous' vs. 'punctuated' social and environmental processes. We observe that in each case, social differentiation is key to understanding which temporal frames are most relevant in understanding observed land use dynamics. We conclude that, while these are not entirely new observations, research on the applications of remote sensing in social analysis of environmental change could be enriched by more rigorous examination of linkages between environmental change, temporal scale, and the social relations (including social differentiation) that can help to explain how and why particular temporal frames are most salient.
4602658|Sociobiological theory predicts that humans should not cooperate with large groups of unrelated individuals. This prediction is based on genetic models that show that selection acting on variation between large unrelated groups will generally be much weaker than selection acting on variation between individuals. Recently, several authors have presented related models of human evolution that integrate cultural and genetic transmission of behavior. We show that in such models group selection is potentially a strong force. Data on ethnocentrism is examined in the context of these results.
40603032|Research on agrarian changes in Southeast Asia has paid comparatively less attention to the processes of livelihood change in coastal regions. In the context of declining profitability in the fishing industry due to environmental degradation and overfishing, governments at multiple levels are heavily promoting tourism in the Philippines. This paper considers the ways in which coastal residents in the Calamianes Islands, Palawan province, negotiate these changes in the fishing and tourism industries. Despite the push for tourism as a more sustainable alternative to fishing, the experiences and priorities of coastal residents complicate this shift. The paper demonstrates that fishing is marked by increasing levels of intensification, and that tourism has the potential to exclude fishers from many of its purported benefits. These are two important trends that need to be taken into account when analysing livelihood change in coastal regions of Southeast Asia.
4602887|Between ca. 790 and 1000 AD, Scandinavian settlers occupied the islands of the North Atlantic: Shetland, the Orkneys, the Hebrides, the Faroes, Iceland, and Greenland. These offshore islands initially supported stands of willow, alder, and birch, and a range of non-arboreal species suitable for pasture for the imported Norse domestic animals. Overstocking of domestic animals, fuel collection, ironworking, and construction activity seems to have rapidly depleted the dwarf trees, and several scholars argue that soil erosion and other forms of environmental degradation also resulted from Norse landuse practices in the region. Such degradation of pasture communities may have played a significant role in changing social relationships and late medieval economic decline in the western tier colonies of Iceland and Greenland. This paper presents simple quantified models for Scandinavian environmental impact in the region, and suggests some sociopolitical causes for ultimately maladaptive floral degradation.
24013718|Mexico's 1992 agrarian counter-reforms opened up the country's vast network of common property regimes, known as ejidos, to the possibility of privatization. This study investigates the relationship between dynamic common property regimes and deforestation in the wake of policy reform among eight ejidos in southeastern Mexico. Using institutional analyses, land use/land cover change (LULCC) analyses and a Forest Dependency Index, we examine how land tenure arrangements relate to land use and forest cover change patterns. We demonstrate that informally privatized ejidos had larger individual landholdings, more land in use, and higher rates of deforestation. Commonly-held ejidos exhibited lower deforestation rates and, in some cases, forests provided economic benefits via community forest management. However, forest dependency did not correlate with low deforestation rates, suggesting alternative pathways for conservation.
27654277|This paper employs cross-tabular analysis, and multivariate and logistic regression to explore demographic, political-economic, socioeconomic, and ecological patterns of farm households and land use outcomes in an emergent agricultural frontier: the Sierra de Lacandn National Park (SLNP)-a core conservation zone of the Maya Biosphere Reserve (MBR), Petn, Guatemala. Data were obtained from a 1998 probability sample of 241 farm households, the first large detailed household land use survey in Guatemala's Selva Maya-the largest lowland tropical forest in Central America. Virtually all settler households were poor maize farmers who colonized the SLNP in search of land for subsistence. While they faced similar ecological and economic conditions, land use strategies and patterns of forest clearing varied with demographic, household, and farm characteristics. Findings support and refute elements from previous frontier land use theory and offer policy implications for conservation and development initiatives in the Maya Forest specifically, and in tropical agricultural frontiers in general.
40603033|This study investigates ethnobotanical uses of wild plants found on Honaz Mountain and its vicinity in Denizli Province in the middle Aegean region of Turkey. Eighty-one persons from 13 villages and six townships were interviewed. Nine hundred and sixty-four species, belonging to 60 plant families, were identified for which 381 different uses were recorded. Informants reported ethnobotanical uses for 19% of the identified species (184 out of 964): food (65), fodder (111), medicinal (119), firewood (28), handicrafts (16) and various other purposes (26). Medicinal tar production was particularly noted.
27654223|This paper examines small-scale fish vending in a southern African floodplain from two perspectives: as a link between natural resource use and consumption, and as a livelihood in itself. We used a combination of observation, surveys and semistructured interviews in a market in Katima Mulilo, Namibia, to determine sources of fish, preferences and constraints to vending, average investment and profit, as well different routes into fish vending and perceptions regarding vending. Most vendors come from fishing households, but their stock is often an accumulation of purchases from other fishers. There is little evidence of formal arrangements between fishers and vendors, yet most adapt to the highly variable natural and social environments of the region. Although all vendors ranked selling fish as their most important livelihood activity, a wide range of investment and profit exists among individuals. Our findings indicate that fisheries management proposed for the area must be developed with a careful understanding of how changes in access and use will affect vending livelihoods.
4602990|We describe details of Herero residential units and discuss the meaning of household among Herero ranchers of northwestern Botswana and conclude that there is no single meaningful household. Rather there is a dual system of local social units. From the male perspective, a household is a hamlet with the associated herd and huts or hut clusters within it. From the female perspective, a household is a hut or hut cluster with dependent children that she maintains and manages. There have been dramatic social and economic changes in this century. Herero were destitute refugees from a genocidal war in 1904, while today they are one of the wealthiest groups in the region. They suffered from infertility before antibiotics became available around 1960, so that the TFR has changed from about 2.7 to 7.0 in the last three decades. We discuss the effects of these changes on local organization.
40928153|This study addresses whether or not crop cultivation by Borana herders in southern Ethiopia is motivated by poverty since 80% of the households belong to poor wealth classes (i.e., poor, very poor and destitute). Yet our findings showed little evidence that Borana communities have become self-sufficient in grain production. Compared to wealthy households, poor households generally cultivated the least land and sampled households, producing yields only 31% of the Ethiopian national average. Grain per capita met only 26% of the annual requirement per person, equivalent to three to four months of self-sufficiency per household. The livelihood response model (LRM) developed for testing the relationship between extent of croplands and household wealth showed that poverty alone cannot be motivating herders to cultivate crops. Factors such as shortage of labor, lack of sufficient traction animals, and unreliable rainfall also need to be considered. Crop cultivation has not enabled selfsufficiency, but it has resulted in fragmented grazing lands. Future policies address changes in land use, including improving soil fertility through manure-nutrient transfers, by promoting better integration of crop cultivation and pastoralism. Research is needed to (a) understand household time allocation between crop cultivation and livestock management, (b) improve the LRM by considering temporal variability in the wealth of households and extent of cultivated lands, and (c) understand the role of poverty in motivating the adoption of alternative livelihood coping strategies.
4603209| This study is an ecological analysis of the use of resources by two potentially competitive groups, the commercial and recreational fishermen of Rio Grande, located on the border of the States of So Paulo and Minas Gerais. Tourism at Rio Grande was intensified after the construction of the hydroeletric plant of Marimbondo in 1974, and local fishermen have complained about its interference. Values of niche dimensions, such as fishing periods, grounds, and prey caught were obtained through data gathered at landing points. Local and recreational fishermen usually fish in different parts of the river and catch different fish, because they use different gear. However, in transition months between the wet and dry seasons, when fish are less abundant, there is conflict or competition related to fishing grounds, reinforced by the territorial fishing rights of local longline fishermen in this period. We show how ecological concepts, such as niche and competition, may help to understand strategies of exploitation by human groups, fundamental information for the management of tropical areas. 
4603391|Contractual national parks in South Africa are established on land owned either by the state or by a group of private individuals, but managed by South African National Parks (SANP) according to the terms of a joint management agreement drawn up by a joint management committee consisting of representatives from SANP and the landowners. Since majority rule in 1994, contractual national parks have been seen as a model through which the country's conservation as well as development objectives can be met, particularly where landowners are previously disadvantaged communites. This study looks at the Makueleke region of Kruger National Park in order to ascertain how successful the contractual national park model is in meeting conservation, social, and economic objectives for the area.
27654291|As neoliberalism continues to influence environmental governance, it affects notions about the appropriate level of community involvement in resource management. Under more recent iterations, hybrid forms of governance are emphasized, including governmentcivil society partnerships and approaches geared towards harnessing the strengths of local communities. Here we explore the characteristics of different resource management rights, strategies, and tools through which communities can find political space to assert their own agendas within a neoliberalized policy environment. We examine the successful use of some of these approaches by communities during the initial development of community forests policy and practice in British Columbia, Canada. While we confirm the complex, contingent and case-specific nature of opportunities for comanagement created through neoliberal policy elements, we suggest that space does exist for community forest bodies to assert local values, goals and strategies, demonstrating the creativity, ingenuity and determination of communities to attain a real voice in management.
4602284|Archeological findings provide the basis for analyzing the exploitation of deer by Powers Phase Indian hunters in the southeastern Ozarks circa A.D. 1300. Predatory patterns of wolves have been documented. It is hypothesized that men and wolves were complementary, noncompetitive predators and that their predation functioned to keep the deer population within the carrying capacity of the southeastern Ozarks. A model is developed to illustrate the predator-prey relationships in the area.
4602991|Previous analysis of Rendille household herd composition revealed a transition from camel to cattle ownership for sedentary impoverished Rendille pastoralists of northern Kenya. In an attempt to delineate determinants of livestock holdings, logistic regression analysis of 112 household herds from the Rendille settlement of Korr, Marsabit District, Kenya was undertaken. Results indicated that household wealth, measured in present livestock holdings, past drought losses, and livestock sales, formed better predictors of cattle ownership than did household characteristics pertaining to labor supply, wage earners, age-set membership, and birth order of household head. These results are discussed in light of pastoral strategies designed to minimize risk.
4603164|The colonial and post-colonial governments of Botswana and Zimbabwe pursued policies toward their indigenous minority populations which included the establishment of settlement schemes, removals of people from national parks and game reserves, and the imposition of restrictions on hunting by local people. These polices had the effect of dispossessing indigenous groups and reducing their access to resources crucial to their adaptive success. The impacts of these polices are examined using data on Tyua Bushmen in the Nata river region of northern Botswana and western Zimbabwe. It demonstrates that the kinds of conservation and development programs employed resulted in greater resource depletion, increased poverty, and social stratification. There is evidence that resource conservation programs can sometimes do more harm than good.
41433090|The Bay of Fundy along the southwest coast of New Brunswick, Canada is one of the most densely stocked finfish aquaculture areas in the world. An inshore multispecies fishery that dates back to the earliest European settlement shares these waters, and has been the economic mainstay of coastal communities. These inshore fishermen are increasingly displaced by the expanding aquaculture industry. A recent study conducted among fishermen in Southwest New Brunswick recorded their observations about the environmental impact of finfish aquaculture and the consequences for their commercial fishery. Fishermen all reported significant environmental degradation around aquaculture sites. Within 2 years of an operation being established, fishermen reported that gravid female lobsters as well as herring avoid the area, scallop and sea urchin shells become brittle, scallop meat and sea urchin roe becomes discolored. The use of chemicals to control sea lice on farmed salmon has also caused lobster, crab and shrimp kills. These and other concerns suggest that more comprehensive and detailed studies are required to establish the environmental and economic interactions of aquaculture and the inshore fishery, as well as on the stocks on which that fishery rely. The study also points to the need for more effective use of fishermen's knowledge in designing such studies.
41474585|The overexploitation of water resources in the region of South Bali, near one of the island's tourist centres, is exemplified by a subak in Sanur at the tail end of an irrigation system. Tensions between the social institutions for local water management and powerful, state-backed stakeholders in water distribution from the river Ayung have caused rural-urban water conflicts for the last 10-15 years. The case presented here illustrates how water shortages are ascribed to the dominance of the tourism industry, private companies selling bottled drinking water and regional water delivery services, all of which peasants hold responsible for crop failure in dry years. I focus on the emic perspective of the subak members on water scarcity caused by a lack of coordination between privatized and previously centralized water resource management based on economic priorities for the tourism sector and urban regions and water use for agriculture.
4602778|Traditional explanations of extensive land use on large unproductive estates in Latin American have failed to understand important aspects of the economic and political logic behind such enterprises. This article examines the reasons for the low productivity of cattle ranches over a period which spans the consolidation of haciendas in a frontier zone and their subsequent integration into the international beef market. The persistence of extensive land use in a modern export economy is explained as resulting from characteristics of the world beef market, local ecology, the Costa Rican credit and tax systems, and the social composition and political power of the landowning class.
4602533|An attempt is made to reconcile a popular view of the Bushmen or San of southern Africa with reality. Following an analysis of the assumed relationships of living hunter-gatherers with their Pleistocene forebears and modern neighbors, the identity of the San is explored using archaeological and historical evidence. Finally an alternative view of modern San, consistent with this evidence, is proposed.
4602559|The extinction of the Norse colony in West Greenland (ca A.D. 985-1500) has intrigued generations of historians, medieval archaeologists, and climatologists. This longstanding interest has generated a considerable body of basic paleoclimatic and paleoecological data, as well as a number of largely monocausal explanations for the communities' end. The 1976-1977 Inuit-Norse Project and a variety of recent geophysical and palynological studies have provided the greater detail necessary for a more systematic analysis of cultural adaptation and extinction in Norse Greenland. A dual maritime/terrestrial Norse subsistence economy, combined with a transatlantic trade and long-range arctic hunting, supported a hierarchical social organization and elaborate ceremonial architecture. Elite information management and economic decision-making seems to have been a source of ultimately fatal Norse conservatism in the face of fluctuating resources and Inuit competition.
4603263|The change from swidden to sawah cultivation in Tara'n Dayak villages in West Kalimantan, Indonesia, is presented as a long-term, complex incremental process in which distinct, unstable, and often confusing production technologies figure as transitional forms. The transitional phases are discussed in terms of their efficiency and sustainability. It is argued that the failure to perceive and understand long-term processes of agricultural change may result in both misinterpretation of technological patterns and environmental variables, as well as of rules of labor and resource sharing.
4603383| Efforts to stimulate more intensive land use must be based on a solid understanding of current farmer strategies and the factors that drive them. This paper discusses the influences on agricultural strategy among farmers in Petn, Guatemala, and more specifically, their adoption of more intensive practices. Existing theoretical frameworks pertaining to agricultural intensification are based on a limited number of explanatory variables and thus provide an incomplete understanding of farmer strategy and of how and why it varies among farmers and communities. A more useful analytical approach is to consider the wide range of factors at both the regional/community scale and the farm/household scale that influence farmers' need, desire, and ability to alter their production strategies. An analysis based on this approach indicates that conservation and development organizations in Petn should place greater emphasis on the rural economy and on fostering the conditions that would stimulate more intensive, sustainable land use. 
4602445|In a recent work on the Tzotzil (Maya) of Chiapas, Mexico, George Collier has suggested that indigenous groups frequently employ agricultural practices which are in "obvious disequilibrium" with their environment. As a result, he claims, such groups bring about the permanent destruction of their lands and forests. In this article, historical and demographic evidence is presented to demonstrate that the development of commerical agriculture outside of native communities, not overpopulation or technological conservatism within them, lies at the heart of such destruction. Finally, it is argued that anthropologists must consider the evolution of social classes in rural areas if they are to understand the difficulties which economic development entails.
4602787|Research on visual blight has been predominantly qualitative and has pointed out salient attributes of blight: that it is durable, visually demeaning, and somehow aesthetically depressing. Data from a national sample (n = 3005) are used in this study to measure the effect of demographic variation on the perception of visual blight. The perception of blight shows marked and regular variation with socioeconomic status, marital status, and religiosity.
4602344|This article reviews research concerning interpersonal distance as a function of interpersonal relationships, attraction, and reactions to spatial invasion. To integrate research findings, we propose a simple model, based on the idea that people seek an optimal distance from others that becomes smaller with friends and larger for individuals who do not expect to interact. The model describes comfort-discomfort as a function of interaction distance in three situations: interacting friends, interacting strangers, and strangers who do not expect interaction. These three personal space profiles are discussed in terms of qualifying variables, such as seated vs. standing interaction, sex composition of the dyad, intimacy of conversation topics, and situational variables.
40928137|Market-based economic incentives are increasingly perceived as a cost-effective approach to biodiversity conservation but empirical evidence to substantiate this claim is lacking. Using both qualitative and quantitative data analysis this paper investigates the potential role of market incentives to increase venison production as a mechanism to resolve conflicts over wild red deer management in the Scottish Highlands. Our analysis suggests the approach is unlikely to be effective because investments in venison production would bring conflict with more important non-pecuniary objectives of landownership such as 'sporting quality' and 'exclusivity'. At a broader level we urge caution when considering the deployment of economic instruments to resolve contemporary conservation conflicts where profit maximisation is not the dominant objective and/or where the target group is extremely wealthy.
23280265|Environmental governance research has paid insufficient attention to scholarship on values even though environmental values is a well-studied field. This paper begins to unpack the relationship between values and governance with a particular focus on protected areas governance and in light of ideas such as the distinction between held values and assigned values. We report on research from four case studies in Canada, Ghana and Tanzania, each of which investigated the values, interests and objectives of people in a rural community and ways in which these are reflected, or not, in governance arrangements for an adjacent protected area. Despite very diverse contexts, two held values that were encountered in each of the four case studies could be described as responsibility toward future generations and respect for and appreciation of nature. The existence of what may be universal values does not negate the importance of culture and place: similar held values are translated, through the particular circumstances of different individuals, communities and cultures, into a diversity of assigned values, interests and positions. The attention that governance processes have given to local people's fundamental held values in three of the cases, and the ignoring of such values in the fourth, have had important implications for the relationship between community members and the adjacent protected area. We argue that systems for governance would do well to explicitly engage with values by supporting local articulation of values and by facilitating dialogue and deliberation amongst diverse stakeholders around their values.
4602412|It is proposed, on the basis of evidence from geological history and paleoclimatology, that annual grasses and legumes did not appear as significant components of the vegetation of Asia until the Neothermal, some 11,000 years B.P. The new combination of environmental factors which then became operative induced a widespread physiological and genetic change from a perennial to an annual habit in ecoclimatic zones in which annual types of ancestral perennials had not earlier occurred in any number. The annual prototypes of the Asian cereals and grain legumes therefore became rather suddenly and abundantly available to primitive man in his still biological ecosystems. Once this botanical revolution had occurred throughout the isoxerothermic zones around the inner cores of Asia, progress towards what came to be called civilizations, based on increasingly economic agricultural ecosystems involving cultivation and domestication of crops, followed in a gradual step-by-step manner.
4602623|The cultural coefficient of similarity, or probability that two individuals learn the same idea from a common ancestor, is offered as an explanation for patterns of helping behavior in human societies. A cultural-transmission model predicts that when maternal influence in offspring learning is predominant, matrilineality will evolve in a culture. Other predictions about the form of matrilineal and patrilineal societies are made from the model and contrasted to a sociobiological explanation of matrilineality.
23353198|Shifting cultivation is a dominant land-use system in Laos, and fire is the tool commonly used to clear fallow vegetation for subsequent cultivation. We assessed the feasibility of active fire data derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) for monitoring fires in Laos. Specifically, we investigated the potential of the active fire data as input into monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) systems to assess the effectiveness of measures related to Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation plus the enhancement of forest carbon stocks (REDD+). Our qualitative and quantitative accuracy assessments of the fire data yielded mixed results with varying degrees of undetected fires and false detections. Hence, at IPCC Tier 3, the uncertainties inherent in the detection accuracy become too large. Active fire data can be valuable for supporting national-level MRV at Tier 2 in combination with auxiliary data for characterizing fire-dependent local land-use systems, such as shifting cultivation.
24015749|Identifying and interpreting the heterogeneity of farmer behaviour is becoming increasingly important in support of policy- and decision-making goals. This paper explores whether observed differences in farming practices can be interpreted from the heterogeneity of farmer behaviour. Farmer attitudes and objectives were analysed using a combination of principal components and cluster analysis applied to responses to statements in a telephone-based survey. Respondents were classified into four profiles; business-oriented, lifestylers, multifunctionalists and traditionalists. Each profile differed in terms of farm management practices, the amount of land farmers either managed or owned, the existence of successors and the importance placed on household members in providing information. The results suggest that knowledge of farmer behavioural profiles could support more targeted policy development that accounts for alternative farmer goals. However, similarities were also found between the profiles, suggesting that farmer behaviour would be better interpreted as a dynamic set of identities, rather than as static profiles.
4603542|Trade theory predicts that the expansion of markets induces households to specialize and intensify production. We use plot-level data (n = 64) from a panel study of 2 village and cross-sectional data from 511 households in 59 villages of Tsimane' Amerindians (Bolivia) to test the predictions. Results of bivariate analyses using both data sets suggest that as households integrate into the market economy they: (1) deforest more, (2) expand the area under rice cultivation, the principal cash crop, (3) sell more rice, and (4) intensify production by replanting more and by replanting newly cleared plots with maize, another cash crop. Results mesh with predictions about production specialization and intensification of trade theory. The analysis also produced results running counter to predictions from trade theory. For example, households and villages more integrated into the market planted more cassava and rice varieties, intercropped more, and put more crops in new fields than more autarkic households. Although the expansion of markets induces specialization and intensification in selected cash crops, it does not erase completely agricultural diversity. We hypothesize that despite the expansion of markets, households retain agricultural diversity because the market does not yet provide modern forms of self-insurance or well-functioning labor, credit, and product markets that would allow households to protect food consumption when faced with shocks. Without better insurance mechanisms, some agricultural diversity might still allow households to smooth consumption.
4602290|A historical review of human ecology as it developed in geography, anthropology, sociology, and psychology indicates that this science's ambiguity has been perpetuated by the reluctance of academicians in specialized disciplines to work collaboratively. While human ecology is considered a unifying science, few attempts have been made to reconcile differences among disciplinary self-interests, thereby preventing interdisciplinary approaches to contemporary man-environment problem solving. Human ecology will remain a debatable, ambiguous, and fragmented science unless present barriers to cooperative effort are overcome and the various disciplines unite in seeking solutions to current societal problems.
4602848|An ancient, sustainable, and low risk Colocasia taro monoculture has persisted until modern times among the Mountain Ok peoples of central New Guinea. There is a monoculture-polyculture axis in the region with taro monocultures predominant in the rain forests of the mid-altitude fringe. We argue that when examined from the standpoint of ecosystem simplification, biological variability, and subsistence vulnerability, the taro monocultures exhibit many ecological and systemic properties commonly attributed to polycultures. Monoculture is not an exclusive category; specific cases must be placed in a broader context of the larger ecosystem and the options people have at their disposal. Reduction of the taro monoculture is occurring in response to modernization pressures.
27654178|Defining historic grazing pressures and rangeland management is vital if early landscape threshold crossing and longterm trajectories of landscape change are to be properly understood. In this paper we use a new environmental simulation model, Bmodel, to assess two contrasting historical grazing landscapes in Mvatnssveit Iceland for two key periodsthe colonization period (ca. Landnm, A.D. 8721000) and the early eighteenth century A.D. Results suggest that there were spatial and temporal variations in productivity and grazing pressure within and between historic grazing areas and indicate that land degradation was not an inevitable consequence of the livestock grazing introduced with settlement. The results also demonstrate the significance of grazing and livestock management strategies in preventing overgrazing, particularly under cooler climatic conditions. The model enables detailed consideration of historic grazing management scenarios and their associated landscape pressures.
25652759|This article investigates the impact of transnational environmental organizations on rural people involved in conservation by exploring the impacts of the Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species of Flora and Fauna (CITES) ivory trade ban on Namibia's elephant conservation policy. This case study examines how rural African people are put into categories of 'conservation heroes' or 'environmental villains' by local conservation practitioners, government officials in Namibia and transnational conservation actors. Findings indicate that the approach of state officials and conservation organizations (CO) results in incomplete representations of both rural African people and the cultural importance these people attach to elephants. The article concludes that current environmental narratives associated with rural African people have been used as powerful 'tools of persuasion' at the state and international level to support and legitimate conservation policy and resource use in relation to the concerns of transnational environmental actors to the exclusion of rural African people.
4603578|The limitations of Community Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM) with respect to the difficulties of comparing local versus scientific knowledge categories within a bounded definition of 'community' were investigated by means of a study exploring local indigenous knowledge pertaining to harvesting technique, and the impact of soil and species type on the post-harvest coppice response of popular savanna fuelwood species, among rural inhabitants of the Bushbuckridge region of the Limpopo Province, South Africa. Soils and plants were evaluated chiefly in terms of their perceived ability to retain precipitation, making rainfall a driving force in local understanding of environmental productivity. Some indigenous knowledge showed an agreement with biological data, but overall the variability in responses, as well as the diverse scales at which indigenous and scientific knowledge is directed, were too great to allow for simplistic parallels between local ecological indices to be made. Indigenous environmental knowledge was underscored by the perceived symbolic link between environmental and social degradation. It is recommended that environmental managers incorporate indigenous knowledge as a component of a systems-level approach to natural resource management, where biological, cultural, economic, and symbolic aspects of natural resource use are nested within a broader ecosocial system. This approach to indigenous knowledge is offered as an alternative to the simple scientific evaluation that so often characterizes environmental management.
4603136|Landsat TM scenes for 1985 and 1991 are used to produce a georeferenced map of land cover and land use for an area of the Amazon estuary inhabited by three populations of caboclos with distinct patterns of land use. This information is combined in a geographic information system with ethnographic and survey research carried out over the past 5 years to develop representative spectral "signatures" which permit measurement and differentiation of land uses and the detection of change even between small areas of managed floodplain forest and unmanaged forest, and between three distinct age/growth classes of secondary succession following deforestation. Implementation of these procedures permit the scaling up or down of research at different resolutions. Three distinct patterns of land use are examined with differential impact on the environment. Mechanized agriculture at one site has eliminated virtually all the mature upland forest and is now dominated by secondary successional vegetation. The more traditional system of diversified land use at the next site shows a subtle cycling of flooded forest to managed palm forest through time in response to the price of palm fruit and cycling in the use of fallow land. A third site, based on palm fruit extractivism, shows minimal changes in land cover due to persistent specialization on management of flooded forest extraction. There is little evidence that the community with the greatest impact on forest cover is any better off economically than the two communities which have minimal impact on the landscape. This study suggests how a balance between use and conservation in Amazonia may be achieved in floodplain and estuarine areas, and the effectiveness of monitoring these types of land cover from satellite platforms.
41474593|This research is an empirical examination of institutional developments in Afro-Colombian communities that have occurred since the change in the property rights regime in 1991.1 surveyed 82 local leaders of 42 communities to understand whether these communities have succeeded in designing and implementing rules to manage their collective land and its resources. I found that the new property regime has not replaced individuals' informal land holdings, which are still managed as de facto individual private property and are traded in the informal land market. However, the process of collective titling has changed local environmental governance by creating local rules and legal tools to guard against encroachment by intruders. Beyond the establishment of formal property rights, the process of community and authority building based on the expectation of collective titling has begun to formalize the management of the territory. Communities with and without collective titles have promoted new rules and procedures to manage their resources. However, monitoring and enforcement of the rules are weaker than expected.
4603514|Previous studies have shown that shade trees in cacao and coffee are important habitats for inter-American migratory birds. A survey of 21 cacao farmers along the northern, central, and southern Pacific Coast of Ecuador found that shade trees are associated with unirrigated, traditional cacao varieties and low levels of chemical inputs. Farmers stressed the importance of shade for managing soil moisture and soil fertility, and for managing some weeds and diseases. Most of the shade trees were not wild forest trees, but had been planted and protected by the farm families. Many other trees are intercropped with cacao for economic reasons, not related to shade. Chocolate manufacturers, consumers, and environmental activists can encourage farmers to maintain shade canopies by paying a premium for the traditional, shade-loving, highquality aromatic cocoa varieties.
4603565|This study explores the individual and collective rationality of livestock accumulation in pastoral production using data gathered in northern Kenya. Results suggest accumulating wealth in livestock even when facing the prospect of sudden dramatic loss makes sense at the household level, and that there is limited empirical support to the contention that herd accumulation at the household level imposes a cost on other households. I conclude by arguing the record of failure in pastoral development may be at least partially due to a faulty conceptual foundation, and suggest facilitating herd accumulation may offer more promise than discouraging it.
25652769|Brazil has one of the greatest bird diversities in the world, with around 1,800 species. However, many species are now threatened by illegal capture and trade that is largely driven by the culture of keeping wild birds as pets. This study documents the nature and purpose of bird capture and trade in the semi-arid Caatinga biome in northeastern Brazil, which has around 510 bird species and a population of around 25 million people. Data were obtained through observation in the homes of bird keepers and at open air markets, as well as through semi-structured and open-ended interviews and informal conversations with 52 wild bird keepers. We recorded 38 species of birds kept as pets in this study. The family with the largest number of species recorded was the Emberizidae (29%), followed by the Columbidae (16%) and the Psittacidae (16%). The most frequently kept species were: Paroaria dominicana, Aratinga cactorum, Icterus jamacaii, Sporophila albogularis, Turdus rufiventris and Cyanocompsa brissonii, which are all native to this region. Among the recorded species, only Pintassilgo (Carduelis yarrellii) is listed as an endangered species in Brazil. Of the people interviewed, 32% observed a reduction in abundance, or disappearance, of several bird species in the region. The need for measures aimed at the sustainability of wild avifauna use is therefore evident. These include law enforcement, commercial breeding and environmental education, of which the last is considered the most likely to be effective.
4603103| Local plants are a very important resource for the community of Gamboa, located at Itacuru Island, Sepetiba Bay, State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Ninety species of plants, belonging to 40 families, are used for a variety of purposes, such as food, construction, handicraft, and medicine. In a survey medicinal uses for plants were the most quoted by the community. Uses of medicinal plants within Gamboa and with other coastal communities are analyzed using diversity indices. Use by different categories of people based on sex, age, and economic activity was compared and significant differences were found among the groups compared, except for economic categories (fishermen and non-fishermen). The theory of island biogeography is shown to be useful for analyzing different levels of resource uses on different islands. 
4603360|Modeling of soil systems is an essential approach to discussions of the historical dimensions of soil sustainability, but as yet there has been no formal testing and application of such models. In this paper we first test the ability of the CENTURY agroecosystem model to predict soil organic carbon levels in anthropogenic plaggen soils from ethnographic and historical land management information of manuring practices on the Shetland island of Papa Stour. Observations suggest that the model makes accurate predictions and can be used to develop and test hypothetical land management scenarios. Results suggest that within historic time the arable areas of Papa Stour were manured at a level above that required to maintain soil organic carbon levels, and consequently the hill-land source of organic material was overexploited with no real apparent gain. Modeled evidence suggests that short-term observations of soil organic carbon levels would indicate a greater degree of manure application than was actually required over the longer term. Successful use of the CENTURY model in this historic context suggests that it may be applicable to questions of soil sustainability in other areas of the North Atlantic region.
27654180|Focusing on contemporary shellfish exploitation among several atoll communities in Kiribati, Micronesia, this paper examines the relationship between human foragers and their invertebrate prey via the prey choice or diet breadth model derived from optimal foraging theory. Shellfish, like many other reef organisms, are relatively sedentary and predictable, but these characteristics make them susceptible to over-harvesting. The research reveals that shellfish gatherers are foraging in a manner that matches the predictions of optimal foraging theory. The work adds to our understanding of optimal foraging decisions in atoll settings by critically evaluating the depiction of atoll dwellers as conservationists.
4603350|Although food sharing has been observed in many traditional societies, we still do not have a deep understanding of how various ecological conditions produce variation in who gives and who receives specific resources. To understand better the behavioral ecology of food sharing, we present data collected with the Hiwi of Venezuela and focus on two questions: (a) How do characteristics of food resources and acquirers determine how much is transfered to others? (b) How do characteristics of nuclear families A and B influence how much is transferred between A and B? We use path modeling in an attempt to tease apart the relative contribution of biological kinship, geographical proximity between households, family size, and quantities family B gave to family A on the expected quantities that family A gives to family B. Reciprocal altruism is shown to be an important link in the chain of factors, but not in the tit-for-tat form common in theoretical treatments of reciprocity.
4603093|High population growth and deteriorating economic conditions imperil Africa's natural environment. Conservationists are trying to cope with the threat by working in rural communities. Yet it is unclear whether they can be effective when social and economic change in rural areas is so rapid. Northeast Swaziland provides a case study. The landscape has been transformed since the 1950s, and conservationists are the only people now giving nature conservation a high priority. Land uses incompatible with local nature reserves are supported because they provide jobs. Thus, conservationists find themselves facing a world where wildlife is increasingly devalued as the forces of change accelerate. This paper concludes: (1) conservationists must expand their influence into rural communities, (2) an integrated develo;ment and conservation plan is required for northeastern Swaziland, and (3) only the alleviation of poverty will secure the future of nature conservation in Swaziland as well as the rest of Africa.
24013751|Dust in its myriad forms impacts human existence in arid environments; but dust is more than an environmental nuisance. It shapes and reshapes adaptive response and human ideology over the short and long term. In 2011, the Gila River Indian Community (GRIC), Arizona, U.S.A. sponsored a study of dust entrainment within the jurisdiction of its airshed. The study's primary objectives were to determine the relationship between sediment sources and sinks in premodern contexts and how indigenous people have coped with eolian activity since intensive settlement of the Middle Gila River Valley began. Ethnographic and archaeological sources indicate that people respect winds and observe cultural procedures consistent with their origin and to reduce their ill effects. Geomorphic data also show stratigraphic correspondence between relic wash channels and adjacent terrace and sand sheet deposits demonstrating a long history of eolian activity derived from fluvial sources. Climatological data from PM10 "exceedance events" corroborate anthropological analyses indicating that extreme dust events are typically westerlies and occur during exceptionally dry periods. Eolian dust is part of the ambient ecosystem of the GRIC and should be viewed as such within the modern cultural and regulatory environment governing these emissions.
4602877|This paper presents an analysis of household variables and their relationship to success in cash cropping among the Gainj of Madang Province, Papua New Guinea. Censuses and household surveys from 1978, the year in which cash cropping began, and 1983 provide data that show different patterns of change in household structure for more and less commercially successful households. The results illustrate the importance of women's labor in economic development and the dynamic nature of the relationship between household structure and economic development.
4602637|Accounts of Southwest Asian pastoralism often suggest that wealth in animals is volatile. However, no systematic study has been undertaken to determine either the potential for herd increase and loss or the likely long-term implications of this potential. Drawing on an analysis of data from teh Komachi nomads of south-central Iranand other Southwest Asian pastoralists, this paper addresses these questions. It argues that, contrary to conventional expectations, (a) Herds inthe region do not show potential for dramatic increase; (b) radical shifts in individual economic sttus are unlikely to occur through normal gains and losses; and (c) to the extent that short-term gains or losses of individual holdings do occur, long-term economic differentation within a population can be expected.
4603409|Kiribati underwent dramatic changes in laws governing access to intertidal resources as a result of colonial intrusion. In recent years, the impact of population growth, urbanization, more efficient extractive technologies, and expanding market opportunities have prompted island councils to adopt by-laws to protect existing resources. However, there remains the challenge of enforcing territorial rights. Several approaches that might lead to a viable tenurial system include alternative short-term gains, cooperative ventures, and the judicious application of TEK (Traditional Ecological Knowledge) as an instrument for resource management. The first two are seen as preconditions for the success of the third because of the insights they provide within the context of behavioral ecology. This theoretical approach and associated models caution us from essentializing the environmental outcomes of human behavior by showing the lack of a resource conservation strategy. These aforementioned solutions for ensuring sustainable development of the intertidal zone are discussed based on fieldwork among several atoll communities in Western Kiribati with a focus on shellfish gathering.
4603583|A large complement of Australia's biotic web is dependent on a regular regime of burning, much of which is the result of firing by humans. Many researchers have suggested that moderate and repeated burning by Aborigines is a tool designed to enhance hunting efficiency. We present the first test of this with data on contemporary Martu Aboriginal burning and hunting strategies in the arid spinifex savanna of the Western Desert during the cool-dry season (May-August). Our results show a strong positive effect of mosaic burning on the efficiency of hunting burrowed prey (primarily conducted by women), but not larger mobile prey (primarily conducted by men). We suggest that regular anthropogenic disturbance through burning in Australia's Western Desert may be important for sustaining biodiversity and habitat mosaics, but these effects may be maintained primarily by women's hunting of burrowed game. We discuss the implications of these results for understanding variability in hunting strategies, issues of conservation, and land management policy for the region.
40343976|Swidden agriculture, once the dominant form of land use throughout the uplands and much of the lowlands of Southeast Asia, is being replaced by other land uses. While change and adaptation are inherent to swiddening, the current rapid and widespread transitions are unprecedented. In this paper we review some recent findings on changes in biodiversity, especially plant diversity at various scales, as swidden farming is replaced by other land uses. We focus particularly on two areas of Southeast Asia: northern Thailand and West Kalimantan. We examine actual and potential changes in the diversity of crops that characterize regional swidden systems, as well as that of the spontaneously occurring plants that appear in swidden fields and fallows. Severe declines in plant diversity have been observed in most areas and at most spatial scales when swidden is replaced by permanent land use systems. However, shifts away from swidden agriculture do not invariably result in drastic declines or losses of biological diversity, but may maintain or even enhance it, particularly at finer spatial scales. We suggest that further research is necessary to understand the effects of swidden transitions on biodiversity.
4602285|Selected contributions to the study of environmental public policy are reviewed in the context of the difficulties faced in making such studies cumulative. The information obtained for a preliminary directory of students of environmental public policy is outlined and briefly analyzed. The directory itself is presented.
4603167|This paper, an account of the Shetland Islands oil spill (1993), examines the public health controversies surrounding the spill and the clean-up response. It critically examines the risk management policies of both the United Kingdom and the Shetland Islands Public Health Office, and suggests that the withholding of critical information contributed to increased anxiety and suspicion among the disaster victims. In an attempt to reassure the victims, the policies contributed to an increased air of uncertainty. It is further argued that the withholding of information prevents those who are at greatest risk from participating in critical decisions that may affect their health and livelihoods and asserts that a right-to-know policy is a critical first step in risk management practices.
4603292|Diversification in agricultural techniques is a common strategy of risk minimization in nonindustrial societies. However, attribution of suboptimal behavior to risk minimization without consideration of the structure of risk and its environmental context obscures the complexity of agricultural decision-making. The productive potential of a prehistoric agricultural system that includes flood-water and dry farming and stream irrigation is modeled using Geographic Information System (GIS) analysis to evaluate whether diversification occurred as a response to population pressure or as a risk buffering strategy. The estimated productive potential of floodwater and irrigation farming is sufficient to have supported the estimated local population, suggesting that risk buffering is a more likely explanation. Floodwater farming and stream irrigation form a dual strategy that is effective at reducing risk. However, the potential of dry farming for subsistence production is insufficient for buffering more than a 2% productive shortfall. We propose that, within this generally risk-averse economy, dry farming was oriented toward the production of nonsubsistence crops such as cotton.
27654310|Borana pastoralists in southern Ethiopia are faced with the challenge of developing more efficient and sustainable use of natural resources. In past decades poorly adapted development interventions and inadequate land-use policies aggravated by population growth have weakened pastoral rangeland management. Ignoring pastoralists' technical and organizational capacities has contributed to progressive land degradation, the erosion of social structures and poverty. The Endogenous Livestock Development concept recognises pastoralists' indigenous knowledge-based strategies and priorities, and uses them as the bases for further development of their production system and social relations, to be utilized, improved and combined with modern technologies. This paper explores the Borana pastoralists' adaptive strategies for improved utilization of natural resources and the manner in which they respond to environmental risk and external influences such as water development and new formal administration. The adaptive responses include controlled integration of crop production and protection of grazing reserves, as well as changing cattle breeding priorities and the adoption of camel husbandry. The pastoralists have started negotiations with the administration to regain control of land utilization by strengthening directives for settlements, land use pattern and extraction rates. To support these initiatives the study recommends that pastoralists and other stakeholders enter into an institutionalized process of negotiation that builds on indigenous knowledge and organizational structures and facilitates validation and implementation of newly generated knowledge.
24015742|Interactions of indigenous peoples with the surrounding non-indigenous society are often the main sources of social and environmental changes in indigenous lands. In the case of the Suru in Brazilian Amazonia's "arc of deforestation," these influences are leading to deforestation and logging that threaten both the forest and the sustainability of the group's productive systems. The Suru tribal leadership has initiated a proposal for an economic alternative based on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD). This has become a key case in global discussions on indigenous participation in REDD. The realism of the baseline scenario that serves as a reference for determining the amount of deforestation and emissions avoided by the proposed project is critical to assuring the reality of the carbon benefits claimed. Here we examine the SIMSURUI model, its input parameters and the implications of the Suru Forest Carbon Project for indigenous participation in climate mitigation efforts.
24017345|Rural areas of the developing world have become increasingly integrated into the world economy through both production and consumption during the last decades. This growing integration shapes the development of communities and influences their relationship to the natural environment. Where livelihoods are constrained by resource limitations and the productivity of labor in farm activities is low, it may result in a shift to nonfarm activities, which may under some conditions improve wellbeing and relieve pressure on natural resources. The possibility of such a "win-win" development pathway has important implications for development and environmental policy. In this article we use original qualitative and quantitative data to examine environmental and social changes during the last half century in a rural area of Morocco, seeking evidence of such a pathway. While our case study supports the hypothesis that nonfarm diversification in a context of resource scarcity allowed people to improve their material living conditions, the effects of economic integration and nonfarm diversification on the environment were mixed.
4603157|Using case material on the exploitation of groundwater in Balochistan Province in Pakistan, the article studies how resource management regimes evolve or fail to evolve. Incipient resource management regimes face two problems: the definition of access rights and the lack of knowledge on the limits and regenerative capacities of the resource as well as on the behavior of the co-users. These problems will usually be addressed as soon as increased exploitation makes itself first felt in declining groundwater exploitation, though this does not necessary mean that the resource is exploited at levels that are not sustainable. As exploitation will continue to increase however the point of overexploitation may be reached, beyond which it will be much more difficult for a resource management regime to evolve.
4602558|A tendency for fertility to be higher among middle-class women than among lower-class women has been found in all the recent sources of data on fertility levels and patterns in Indonesia. After briefly reviewing these findings, this article presents the results of a community study in rural Java which systematically investigates the positive relation between fertility and socioeconomic status, focusing on the so-called intermediate variables (first inventoried by Davis and Blake in 1956) which directly determine fertility. Differential patterns of marital stability, secondary sterility, and the practice of postpartum abstinence in particular were found to contribute to the contrasts in fertility levels observed. The use of modern contraceptives, a recent innovation at the time of the study, was found to a greater extent among middle-class women, and may prove to be an important determinant of future patterns of fertility and fertility differentials.
4602731|Experience with irrigation schemes designed to improve the productivity of subsistence farmers in Latin America seems to parallel the results of the green revolution in Southeast Asia. Although in some cases the impact on the productivity has been significant, in far too many cases the pervasive pattern of inequity has been reinforced. This case study of the Irrigation District of Zapotitan in El Salvador analyses some of the reasons for the unexpected results, with particular reference to the planning process. It essentially illustrates that the transformation of subsistence agriculture through irrigation demands new institutions designed not only to service agricultural production but also to ensure the accrual of benefits on the targeted group.
41474629|The aim of this study is to investigate the health impact of the introduction of new food resources into the Spanish diet in the early Modern Age. For this purpose we compare the pathological conditions of teeth from skeletal remains dating from the Middle (Mediaeval) Ages (11th15 th century) with others of the Modern era (16th18th century), sampled from historic cemeteries of north Iberia (Spain). Dental alterations like abscesses, periodontitis, calculus and dental wear, indicate oral hygiene and habits, and linear enamel hypoplasia (LEH) is considered as an indicator of nutritional status. Significant decreases of LEH occurred in Modern Age individuals in comparison to Mediaeval values, suggesting the positive influence of increased diversity of nutritional resources mainly due to intercontinental (America-Europe) trade.
27654175|This study documents indigenous knowledge of breeds of cattle, sheep and goats in southwestern Niger, and includes both pastoralists and agropastoralists. Our study included sheep and goats in view of the increasing importance of small ruminants in livestock production systems in the Sahel since the drought of the 1970s and 1980s. This study was carried out under the Desert Margins Program (DMP) project on arresting land degradation and the conservation of biodiversity in desert margins of sub-Saharan Africa, partly funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF).
4602569|Archival and ethnographic research carried out in northeastern Tanzania provides evidence of significant changes in production and consumption of staple food crops between 1850 and the present. The banana, which provided the bulk of calories and other nutrients in precolonial times, has been successively replaced by Irish potatoes, maize, and cassava in different localities. The reasons for the adoption of each of these introduced crops are explored, and their implications for human nutrition in the area are discussed.
4603145|Over the past 10 years, Ghusel VDC, Lalitpur District has moved from primarily subsistence agriculture into the wider cash economy aided by the Small Farmers' Development Program (SFDP), which provides credit to farmers mainly for the purchase of buffalo for milk production, and by the National Dairy Corporation, which supports local dairy cooperatives. Analysis reveals that buffalo-keeping and milk sales are increasing the well-being of many households, while at the same time creating new inequalities in gender roles and responsibilities, greater inequities between Brahmin and Tamang residents in Ghusel, and placing pressures on the ecosystem for increased supplies of fodder and fuelwood. Evidence suggests that there is critical, need for attention to the social, and particularly gender-based, implications of maintaining livestock for milk sales and to the ecological underpinnings of this livelihood system.
4603333|Following the widespread application and success of Bongaarts' proximate fertility framework in the 1980s, anthropologists and demographers have shown increased interest in the delineation of distal fertility variables, alternatively called "higher-order" by cultural ecologists or "ultimate" variables by evolutionary ecologists. This shift in focus raises at least four immediate issues: (1) confusion over the role and effect of culture on individual members' behavior, (2) whether the individual or the group forms the basic unit of analysis, (3) discordance between external and internal perspectives of demographic regimes, and (4) difficulty comparing and evaluating quantitative survey-based data with qualitative information derived from focus groups or key informants. This paper presents one approach to dealing with these problems, featuring the assessment of anthropological and demographic data collected for Rendille pastoralists of northern Kenya, a group long cited in both anthropological and demographic literature as regulating their fertility in relation to ecological factors.
4603342|There is a prohibition on the use of modern external inputs, such as chemical fertilizers, in Baduy swidden farming. Ordinarily, the consequence of this in a situation of acute forest pressure would be a decrease in fallow times, and an inevitable depletion of soil fertility. The Baduy (particularly Outer Baduy) have several ways of alleviating this problem, one of which is the introduction of Paraserianthes (Albizia) falcataria. By alternating this commercially valuable perennial leguminous tree with rice, soil fertility is maintained and the socio-economic position of the Baduy improved. As a result, swidden farming, which is considered by the Baduy to be central to their cultural identity, continues to be viable, despite increasing population density and the continuing depletion of mature forest.
40981187|This paper describes and analyses how discourses of conservation and development as well as migrant labour practices can be understood as transnational dynamics that both cement and complicate transnational relations. It also looks into how these dynamics articulate with, shape and are being shaped by 'the local'. Focusing on the north-eastern boundary of Lesotho in the area of the 'Maloti-Drakensberg transfrontier conservation and development project', we show how conflictual situations put the ethnographic spotlight on the ways in which 'local people' in Lesotho deal with dual forces of localisation and transnationalisation. We argue that they accommodate, even appropriate, these dual pressures by adopting an increasingly flexible stance in terms of identity, alliances, livelihood options and discourses.
41474623|Literature on conservation and land reform politics concentrates on how local actors are characterized dualistically as either environmental villains or heroes. Here I present three different frames as exemplary of the multiple narratives at stake as actors create environmental subjectivities in relation to political opportunity, based primarily on ethnographic field research in a case study of Projects for Sustainable Development (PDSs) located in the Transamazon highway region of the Brazilian Amazon. I argue that local identities are mediated by their shifting relationships with other interested actors. Through a historical analysis of different frames of identity and land use, I examine how and why representation struggles occurred and shifted, based upon the ways in which powerful actors took advantage of political opportunities. This led to indeterminate outcomes in different local struggles across the region. In the process, local voices were often undermined in favor of interests of more powerful outsiders. The political process through which such struggles occur yield geographically and socially uneven effects contingent upon key events and contestation from disparate groups.
4603359|Theories of agrarian change in Africa normally treat agricultural intensification as a linear unidirectional process that gradually engulfs entire agrarian systems as human population increases. Focusing on soil management practices, this paper disputes the alleged uniformity of intensification and argues that periodic, contrary processes may occur simultaneously. Written and oral historical data, and survey data describing current farmers' practices and perceptions of change in densely settled Maragoli, western Kenya, are used to support this argument. Farmers' soil fertility management practices have changed in response to migration, social differentiation, and economic change, and the interplay between changing social and ecological conditions. Despite rapid population growth, Luhya farmers manage their soils both more and less intensively in response to this interplay and create a heterogeneous pattern of management in space and time. The implications of this variability for contemporary applied agricultural research in the region are assessed.
40928139|Parallels exist between the academic theory of a dwelling approach to resilience and the Indigenous Stewardship Model developed on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota. In both approaches, sustainable resource management depends on a practical environmentalism that creates linkages between local community members and their surrounding ecosystem. Research on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation reveals that Lakota people possess a conservation ethic that stems from their physical connection to place. However, tribal, state, and federal land policies create structural barriers that reduce access of Lakota households to the land, which in turn reduces adaptability and resilience in their ecological practice. To overcome these barriers, Lakota households envision local stewardship of reservation lands and resources. Particular emphasis is placed on the intergenerational transfer of knowledge to Lakota youth, to transcend local and political conflict, and to reestablish social and cultural relationships with the reservation's ecology.
4602251|The ecological and social bases of spatial organization among hunters and gatherers are examined. After criticizing the patrilocal band model of social organization, the author documents the flexible, nonterritorial groupings of the !Kung Bushmen of Botswana and relates them to rainfall and surface water scarcity and variability. The paper goes on to consider the effects of extra-Bushman contacts on the breakdown of sociospatial organization and finds that the observed flexibility occurred in both the pre- and the postcontact periods. The final section attempts to relate the analysis to general issues. Three areas that need further work if a more valid model of hunter spatial organization is to be developed are the problems of time perspective in research, adaptation to long-term climatic variability, and critical thresholds of population density.
4603037| Information is presented on fishing effort, efficiency, techniques, and catch composition for Pum men, women, and children along with a conceptual model of fishing as a food procurement strategy. The Pum are a native lowland South American group living in the topical savanna region of southwestern Venezuela characterized by seasonal flooding. Results are discussed in relation to the Pum environmental and social situation, and briefly compared with results from other lowland South American groups. 
4603141|The rate of rain forest clearing throughout central Africa is of national and international interest because it affects both the region's contribution to global warming and impacts the sustainable productive capacity of its natural resource base. The size and inaccessibility of much of central Africa makes remote sensing imagery the most suitable data source for regional land cover mapping and land transformation monitoring. Present image availability is poor. Most regional studies have had to rely on coarse resolution AVHRR 1 km data that fails to detect the small-scale agricultural clearings that are the primary cause of land cover change throughout the region. This study demonstrates that higher spatial resolution Landsat MSS imagery, which comprises the most available, geographically comprehensive and longest time series dataset, is too coarse to map land cover in low population density areas typical of most of central Africa. Furthermore, this study cautions that the use of high resolution imagery without detailed collateral field data on population density and land use practices while generating superficially plausible results, will most probably produce highly inaccurate estimates of land cover and land transformation. Policies for future regional remote sensing surveys of central Africa should focus on acquisition of higher spatial, spectral, and radiometric resolution imagery and must be accompanied by detailed, systematic field data collection.
24013715|Ecosystem-based planning and management have stimulated the need to gather sociocultural values and human uses of land in formats accessible to diverse planners and researchers. Human Ecology Mapping (HEM) approaches offer promising spatial data gathering and analytical tools, while also addressing important questions about human-landscape connections. This article reviews and compares the characteristics of three HEM approaches that are increasingly used in natural resource management contexts, each focused on a particular aspect of human-environmental interactions. These aspects include tenure and resource use (TRU), local ecological knowledge (LEK), and sense of place (SOP). We discuss their origins, provide examples of their use, and identify challenges to their application. Our review serves as a guide for environmental managers, planners, and communities interested in gathering spatial data on aspects of human ecology important in ecosystem-based management and planning, and for scientists designing socioecological research.
27654190|Attention to institutional arrangements has become integral to research on forest management and conservation. While strong institutions typically are associated with better forest conditions, few institutional studies have evaluated the influence of underlying biophysical factors on forest conditions. Our research compared institutional arrangements and forest conditions across nine forests in Guatemala and Honduras while accounting for biophysical characteristics. Statistical analyses found that soil nitrogen concentration, annual temperature, and annual rainfall were positively correlated with better forest conditions. Better forest conditions were in turn associated with stronger institutions. In part, the results suggest that the biophysical characteristics most favorable for high productivity, given the socioeconomic context, constitute an incentive for strong institutions. One common-property forest presented strong institutions with very good forest conditions, but stronger institutions and better forest conditions in this region typically occur with private property. The situation reflects historical contexts that have supported private property and undermined common property. The findings indicate that efforts to improve natural resource management should recognize the biophysical factors and historical contexts that facilitate or constrain strong institutions.
40928150|Nearly 60% of the world's human population is malnourished and the numbers are growing. Shortages of basic foods related to decreases in per capita cropland, water, and fossil energy resources contribute to spreading malnutrition and other diseases. The suggestion is that in the future only a smaller number of people will have access to adequate nourishment. In about 100 years, when it is reported that the planet will run out of fossil energy, we suggest that a world population of about two billion might be sustainable if it relies on renewable energy technologies and also reduces per capita use of the earth's natural resources.
4602534|Britain, a nation with the most organized water system in the world, suffered a protracted drought in 1975-1976. This paper casts doubt on the assumption that its causes were natural, especially in rural areas, and presents some general principles regarding the process of responding to water supply problems. The past and present water situation of Britain is described, and an account of the course of the drought and responses to it is presented.
4603178|A Brazilian Indian village divided into several settlements during the 1980s. In this article, the political ecology approach is used to account for the process whereby this occurred. Data on ecology, subsistence practices, demography, and regional dynamics are presented. Analysis of results explores the articulation between shifts in population levels both in the region and in the Indian reservation, on one hand, with environmental stresses on reservation resources. The effects on national economic development programs on the regional and local levels are also discussed. The relationship between these policies and programs, on one hand, and alterations in local production systems are made explicit.
4603585|Participatory research documented the hunting yields of 59 households in five neighboring indigenous villages in western Panama. These households captured 2,580 kg of game over 8 months, with 47% of the harvest coming from agricultural areas. The quantity of game captured in anthropogenic habitats is influenced by the hunting strategies employed. Only 25% of game captured during hunting trips was captured in agricultural areas, as opposed to 93% while "awaiting" and 65% using traps. Reliance on different strategies is in turn dependent on age, gender, and access to firearms. I argue that garden hunting is not a response to game depletion, but rather a productive activity that is complementary to broader cultural and economic patterns, and that simultaneously protects crops from animal predation. The creation of heterogeneous habitat mosaics through shifting cultivation has played a key role in the relationship between people and wildlife in the humid neotropics, leading to adjustments in both animal foraging patterns and indigenous hunting practices.
41432990|Benefits from wild edible plants (WEP) are multiple for rural households as well as urban traders. To set species priorities for WEP market development and domestication, we performed an inventory of WEP species and traders in five markets and one road-side selling point in Kisangani. During four one-month sessions between September 2007 and July 2008, all WEP traders present in the target markets were interviewed. We registered 119 unique sellers, selling 15 different WEPs. The September-October period and 'March Central' were the most important for WEP trade in Kisangani. Added values and net incomes generated through WEP sales were very divergent. Four types of traders could be distinguished. Gnetum africanum trade involves the more dynamic traders. Cola acuminata, Garcinia kola and Piper guineense spices have local and international market potential. Within the wild fruits category we propose Landolphia owariensis and Tetracarpidium conophorum as priority species for local market development.
4603373|Prior to 1975, agriculture in Ethiopia was organized largely under feudalistic/imperial arrangements. The Ethiopian military government (1974-1991) issued the Land Reform Proclamation in 1975 which nationalized and redistributed most of the agricultural land among rural households. Land redistribution was meant to achieve equal land area per household and improve agricultural performance. Sale of land and hiring of agricultural labor were prohibited and there were fears that livestock would be nationalized. Following the ousting of the military regime in 1991, there has been a reduction of the imperfections in rural factor markets. Results from a field survey in the central Ethiopian highlands indicate that selling, hiring, renting, and exchanging of agricultural land, farm labor, and animal traction are increasing. These changes will influence agricultural production in many ways, particularly if reform with respect to rural factor markets is encouraged and accorded appropriate policy support.
4602635|This paper investigates the relatinship between fertility and domestic adjustments that people have made to changing conditions of production and consumption in a rural community in western Guatemala. Present and past systems of production and the domestic factors affecting the timing of family formation and the incidence of sexual activity within unions are described. Analyses of variance for demographic variables among three productive sectors reveals that the greatest changes in fertility over time have occurred inthe families of labor-intensive garlic producers and in those of poor dasketmaking specialists. The results are discussed as direct and indirect outcomes of earlier family formation due to recurrent labor crises and chronic subsistence stress.
41474668|Over the past few decades there has been increasing attention paid to 'shared' forms of governance and to the creation of new protected areas (PAs) that are designed to address 'non-biological' goals and values. The rationale for these initiatives has, in part, been based on the belief that well-designed systems of protected area governance will help to deliver desired outcomes and meet linked sociocultural, economic and environmental objectives. Addressing these questions has become increasingly important in British Columbia, where a number of First Nations are asserting increasing control over existing state-run protected areas, as well as establishing new protected areas and designing governance systems for them that deliver outcomes consonant with cultural beliefs, values and goals. This paper reports on an in-depth case study of the Tla-o-qui-aht Tribal Parks and the Pacific Rim National Park Reserve, with a focus on comparing how these physically adjacent protected areas with different objectives each attempt to meaningfully engage the Tla-o-qui-aht First Nation in PA governance.
41474620|A recent archaeological survey demonstrates that one of the most durable of all forms of pre-Columbian landscape transformation, Amazonian Dark Earths (ADE; soils formed by pre-Columbian settlement), are widespread along the course of the Madeira River, Central Amazonia, Brazil. We hypothesize that processes of crop cultivation and management by human populations today in landscapes that were intensively transformed during the pre-Columbian period will diverge from those in environments where human agency has not left such a heavy footprint. In order to test this hypothesis, we compare bitter manioc fields, homegardens and secondary forests on ADE with those on non-anthropogenic soils along the lower and middle Madeira River. We demonstrate that crop species and landrace populations diverge on anthropogenic and non-anthropogenic soils as a result of the interaction between human selection and management, soil physical and chemical properties, and plant responses over time. Hence, crop species selection and abundance and therefore agrobiodiversity is contingent on anthropogenic soils in Central Amazonia.
25652776|Tibetans in five villages in the Mount Khawa Karpo area of the Menri (Meili Xueshan in Chinese) range, Northwest Yunnan, People's Republic of China, were interviewed about their knowledge of a number of medicinal plants and their uses. There was large variation in people's knowledge with significant differences among the villages and between men and women. Most of the reported knowledge focused on a small number of commercial plants and their uses. In comparison with Tibetan doctors, villagers generally knew fewer applications and focused on general health remedies. Many people collected medicinal plants for their own use as well as for sale, but also obtained medicinal plant remedies from markets and Tibetan doctors, and often used traditional Tibetan healthcare in conjunction with biomedical treatment.
4603602|For over a century the Mexican state has justified its control of forests by claiming that rural people are ignorant and destructive fire setters, in the face of abundant evidence to the contrary. Academic and popular stereotypes of the state have tended to assume that official power and kowledge go hand in hand. In an institutional ethnography of the Mexican environment agency, SEMARNAP, I show how official ignorance is deployed both within and outside state forestry institutions, and how ignorance and complicity may be as important as knowledge in asserting state power. Rather than internalizing official fire discourse, rural people in Mexico learn to mouth polite fictions in their encounters with officials. I argue that the scholarship on governmentality derived from Foucault has uncritically internalized the link between power and knowledge. A closer attention to the production and translation of knowledge within state institutions leads to a more nuanced understanding of various forms of obscurity and ignorance which accompany official knowledge claims.
40928151|Most of the existing anthropological literature that recognizes human-animal interaction as being at the core of nomadic pastoralism focuses on nomads as the only active agents of this interaction. Nomads interact with their animals by either adapting their actions to animal behavior or by changing this behavior in ways to suit them. Based on empirical material from two groups of reindeer herding nomads in northern Russia, we suggest that human-animal interaction in nomadic pastoralism can be better understood as being the result of a dynamic mutual behavioral adaptation. In the process of this adaptation, animals change their behavior in response to the herders' actions, which in turn leads to a responsive change to herders' patterns of actions, etc. We argue that this approach can account for the differences in both animal behavior and herding technologies across nomadic pastoralist cultures, as well as for some of the divergent developments within these cultures.
4603394|Recent analyses of timber exploitation in Amazonia conclude that a variety of socioeconomic and ecological factors in the region make a stable and profitable logging industry virtually impossible. Most of these studies focus on large-scale timber industries and their dependence on over-exploitation of a small number of high-value timbers. In this article we discuss the economic, ecological, and social aspects of Amazonian logging in a region where the timber industry appeared to have collapsed after stocks of high-value timber were exhausted. We show that forestry in a post-boom phase, currently found in many areas of Amazonia, differs from the better-described "boom" period in its scale of operations, in the range of timbers cut, in management practices employed, and in the costs and benefits of production. Results of a seven-year study show that when sawtimber, poles and firewood are produced in a management system that combines forestry and agriculture they can provide significant additional income for Amazonian smallholders.
4602809|In northern France and Europe the population trebled after 1000 and then ceased to increase about 1300, before the Black Death caused an abrupt decline. The birthrate, as indicated by number of surviving children, increased and then declined. Death rates increased after 1250 and, of course, during the Black Death. Migration (assarting) was high after 1100 but ceased by about 1250. The evidence about resources, disease, and internecine strife is compatible with this scenario which can be predicated based on other animal populations.
4603539|The impact on human ecology of the ivory trade entailed direct and indirect effects. First, the reduction or extermination of elephant populations had direct effects on the vegetation patterns over large areas. Second, the economic activities connected with hunting, transport, and trading affected regional systems of exchange and thereby, indirectly through the political economy, settlements, patterns of resource utilization, population parameters, and specialization of production. Ethnohistorical information from the 1800s suggests how coastal goods interacted with regional systems of exchange and environmental exploitation. Although such information cannot be directly projected onto the more distant past, it can be used to establish some possible pathways through which the hunting of elephants and transportation and trade of ivory could have affected the ecology of human resource use.
40928152|More than 50% of Nepal's population lives in the hill regions, usually with small land holdings, and over 60% are considered below the poverty line. Livestock, and particularly goats, provide these small-scale farmers with about 55% of their on-farm income. We studied goat production in Katteldanda, a mid-hill village of 78 households, mainly Brahmins, in Ghorka District. Subsistence farmers raise six or seven goats and one or two buffalo, and cultivate mainly maize, millet and rice. Tree fodder constituted about 70% of dry matter intake of goats for large parts of the year and was collected by lopping branches from trees on upland, rain-watered, private terraces (bari) near the household compound. Local farmers ranked the fodder trees they considered best and we measured the actual fodder they offered to goats. In addition, we evaluated and ranked 23 fodder species on the basis of laboratory in vitro nutritional and metabolizable energy yields. Using a Mantel test, a significant correlation was found between what the farmers thought was best fodder and fodder offered to goats (Mantel r= 0.398; P= 0.037) but non-significant correlations were found between either what the farmers thought was best fodder or fodder offered to goats and laboratory rankings (Mantel r=-0.027; P=0.49 and Mantel r=0.187; P=0.18, respectively). We concluded that biomass produced and availability throughout the year, in addition to nutritional and energy yield, are important criteria for selecting fodder trees for goat production.
40928149|One of the most important questions facing resource management is how to regulate industries exploiting natural resources. Currently there is an effort in the Maine lobster industry to get lower trap limits, which provides an opportunity to get detailed information on the political factors influencing legislation in an important and highly successful industry. In many industries, including the Maine lobster industry, many laws come in the aftermath of conflict between industry factions seeking laws to get distributional benefits. In the Maine lobster industry, the politics of getting lower trap limits are byzantine. Two factions have different models of the fishery, leading them to advocate different policies. The positions of people in each faction are very complicated. Those favoring a lower trap limit assume the industry is highly inefficient and that a lower trap limit would result in better catches per trap haul, lower costs of operations and higher profits. Some of those opposing a trap limit assume fishing more traps will lower profits; others assume it will raise profits. Those opposing lower trap limits offer five different sets of reasons for their viewpoint. To date, efforts to impose a lower trap limit have been blocked, but a number of factors could change the strength of the factions and tip the balance. In this industry, resource management policy is being made in an atmosphere in which different industry groups are pulling in different directions for complex sets of reasons.
4603140|Coral reef bleaching is an obvious indication that coastal marine ecosystems are being stressed. However, bleached reefs alone are poor indicators because they reflect the final stages of stress. This research project used multidate satellite imagery to look for coral reef changes as indicators of stress. Findings suggest that (1) satellite imagery can be used to identify small-scale changes in coastal marine ecosystems, including coral reefs; (2) remote sensing, marine ecology, and ethnographic data can be integrated to suggest potential causes of coral reef stress; and (3) changes in reef, seagrass, and mangrove ecozones are more closely tied to fishing, tourism, and land use practices than to global warming.
27654157|Rapid urbanization in Africa leads to a spatial concentration of people with different cultural origins and socioeconomic backgrounds resulting in a great diversity of life styles and livelihood strategies. One common strategy in Maroua/Cameroon and Bobo-Dioulasso/Burkina Faso is urban sheep keeping. Cluster analyses identified distinct socioeconomic groups with similarities between the towns: traditional livestock keepers, households headed by well educated government employees or traders, and more vulnerable groups formed of households headed by females, retired people or people with limited formal education. The household types in Bobo varied in their perception of the importance and the development of urban sheep keeping and their future plans. Those in Maroua differed in management intensity and in the potential to adapt their practices to the urban environment. Development interventions to reduce environmental pollution and risks for human health associated with urban sheep keeping need to account for these differences in the target group.
4603225|Since 1987, Penan foragers in Malaysia have been increasingly affected by the activities of logging companies, and have protested this with blockades. Simultaneously, they have become the focus of a broad-based international environmental campaign. This paper examines the rhetoric of that campaign. In particular, I examine the ways in which Western environmentalists have constructed Penan land rights with reference to Penan knowledge of the landscape and of the biotic elements which exist there. Further, I consider how environmentalists have drawn on ethnographic accounts, and how those accounts are transformed in the process of generating images deployed in the campaign.
4602510|A hypothetical model concerning the structure of aboriginal California trophic systems is presented. The dynamics of each possible state of the system is generated theoretically and then tested using previously published data. It is determined that a state of competitive coexistence of a fish-regulated predatorprey competition relationship between the deer and human populations limited the growth of both populations and should be considered a determinant of aboriginal California population levels.
27654257|This research uses Landsat Multi-Spectral Scanner of 1973, Thematic Mapper of 1989, Advance Earth Observing Satellite of 1996, and Enhanced Thematic Mapper of 2003 imagery to examine the effects of socioeconomic and demographic factors on land use and forest cover dynamics in the Bara district of the Central Tarai Region of Nepal for 19732003. These satellite images are used to generate three transition matrices for 19731989, 19891996, and 19962003; and the outcomes of the final transition matrix are compared with the land use and cover patterns seen on the IKONOS (1  1 m) 2003 images. This paper contributes to our understanding of how land use and cover dynamics correspond to national-level socioeconomic developments, demographic changes, and environmental awareness as envisioned by Ecological Modernization Theory. It also demonstrates how such a set of transition matrices generated from different resolution images helps assess these explanatory relationships at different temporal and spatial scales.
25652765|Traditional institutional rules, values, and beliefs help support conservation regimes of natural resources in many indigenous communities. Such traditional conservation regimes may break down as a result of influences from the outside world. This paper examines two cases in Taiwanthe Tao communities on Orchid Island and the Atayal community in Smangus. The former illustrates a process in which traditional institutions supporting local conservation broke down as a result of external influences, leading to the loss of the local community's ability to govern the use of a coastal fishery. The latter, in contrast, demonstrates how local people are able to adapt their traditional institutions to meet the challenges from the outside world while preserving a local forest. The paper concludes by examining factors that affect institutional adaptation in community-based conservation of natural resources.
4602403|Often unwittingly, scientific theory relies heavily upon literary metaphors which influence both the motives and the consequences of scientific endeavor. Human ecologists would do well to assess the implications of conventional metaphors which have been popular in traditional science, and to consider a newer picaresque mode better suited to the complexities of human ecology and to the temperament of modern consciousness.
4602523|This article presents a multiple regression analysis of demographic and social data for 335 wards in 17 American cities in 1890. The most important findings are: (1) Density effects on mortality were uniformly positive and statistically significant; the magnitude of these effects was much greater for child mortality than for adult mortality; and child mortality was more sensitive to persons per dwelling than to persons per acre. (2) Unsanitary conditions, as measured by the city-specific typhoid fever death rate, significantly increased mortality and child mortality was much more sensitive in this respect than adult mortality. (3) Given the same age composition and population density, foreign-born whites, native-born whites, and the colored population had about the same adult death rate.
4603027| Optimal foraging theory is being used increasingly as a means of understanding human foraging behavior. One of the central assumptions of optimal foraging theory is that prey items or patches are encountered sequentially and as a Poisson process. Using empirical data gathered on the Bar hunters of Venezuela, we assess the validity of this central assumption. We compare our observed distribution of encounter frequencies with an expected Poisson distribution, utilizing chi-square tests and graphic representations. The results are strikingly consonant with the expected Poisson distribution and lend support to the applicability of optimal foraging models to human hunting behavior. 
4602781|Water has historically been a critical limiting factor affecting community development throughout the American West. Within the Little Colorado River Basin of northeastern Arizona, abundant groundwater resources enabled local agricultural communities to overcome the limitations of unstable surface-water sources. However, industrialization has led to sharp increases in groundwater consumption in the basin and to a decline in groundwater levels and/or quality at several locations. This paper examines the broader historical and regional implications of recent groundwater changes in the basin. Emphasis is placed upon the relationship between local developments and the rapid expansion of metropolitan centers in southern Arizona.
4603467|This paper considers the promise that geographic information systems (GIS) hold for addressing complex historical questions. Using may experience as an environmental historian who has used GIS in a case study of the Kickapoo Valley in Wisconsin, I examine social and ecological processes of rural transformation during the twentieth century, and how these processes have shaped modern property rights debates. The multiscale range of GIS brings out the crucial issue of scale in the Kickapoo Valley's environmental history. Spatial analysis offers an important picture of landscape dynamics and land ownership in the Valley since the 1930s. Together with historical methods, GIS maps help explore the ways in which residents have constructed their own stories about property and the environment. These cultural narratives include the economic inevitability of land concentration and fragmentation, ethnic differences in land use, local places vs. the federal government, and local communities vs. newer outsiders. Results from the GIS illustrate my argument that change on the ground over many decades--rather than any inherent ideological resistance to federal policies--might better explain contemporary debates over private and public property. Finally, I use this research to outline the dilemmas faced by scholars in the humanities and social sciences who want to incorporate GIS into their own interdisciplinary studies.
27654183|Evidence of a pile-dwelling community and seral environmental conditions during the late Mid-Holocene (ca 4,0003,000 years b.p.) is explored through archaeological data and paleoecological information from the Bilbo Site at the mouth of the Savannah River along the Georgia coast, U.S.A. It is argued that pile dwellings were a central feature of the cultural adaptive system, allowing settlements to be located in wetlands that provided optimal access to the evolving food resources of multiple, dynamic environments. It also is suggested that the adaptive strategy included residential stability and a more complex organizational structure than that exhibited by modern huntergatherers living in marginal environments.
4603556| This article examines transformations associated with changes in resource use and land cover dynamics in the community of So Manoel, Maranho state, in the eastern Brazilian Amazon. The shifting cultivator peasants in So Manoel integrate swidden fields for annual cropping, the extraction of babassu palm products, and pastures for cattle ranching. Since the early twentieth century, predominant vegetative cover patterns have been altered from species-rich mature forests to secondary succession with babassu dominant to pasture or swidden fields containing palm stands of various densities. A grounded political ecology of resource use in the area suggests that management strategies and the resulting land cover dynamics integrate site-specific decisions of peasant producers. I discuss the trajectory of production strategies in So Manoel since the establishment of the community in the 1920s, and identify the multiple dimensions affecting resource use and environmental outcomes, with an emphasis on the period following land struggles and the recovery of peasant tenure rights in the mid-1980s. The analysis indicates that socionatural trajectories that optimize resource use and address the socioeconomic needs of the community include the maintenance of palm/pastures associations. 
4602964|Kubo people of Papua New Guinea sometimes grew Dioscorea yams in mounds of forest litter that were made as egg-incubation sites by birds (Megapodiidae). The small yam plots were included within larger banana gardens and, in the latter, it was yams, not bananas, that took precedence in the gardening decisions of people. The technique would be viable in the absence of a larger garden. It is interpreted as an expression of an ancient pattern of small-scale plant domestication.
41474624|Here we hypothesize that the intensity of disturbances caused by human activities in Brazil nut stands (castanhais) is positively related with the regeneration of Brazil nut trees (Bertholletia excelsa H.B.K., Lecythidaceae) and consequently with a younger population structure of this species. In order to test this hypothesis we compared the population structure of Brazil nut trees in two areas of the Brazilian Amazon with different histories of land usage by humans. Archeological and historical data suggest that the region surrounding the Trombetas River was densely occupied in pre-Columbian times and experienced depopulation after European contact with Amerindian populations, especially in the 16 th century. The 25 Brazil nut stands sampled in this region were dominated by old B. excelsa trees and had scarce recruitment in the understory. These very mature stands likely owe their origins to the interval between the depopulation of the indigenous peoples in the 16 th 17 th centuries and the establishment of quilombos at the beginning of the 19 th century. The second study area was in the vicinity of the Madeira River (Capan Grande Lake), where the castanhais were more accessible and disturbed. In this site, a younger population structure and abundant regeneration of B. excelsa were observed in the 10 sampled stands. Historical data from this region indicate that indigenous populations were replaced gradually beginning in the 18 th century, with no evidence of severe depopulation. We suggest that the different historical and contemporary land use patterns contributed to the current contrasting population structures of the castanhais at the two locations. The data also support the idea that the castanhais, even the ones considered to be pristine and "native" forests, result from anthropogenic influences. We found no evidence to support restrictions on seed harvesting as a means to improve regeneration rates of Brazil nut stands.
24013753|Hunting is often either portrayed as the ultimate means to enact a close connection between the human being and nature, or investigated in terms of its contribution to livelihoods. Through in-depth interviews and focus group discussions, we explored the meaning of hunting in the lower Omo valley, Ethiopia, and found that large game hunting was best understood as an activity that served to establish and maintain humanhuman relationships. Hunting was important as it created the basis for long-term bond-relations between a hunter and his friend ('misso') and a hunter and his honorary elder sister ('misha') that could be drawn on in times of hardship. By contrast, interactions between hunter and wildlife were given hardly any attention by our participants. We discuss implications in relation to the stark decline in wildlife and the degradation of grazing land over the last decades, and the consequences of our findings for conservation and development activities.
4602996|This article analyzes agroforestry practices among the Ndia and Gichugu Kikuyu of Kirinyaga, Kenya, at the turn of the century, before the onset of colonial rule. It describes ways in which people adapted to competing pressures for retaining and removing tree cover. It shows how religious beliefs, tenure relations based on a communal property-rights regime, and farm forestry practices contributed to the conservation of trees. Such strategies were not aimed at reversing deforestation, but mitigating its impact by incorporating valued trees into local sociocultural and household production systems. The article points out that indigenous agroforestry practices need to be viewed in the context of local socioeconomic and ecological differences. It also considers the impact of the caravan trade on land use during the late 1800s. Tree scarcity in the late precolonial era is briefly contrasted with the area's "woodfuel crisis" of the 1980s.
41474639|Use of the terms "wild" and "feral" characterizes ongoing debate over management of free-ranging horses. However, the focus on terminology tends to obscure complex differences in meanings and cultural perception. Examining a case study in the Chilcotin region of British Columbia, we explore how the terms "wild" and "feral" distract from the underlying issues at stake in management of horses and the landscape: different ways of valuing, understanding, and relating to land and animals. To be effective in the long term, and to avoid an unwitting continuation of outdated culturally biased land management practices, future decisions regarding management of lands and free-roaming horses in the Chilcotin would benefit from an integrated process informed by both ecological and socio-cultural information.
27654221|Poor fishers in Bangladesh have been disadvantaged by policies that favored powerful people leasing fishing rights. Community-based management was expected to improve fisher access, livelihoods, and the sustainability of fisheries. The impacts of community management in three floodplain waterbodies differed according to the environment and property rights. Where a set of fishers jointly held exclusive rights to a small enclosed lake they increased production by stocking fish and shared the returns. This strategy is productive but attracts competition for profits and fish consumption was unchanged. Access to capture fisheries in floodplain waterbodies enables the poor to catch diverse small fish for their consumption. Yet sustainability requires limits on fishing. Fish sanctuaries were respected, yet catches per day fell when more people from several villages increased fishing effort in a large wetland, while a tightly knit community restored the fishery in a smaller floodplain. Community organizations will need recognition of their long-term use rights to overcome future threats.
4603456|Carbohydrate food sources have emerged as a critical factor limiting occupation of rainforests by hunter-gatherer peoples globally. In the wet tropics bioregion of northeastern Australia, Kuku-Yalanji aboriginal people occupied the rainforests through a hunter-gatherer subsistence economy prior to European occupation. Collaborative environmental research between a researcher at the James Cook University and Kuku-Yalanji people has established that their fire management protected carbohydrate resources in the fire-sensitive rainforests and their margins, and ensured ongoing access to the critical dry season carbohydrate resource, Cycas media, growing in patches of fire-prone open forest on each clan estate. Carbohydrate resources in the wet season were obtained predominantly from seeds of rainforest tree nuts, a high proportion of which are wet tropics endemic species. Several of the genera utilized by aboriginal people in the wet tropics bioregion also occur in the rainforests of eastern Cape York Peninsula, where they were not utilized as foods. It is hypothesized that use of rainforest seeds for carbohydrate is a cultural adaptation that occurred in the wet tropics bioregion, stimulated by the unique availability of the substantial number of large-seeded rainforest trees that are wet tropics endemics. The implications of these data for concepts about the impact of aboriginal fires on Australian rainforests are considered. Aboriginal fires imposed a fine patterning on the vegetation at the local scale, with little effect on the vegetation at the regional scale, which is determined by environmental factors.
24017348|Many conservation policies advocate engagement with local people, but conservation practice has sometimes been criticised for a simplistic understanding of communities and social context. To counter this, this paper explores social structuring and its influences on conservation-related behaviours at the site of a conservation intervention near Pipar forest, within the Seti Khola valley, Nepal. Qualitative and quantitative data from questionnaires and Rapid Rural Appraisal demonstrate how links between groups directly and indirectly influence behaviours of conservation relevance (including existing and potential resource-use and proconservation activities). For low-status groups the harvesting of resources can be driven by others' preference for wild foods, whilst perceptions of elite benefit-capture may cause reluctance to engage with future conservation interventions. The findings reiterate the need to avoid relying on simple assumptions about 'community' in conservation, and particularly the relevance of understanding relationships between groups, in order to understand natural resource use and implications for conservation.
27654140|The literature on ecosystem management and assessment is increasingly focusing on social capacity to enhance ecosystem resilience. Organizational flexibility, participatory approaches to learning, and knowledge generation for responding adequately to environmental change have been highlighted but not critically assessed. The small, flexible municipal organization, Ecomuseum Kristianstads Vattenrike (EKV) in southern Sweden, has identified win-win situations and gained broad support and legitimacy for ecosystem management among a diversity of actors in the region. Navigating the existing legal-political framework, EKV has built a loose social network of local stewards and key persons from organizations at municipal and higher societal levels. As a 'bridging organization', EKV has created arenas for trust-building, knowledge generation, collaborative learning, preference formation, and conflicts solving among actors in relation to specific environmental issues. Ad hoc projects are developed as issues arise by mobilizing individuals from the social network. Our results suggest that the EKV approach to adaptive comanagement has enhanced the social capacity to respond to unpredictable change and developed a trajectory towards resilience of a desirable social-ecological system.
4603220|National parks are the keystone institutions of environmental conservation. Because national parks make certain lands part of the state itself, international agencies and nongovernmental organizations that promote national parks propose, in effect, to alter the state, as well as the local economy and state relations with social groups. Has international political pressure caused states to create national parks? I consider whether countries highly involved in international politics have the largest proportions of land in national parks. I conclude that many states create minimal park systems as symbolic gestures to the international community. Field researchers may find it easier to explain the success or failure of parks if they identity why state officials decide that adopting international conservation norms will enhance state authority over people and state sovereignty over land.
41474610|In marginal and complex agricultural environments, modern varieties of rice have been scantily adopted by resource-poor farmers. This is due, on the one hand, to farmers' nonexistent or reduced access to agro-chemicals, irrigation facilities, and seeds, and on the other hand, to the fact that they did not fulfil the farmers' socioeconomic and cultural priorities and needs. An understanding of farmers' criteria for variety selection is key to promoting effective plant breeding and achieving broader aims of food security and food sovereignty. Based on extensive ethnographic field research, this paper discusses rice biodiversity management strategies and the experimental skills and knowledge of Southern Guinea-Bissau farmers against the backdrop of failures by development interventions to introduce modern rice varieties. I conclude that the present cereal crises and environmental concerns should reshape researchers' exclusive priorities on genetic engineering in order to identify economically valued landraces, and promote their dissemination through participatory seed self-sufficiency approaches.
4602780|The catchment-ecosystem concept is adapted to investigate the nutrient-budget of the highly-modified Colebrooke drainage basin in Northern Ireland. Anthropogenic inputs, mainly manures and fertilizers, account for 86% of the nitrogen and 96% of the phosphorus added to the catchment. These inputs greatly exceed the streamflow outputs, thereby indicating that the flow of nutrients is dominated by agriculture. This is explained by the transformation of traditional mixed farming into more intensive livestock production and is linked to policies encouraging increased agricultural production, amalgamation of farms, afforestation, rural depopulation, and urbanization. Substantial increases in the N and P output of the catchment and further eutrophication of the recipient lake, Lough Erne, are predicted without the implementation of policies to reduce agricultural nutrient losses.
23280267|Addressing global fisheries overexploitation requires better understanding of how small-scale fishing communities in developing countries limit access to fishing grounds. We analyze the performance of a system based on individual licenses and a common property-rights regime in their ability to generate incentives for self-governance and conservation of fishery resources. Using a qualitative before-after-control-impact approach, we compare two neighbouring fishing communities in the Gulf of California, Mexico. Both were initially governed by the same permit system, are situated in the same ecosystem, use similar harvesting technology, and have overharvested similar species. One community changed to a common property-right regime, enabling the emergence of access controls and avoiding overexploitation of benthic resources, while the other community, still relies on the permit system. We discuss the roles played by power, institutions, socio-historic, and biophysical factors to develop access controls.
4603029| Analysis of Bar collection of loricarid species suggests that the length of time that has elapsed since each collecting site has last been exploited significantly guides site selection. Information on "patch recovery time," gathered through intra-village monitoring of independent foraging groups, allows foragers to choose those sites with a high probability of generating good returns. Comparison of actual returns with those predicted by a model of random site selection indicates that the observed pattern of patch exploitation increases the return of kilograms of loricarids for time invested in foraging substantially above that predicted by random returns to sites. The saving of time as well as the increase in food afforded by this system represent currencies for evaluating the value of information on patch recovery time. 
4602842|In recent years, many rural Third World communities have suffered from the gradual degradation of the natural resources on which they depend. The Kilenge people of West New Britain, Papua New Guinea, offer such an example. The paper examines some of the nutritional, economic, social, and political impacts of these changes on the individual, on the household, and on the community in one Kilenge village. It argues that there may be alternatives to dependent development for this community. It concludes that redirected priorities can assist indigenous communities like Kilenge to achieve sustainable self-directed economic improvement.
27654278|Overexploitation of Neotropical ecosystems for wild meat constitutes a threat to biodiversity and might seriously affect local people who depend on wild animals as a primary food resource. To assess this problem at the local level, social use of wild animals was evaluated in a Mayan community of the Yucatan Peninsula. Over 8 months, peasant-hunters carried out a total of 175 hunting trips, gathering 253 animals of 12 species (mammals, birds and reptiles). Most preys (95%) were taken in 4 months (JanuaryApril) during the dry season and the main target species were white-tailed deer and iguana (jointly representing 59% of preys). During an 11-week period, total per capita wild meat consumption (182 kg; n=14 families) was three times greater in nuclear than in extended families. The observed wild fauna use is a reflection of traditional knowledge and represents an important subsistence strategy for the local people.
41432989|This study develops criteria for classifying the actor groups shaping frontier development along the Transamazon Highway colonization project in the Brazilian Amazon, as a basis to improve understanding of their specific contributions to environmental degradation and socio-economic development. Based on an analysis of responses to questionnaires by 93 colonists representing different migration trajectories, production systems, socio-economic strategies and deforestation patterns, actor groups could be statistically classified according to their type of production and level of capitalization. A property size threshold discriminating small and largeholders in the study area is presented and compared with previous attempts to establish such a threshold. Largeholders practicing large-scale cattle ranching and smallholders practicing diversified family agriculture were found to be the two predominant colonist types. Smallholder farming practices were found to be more appropriate to the local environmental conditions than those implemented by cattle ranchers.
4602585|Two directly opposed explanations for the distribution of female infanticide across cultures have recently appeared. Divale and Harris propose to explain this practice as part of a system which reduces population growth. Dickemann says that the practice serves to increase reproductive success. I criticize each of these explanations and propose a third which depends on the technoecological and economic constraints given precedence by Harris and Divale, combined with the insights of sexual selection which are central to Dickemann's account.
4602471|The recent proliferation of structural fires in New York City is analyzed from an ecological viewpoint. Fire-service cutbacks recommended by the Rand Corporation and largely implemented before the city's "fiscal crisis" are found to have markedly increased the annual number of structural fires.
27654104|This paper examines the responses of mobile pastoralists to a floodplain rehabilitation program in north Cameroon. From 1993 to 1999, we measured changes in number of camps and herds, and the time they spent in the 600 km2 of the Logone floodplain that was reflooded in 1994. The first year, few pastoralists anticipated the reflooding or its impact, and the increase in grazing intensity was caused by a prolonged stay of pastoralists who already used the area for transit. The following three years showed a sharp increase in the number of camps and herds, which stabilized from 1997 onwards. Overall, grazing intensity increased threefold, following the gradually recovering perennial grasslands, with no signs of overexploitation of the area. These developments closely match the ideal preemptive distribution model. We also examined how reflooding affected pastoral incursions in the Waza National Park located in the floodplain.
40343997|The development of cooperation depends on the nature of deliberations among and between local stakeholders and the state as well as the context of deliberations, especially whether larger scale governance helps, hinders or overrides deliberative processes. However, the context of deliberations has not been a focus of past research on deliberation. The paper identifies the key context criteria that influenced deliberation and the development of cooperation in a comparative case study of two forest advisory committees in Ontario, Canada. The study uses cognitive mapping and network analysis techniques to identify key context criteria and concludes with five inferences regarding the influence of context on deliberation and cooperation that have implications for deliberation and decentralization theories.
27654166|This paper introduces a set of four collaborative papers exploring temporal heterogeneity in the analysis of African land use over a decadal time period, from 10 to 50 years, in the second half of the twentieth century. The four cases were chosen amongst the seven teams of anthropologists, human geographers and remote sensing specialists who had carried out long-term research and who met to discuss their findings at a workshop in 2003. All seven teams' work and the collective discussionon Casamance (Senegal), Brong Ahafo (Ghana), Southern Niger/Northern Cote d'Ivoire, Oyo State (Nigeria), Maasai Mara (Kenya and Tanzania), Gwembe (Zambia), and Malawiinform this introduction. We identify several temporal processes in all the cases, each operating on its own temporal frame: population growth and, above all, mobility; livelihood change through crop and occupational change; tenure ambiguity; powerful though "punctuated" interventions by state policy; and climate change. Conceptual and methodological implications are disussed.
4602856|This paper describes Aboriginal subsistance patterns in the northern part of the Western Desert, Western Australia. It describes the seasonal round of the Aboriginal people living in this area, provides a quantified description of the plant and animal resources, and concludes by drawing attention to specific aspects of Aboriginal subsistence in this area.
4602298|Observations were made of the personal space behaviors of same-sex pairs of children, aged 6-16. Results indicated that children used more space as they grew older and that adult proxemic behaviors were acquired by age 12. While in the younger children no sex differences were present for the proxemic behaviors of distance and body orientation, males were found by early adolescence to stand farther apart and at greater angles than females. The development of personal space and of sex differences in these behaviors is discussed in the context of social learning.
40343973|A key challenge for land change science in general and research on swidden agriculture in particular, is linking land cover information to human-environment interactions over larger spatial areas. In Lao PDR, a country facing rapid and multi-level land change processes, this hinders informed policy-and decision-making. Crucial information on land use types and people involved is still lacking. This article proposes an alternative approach for the description of landscape mosaics. Instead of analyzing local land use combinations, we studied land cover mosaics at a meso-level of spatial scale and interpreted these in terms of human-environmental interactions. These landscape mosaics were then overlaid with population census data. Results showed that swidden agricultural landscapes, involving 17% of the population, dominate 29% of the country, while permanent agricultural landscapes involve 74% of the population in 29% of the territory. Forests still form an important component of these landscape mosaics.
4603100|This paper explores the changing political ecology of soil and water management--the articulation of physical and political-economic processes--in the Loess Plateau of north-central China. Market-oriented reforms and the shift from collective to household farming have created a diverse array of tenure, management, and financing arrangements. In the process relationships between farm households, the collective, and the state have been altered, with profound implications for land use and sustainability. The paper reviews the political ecology approach and its relevance to environmental management in China. An outline of the physical and economic context of soil erosion in the Loess Plateau is followed by examination of the impact of reform on rural environmental management. Local innovations in the organization of environmental management are highlighted. The conclusion comments on the utility of the regional political ecology approach and suggests some critical issues for further research.
4603205|This paper explores the variety of factors which influence Iraqw farmers' land-use strategies in northern Tanzania. Based on archival research, oral history, and detailed field research, this study illustrates the ways in which access to and availability of resources through social networks and markets over time are critical to farmers' decisions about how to use their labor and land. This detailed local study of agrarian change examines how wider, regional processes of change affect local conditions. It demonstrates that population growth neither results automatically in intensification nor in degradation of the resource base. The paper also attempts to explore how ideas about farming and "progress" shape farmers' decisions about land use.
4603009|This paper examines the question of whether hunter-gatheres could live in the tropical rain forest of Peninsular Malaysia without access to cultivated foods. It considers the wild food sources used by the Batek De', a contemporary foraging-trading group of Kelantan state, historical and ethnohistorical evidence concerning the Batek economy in the past, and archeological evidence for independent foraging in the Pleistocene and early Holocene. The conclusion reached is that small nomadic groups of foragers can live off wild resources alone in that environment and have done so in the past, although trade for agricultural produce makes life much easier. This suggests that nonseasonal tropical rain forests vary in their potential for supporting human foraging, depending upon the particular species of plants and animals present.
27654155|Traditional dryland agriculture in the Pacific island was often labor-intensive and risky, yet settlement and farming in dry areas played an important role in the development of Polynesian societies. We investigate how temporal and spatial climatic fluctuations shape variation in agricultural production across dryland landscapes. We use a model that couples plant growth, climate, and soil organic matter dynamics, together with data from Kohala, Hawai'i, to understand how temperature, rainfall, nitrogen availability, and cropping activity interact to determine yield dynamics through time and space. Due to these interactions, the statistical characterization of rainfall alone is a poor characterization of agricultural yield. Using a simple linear model of human population dynamics, we show that the observed yield variation can affect long-term population growth substantially. Our approach to analyzing spatial and temporal fluctuations in food supply, and to interpreting the population consequences of these fluctuations, provides a quantitative evaluation of agricultural risk and human carrying capacity in dry regions.
27654315|Some recent scholarship has focused on integrating local and/or traditional knowledge with conventional scientific information in fisheries management to improve the factual foundation of and strengthen support for management decisions. This article compares a sequence of historical and contemporary scientific texts and maps about the migrations and stock structure of cod in the Northern Gulf of St. Lawrence with texts and maps generated by the authors through the collection, aggregation and interpretation of commercial fish harvesters' ecological knowledge. We find that the relationship between fisheries science and harvesters' ecological knowledge is dynamic and has changed over time, and that both are 'situated' socially and ecologically. Overall, each paints an incomplete picture of cod movements and stock structure but the knowledge of harvesters provides a valuable complement to scientific information, particularly at the local scale, and has the potential to contribute to the identification of local cod stocks that are new to science and management. We end by considering how this case study informs the larger discussion about the challenges and potential benefits of the so-called integration project to bring together science and the ecological knowledge of fish harvesters.
23353206|Shifting cultivation systems have been blamed as the primary cause of tropical deforestation and are being transformed through various forms of conservation and development policies and through the emergence of new markets for cash crops. Here, we analyze the outcomes of different policies on land use/land cover change (LUCC) in a traditional, shifting cultivation landscape in the Atlantic Forest (Brazil), one of the world's top biodiversity hotspots. We also investigate the impacts of those policies on the environment and local livelihoods in Quilombola communities, which are formed by descendants of former Maroon colonies. Our findings show that conservation and social policies have had mixed effects both on the conservation of the Atlantic Forest and on the livelihoods of the Quilombola. We conclude that future interventions in the region need to build on the new, functional links between sustainable livelihoods and biodiversity, where less restrictive state policies leave room for new opportunities in self-organization and innovation.
4603223|Marine fisheries are in a state of crisis. One of the few successfully managed fisheries is the Maine lobster industry where catches are at an all time high. An important factor in this success is the effectiveness of regulations which were developed during three periods over the course of the past 125 years. In all cases, the regulations are the result of heavy lobbying activity by various factions in the industry. Both strong commercial rivalry and genuine concern for the well-being of the lobster resource played a role in generating these regulations. However, history did not repeat itself. In each period, the players, circumstances, and goals were very different. The result, however, is a set of effective regulations which are largely self-enforcing.
24017346|This paper presents results from a year-long household survey in which the aquatic resource collection and consumption activities of 240 households across Lao PDR were studied to assess the diversity of species used, their role in household food security and the overall importance of ricefield habitats in this respect. Results show that aquatic biodiversity, under threat in rice-based ecosystems, plays a larger role in household consumption than previous estimates. More than 90 % of these resources are collected by households themselves and the greatest quantities from ricefield habitats. This seasonal aquatic environment is therefore the principal habitat from which households acquire aquatic animals, both to eat fresh and to process and store for use during nutritionally vulnerable times of year. The importance of these habitats therefore goes far beyond their use for rice production and this multi-functionality needs to be understood and addressed in agricultural, conservation and food security policy.
40928154|This article examines the relationship between Amazonian Dark Earths (ADE) and Caboclo horticultural knowledge and practice along the middle Madeira River (the biggest Whitewater tributary of the Amazon) in the municipality of Manicor, Amazonas State, Brazil. ADE are fertile anthropogenic (human-made) soils that are found in many areas of the Amazon region. The formation of ADE is a legacy of Amerindian settlement patterns, mostly during the late pre-Columbian period (2000-500 BP). The primary users of ADE in the Central Amazon today are Caboclos, traditional Amazonian people of heterogeneous origins. The multi-sited ethnography presented here demonstrates that Caboclos have developed a repertoire of local knowledge surrounding the cultivation of their staple crop, bitter manioc, in these soils. This revolves around a local theory of "weakness" and "strength" used to describe different sets of bitter manioc landrace traits and their responses to planting in different kinds of soil and fallow ages. This local theory has developed in the context of a regional historical ecology that has enabled the conservation and generation of such horticultural knowledge. I conclude that these notions of strength and weakness shape divergent loci of bitter manioc genetic traits and co-evolutionary dynamics between people and plants in the cultivation of bitter manioc in different soil types.
40603031|Much recent literature explores controlled burning practices used by people of different cultures to manipulate landscapes. Because humans have only recently been able to suppress fires occurring at larger scales these studies focus on activities occurring at the scale of sites as making the greatest contribution to creating cultural landscapes.In this study we examine the role of fire in the construction of Anishinaabe cultural landscapes in the boreal forest of northwestern Ontario. Through our work with elders of Pikangikum First Nation we examined Anishinaabe knowledge and relationships to fire occurring across spatial and temporal scales. Pikangikum residents perceive forest fires as beings which possesses agency and who intentionally create order in landscapes. This notion suggests that cultural landscapes are more than the physical remains of the sum of human activities. The possibility of non-human agents having a role in the creation of meaningful spaces prompts us to call for a reassessment both of the scale of inquiry and the nature of cultural landscapes. We conclude with a discussion of the benefits and potential constraints to inclusion of indigenous cultural landscapes in current co-management arrangements.
27654195|Recent research on the ecology of fire has challenged the view that the use of fire by indigenous peoples is detrimental to ecosystems and wildlife in protected areas. However, in Canaima National Park and World Heritage Site in southeastern Venezuela, since 1981 managers have employed a costly fire control program to eliminate savanna burning by the Pemon indigenous people. Here I present the results of the first study on Pemon perspectives of fire management in the park. I show that savanna burning is an important tool in indigenous land management and plays a key role in preventing large catastrophic fires. Pemon knowledge of fire also raises questions about conventional interpretations of environmental change in the park. Lastly, I recommend a fire management policy that seeks to integrate local ecological knowledge. This will require: (a) greater openness from scientists and resource managers to understanding Pemon rationale for the use of fire, (b) clarification among the Pemon themselves of their own views of fire, and (c) research partnerships among scientists, resource managers and the Pemon in order to encourage understanding of Pemon ecological knowledge of fire, and to assess its true impact in the Canaima National Park.
4603165|Zimbabwe provides a significant context to examine the interplay of the new development rhetoric, the actions of powerful conservation organizations, donor policies, a relatively strong and stable government, and the empowerment of local communities. This interplay exists in diverse rural areas where the Communal Areas Management Program for Indigenous Resources (CAMPFIRE) is in various stages of experimentation and implementation. CAMPFIRE has been described as a philosophy of sustainable rural development that enables rural communities to manage, and benefit directly form indigenous wildlife. It is the best known of African efforts to permit African communities to re-assert their management of selected natural resources. The program has the official support of the Zimbabwean government. Nonetheless, there are many potential areas of serious conflict. Three case studies are utilized to explore how the challenges of repossession of critical environmental resources by marginalized communities in the changing context of state and NGO relationships where international tourism is a revenue generator for both the private sector and government.
4602769|Quantitative data on men's time allocation among the Ache of Paraguay are presented. The data indicate that Ache men work almost 7 hours daily in direct food acquisition, which is the major daily activity. The amount of time Ache men work is compared with the amount reported for other modern hunter-gatherers and tribal horticulturalists. The characterization of hunter-gatherers as the "original affluent society" does not agree with currently available data. The results show high variance across societies, both hunting and horticultural, and suggest that time spent in subsistence work is not simply a function of food "needs." We propose that the value of time spent in potential alternative activities must be considered in order to predict time spent in subsistence tasks.
4602485|A lack of consensus on the general adaptive significance of energetic efficiency can be shown to exist in ecology and anthropology. After briefly reviewing key studies in optimal foraging theory and ecological anthropology, a model is presented which includes the following elements: (1) an equation of adaptive success with reproductive fitness, within an optimality framework; (2) a definition of energy limitation consistent with this framework; (3) a distinction between efficiency of energy capture and efficiency of energy use in achieving other goals; (4) a multiple definition of energetic efficiency that distinguishes purely energetic measures (output/input) from rate measures (energy captured per unit time); (5) the inclusion of time budgeting as a primary adaptive constraint; (6) a quantitative demonstration that increased output/input ratios do not consistently predict an increase in net energy captured, and are poor measures where time is a constraint. The general conclusion is that where energy is limiting, increased efficiency in the rate of energy capture will be adaptive because more net energy will be made available; where energy is not limiting, an increased net capture rate may still confer increased adaptive success, since time and labor energy are freed from energy-capture activities and can be devoted to achieving other adaptive goals. But while energetic efficiency, properly defined, is shown to have general adaptive significance in all cases where time or energy are constraints, considerations of adaptive optimality preclude the general equation of energetic efficiency and adaptive success.
4603520|In a number of places, sacred forest sites play an important role in conservation and local livelihoods. Here we examine how Iban hunters and animals alike use sacred forest in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. To determine the relative importance of different sites in hunting, we compare hunting effort, animal species and their numbers encountered by hunters, and encounters and captures in a variety of forest sites including sacred groves. We relate the results to the role of such sites in the overall Iban agroforestry system and in the conservation of forest habitat that professional conservationists deem precious. Such land use practices, while having social and religious origins, may be important for local economic purposes, but they may also be valuable in promoting and enhancing the more global goals of biodiversity conservation.
4602952|This article addresses the land fragmentation debate, centering on the question of whether it is an ecological adaptation or an example of anachronistic, if not irrational and uneconomic, peasant behavior. Building on the ecological argument with case studies of inheritance and a quantitative analysis of farm production and land fragmentation in Portugal, two major assumptions about land fragmentation are refuted: (a) that it is extremely detrimental to farm production and (b) that its main cause is inheritance divisions.
4602706|This article poses the question of whether aboriginal population size in the Lesser Antilles was limited by the total calories obtainable from manioc, the amount of protein obtainable from animal sources, or both of these factors. Estimates of cultivable land and productivity show that calories obtainable from manoic are not likely to have limited population size. Estimates of the amount of animal food that would have been needed to provide sufficient protein for populations of varying size, based on studies of faunal remains, indicate that protein is more likely than calories to have been a limiting factor in population size because the amount of animal protein required to support a population of several thousand is unlikely to have been consistently obtainable. A method is suggested for estimating the maximum human population supportable by animal protein resources found on Antillean islands.
4603349|One of the basic tenets of the theory of common property resources is that private property rights work to conserve natural resources. There is growing evidence, however, that some large forest owners in Maine are cutting their forests heavily, using poor-quality silviculture techniques. This overexploitation is being done by paper companies, forest contractors, and some private land owners, who are being motivated by very different sets of factors. This article explores the reasons that private owners of forest resources are overexploiting their own lands and the implications of this for the theory of common property resources. Secure private property rights alone will not be enough to conserve resources and do away with externalities when the owners are operating in a system demanding constant short-term profits, where they are producing undifferentiated commodities in a highly competitive market, where the future value of slow-growing resources is very low, and where harvesting has so many ramifying biological and social effects.
40603013|Understanding local attitudes towards humanwildlife conflict (HWC) is key to developing successful conflict mitigation strategies. In this paper, in-depth interview and questionnaire data about resolution of HWC in Uttarakhand, India are examined from both qualitative and quantitative approaches (n=70). Responses are differentiated between and within three subgroups: gender, literacy status, and relative wealth. Overall, the plurality of respondents said that fencing is the best solution, that the Forest Department should take leadership, and that villagers would be willing to participate in a cooperative management institution. However, cooperative action was only actively supported by 27.4% of respondents, suggesting that comanagement of this protected area will require significant capacity building and trust building activities. Intragroup differences show that all three factors are significant, and underscore the importance of addressing gender differences in attitudes about HWC in particular. Women were less likely than men to support compensation, more likely to prefer that the village take leadership, and less willing to participate in a cooperative management institution. The study illustrates the value of mixed-method research, and suggests a number of specific entry points for action.
4603208|Estimates of rates of return on investments in cattle among the Tawahka and Miskitu Amerindians of the Patuca river in Honduras are presented. Internal rates of return and net present values produced similar rankings. The median internal rate of return is 9% and the median net present value is 224 Lempiras (U.S.$33). Positive rates of return suggest cattle is a viable way of saving and smoothing consumption across time. The use of animals as savings may increase neotropical deforestation by indigenous populations until financial institutions step in to provide alternative and secure approaches to savings.
4602692|In recent years, many dryland farmers in Indonesia have begun shifting from traditional subsistence agricultural practices to growing cash crops. This transition has important economic and ecological implications for many Indonesian communities. This paper explores the experiences of farmers in three agro-climatic regions in eastern Bali where such changes are beginning to take place.
4603482|The Tukanoans of northwestern Amazonia cultivate high-cyanogenic potential cassava, which provides 80% of their dietary energy. In an effort to understand why the Tukanoans cultivate primarily high-rather than low-cyanogenic potential cassava, which requires far less processing before consumption, this paper seeks to determine whether the Tukanoans discern a difference in levels of predation on high- and low-cyanogenic potential cassava. Given the potential protection afforded by high-cyanogenic potential, it was hypothesized that the Tukanoans would report higher predation upon low-cyanogenic potential cassava in comparison to high-cyanogenic potential cassava. Both unstructured interviews and pile-sort exercises were conducted to address this question. The unstructured interviews provide some support for the hypothesis, while the pile-sort interviews did not support the hypothesis. These data demonstrate that while the Tukanoans are cognizant of differences in predation on different cassava cultivars, resistance to predation may not be a characteristic of paramount concern in cultivar selection.
27654313|The Gitksan and Wet'suwet'en of Northwestern British Columbia formerly used landscape burning to manage patches of black huckleberry (Vaccinium membranaceum), the most important plant resource of their seasonal round. In view of its significance one might postulate that managed sites would conform to a biophysical or ecological type to maximize return for effort. However, a survey of a number of traditionally managed sites indicated that managed sites are characterized by wide variation in biophysical attributes including elevation, aspect and moisture regime, while proximity to fishing sites, village sites, or sites for harvest of alpine resources proved to be a common factor in known historic berry patch sites. We conclude that characterization of the ideal site type for aboriginal V. membranaceum management must include the economy and social institutions of the local First Nations and requires an enhanced appreciation for the sophistication of the strategies and techniques employed in their management and utilization of the species.
40981189|We used cultural consensus models to test whether hunters shared perceptions of wildlife abundance and the relative importance of hunting and fishing in a Guarayo indigenous community in the Bolivian Amazon. Results show that highly prized animals that were considered rare are either those with lower reproductive rates and more sensitivity to land use changes and harvest (white-lipped peccary and spider monkey) or those with marked seasonal distribution patterns (barred sorubim and tiger-fish). Rapidly reproducing and resilient species (agouti and armored catfish) were perceived as abundant. More tapirs and red brocket deer were present than predicted by scientific models possibly because hunters were harvesting these species in new forest management areas. Residents identified hunting and fishing among their most important livelihood activities, recognized bush meat and fish as basic food resources, and expected wildlife harvests to be part of their future livelihoods, although market-based livelihoods and domestic replacements for bush meat were reported.
24015746|Beginning with the premise that sovereignty may be most constructively contemplated not as a definable object or objective but instead as a process, this article examines counter-mapping as a way for contemporary indigenous citizens to "do" sovereignty. It surveys three Anishinaabe/Ojibwe communities' recent use of geographical techniques to communicate their own territorial claims and counter the competing claims of others. In a 21 st century context characterized by urgent extractive-industrial threats to indigenous landbases and lifeways, the cases presented here demonstrate that counter-mapping can serve as a powerful positive tool. Yet because the prevailing methods available to safeguard landbased self-determination also have the potential to undermine it, I conclude by considering some of the pitfalls that complicate counter-mapping's ability to promote the sovereignty process. I suggest that indigenous people who choose to enact their sovereignty in this manner are indeed empowered, but only within an existingand inequitablesocio-political system.
4602300|The techniques used by the Sanio-Hiowe of Papua New Guinea to produce edible starch from the sago palm (Metroxylon sp.) are described. Input-output analysis demonstrates that this is a highly productive subsistence technology; nevertheless, the Sanio-Hiowe economy is characterized by an absence of intensification. This is ascribed to functional consequences of dependence on hunting and gathering in the interior. In coastal and riverine habitats, other societies using sago supplemented by fishing or horticulture can more fully exploit the potential of sago as a basis for economic intensification and a more sedentary life.
41474595|Vertical mobile grazing is typical in undulating mountain landscapes. However, recent social, economic, and political changes in China are impacting these traditional practices. This paper presents findings of a study conducted in the Tibetan communities of southwest China to assess the current status of mountain pastoralism and its future viability. Rangeland environment, livestock variety, and grazing form were found to be significantly related factors, which made it possible to analyze livestock distribution. The yak populationthe main mobile grazer in alpine pasture is currently stagnating while the population of cattle raised around settlements is steadily increasing. This situation is likely closely related to labor shortages in households, which have triggered the imbalanced distribution of livestock. The fact that the key to rangeland sustainability is to stimulate mobile grazing runs counter to current privatization policies.
41474621|Plant resources are used, managed and conserved by local communities in many parts of the world. However, very few studies have examined the site-specific factors and mechanisms that affect resource extraction. We apply methodology from the social and biological sciences to examine the cultural and socio-economic factors that influence the harvest practice and resource use of indigenous wood carvers in the Maningrida region of central Arnhem Land. Woodcarvers from this region use a small number of carving timbers with two species dominant, Bombax ceiba and Brachychiton diversifolius. There were many cultural differences in harvest practice, with artists from the Kuninjku/Kunibeidji language community harvesting a greater number of tree species, larger quantities per harvest trip and smaller sized stems. Socio-economic factors also played an important role in facilitating the collection of stems as artists owning a vehicle acquired more stems than those who did not. Harvest sites closest to the township of Maningrida had higher visitation frequencies than those further away. These influences on harvest practice have significant implications for the ecological sustainability of timber harvesting in this region and we highlight the need to examine such localised factors when assessing the sustainability of indigenous wildlife harvests.
24015741|Unsustainable hunting is a threat to conservation and rural livelihoods that depend on bushmeat for food and income. To reduce the pressure on forest-dependent vulnerable species, hunting in farmland might complement offtake from forests and provide a sustainable source of bushmeat. To explore this possibility, we investigated patterns of hunting and wildlife depletion, and integration of hunting into agricultural livelihoods, in an intensively managed farmforest mosaic landscape. Surveys were conducted across 63 households over a year in a Ghanaian cocoa-farming community surrounded by a timber production forest. The findings indicated a high level of wildlife depletion in the landscape and the local extinction of the largest species, especially in farmland. Most hunting occurred in forests and offtake from farmland was low, yet hunting in farmland was disproportionately common relative to its coverage in the landscape. Most farmland hunting was opportunistic and integrated with agricultural activities. Our findings suggest that intensively used farmland provides little opportunity to reduce hunting pressure in forests.
4602240|Cattle and other domestic animals in 5.77 square miles of rural West Bengal were enumerated on three separate occasions during an 18-month period. Feed consumption and productivity measurements involving 80 cattle-day observations were extrapolated to the entire cattle population and an energetic balance sheet was calculated for a 1-year period. The cattle population appears fairly stable despite a high density. The age distribution reveals a demographic imbalance in both the younger and older age groups which contributes toward a more efficient utilization of available feed supplies. One of the major roles of the cattle is to convert items of little human value into products of direct human utility. The gross energetic efficiency of the entire cattle population was approximately 17%. The current management of cattle appears to be appropriate for the ecological framework in which they exist.
4602963|Usufruct rights to trees (Ekwar) in the Turkana silvo-pastoral system are an important aspect of natural resource management, particularly in the drier central parts of Kenya. Originating from a participatory forestry extension program, a survey was carried out that showed the extent and duration, often in excess of one generation, of occupancy of a person's Ekwar. Such rights center around the dry season fodder resources, especially of Acacia tortilis. However they are not definite and are linked to risk-spreading by flexibility in livestock management and the need that they be maintained through efficient usage and social linkages. Hitherto, such natural resource management systems have all but been ignored in the development process in favor of the "tragedy of the commons" paradigm. Likewise, pastoral development has tended to emphasize range and water, while trees are not given the attention they deserve. This endangers the resilience of the system, and it is therefore important that development works with, not against, such environmentally-sound practices to try to make them more sustainable in the long term.
4602850|The investigation of crop and soil-crop conditions among Andoke and Witoto cultivators in southeast Colombia is used as a basis for assessing Geertz' (1963) model of swidden cultivation. In this respect, the extent to which maniocdominated swiddens in the study area "simulate" the structure and composition of the forest climax community is questioned. As Geertz (1963) indicates, an initial nutrient boost for crop cultivation results from the preliminary burning of forest debris, but weed competition, rather than progressive loss of soil fertility, is reported to be the primary cause of abandoning manioc cultivation after 2-3 years. While the Andoke and Witoto crop system remains adaptive at the individual field level, particularly in its constituent species, its fundamental adaptation is considered to be its integration into the broader "field and fallow" system that juxtaposes crop production with extended periods of forest regeneration.
4603426|As the United States and Australia struggle with contemporary crises over competing uses of rapidly depleting natural resources, there are striking parallels between American Indian and Australian Aboriginal communities demanding a place at the management table and offering culturally based understandings of and solutions for the ecosystems at risk. These efforts to integrate indigenous knowledge into mainstream natural resource management are part of larger legal and political debates over land tenure, the locus of control, indigenous self-governance, and holistic ecosystems management.
4602920|This paper defines a four-tiered, hierarchical system for classifying subsistence production types in Nepal and uses the system to describe the subsistence communities of central Nepal. The system first divides Nepal into a grid of homogenous parts or "cells," second, it divides, the cells into "ridge-valley slope sequences," third, defines "production types" for the ridge-valley slope sequences, and, finally, distinguishes local "variants" of the production types. After describing these tiers, I apply these categories to the northern portions of the central and western development regions where I have done research. I then define how representatives of Nepal as a whole are the production types defined for the central and western development regions. Finally, the paper locates some completed studies within its framework.
4602924|This paper discusses the problems of environment and development in Sikkim Himalaya. Two features of Sikkim, the fragile mountain environment and the very rapidly growing population, are crucial in formulating future development plans. An integrated approach to development and environmental conservation is suggested.
4603063|The age structure, sex composition, and territorial behavior of wild camelids is compared to that of llama herds from the community of Alota, southwestern Bolivia. The parallels suggest that herd management techniques are designed to replicate wild camelid social organization. The predictable camelid territorial behavior in turn facilitates the management of llama herds. The implications of these organizational and territorial parallels are discussed with reference to camelid procurement strategies and domestication.
4603253|Being an island has been important for Madagascar's archaeology in two ways. First, its insularity was probably responsible for the lateness and some features of its first human colonizers, as well as for its highly endemic flora and fauna. The earliest coastal communities continued to interact with the Indian Ocean trade network, but the latterly settled interior eventually saw the greatest population increases, eclipsing the coastal communities in power. Second, it may be that as an island, archaeologists have unconsciously been predisposed to interpret Malagasy prehistory in terms of a tree-like model of evolution from a single ancestral culture. Yet if, as seems probable, Malagasy culture has seen contributions from many others, such a single "proto-culture" may never have existed.
41433091|This paper analyses poverty and inequality dynamics among smallholders along the Transamazon Highway. We measure changes in poverty and inequality for original settlers and new owners, contrasting income-based with multidimensional indices of well-being. Our results show an overall reduction in both poverty and inequality among smallholders, although poverty decline was more pronounced among new owners, while inequality reduction was larger among original settlers. This trend suggests that families have an initial improvement in livelihood and well-being which tends to reach a limit latera sign of structural limitations common to rural areas and maybe a replication of boom and bust trends in local economies among Amazonian municipalities. In addition, our multidimensional estimates of well-being reveal that some economically viable land use strategies of smallholders (e.g., pasture) may have important ecological implications for the regional landscape. These findings highlight the public policy challenges for fostering sustainable development among rural populations.
24013749|Economic analyses of risk typically employ mean and variance calculations such as the coefficient of variation (CV) and z-score model. In this study we examine to what degree these simple measures approximate people's perceptions of the risk associated with different farming, foraging, and fishing subsistence activities in southwestern Madagascar. CV calculated using production data for 15 activities (ranked) explains about 18 % of participants' risk ratings from 24 focus groups. CV corresponds better to the ratings of men (37 %) and farmers (40 %), but does not predict the ratings by women, foragers, or Vezo fishermen, suggesting that economic measures of risk have a male and agrarian bias. Narrative responses suggest that risk is qualitatively different for foragers and fishermen, who face hazard (danger) and the cosmological dread of dying far from home. We conclude by predicting the ethnographic and ecological contexts when researchers should go beyond mean and variance when estimating risk.
4603288|This paper examines the indigenous land and forest management systems of the community of seven Iban longhouses whose territories comprise the area of Batang Ai National Park in Sarawak, Malaysia. It also discusses the integrated conservation and development program (ICDP) at the park. This project is attempting to work within the existing system of customary law to build on traditional legislative infrastructure and management practices, in order to enlist the cooperation of local people and their leaders in implementing a new conservation strategy. In addition to reinforcing local authority, park planners recognize the need for local people to be given strong incentives to participate in co-management of the protected area. This paper argues that, despite a history of conflict with indigenous peoples, State officials have in this instance demonstrated a willingness to work with local people and community leaders. At the same time, they are encouraging community development, helping people to find alternatives to activities that threaten the park's wildlife.
41474636|This study explores the relation between household socioeconomic status (SES) and participation in urban and periurban agriculture (UPA) in three West African cities. We used a structured questionnaire to survey 700 randomly selected households: 250 in Kano, Nigeria, 250 in Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina Faso, and 200 in Sikasso, Mali. Multiple correspondence analysis was applied on household asset variables to create an index of assets which was used as a proxy for household SES. The results showed no significant differences in households' rate of participation in UPA across socioeconomic groups. Participation in UPA was rather significantly (P<0.001) and positively related to household size. Interestingly, the analysis revealed that field crop cultivation and gardening were more common among households in the low and medium SES groups while those in the high SES group were more likely to keep livestock.
41474671|This article is concerned with the implementation of community-based conservancies (CBC) in conflictridden pastoralist areas of northern Kenya and whether the creation of protected areas can facilitate the resolution of conflict. Evidence from ethnographic research in East Pokot, Kenya, reveals a mixed picture. In the last decade, three CBCs were established along the administrative borders. Two of them are located in contested areas between the Pokot and neighboring pastoralists. In order to ensure their long-term success in terms of wildlife conservation and economic viability they must act as catalysts for interethnic conflict resolution. In one case, the implementation proved successful, while in the other it exacerbated tensions and led to ethnic violence. In addition, issues of conservation are also embedded in deeper intra-societal struggles over the reconfiguration and renegotiation of access to and control over land. Drawing on ethnographic data and recent literature this research sheds light on unexpected consequences of CBC.
4602773|Horn's model is generalized to state that the "optimal" pattern of distribution for foragers will correlate with the degree of resource patchiness; in particular (1) where resource attributes are less patchy, the "optimal" distribution for foragers is to be dispersed, and (2) where resource attributes are more patchy, the "optimal" distribution for foragers is to be aggregated. "Optimality" is assessed as the minimum round-trip distance from the forager's home base to a resource item. Patchiness is assessed according to the state taken by any of four resource attributes: dispersion (in space), supply (in time), particle size, and lasting properties. Horn's original contrast between (1) stable and evenly dispersed resources, and (2) mobile and clumped resources is shown to have been internally contradictory; that is, the "optimal" distribution for foragers would have been the same in both cases.
4602819|Shipibo Indians, who formed a village to establish a school and health clinic, are gradually depleting local fish and game resources. Men, recently adopting rice as a cash crop, tend to fish and hunt less than other men working only their subsistence gardens. Sale of fish and game in the village is becomeing common, and pigs, once raised exclusively for sale to non-Shipibo, are now more regularly eaten and used for attracting agricultural labor. Other research has indicated that cash cropping often competes for workers' time in subsistence and so dietary change usually accompanies changing activity patterns. This paper explores the latter possibility by examining the relationship between cash cropping, wild meat procurement, and diet among the Shipibo. Time allocation and food consumption data are analyzed statistically to test a mathematical theory and model which relates indigenous work patterns to diet.
40928155|In Canaima National Park (CNP), Venezuela, a protected area inhabited by the Pemn people, sociocultural and demographic changes have contributed to the apparent unsustainable use of fire, leading to forest and habitat loss. This over-use of fire, together with increased forest vulnerability to fire as a result of global climate change, could put both ecosystems and human well-being at risk. The conflict over fire use derives from the fact that whereas the Pemn depend for their livelihood on the use of fire for shifting cultivation and hunting, the policy of the CNP government agencies is fire exclusion (although this is not effectively enforced). Nevertheless, recent ecological studies have revealed that the creation of a mosaic of patches with different fire histories could be used to create firebreaks that reduce the risk of the wildfires that threaten the vulnerable and diverse savanna-forest transition areas. This technique imitates the traditional cooperative savanna burning strategies of the Pemn. By linking research on knowledge systems with management policies, the impasse over fire in the CNP might be avoided.
4603459|This paper describes the expansion of cacao farming among Mayan farmers in the Toledo District, Belize, during the 1980s and why the expansion took place. Land planted with cacao increased from 237 acres in 1983 to 1014 acres in 1990. The number of cacao farmers increased from 70 to 365 and beans sold to Hershey Foods Corporation increased from 1086 to almost 32,000 pounds. This paper describes the distribution of cacao farming in space and time and it uses a holistic approach to explain land-used/cover change. An ecologic model is proposed that explains the cacao expansion that involves the interaction of several forces. During the 1980s, Hershey Foods Corporation provided an unlimited market for cacao beans, agricultural loans and technical assistance were provided by international development agencies, and Mayan farmers planted cacao to gain usufruct rights to reservation and national land. During the 1990s a British organic food company became the new market for cacao beans.
40603001|In this paper, I examine patterns of wealth accumulation and their influence on deforestation among smallholders at Uruar and Redeno, in the state of Par in the Brazilian Eastern Amazon. I argue that the development of the smallholder economy has not been a linear process, and the diversity of smallholder farming systems and their patterns of wealth accumulation have varied implications for the rate and magnitude of deforestation. However, whilst there are differential impacts of farming practices on deforestationcattle ranching has a greater impact than cash cropping or subsistence agriculturethe stronger correlate of deforestation is the wealth of the farmers. Wealthier farmers not only tend to deforest more in absolute terms, but also show a slightly greater propensity to deforest whatever their production system. Though cattle production is a key driver of wealth accumulation and thus deforestation, a significant number of smallholders adopt diversified production systems. The main factors explaining the relationship between the farming systems and deforestation were years of residence on the lot, distance of the lot to main market and the amount of day labor hiredand not variables describing household structure.
4602436|In this paper we examine the decline in mortality rates by cause of death in U.S. cities during the last decade of the 19th century. Causes of death are grouped according to their probable relationship to specific public health measures. The reduction which occurred in the death rates from some disease, e.g., typhoid and diarrheal diseases, can probably be attributed in part to the provision of sewers and waterworks. Large declines also occurred in the death rates from tuberculosis and diphtheria, but the relationship between the declines in these diseases and public health practices designed to combat them is more ambiguous. We therefore conclude that public health measures had some impact on the decline in mortality, but that these measures do not provide a complete explanation of the mortality decline.
4603484|A well-known facet of ecosystems is that the edges--the boundaries or transitions from one ecosystem to another--often exhibit high levels of species richness or biodiversity. These transitional areas often show features of species composition, structure, and function representative of the ecosystems they transcend, as well as having their own unique array of species and characteristics. Cultural transitional areas--zones where two or more cultures converge and interact--are similarly rich and diverse in cultural traits, exhibiting cultural and linguistic features of each of the contributing peoples. This results in an increase in cultural capital, and resilience, by providing a wider range of traditional ecological knowledge and wisdom on which to draw, especially in times of stress and change. We propose that indigenous peoples whose living territories traverse ecological edges have a correspondingly increased access to economically important resources and therefore have a greater capacity for flexibility. Finally, we suggest that indigenous peoples are drawn to areas having a high incidence of ecological edges, and furthermore, that they actively create and maintain ecological edges. This practice provides them with a greater diversity of cultural capital and helps to maintain their flexibility and resilience. Examples from several regions of Canada are provided, from the southern interior of British Columbia, to the Lake Winnipeg watershed of Manitoba and Ontario, to James Bay.
27654159|Most research featuring demographic factors in environmental change has focused on processes operating at the level of national or global populations. This paper focuses on household-level demographic life cycles among colonists in the Amazon, and evaluates the impacts on land use allocation. The analysis goes beyond prior research by including a broader suite of demographic variables, and by simultaneously assessing their impacts on multiple land uses with different economic and ecological implications. We estimate a system of structural equations that accounts for endogeneity among land uses, and the findings indicate stronger demographic effects than previous work. These findings bear implications for modeling land use, and the place of demography in environmental research.
4602989|The European demographic transition of the nineteenth century is often proposed as a model for demographic change in twentieth century developing nations, and economic development is seen as leading to an inevitable reduction in total fertility in these nations. This paper examines data from the Gainj of Papua New Guinea, a natural fertility population with very low reproductive output, and suggests that the effects of development on fertility change are much more complex than a simple demographic transition model would suggest. Looking at two variables known to contribute significantly to low total fertility among the Gainj, late age at first birth for women and long interbirth intervals, the paper suggests that households, in their recruitment and allocation of labor, may exert a mediating influence in the relationship between economic development and fertility.
25652747|The Phlegraean Fields Regional Park in southern Italy has an especially long history of human exploitation. For our enthnobotanical studies we interviewed 39 people native to the area and recorded 962 use-reports. For each species, we provide scientific and vernacular names, plant parts used, and preparation and administration processes. In all, 69 species belonging to 35 families were classified. The species most frequently mentioned were Citrus limon, Chamomilla recutita, Malva sylvestris, Parietaria judaica, Ficus carica, Foeniculum vulgare and Laurus nobilis. The commonest plant use recorded is medicinal, followed by culinary and domestic; for 26% of the species inventoried, more than one use was recorded. The present study confirms the persistence of traditional plant use in regions of central and southern Italy.
4602802|The different responses of plants to drought conditions are examined in the Western Desert of Australia to demonstrate the necessity of considering plant food availability prior to optimal foraging applications involving human hunter-gatherers. The correspondence of Ngatatjara dietary breadth changes to optimal foraging predictions is explained as an adaptive response to the unpredictable Western Desert rainfall. By minimizing the time allocated to food procurement, energy-efficient foraging reduces the risk involved in the exploitation of scattered, ephemeral water sources. Further applications of optimal foraging models to hunter-gatherers is one line of promising investigation to address behavioral variability among human foragers.
4602822| A chemical ecological model can be the basis for defining testable hypotheses concerning human interactions with plants. Selection by Aymara subsistence cultivators against toxic glycoalkaloids in the ongoing domestication of the Bolivian potato cultigen Solanum  ajanhuiri was used as a specific case study of human interactions with phytochemicals. In taste perception tests, Aymara subjects were able to discriminate between concentrations of pure glycoalkaloids in solution only above 20 mg/100 ml. Taste panel tests of potato clones indicated that glycoalkaloid levels are important to the Aymara in determining quality only as part of a decision-making process involving two character states: too high or acceptable. Glycoalkaloids in potatoes are regarded as toxic to humans above 20 mg/100 g fresh weight. Among the Aymara, a breakpoint in the curve for glycoalkaloid preference appears to occur between 20-38 mg/100 g. This distinction is evident in the Aymara potato taxonomy which distinguishes bitter (luq'i ch'oke) from nonbitter (ch'oke) potatoes. 
4602378|Two studies were designed to explore differences between human territoriality and privacy. Study I was designed to determine whether subjects would distinguish between settings offering (1) privacy, (2) territory, (3) both, or (4) neither, and whether they would be prepared to sacrifice privacy for territory (or vice versa) in choosing settings for certain specified activities. Results showed that subjects did make these distinctions. Study II was a laboratory experiment designed to explore the separate psychological effects of territory and privacy. In it, subjects first territorialized individual experimental rooms then half completed dependent measures (focusing on attribution) in their new territories, while half worked in comparable rooms they had not seen before. Subjects were also divided so that half had privacy while completing the measures, while half had none. Results indicated that privacy led subjects to attribute their behavior less to the influence of others, and, independently, subjects working on their own territories attributed their behavior more to own personality. Private environments were also reported as being more stimulating and free, and subjects were more creative there.
25652784|Iran's population has doubled from 33.7 million in 1976 to 70 million in 2006. According to the 2006 Census, 68.4% of the population live in urban areas and 31.6% live in 40,000 rural villages. This census excludes the nomadic population, which is estimated to be 1.3 million people. Despite agricultural production growing faster than population in the last three decades, 2.7 million people (4%) were still undernourished and almost 2% of the population had an income less than $1 a day (9.3% less than $2 a day) in 19902003. The agricultural sector thus faces the prospect of feeding 100 million people by 2050, as well as the challenge of improving the livelihoods of farmers. This report addresses the issues inherent in this dilemma.
4603500|Domestic firewood collection is compared across study sites in Malawi and Tanzania. The study focuses on accommodation of infant-care within wood collection, the influence of family size on firewood demand and the contribution of girls to firewood collection. Malawian women carry their infants on wood collection trips. The Tanzanian women leave their infants behind. The shorter trips of the Tanzanian women, and the ready availability of alloparental care may facilitate this. Mean per capita wood consumption was similar across the two sites. However, a marked economy of scale was evident in wood use at the Malawi site. Girls at both sites assist with wood collection. Their contribution appears more than sufficient to compensate for their own wood use. Having a daughter therefore need not represent a net energetic cost to a woman in terms of firewood acquisition and consumption. While family size and structure appear to influence firewood consumption and acquisition, differences in the environment between the two sites may underpin much of the variation. The longer journey times, heavier load, and less frequent journeys undertaken by Malawian women may reflect the steep terrain and risks associated with firewood collection within a national park.
4602693|Analyses of nearly 3000 hr of hunting for mammals by Etolo people of Papua New Guinea reveal that older hunters were more successful than younger hunters, that increased success was due, in large part, to higher rates of capture for only two of 24 prey species, and that access to a good hunting dog accounted for the increase in rate of capture for one of these two species. A comparison of Gadio Enga and Rofaifo mammal hunting with that of Etolo reveals a marked decline in energy and protein yields with increase of altitude. This is attributed to altitudinal changes in the composition of the available fauna within Papua New Guinea and to reinforcing effects from increased human population density.
4602522|This paper examines a prevailing cultural interpretation of high infant mortality rates among the 19th-century English working class. It argues that most deaths attributed to "overlaying" or "smothering" were probably not the results of infanticide but rather due to Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). Recent research on SIDS is discussed in support of this hypothesis, followed by a description of the demographic and nutritional conditions of 19th-century British working-class populations. Finally, the class-cultural biases of the "infanticide" hypothesis are suggested.
4603168|Rapid and spatially concentrated urbanization in South Africa has brought with it significant health and safety hazards. These hazards are described and analyzed through two optics: environmental rights and community participation. The rights perspective suggests that the system of apartheid led to a collapse of rural livelihoods, driving people to the cities, while apartheid's tight control over African residential location and employment ensured that high density settlement and unemployment would follow. The resulting urban environmental degradation and health and safety hazards are a violation of the human rights of the African residents of townships and informal settlements. The community participation perspective suggests that reconstruction can be linked to development and that community-based hazard identification and mitigation can be a vehicle for kick-starting urban revitalization.
27654208|Understanding the causes of land use change is of great importance for issues of tropical deforestation, agricultural development and biodiversity conservation. Many quantitative studies, therefore, aim to link land use change to its causal 'driving forces.' The epistemology of virtually all these studies is inductive, searching for correlations within relatively large, sometimes spatially explicit, datasets. This can be sound science but we here aim to exemplify that there is also scope for more deductive approaches that test a pre-defined explanatory theory. The paper first introduces the principles and merits of inductive and more deductive types of land use modeling. It then presents one integrated causal model that is subsequently specified to predict land use in an area in northeastern Philippines in a deductive manner, and tested against the observed land use in that area. The same set of land use data is also used in an inductive (multinomial regression) approach. With a goodness-of-prediction of 70% of the deductive model and a goodness-of-fit of 77% of the inductive model, both perform equally well, statistically. Because the deductive model explicitly contains not only the causal factors but also the causal mechanisms that explain land use, the deductive model then provides a more truly causal, as well as more theory-connected, understanding of land use. This provides land use scholarship with an invitation to add more deductive (theory-driven and theory-building) daring to its methodological repertoire.
27654206|On the island of Hainan, China, the provincial government has recently committed itself to sustainable development, which requires the integration of social, environmental, and economic factors in decision making. However, while Hainan's recent Eco-province designation establishes environmental and economic factors as the basis of policy development, it overlooks the equally important social component of sustainability, in which social needs and values are key considerations. This paper presents the results of a study on Hainan in 2002, with government officials, forestry workers, and the Li, an indigenous minority group, and places the province's situation within the context of both the larger changes underway in China, and the theory and practice of sustainable forestry. The research results show that the government of Hainan has not yet been able to manage both social welfare and environmental and economic issues, demonstrating the difficulty of implementing sustainable forestry and of balancing short- with long-term goals. The inclusion of Li communities in forestry-related decision making could reduce tensions between local communities and forestry management and also improve the sustainability of the government's forestry practices.
4603407|The ancestral tradition of gathering nontimber products in the Andean forests of Patagonia seems to be on the verge of disappearing. Edible wild plant knowledge and differential patterns of use have been compared in two populations of different economic and cultural backgrounds--a small rural Mapuche community (Rams), and an outlying population (El Frutillar). The first is located in an herbaceous steppe far from the nearest Andean forest while the seconds is located outside the town of Bariloche, near the forests of Nahuel Huapi National Park. Semistructured interviews and related ecological variables were compared in both communities. In the past, both communities utilized nontimber forest products from the Andean Temperate forests. However, today, cost and benefit trade-offs appear to affect when and what edible resources are collected. The people from El Frutillar gather fewer wild plants in spite of the high plant abundance and the notorious food scarcity they suffer. The Mapuche people use more nutritious resources, more native species, spend longer traveling to the gathering site, and longer handling time preparing edible plants.
27654174|We analyzed data on Ju/'hoansi huntergatherer foraging patterns and found that their movements between residence camps can be modeled as a Lvy flight. The step lengths of their movements scale as a power law with an exponent =1.97. Their wait times (residence times) at the camps also scale as a power law (=1.45). A Lvy flight with step lengths =2 is an optimal search pattern for scarce, randomly located targets; thus, the Ju/'hoansi foraging pattern may approach an optimal search in this area of sparse plant and animal resources. These findings affect the application of optimal foraging theory to humans in anthropology and archaeology because they alter the way in which search and travel times should be quantified. These results may also carry implications for the study of other patterns of human movement, such as demic diffusion and migration.
4602388|This article describes the hunting tactics and prey selection of the Valley Bisa, a matrilineal, subsistence-oriented society in the Luangwa Valley of Zambia. Although Valley Bisa hunters explain their behavior in their own idioms, many of their tactics, including the stimuli for and timing of hunts, the circular morphology of their hunting patterns, and randomized searches, appear functionally related to the behavior and ecology of their prey. The effects of outlawing traditional harvest techniques and the imposition and enforcement of external constraints on Valley Bisa hunting patterns are discussed. Data on habitats, density of cover, wind direction, species, and initial distance to prey from 50 hunts, in which 16 mammals were killed, are compared and related to success and failure of stalking attempts. Graphs, comparing the numbers of observations for each of four variables with the frequency of stalking attempts, illustrate the cultural style of predation for this group of hunters.
4603092|The results of a comparison of agricultural settlement and land-use and local precipitation patterns in the arid region of the Arava in Israel indicated that as the number of settlements and the area of cultivated land has increased since the 1950s, the albedo effect in the region has decreased, and the amounts of precipitation at the first October rains have increased. It is suggested that the albedo effect in desert areas is influenced by extended agricultural land-use.
4603298|Among the agro-pastoralist Kuria people of Tanzania, many young men are engaged in an illicit livestock trade in which cattle stolen in Tanzania are sold to Tanzanian and Kenyan buyers for cash. In contrast to earlier theoretical formulations that have focused on pastoralist livestock raiding's presumed benign human-ecological functions of redistribution and herd management, this paper argues that Kuria cattle raiding is the driving force behind deleterious, and severe, human-ecological consequences in the study area, including a plummeting cattle population and a steady decline in food production in northern Tanzania's agriculturally bountiful Tarime District.
4602636|A major difficulty inthe study of the relationship between human population size and the environment has been placing the problem in a testable framework. Using data from the Marshall Islands, this article tests the proposition that population size and density are highly correlated with environmental variables, including rainfall and land area, through a complex series of socially mediated regulatory mechanisms. This analysis thus supports the population-resources disequilibrium theory of culture change.
4602694|It is suggested on both theoretical and empirical grounds that both central tendency and maximum potential range of variation in camp size among a variety of pastoral nomad groups is heavily constrained by limitations on the ability of individuals and small groups to monitor and process information in decision-making contexts.
4603495|Debate over how people behave in an open access environment is ongoing in both the social sciences and natural resource management circles. Central to this debate is the question of driving forces behind decisions and behavior toward natural resources within a given area. Using data from an artisanal shrimping community in Ecuador, I demonstrate that behavior in an open access environment, measured in terms of fishing effort, is responsive to both economic and noneconomic factors, the nature of which depends on the temporal scale at which behavior is being measured--hourly, daily, or amount of gear over time. These findings suggest that much of the observed variation between previous studies and corresponding data sets may be a methodological artifact, and the ensuing debates ultimately a result of different methodologies and scales of analyses.
4602472|Asmat hunter-gatherers of Irian Jaya have been experiencing rapid culture change since 1953, yet demographically still can be classified as "living primitives." Methods of nonstandard data analysis are utilized in an attempt to provide specific information on age-sex structure, fertility, birth rates, death rates, population growth, internal migration, and life expectancy in the contact era, and to aid in the development of a two-part model of population growth encompassing the immediate precontact and contact eras. Special attention is paid to the continuing albeit reduced impact of infanticide. Brief comparisons with other Melanesian and Third World societies are presented; the Asmat average annual growth rate of 1.5% since first permanent contact in 1953 contrasts with the generally higher rates reported for most of these other groups.
4603091|This paper describes and then analyzes the decision-making arrangements that prevail among the Raikas--nomadic shepherds from Western India. The paper suggests, using a simple analytical framework, that the existing distribution of decision-making during migration helps the Raikas to utilize available economies of scale, represent the different interest groups in their collectives, and control their decision-makers. At the same time, the ordinary shepherds in the camp are able to extract a comfortable subsistence from a complex and harsh environment by delegating much of their decision-making responsibilities to the leaders in the camp. To the extent shepherds in other parts of the world migrate over long distances and must confront similar issues of delegation of responsibilities and control over decision-makers, the analysis holds general relevance.
27654106|In the Indian state of Goa, communally owned agricultural land has persisted through indigenous state rule, colonial occupation and postcolonial liberation. We show that in Goa, and indeed elsewhere in the world, communally owned land provides protection against scarcity, risk, and state revenue demands in wet rice agriculture. When wet rice agriculture is the primary agricultural activity, communally owned land is an effective way to utilize resources. These findings add to the literature that challenges the inevitability of the tragedy of commonly owned resources.
27654226|Environmental effects of salmon farming are controversial issues. In Northern Norway, cod fishers argue that the location of salmon pens in fjords results in the cessation of local cod spawning. Research supporting or rejecting such statements is scant. There is an absence of both short-term and long-term studies on the effects that salmon farming may have on wild fish stocks. There are few studies of local ecosystem relationships in general. This article explores fishers' arguments about the effects of salmon farming. It discusses methods of assessing the reliability and validity of fisher knowledge, and contributes to the discussion on assets and limitations of narrative data and experiential knowledge.
41474635|The causes of agricultural intensification in a peasant community in the north central Andes are explored using a methodology derived from the tradition of Systems Ecology. Hypotheses derived from different research traditionsmainly development economics and anthropologyregarding the causes of intensification are integrated and evaluated for their relative effects. It is found that among the variables, household size is better at explaining the degree of intensity with which labor and technology are employed. The results suggest that technologically-driven agricultural intensification is generally forced upon households by the diminishing returns of their labor, and that this process is normally accompanied by increased financial debt for those peasant households who remain in agriculture and do not completely migrate to regional urban centers.
40981190|In order to understand wabusk (polar bear, Ursus maritimus) behaviours and interactions with people in the Hudson Bay lowlands of northern Ontario we conducted this collaborative study of Cree kiskayndamowin/knowledge. Our findings reveal that Cree knowledge supports previously published information on polar bears, while adding further contextual findings: that male polar bears travel greater distances into the muskeg than previously recorded; that wabusk prey on amisk (beaver, Castor canadensis); that wabusk interact with muskwa (black bears, Ursus americanus); and that human-polar bear interactions occur in this region of northern Canada. Bearing in mind that Cree knowledge has been recognized in wildlife management strategies (i.e., for beaver, caribou and moose) elsewhere in Canada, this particular body of information is timely, especially since polar bears are considered threatened under the Ontario Endangered Species Act, and the province is developing a recovery strategy for the Southern Hudson Bay polar bear population. The federal government is also contemplating listing polar bears in Canada as a "species of special concern" under the Species at Risk Act (SARA). While it is unclear as to how these decisions will impact the Cree-polar interactions, the listing of polar bears by both governments, but especially the provincial government of Ontario, must recognize treaty and Aboriginal rights, acknowledge its duties to consult and properly accommodate Aboriginal people's views, incorporate Cree kiskayndamowinl knowledge of wabusk, and re-examine the proposed Wabusk Co-Management Agreement draft developed by the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources (OMNR) and Coastal Cree First Nations of Northern Ontario in 1994. The article provides recommendations that highlight how the Northern Cree First Nations, through the development of the Recovery Strategy for Polar Bear in Ontario, can become engaged in the management of wabusk in Ontario and throughout Canada.
23353203|Shifting cultivation has long been a major livelihood for people in the miombo woodlands of southern, central and eastern Africa. However, increasing deforestation and forest degradation throughout the region are resulting in growing pressure on traditional shifting agricultural systems. Indeed, agricultural intensification and expansion itself is considered the primary cause of miombo deterioration, which is driven by both endogenous and exogenous variables operating at various scales. On the basis of data collected in the 1990s and 2010 from two villages in Northern Province, Zambia and two in the Rukwa Region, Tanzania, the paper will document the transition of shifting cultivation towards more intensive land use practices. It is argued that the main drivers influencing miombo degradation, and thereby the transition process of traditional shifting cultivation practices, have been a growing population, government policies, and an increasing commercialization/market integration. Questionnaires, focus group meetings, and in-depth interviews reveal that despite the breakdown of the traditional shifting cultivation practices, a general improvement of livelihoods has taken place. This has happened through adaptation and diversification in both agricultural practices and livelihood activities. However, it is also seen that because of the often rapidly changing external factors (market conditions and policies), life in the shifting cultivation communities involves a continual shift of emphasis among a variety of livelihood strategies.
4603183|It has become a theoretical commonplace among students of southwest Asian pastoralism that the balance of exchange between pastoralists and their settled neighbors has had a profound effect on pastoralists, strongly influencing household viability and, indeed, the viability of pastoralism as an adaptation. However, little attempt has been made to examine historical variation in the balance of exchange. Attempts to use transformations in the balance of exchange as a means of accounting for change among pastoralists thus remain largely impressionistic and underspecified. This paper examines variations in the balance of exchange between Iranian pastoralists and non-pastoralists from 1815 to 1977. It demonstrates that to the degree that there were long term shifts in the balance of exchange, they favored pastoralists, and it argues that this trend became stronger, rather than weaker in the 20th century. This suggests that pressures on pastoralists over this period were not directly economic and that variation in the balance of exchange itself cannot account for outcomes such as the increased settlement of Iranian pastoralists.
4602777|The prevalence of absentee herd ownership in Africa's pastoral areas is increasing. Its presence has important implications both for local resource management systems and for research programs that address pastoral ecology and related topics. This paper examines patterns of absentee herd ownership in the Baringo District of northern Kenya. This region has been the source of much debate regarding herder "mismanagement" of range lands. Three categories of absentee herd owners are discussed in the paper: (1) ranchers, (2) livestock traders, and (3) townsmen. It is suggested that the blame for some of the apparent resource mismanagement in the region may lie more with actors in these categories than with the pastoralists themselves. Data collected during an 18-month period in 1980-1981 on pastoral ecology, grazing patterns, and tenure institutions are presented in support of the argument. The paper concludes with a comparative analysis of contemporary resource management strategies in pastoral Africa, emphasizing that: (1) the Baringo case is not an isolated anomaly, and (2) a new orientation toward pastoral studies is warranted.
4602847|Births in Greene County, Alabama for the years 1980-1984 were examined and an overall seasonal trend was found with a peak from August through November. This trend was found to be most pronounced among women greater than 24 yeas old, and among multiparous women, and to be negatively correlated with seasonal variations in temperature and daylight. The phenomenon is likely multifactorial in origin, with sociocultural factors playing a considerable role. The influence of increasing maternal age and parity in the expression of the seasonal trend may be a function of age-related changes in families, with nuclear families acting as the most powerful potentiators of seasonality.
4602367|Ecological problems -- because they involve interactions and interfaces -- require for their solution a flexible, interdisciplinary approach. Ecological research can best be supported in an international, intergovernmental framework, but, at first sight, the requirements of such a framework may seem unwieldy to traditionally trained natural and social scientists. Experience acquired in implementing UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme indicates that it is possible to overcome the difficulties of conducting integrated research and to achieve internationally comparable results. The MAB Programme is a good example of both the potential and the limitations of integrated, international ecological research programs. There seem to be three imperatives for success: (1) research must be problem oriented, (2) the unit selected for study must be sufficiently comprehensive and based on human use systems, and (3) research workers in various natural and social science disciplines and the administrative decision-makers must share responsibility for planning and execution.
4602938|Many researchers have commented on the remarkable ability of African shifting cultivators to adjust their agricultural methods to available resources. In northern Zambia, where the shifting cultivators depend on woodlands as an agricultural fallow crop, deforestation is prevalent under the increasing population pressure. Adaptations to the less vigorous forest cover have taken various forms, but all of them can be described as succession to a common system of shifting cultivation. In many respects, these can be regarded as part of a process of agricultural adaptive radiation as the affected populations were pushed into new environments as a result of warfare and/or population pressure.
4602830|The success of an agricultural industry in commercial duck egg production in the swamplands of South Kalimantan (Borneo) is examined through the utilization of a human ecology framework. Seasonality of resource availability and human population growth are identified as two major constraints to production faced by farmers. Population increases in the urban sectors of southeastern Borneo also present economic opportunities for farmers because of the growing demand for poultry products. Farmers have responded by developing an intensification strategy in egg production based on the use of diversified resources for duck feed. The long-term consequences of these and other innovations in duck farming are discussed; and diversity-stability theory is examined for its applicability to this case of agricultural development and for rural development theory and practice.
27654171|With the rise of joint management of protected areas, community representatives are increasingly involved in formal negotiations with state officials, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and other actors. Policy recommendations have commonly idealized "win-win" scenarios. Theoretical work on negotiation from psychology and management studies, however, points to identifiable circumstances under which the goal of a mutually beneficial "win-win" situation may limit the strategies, and ultimately the benefits, available to communities. Instead, an antagonistic, "distributive" approach to negotiations may be more compatible with the pressures on and strategies available to community representatives. The tensions between a "mutual gains" and "distributive" approach to negotiations are evident in two land claims on protected areas in South Africa: the Dwesa-Cwebe Nature Reserves, and the Pafuri Triangle, a portion of Kruger National Park. In each, NGOs that operated with a "mutual gains" strategy, espousing a "win-win" scenario, came to be perceived as collaborating with conservation agencies. Meanwhile, as negotiation theory would suggest, community representatives inclined towards a "distributive" strategy and allied with a second set of explicitly advocatory NGOs. Expecting that communities should embrace a "win-win" scenario from the outset is unrealistic and likely to reduce communities' power in negotiations.
4602520|The question of why people work more or less at various activities is an old one in anthropology and recently has surfaced in studies of native South American societies. Growing out of debates about protein scarcity, arguments have arisen over the reasons why people spend time on hunting and fishing. Some authors suggest that labor allocation and other societal features can be explained with reference to absolute minimum requirements for specific nutrients (e.g., protein). This study presents data from four native Central Brazilian societies on the time spent at various subsistence tasks and the productivity of those tasks. The evidence suggests that decisions to allocate labor to hunting and fishing are influenced more by the overall possibilities for production in an area than by the availability of animal proteins alone. Satisfaction of calorie requirements appears to take precedence over satisfaction of protein requirements. In those societies in which gardening is highly productive, people can spend more time on hunting and fishing and improve the overall quality of their diet.
25652781|Bushmeat is an important component of the informal economy throughout West and Central Africa. In order to formulate effective policy to ensure the sustainability of bushmeat hunting for both development and conservation reasons, there is a need to understand its position within the wider rural economy. We conducted interviews with households and hunters over a 15-month period in a village in continental Equatorial Guinea which supplies substantial quantities of bushmeat to the urban market, to evaluate (1) whether hunting is predominately for income or consumption and through choice or necessity, and (2) the factors influencing household production of and consumption and expenditure on bushmeat. Hunting for trade to urban markets is a major component of household incomes, carried out by around 60% of poor-to-middle income households, while richer households have other income-generating activities. The greater a hunter's bushmeat offtake, the higher the proportion sold. Bushmeat forms a minor component of household expenditure and is less widely consumed than alternative protein sources. It is a necessity good, with consumption and expenditure on bushmeat related less than proportionately to income. While they prefer the security of a regular wage, hunting is an important source of fall-back income for men in the absence of preferable alternative livelihood opportunities.
4602561|The use of tools to obtain food is probably a long-standing hominid adaptation. Therefore, the rapid increase in hominid brain size over the last million years cannot be explained by selection for basic tool use alone. Two alternative theories, here termed the ecological adaptation hypothesis and the intraspecific competition hypothesis, are reviewed and rejected. Instead, a combination of these two theories is offered: the mental arms race amplifier hypothesis.
23353259|Property rights are a central topic in conservation debates, but their influence on environmental outcomes is rarely carefully assessed. This study compared land use, tree planting practices and arboreal vegetation on government, estate private, smallholder private and communal "family" lands in Saint Lucia. The influence of tenure was apparent, but overall not a strong predictor of either farmer practices or vegetation characteristics. Higher abundance of planted trees on smallholder private lands was offset by greater abundance of natural forest trees on estate and family lands. Tree planting and abandonment of cultivation (with ensuing afforestation) were commonplace on all three types of land. The influence of tenure was swamped by other factors shaping farmer decisions to plant trees, cut trees or abandon cultivation, including local topography and changing commodity and labor markets. Findings from this study challenge the assumption that property rights necessarily determine resource and environmental outcomes.
4602345|In order to test the hypothesis that in Central Africa variation in melanin concentration in the human skin largely results from adaptation to ultraviolet radiation, skin reflectance of the inner surface of the arm was measured at 685 nm in three samples: a sample of 415 Sara, who have a long history of habitation in the very sunny savanna of Chad; a sample of 278 Oto, a Konda caste that migrated to the equatorial forest of Zaire less than two millennia ago; and a sample of 122 Twa, a Konda caste that has been in the equatorial forest longer than the Oto. The predicted Sara-Oto-Twa sequence was confirmed and is at least partly genetically based.
24015748|Many empirical studies examine the performance of pro-environmental behavior. A review of 49 recent studies revealed 42 unique measures of pro-environmental behavior. Analysis of these studies indicates a lack of consistency among the various behavioral measures. To address the issue of inconsistency in such a critical variable, I developed a new measure, the Pro-Environmental Behavior Scale (PEBS). The behaviors included in this scale are those identified by environmental scientists as having the greatest impact on the environment. Principal components analysis generated a 19-item scale with four dimensions. Coefficient alpha for the full scale was .76. Coefficient alphas for the subscales ranged from .62 to .74. Bivariate Pearson correlations between the PEBS and the New Ecological Paradigm Scale, the Environment Identity Scale, and the Environmental Regulations Attitude Scale demonstrated the scale's construct validity. Test-retest correlations were strong, demonstrating reliability of the PEBS.
4602798|The energy flows in a seventeenth century agroecosystem in Jiaxing region of eastern China were analyzed on the basis of historical data. The agroecosystem included cropping, mulberry-silkworm, livestock, and fishing systems. In terms of energy, the agroecosystem was sustainable. Human labor provided all the power with inputs of about 3700 hr per hectare of farmland. Most or 70% of the labor was expended in the cropping system. Human and animal manure provided most of the nutrients for crop and mulberry production. About two-thirds of the total manure was used in crop production and one-third in the mulberry plantations. The only fossil energy input was a few hand tools. Approximately 55% of the grain was consumed directly by local residents, about one-third of the grain was used to make an alcohol drink and produce distillers' grains, which was fed to pigs, and only 2% of the grains were exported outside the agroecosystem. About two-thirds of the harvested crop residues were used as household fuel, while the remainder was returned to the field as an organic fertilizer. Pork accounted for 85% and silk cocoons 14% of the total animal products produced. Even though the agroecosystem was generally sustainable in terms of energy, the major environmental problem was that two-thirds of the harvested crop residues were used for household fuel. This reduced nutrient cycling in the system. Insufficient land was available to produce fuelwood; thus, crop residues were the primary source of fuel for the people.
4603025| Considerable demographic data on the Bar were provided by the 1982 Venezuelan Indian census. Some of these data are presented here and used to test the hypothesis, suggested by the Bar themselves, that territorial exogamy was caused largely by a shortage of marriageable women within the territorial group. The hypothesis is disconfirmed, but new insights into the causes of territorial exogamy emerge from the analysis. 
4602977|The energy flow through the ecosystem of a typical Apatani village in Arunachal Pradesh in northeastern India was studied. The energy and economic efficiency of the rice agro-ecosystem of this region is exceptionally high, and rice is exported after meeting local needs. The cropping pattern varies depending upon the amount of organic residues recycled into the system. Where recycling is more efficient and substantial, pisciculture is integrated with rice cultivation. Dry land cultivation of millet and mixed cropping in home gardens contribute toward meeting the diverse needs of the people. Swine and poultry husbandry is an important link with agro-ecosystems through the detritus food chain. Mithun (Bos frontalis) husbandry, which is dependent upon large forested grazing lands, is important for social and religious reasons, as well as being a source of food. Fuelwood is extracted from the natural forest and from the cultivated bamboo gardens; the latter also provide construction materials. This village ecosystem with high overall energy efficiency is based on tight recycling of resources.
27654209|It is generally assumed that peasants optimize security of food supply rather than maximize profit. One way of securing the survival of the household is to spread risk in farming by extending the planting and harvesting seasons in order to avoid all crops being damaged if unfavorable production conditions should occur. It thus seems peculiar that some Himalayan peasant communities act in the opposite manner by compressing peak agricultural activity into a minimum period, and furthermore that all cultivators simultaneously start planting and harvesting on dates fixed by the village headman in consultation with a lama (Buddhist priest). Rather than suggesting that any single explanation for this practice is the right one, however, this article contends that specific farming system cannot be understood properly unless a combination of subsystems  or facets  are included in the analyses.
4603540|Research at the site of Sayil in the Yucatan Peninsula has provided a valuable database for making inferences about the Terminal Classic (A.D. 750-1000) occupation of the Puuc region. This article evaluates and modifies previous demographic estimates for the site and considers the long-term implications associated with supporting this many people. Although a relatively high level of population was possible because of the excellent soils in the region, their natural fertility could not have been sustained indefinitely. The apparent demographic load on the proposed Sayil system would have required an intensive cropping strategy that may not have been sustainable for more than 75 years. This conclusion not only indicates how long the principal occupation of Sayil may have lasted, but more importantly, how the occupational dynamics during the Terminal Classic may have played out in the greater Puuc region.
27654148|Human predator-prey relationships changed dramatically in the Mediterranean Basin between 250,000 and 9,000 years ago. Many of these changes can be linked to increases in Paleolithic human population densities. Small game species are particularly diagnostic of increases in human hunting pressure and are a major source of evidence for demographic change after 4045,000 years ago. Biomass-corrected data on prey choice also indicate increasing use of those species that possess higher reproductive efficiencies. Step-wise, apparently irreversible shifts in human predatory niche are apparent in the Mediterranean Basin, beginning with the earliest Upper Paleolithic in the east and spreading westward. Evidence of demographic pressure and greater use of resilient prey populations is followed by technological innovations to exploit these animals more efficiently. The zooarchaeological findings suggest that Middle and Lower Paleolithic reproductive units probably were not robust at the micropopulation scale, due to the rather narrow set of behavioral responses that characterized social groups at the time, and thus localized extinctions at the micropopulation level were likely to have been common. Upper Paleolithic groups were the quintessential colonizers and, in addition, uniquely good at holding on to habitat gained. Upper Paleolithic archaeological "cultures" had shorter histories of existence than those of earlier periods, but they were even more widespread geographically. The demographic robustness of the Upper Paleolithic systems may stem from wholesale strategies for evening-out or sharing risk and volatility in technology. Micropopulations were larger and often denser on landscapes, more connected via cooperative ties, and thus more robust.
27654125|Soil conservation is widely regarded a critical component of sustainable livelihood strategies for the hillsides of Honduras. However, neoliberal polices have reduced economic incentives for agricultural intensification. Recent studies indicate off-farm work opportunities address poverty in a way conservation and development efforts do not. Yet off-farm work may discourage poor farmers from practicing soil conservation. A middle ground is needed. This study indicates micro-credit can substitute for off-farm work and encourage soil conservation practice. Many regions throughout Honduras have had extensive contact with soil conservation programs and would benefit more from credit services than redundant technological extension.
25652777|Indigenous knowledge is often portrayed as static and traditional, while indigenous people are considered victims of exploitation. In the name of development and empowerment NGOs as well as scientists may run the risk of representing indigenous communities that fit their definition of the "correct" way to be indigenous. However, for indigenous people knowledge is not necessarily a static condition in a binary position to science or the 'modern' world. Rather, it is a dynamic condition that draws from experience and adapts to a changing environment. The perspective advanced in this paper is that all forms of knowledge, including indigenous knowledge(s), are situated and hybrid. Our argument draws from research carried out in Chiapas, Mexico, regarding the ICBG-Maya bio-prospecting project that was initiated in the 1990s and later terminated due to accusations of bio-piracy.
4602483|The positive association between energy used and social complexity proposed by Leslie White and his students is examined at the microsociological level of the household. The hypothesis is tested within matrifocal households supported either by welfare or by the mother's earnings. White's macrosociological proposition is found to be conditional on other cultural, social organizational factors. Household energy consumption rises to the extent that the family establishes ties with outside social organizations, with an increase in the tempo of household activity, and, pari passu, with the expressiveness of the personality of the female household head. Energy consumption is a way of coping with the effects of reduced social organizational and personality order. These social factors interact with demographic and technological factors in determining a social organization's level of energy consumption. By considering the institutional, organizational, and motivational measures suggested in this paper, the unreliability of energy use predictions may be reduced.
4603503|In this paper, the link between traditional rights of access to land and water and present day practices is established and illustrated. Data collected during various studies in the Zamfara Forest Reserve, northwest Nigeria, provided information on the different resources utilized (land, pastures, water) and the views and practices of different user-groups and stakeholders. The findings are discussed with a view to improving existing common property resource management (CPRM) in the area.
4603047|There continues to be much debate in anthropology concerning the mechanism by which agricultural intensification takes place and its impact on labor efficiency, farm diversity, and quality of diet. A major reason for this lack of consensus is the paucity of data from case studies that focus on specific agricultural systems at the point of transition from extensive to intensive methods of cultivation. Research in a frontier community in the Philippines, where farmers are making the shift from swidden cultivation to small-scale irrigated rice production, indicates that intensification does not necessarily result in lower efficiency or a decline in dietary standards. Rather, farmers faced with growing population pressure and an unproductive short fallow swidden system have been motivated to adopt irrigation because it increases the efficiency of their labor while maintaining a reliable and diverse farming system.
23353260|Rice breeding and crop research predominantly emphasize adaptation to ecological conditions. Based on qualitative and quantitative research conducted between 2000 and 2012 we show how ecological factors, combined with socioeconomic variables, cultural norms and values, shape the use and development of local technologies related to the cultivation of African rice (Oryza glaberrima Steud.) in seven West African countries (Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Senegal, Sierra Leone, The Gambia and Togo). In this region the role of African rice is diverse across ethnic groups. Findings suggest that farmers, through various pathways, are active in the development of promising new varieties based on genetic resources of Asian rice, African rice, or both, as well as in the adoption of modern varieties. These findings require further research into interactions among ecological, genetic, socioeconomic and cultural factors within farmers' innovation systems and recognition of emergent knowledge and technologies resulting from such interactions.
40343948|This paper examines the relation between public land management policy, amenity migration, and socioeconomic well-being using the case of the Northwest Forest Plana forest management policy that caused 11.6 million acres of federal land in the US Pacific Northwest to be reallocated from commodity production to biodiversity services. Our analysis focuses on three propositions implicit in much of the amenity migration literature in the USA: land management policies that reduce commodity production and/or increase environmental protection (1) improve the natural amenity values of public lands; (2) increase amenity migration to communities near public lands; and (3) stimulate economic development and increase socioeconomic well-being in these communities. Our findings indicate that all three propositions are problematic and demonstrate the importance of community-scale analysis for understanding the relation between land management policies, amenity migration, and community well-being. We discuss the implications of our findings for public land management and rural community development.
4602624|While intestinal parasitic infestations of both helminthic and protozoal types are endemic in most parts of West Bengal, and variations in their frequencies between (a) the southern coastal and (b) the northern sub-Himalayan ecological zones are generally recognized, microlevel studies are few. Studies undertaken on these two zones suggest that, considering four broad classes of infection, the differences between the two zones, as also within the sub-Himalayan zone, are significant. Possible explanations of such differences in terms of physical and cultural environmental factors are suggested.
4603123|Using a stress-capability framework, the problems and opportunities for sustainable development at the village level in Bali are examined. Balinese culture incorporates a traditional form of local government which emphasizes cooperation, consensus building, and balance. These aspects provide a strong foundation for sustainable development initiatives. At the same time, many decisions are being taken external to the villages, and even to Bali, which may lead to problems for development initiatives.
40344001|Unlike neighboring disciplines, anthropology rarely studies how actual future events affect current behavior. Such studies could lay the groundwork for studies of ethnoforecasting. Psychologists argue that people forecast poorly, but some empirical work in cultural anthropology suggests that at least with weather, rural people might make reasonably accurate forecasts. Using data from a smallscale, pre-industrial rural society in the Bolivian Amazon, this study estimates the effects of future weather on the current collection of planted crops and wildlife. If actual future events affect current behavior, then this would suggest that people must forecast accurately. Longitudinal data covering 11 consecutive months (10/2002-8/2003, inclusive) from 311 women and 326 men age 14 in 13 villages of a contemporary society of forager-farmers in Bolivia's Amazon (Tsimane') are used. Individual fixed-effect panel linear regressions are used to estimate the effect of future weather (mean hourly temperature and total daily rain) over the next 1-7 days from today on the probability of collecting wildlife (game, fish, and feral plants excluding firewood) and planted farm crops (annuals and perennials) today. Daily weather records come from a town next to the Tsimane' territory and data on foraging and farming come from scans (behavioral spot observations) and surveys of study participants done during scans. Short-term future weather (3 days) affected the probability of collecting planted crops and wildlife today, although the effect was greater on the amount of planted crops harvested today than on the amount of wildlife collected today. Future weather beyond 3 days bore no significant association with the amount of planted crops harvested today nor with the amount of wildlife collected today. After controlling for future and past weather, today's weather (mean hourly temperature, but not rain) affected the probability of collecting wildlife today, but today's weather (temperature or rain) did not affect the probability of collecting planted crops today. The study supports prior work by anthropologists suggesting that rural people forecast accurately. If future weather affects the probability of harvesting planted crops and collecting wildlife today, then this suggests that Tsimane' must forecast accurately. We discuss possible reasons for the finding. The study also supports growing evidence from rural areas of low-income nations that rural people tend to protect their food production and food consumption well against small idiosyncratic shocks or, in our case, against ordinary daily weather that is not extreme. However, the greater responsiveness of daily foraging output compared with daily farming output to today's weather suggests that foraging might not protect food consumption as well as farming against adverse climate perturbations.
27654169|This paper examines change within farming systems in the Brong Ahafo Region in Ghana, and the impact of agricultural modernization and mechanization on the regional economy and local farming systems. It combines anthropological, historical, and remote sensing techniques to document changes in farming practice and land use and land cover. It argues that change is not the product of simple evolutionary sequences of responses to population pressures or adoption of modern technologies, but arises out of a complex set of factors interacting within wider regional economies, which are increasingly commodified and commercialized and subject to global market pressures. These include technical, institutional, market, movements of labor, and transport infrastructure development dimensions, which often create new opportunities for local farmers other than those envisaged in agricultural development policies. Tracing the opening up of the transition zone over the last 4050 years through the development of state farms and mechanized synthetic agriculture, the paper examines the changing fortunes of farming systems within a radius of 3040 km from agricultural technology hubs and the implications for models of agricultural development.
4603385|In this paper I explore the interactions between colonial law and native customary law in the formation of contemporary property regimes in a rural village in Sabah, Malaysia, that I call Govuton. Govuton was one of the few known villages in Sabah that rejected colonial policies of land settlement that focused on settling private, individual property claims. Instead, village leaders negotiated with colonial officials for their village lands to be legally designated as corporately-held village property under the title of "Native Reserve." While the Native Reserve served to protect village access to jointly-held property in the colonial period, in the contemporary period new land disputes are arising as different images of community and tradition are strategically deployed by villagers in order to win struggles over rights of ownership and access to resources in the current political economy. By adopting such an historical and site-specific view of the transformation of property rights several broader themes regarding the relationship between state and society and natural resource management emerge. First, this case study challenges the idea the colonial governments were a monolithic force imposing laws on an unresisting native population. Second, the notion that "the community" is an appropriate unit for natural resource management is questioned. And finally, this case study raises the possibility that the current trend toward strengthening or reinvigorating native customary law is not always in the interests of native peoples with diverse interests in natural resource management.
4602659|Patterns of conflict and cooperation both within and between societies may be related to the degree of cultural similarity within and between the same societies. A simple model of social learning is used to predict patterns of conflict and cooperation in hypothetical societies that differ in the roles of relatives and nonrelatives in the enculturation of children. The model is illustrated by comparing its predictions to known differences in the patterns of conflict between males in patrilocal and matrilocal societies.
4602459|Data from two rural Chinese settings suggest that an ecological variable -- the reliability of food supply -- may exert a more decisive influence on birth seasonality than time of marriage or attributes of temperature, rainfall, or workload. First births seem to be especially important for patterns of seasonality; comparison between villages suggests that a periodic but reliable source of food may encourage a seasonal distribution of first births, the effect of which might be to protect the mother and/or her newborn infant. It is the periodicity of first births that may give aggregate birth figures the appearance of seasonality.
4602988|This paper examines the effects of the 1984 drought upon household wealth differences in a community of Ariaal pastoralists of northern Kenya. The database consists of 1985 post-drought livestock counts and informants' statements of species-specific drought loss, compared to 1976 livestock counts on the same 38 households. The analysis confirms the hypothesis that the drought resulted in increased household wealth inequalities. It is suggested that the combination of differential herd growth, differential participation in the cash market, and differential loss to the drought has contributed to a polarization within Ariaal of rich and poor, resulting in rural proletarianization and urban migration.
4603485|Documenting local ecological knowledge (LEK) has recently become a topic of considerable interest within the social research, development, and indigenous rights communities. For instance, LEK is thought to offer a substantial alternative to existing, largely "top-down," natural resource management regimes. LEK informed resource management systems would acknowledge peoples' experiences and priorities, while also providing people with additional means of empowerment. Given these qualities, one might reasonably expect that rigorous design and methodological attributes will characterize LEK research, particularly respecting the procedures employed to identify and to select "local knowledge experts." Our review of the recent social research literature suggests that insufficient attention is given both to reporting the methods employed and to employing systematic approaches, especially with regard to the critical issue of how local experts are identified. We detail a research design that systematically solicited peer recommendations of fisheries local knowledge experts in a study focused on two northeast Nova Scotian embayments. Finally, we argue that in order to achieve the stated purposes and potentials of LEK research, researchers need to become more attentive to reporting on the methods employed and to employing systematic approaches than is currently the case.
4602880|The use of energy (calories) as the currency to be maximized per unit time in Optimal Foraging Models is considered in light of data on several foraging groups. Observations on the Ache, Cuiva, and Yora foragers suggest men do not attempt to maximize energetic return rates, but instead often concentrate on acquiring meat resources which provide lower energetic returns. The possibility that this preference is due to the macronutrient composition of hunted and gathered foods is explored. Indifference curves are introduced as a means of modeling the tradeoff between two desirable commodities, meat (protein-lipid) and carbohydrate, and a specific indifference curve is derived using observed choices in five foraging situatiuons. This curve is used to predict the amount o meat that Mbuti foragers will trade for carbohydrate, in an attempt to test the utility of the approach.
4603410|This paper shows that the Huaorani Indians of the Ecuadorian Amazon possess a long-standing common property management regime fostered by secure ownership status of the land, the small size and kinship ties of residence groups, the existence of mutual trust and reciprocity, and culturally sanctioned rules of behavior. This regime, however, was focused on maintaining harmonious relationships between residents of the nanicabo and not on resource conservation (although it may have fostered epiphenomenal conservation). It cannot be presumed that communal management of resources invariably leads to conservation; other factors need to be present, such as a perception of resource scarcity. The common property regime was designed for a situation of plentiful resources, low population density, clear membership, and behaviors held in check by respect for kin and the desire for good standing. It was a sufficient and simple system for delimiting common property resources from private property, based on implicit social boundaries and cultural under-standings. Now, confronted by powerful external forces, population growth, and intermarriage with non-Huaorani, the system is faltering. Conservationist practices, however, can be encouraged by adapting the earlier system to reflect current conditions.
4603137| Since pacification 30 years ago, the Bar of northwest Venezuela have aggregated in villages and have begun to produce cattle and some crops for sale in regional markets. This research analyzes satellite imagery to compare patterns of land use among Bar settlements that differ in their population size, cattle holdings, and distance to nearest marketplace. These comparisons indicate that settlement history mediates the effect of population pressure and herd sizes on land use. Moreover, intensification of land use is associated with greater deforestation and a more heterogeneous landscape, but less biodiversity in woody species. 
4602939|Models of optimal foraging theory are used to evaluate the decisions of a sedentary herdsman and his family in Burkina Faso concerning the movement of his cattle from pasture to pasture. Generally, such models describe exploitation at the patch level, but are inadequate at higher levels. The herdsmen in the study area are generally sedentary, and their strategy of exploitation appears to be characterized by planning at least in terms of a whole day and minimizing daily travel time among fields. In conjuction with this conclusion a modified optimization model is proposed. We conclude that optimal foraging models are useful in interpreting and understanding the rules governing the movements of traditional West African herdsmen when so modified, but that more data are needed to develop and test these models further.
4603114| The June 1991 eruption of Mt. Pinatubo in the Philippines produced one of the greatest volcanic aerosols in the last hundred years. The estimated net decrease of radiation may have peaked at 10% in the tropics. What was the impact of the Pinatubo aerosol on regional and global climate? Besides the expected net cooling of the average global surface temperature, correlation studies indicate that other types of climate anomalies may also be expected. These include the appearance of an El Nio event, decreased Indian monsoon rainfall, fewer tropical storms in the north Atlantic Ocean in 1991-1993, and normal to above normal winter rainfall in California in 1991/92, all of which were observed. A proposed physical mechanism for the almost-simultaneous occurrence of this constellation of climate anomalies is presented. The results of correlation studies between low-latitude volcanic aerosols and the El Nio/Southern Oscillation are presented in some detail as one example. The correlation between Indian monsoon rainfall and tropical storms in the north Atlantic Ocean is also shown and is updated for the most recent 5 years. 
41474670|When faced with a species that is seldom encountered or discussed, can local or indigenous people piece together their accumulated experience to make inferences about the ecology of that species? In this paper the Greenland shark acts as a model to study how the Inuit of southern Baffin Island are able to produce ecological knowledge. We examine experiential information, reflections, variations in knowledge, and sense-making related to the Greenland Shark, and present a knowledge coproduction process based on heuristic reasoning. The process of knowledge co-production has similarities to fuzzy logic, and highlights the adaptability and versatility of indigenous knowledge systems to generate new understandings about the species and its role in the Arctic marine environment. Interactions between the Inuit and researchers can provide a forum to facilitate knowledge co-production, and can be used as a strategy to engage the Indigenous and traditional peoples in resource management and conservation.
4602792|This paper deals with the behavioral pattern of neighbor relations and their relationships to the subjective attitudes and expectations of the residents. The sample was 318 middle-class women living in eight- to 20- story buildings. The findings indicate that respondents so desiring were able to develop active social ties with their neighbors. Moreover, they interacted with neighbors despite the fact that the majority had opportunities for alternative social relations. The distinction between "localized" and "nonlocalized" high-rise residents does not seem meaningful in this case. Actual social ties with neighbors were related to norms and expectations regarding neighbor relations. Despite active neighboring, respondents did not have difficulties obtaining privacy.
4602940| Models of energetic efficiency have been widely used by ecological anthropologists to study human subsistence patterns. This paper explicitly tests an hypothesis posed by Smith (1979) about energy utilization in the highland community of Nunoa, Peru. Smith's hypothesis is largely confirmed, as greater energy availability is associated with increased caloric consumption and improved measures of health and well-being among the wealthier sectors of this population. However, an energetics model does not provide a full understanding of the behavior and biology of this population. Interacting social/economic and environmental forces impose different constraints on different sectors of this population. These differences are in turn reflected in variation in adaptive strategies and in biological well-being. Future work in human ecology will benefit from (1) attention to the interaction of ecological and socio-economic forces, (2) greater appreciation of intra-populational variation in adaptive strategies, and (3) explicit linking of variation in adaptive strategies to differences in human biological parameters. 
27654105|We explore the history, structure and function, and management of vegetated field margins, particularly hedgerows, in Mexico since the pre-Hispanic period. We then focus on the current agricultural landscape in El Bajo, central Mexico, describing in detail the abundance, composition, and management of existing hedgerows. These vegetated field margins can be traced to the pre-Hispanic period, especially in central Mexico, where Indians planted hedgerows, living fences, and terraces, mainly to prevent erosion. After the Spanish Conquest, some of these structures disappeared, but in many cases, new plant species were incorporated into the remaining field boundaries. Today, vegetated field boundaries are adjacent to crop fields and, in some places, they form networks similar to those seen in Europe. Farmers actively manage hedgerows for a variety of useful products and in so doing provide habitat and dispersal routes for native plants and animals.
4602751|Andean cultural ecologists have made two claims in recent years: ecological decomposition is absent due to effective indigenous management of communal resources, and agricultural intensification is inversely related to altitude. Drawing on material from the Jukumani Indians of Northern Potosi, Bolivia, these assertions are challenged. First, there is little evidence to prove or disprove ecological degradation. Second, the location of agricultural intensification, as the Jukumani data suggests, is influenced by altitude as well as by the presence of market.
4602583|To what extent have recent warnings of deepening ecological problems become topics of discussion among international political elites? To address this question a content analysis was undertaken of the speeches comprising the general debates of the 1968, 1972, and 1976 sessions of the UN General Assembly to identify all instances in which ecological issues were mentioned. Despite other indications of an increase in environmental consciousness in the international community, it was found that ecological problems have not been discussed very extensively in the general debates and are far less salient than several other agenda items for which data were also collected. Moreover, the environment peaked as an issue in the 1972 session and declined in prominence in 1976. It was also found that the more developed a country is, the greater the tendency for its delegates to mention environmental problems in their speeches. The lack of prominence of ecological issues is interpreted on the basis of two alternative assumptions: first, that the degree of international awareness of environmental problems is not adequately represented in the general debates and, second, that the findings accurately reflect what is generally a low level of environmental concern in international circles.
4602821|Previous analyses of faunal remains from highland Mesoamerican sites have viewed implied changes in animal exploitation patterns as a secondary consequence of early agricultural practices. This paper argues that faunal data from the Tehuacan Valley, when interpreted within an optimization framework provide evidence for the alteration of optimal meat harvesting strategies through time by communities responding to a variety of socioenvironmental factors: seasonal and long-term availability of game, access to domestic meat resources, human meat demand levels, and scheduling constraints.
40343986|In recent years a new approach has begun to emerge in commons scholarship that draws on complex systems thinking and that makes use of concepts such as fit, scale, and the adaptive renewal cycle. This paper explores what complex systems thinking has to offer for commons scholarship by applying these concepts to the pastoral commons of the Gabra ethnic group of north-central Kenya. The concepts of fit and scale can help us to understand why some features of the institutional regime of the Gabra do not conform to mainstream principles such as clearly defined boundaries, clearly defined membership rules, and subsidiarity. The notion of the adaptive renewal cycle can help us to describe and understand some aspects of dynamics of Gabra institutions, especially those related to the management of shallow wells. Applying the adaptive renewal cycle to larger and longer scales highlights the possibility that the Gabra social-ecological system is becoming increasingly brittle, with evolving institutional arrangements putting more and more constraints on adaptation and especially on nomadic mobility. An examination of the distinctive nature of dryland pastoral commons, and in particular a complex systems approach to this examination, suggests a number of issues that relief and development organizations should consider, including how to foster novelty and innovation through all the phases of the adaptive cycle.
4603530|Interest in shade-grown coffee is now increasing because of declining coffee prices in the world market and an increasing trend toward "green consumerism." It is therefore important to understand farmers' perception of the role of shade trees in coffee fields, an area that has not received deserving attention in research agendas. On the basis of detailed interviews involving both "open-ended" and "closed" questions with 83 small-scale coffee farmers in the Peninsula of Nicoya, Costa Rica, we found that characteristics that farmers considered important were mostly comparable to those stated in the literature. But some differences were also noted; examples included tree height (considered important by farmers, but not in literature) and leaf size (mentioned in literature, but not by farmers). Some tree species that were not considered beneficial as coffee shade trees were still retained in the fields because of the additional benefits they provided. Eighty-eight percent of farmers were interested in incorporating more trees, especially fruit trees, into their coffee plantations. The results of the study underscore the need for research on the little-studied area of interaction between coffee plants and fruit trees.
4603115|Rules incorporating influences on global temperature, an estimate of radiation balance, were induced from astronomical, geophysical, and anthropogenic variables. During periods of intermediate global temperatures (generally like the present century), the influences assume canceling roles; influences cancel the effects of extreme states potentially imposed by other influences because they are, in aggregate, most likely to be assuming opposite values. This imparts an overall stability to the global temperature. To achieve cold or hot global temperature, influences assume reinforcing roles. CO
4603034|Kubo producer-units (families and independent bachelors) could have been self-sufficient in the production of bananas but chose not to be. Nor did they seek self-sufficiency in the production of any combination of staple carbohydrate foods (bananas, tubers, sago flour) or, in the long term, strive for balance in the exchange of food with other producer-units. Despite the fact that bananas, which provided 50% of people's energy needs, were a delayed-return crop Kubo communities were very unstable. This instability and the failure to choose the option of self-sufficiency were connected and were mediated through intense intracommunity sharing that, ultimately, served to negotiate a concern with sorcery. The people grew bananas in the way they did, not out of environmental necessity, but to accommodate the crop to the needs of sharing and, thereby, facilitate community living.
25652741|From the earliest days of the Soviet Union, the people of Tajikistan were allowed to have small "kitchen gardens" attached to their homes or in the vicinity of their apartments in which they could augment their diets with fresh food and also keep a milk cow and perhaps chickens. Over time however, families began to produce far more than they needed and would sell the surplus in local markets, along roads, and even in nearby citiesan early example of market-oriented, investment agriculture in Central Asia. By the end of the Soviet era, as much as one third of food sold in the markets was from kitchen gardens. In post-independence Tajikistan, these gardens have allowed families facing civil war, drought, and demodernization to feed themselves and earn some extra income. This paper describes the historic geography, layout and crops of kitchen gardens, and provides quantitative data on the economic importance of these gardens.
4602283|Shifting public conceptualizations of the environment have led to a comprehensive, ecological view of the impact of industrial activity. Nevertheless, primary attention has been focused on the problem of externalities, i.e., pollution. In an industry such as iron and steel manufacturing, with its heavy demands on mineral resources and various forms of energy, some equally important questions are raised about the extent to which technological change has resulted in environmentally beneficial or harmful trade-offs or substitutions. It is found that there have taken place, over a 50-year period, substantial reductions in the amounts of iron ore and metallurgical coke required to produce a ton of iron; however, these developments have raised certain new environmental problems. In the energy sector, the industry has responded rationally to changing relative prices in making substitutions among sources. Demand for scrap, the major recycled input, is found to be very price-inelastic; furthermore, despite some radical changes in the contributions of various steelmaking technologies to total production, the overall ratio of scrap input to raw steel output has remained remarkably stable over the past quarter century.
27654147|There is substantial research on psychological consequences of disasters. However, most disaster studies to date have focused on acute disasters, ignoring slow-onset chronic hazards, such as extreme climate conditions and pollution. Using a multilevel theoretical framework based on the Conservation of Resources theory (S. E. Hobfoll, The Ecology of Stress, Hemisphere, New York, 1988; "Stress, Culture, and Community: The Psychology and Philosophy of Stress," Plenum, New York, 1998) and the "ecological analogy" (see e.g., S. E. Hobfoll and R. S Lilly, Journal of Community Psychology, 21:128148, 1993; E. J. Trickett, "Extreme Stress and Communities: Impact and Intervention," Kluwer, Boston, 1995), this critical review of the current literature is aimed at increasing our understanding of personal and community impacts of drought as a classic example of a natural, slow-onset disaster affecting large numbers of people worldwide. A gap in the current literature was identified concerning appraisal and coping at the individual level. These include psychological coping strategies and the role of resources other than economic resources in explaining vulnerability to negative consequences of drought, such as personal resources (e.g., knowledge, skills, self-sufficiency, mastery, control) and social resources (e.g., social support). Important differences were identified with fast-onset disasters. Most importantly, dealing with drought is generally an integrated part of life for people in drought prone areas. Therefore, individuals may not recognize that their problems are part of a community wide stressor, and raising community awareness during severe and long droughts that deplete community resources needs special attention. Implications for studying drought and effective intervention strategies are given.
40343959|This paper situates concerns for conservation of aquatic snakes and livelihood sustainability in Cambodia within a social-ecological systems context and thereby presents a challenge to conventional species-based conservation programmes. Fishing for low-value water snakes has become a widespread activity within the floating communities of Tonle Sap Lake in the last 20 years in response to new market opportunities, provided primarily by a crocodile farming industry. The scale and intensity of this new form of exploitation and reports of declines in catch per fisher have highlighted this activity as a conservation concern, yet its role within local livelihood strategies was previously unknown. We show that it is of increasing importance to the less well-off, and is linked to higher incomes within this group, where it potentially reduces their vulnerability to fluctuations and declines in fish catches. It is particularly important as a means to smooth seasonality of incomes in this flood pulse-driven social-ecological system. We argue that shifts between snake-hunting and fishing, as a market-driven adaptive livelihood strategy by the poor, may be more compatible with wider ecosystem conservation and development goals than alternatives such as increased fishing effort or converting floodplain habitats for seasonal agriculture.
4603310|The transition of Australian Aborigines from a diet based on hunting and gathering to an essentially Western diet has been proceeding for almost 200 years, but in some regions was greatly delayed. In 1966/1967 Gould (1980) studied operational aspects of hunting-gathering in desert regions of north-western Australia and recorded sufficient quantitative and species-specific data to allow definition of the diet over 5 months. By 1966, many Aboriginal people in that region had been displaced from their hunting grounds and were living in camps on cattle stations or in missions. Aboriginal diet on cattle stations in the north-west was studied in 1951 (Commonwealth Department of Health) and shown to consist chiefly of fresh meat, wheaten flour, and sugar with small amounts of vegetables and dairy products. With the granting of citizenship in 1967, most Aborigines were dismissed from cattle stations and were moved first to town camps and later formed remote Aboriginal communities. Studies in the 1980s showed that the self-selected diet in such communities reflected the station diet to a greater extent than the traditional diet. Quantitative presentation of the above three diets, in terms both of foods and of major nutrients, show that many of the dietary inadequacies of the station diet identified in 1951 still persisted in self-selected Aboriginal diets in the 1980s. A comparison of the three diets with a modern recommended diet supports the nutritional adequacy of the hunter-gatherer diet. Traditional cultural values assigned to food preferences continued to influence food choices in all three diets.
25652780|The project to exterminate nonindigenous fish was initiated in Lake Biwa in April 2002 because nonindigenous fish, especially large-mouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) and bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus), had adversely affected the diversity of indigenous fish. This project allowed fishers to catch nonindigenous fish whenever, wherever, and however they wished and to sell their entire daily landing to the Shiga Prefectural Government (SPG) on a fixed-price basis. That is, the SPG regarded nonindigenous fish as an "open-access resource." This project defined success as the extermination of nonindigenous fish. This study focused on how the fishers behaved after the project began and attempted to identify the factors influencing their behavior. I observed that the ranks of fishers increased because of the policies pertaining to nonindigenous fish. At one level, this result supports the model of "the tragedy of open-access resources." However, this study also found that the behavior of fishers did not always result in "tragedy." In Okishima, fishers' behavior is strongly influenced by merchants. More specifically, fishers must abide by their contracts with merchants, and these effectively prevent them from catching nonindigenous fish even when these appear to bring greater profits. This local mechanism served to limit excessive levels of fishing and impeded "the tragedy of open-access resources." Consequently, the results of this project did not meet the expectations of the SPG.
4603235|This paper considers traditional resources and fire management practices of Aboriginal people living in a near-coastal region of western Arnhem Land, monsoonal northern Australia. The data illustrate that before the arrival of Europeans freshwater floodplains and riverine habitats provided the major proportion of food resources over much of the seasonal cycle. By contrast, the extensive lowland woodlands and open forests, the sparser vegetation of the Arnhem Land escarpment and plateau, and the generally small patches of rain forest ("jungle"), provided relatively few resources, although jungle yams were of critical importance through the relatively lean wet season. The paper then considers burning as a management tool through the seasonal cycle. In broad terms, burning commenced in the early dry season and was applied systematically and purposefully over the landscape. Burning in the late dry season was undertaken with care, and resumed in earnest with the onset of the first storms of the new wet season, particularly on floodplains. These general patterns of resource use and fire management are shown to have applied widely over much of near-coastal northern Australia. The implications of these data for prehistory and for contemporary land management practices in the region, are considered. It is suggested that pre-European patterns of fire management in the region are likely to have been practiced only over the past few thousand years, given the development of abundant food resources in the late Holocene. It is shown that traditional burning practice offers a generally useful, conservative model for living in and managing a highly fire-prone savanna environment.
23353255|The Mongolian plateau in East Asia is part of a new hotspot of land cover change. Recent human activity and natural forces have degraded grasslands in northern China with the southern Mongolia steppe similarly vulnerable. Investigating vegetation patterns at piospheres (the area around water points) can identify herder influence on pasture conditions. Through fieldwork and remote sensing this paper examines plant density and species richness at water sources to establish land cover patterns in two Mongolian provinces where overgrazing is thought to be the major cause of degradation. In contrast to standard piosphere patterns, vegetation was greater near water points and decreased with distance. This suggests that livestock are not concentrated at water points in Mongolia and that piosphere dynamics are more influenced by precipitation, edaphic factors and potential distinctive processes in cold drylands. It implies that pastoralism, with mobile livestock management, is a suitable adaptive strategy to the low forage capacity of steppe grasslands.
4603226|This article examines current net hunting practice by BaAka Pygmies of central Africa. In terms of time allocation, net hunting remains the single most important activity for the BaAka. But net hunting is only one in a range of subsistence and economic activities among which individuals switch on a daily basis. Returns from net hunting are roughly equivalent to those from competing activities. Several factors encourage the decline of net hunting and its replacement with snare hunting: enforcement of park regulations, higher individual returns to snare hunting, and greater involvement in formal employment and agriculture. However, net hunting has not been abandoned completely for several reasons: the local market demand for bushmeat is growing, numerous forest products besides meat are collected on net hunts, and economic alternatives remain irregular and unreliable.
23353201|Despite the rapid agricultural transition that has occurred in the past decade, shifting cultivation remains a widespread agricultural practice in the northern uplands of Lao PDR. Little information is available on the basic socioeconomic situation and respective possible patterns in shifting cultivation landscapes on a regional level. On the basis of a recent approximation of the extent of shifting cultivation landscapes for two time periods and disaggregated village level census data, this paper characterizes these landscapes in terms of key socioeconomic parameters for the whole of northern Laos. Results showed that over 550,000 people live in shifting cultivation regions. The poverty rate of this population of 46.5 % is considerably higher than the national rural rate. Most shifting cultivation landscapes are located in remote locations and a high share of the population comprises ethnic minorities, pointing to multi-dimensional marginality of these areas. We discuss whether economic growth and increased market accessibility are sufficient to lift these landscapes out of poverty.
41433097|An effective response to future risk within socio-ecosystems will require the retention of local diversity, not just in more vulnerable communities on the margins but also in regions vital to industrialised countries. A case study is presented that examines agroecosystem vulnerability to climate change within an Australian multifunctional rural landscape adjacent to the city of Adelaide. The dominant neoliberal governance approach is struggling to account for the levels of risk apparent in the region, even though there is considerable evidence that changes in policy and practice are required. Land use planning mechanisms can explicitly and implicitly support adaptation to risk within vital agroecosystems by defining spaces of complexity and experimentation. A review of French land use policy suggests that appropriate classifications can facilitate support for local diversity and broaden the capacity of farming systems to adapt to risk. Such classifications of spaces valuable for socio-ecological resilience and innovation could become vital tools to integrate into neoliberal governance systems to support anticipatory adaptation to future socio-ecological risk.
4602779|Fish resources are generally considered common property and open to any user. This, the assumption goes, makes them susceptible to the "tragedy of the commons" in which selfish users are both the villains and the victims. While it is true that wild fish populations cannot readily be privatized, it hardly follows that they are completely open-access. In addition to social controls found in many traditional fishing communities, amply documented by anthropologists, many administrative controls in contemporary fisheries management also create limited property rights over fishery resources. This study focuses on Great Lakes fisheries of Ontario in Lakes Erie and St. Clair, and the kinds and diversity of limited property rights instituted in these areas: the formal and informal allocation of fishing areas, and the allocation of quantitative fishing rights (quotas), all of which serve as mechanisms to solve the common property resource problem. The Great Lakes fisheries suggest certain generalizations about the management of common property resources. The paper offers a "life-cycle" model of living resources use.
24013722|This paper analyzes increasingly individualized herding behavior after the implementation of a grazing ban policy in northern China based on empirical research in 12 pastoralist villages. The findings reveal that de-collectivization of pastureland has not necessarily led to direct changes in individual land use strategies. Instead, a wider institutional context influenced by the implementation of a grazing ban has led to more individualized herding and increased short-term considerations of profit maximization in the study area, both of which are seen to undermine the sustainable use of pastureland. Based on our observations of herder responses to privatization, the grazing ban and a short experiment with lifting the grazing ban, we propose that the special characteristics of grassland and pastoralism call for institutions that facilitate locally originated pasture land use practice (e.g., co-operative herding, self-organized management) instead of exclusive reliance on a rigidly defined private property regime focused on fixed property boundaries.
4603268|Using ground truth and remote sensing data this paper tries to demonstrate once again that commons as well as privately owned pastures are managed by their appropriators in such a manner that sustainability as a goal can be approached, while areas not recognized as controlled by one or more legitimate persons and hence open to all may well be overexploited. The analysis of pastures which are recognized as commons in the western Liddar valley in Kashmir (India) shows that these lands are not overexploited by the nomadic and transhumant pastoralists using them. On the whole, individually owned pastures were also not found to be overstocked. Those plots, however, through which all herders transit on their bi-annual migration and which are not recognized as being owned by any authority are highly degraded.
4602812| Marketing strategies employed by herders in Piura, a coastal region in northern Peru, are discussed in conjunction with ecological and economic factors. Data from regional slaughterhouses help in analyzing decisions concerning livestock offtakes and in understanding the rationale behind them. Piura is characterized by sharp weather changes, amplified by the El Nio phenomenon. The variations in precipitation and forage availability strongly affect production, structure, and dynamics of the herds and are therefore a significant component in determining the actual marketing decision strategy. "Pure" herders adopt an "insurance" strategy emphasizing a build-up of herds during abundant years in order to compensate for considerable losses caused by frequent droughts. The use of stubble and concentrated feed in coping with droughts is restricted by economic and social factors. Agropastoralists are affected not only by ecological factors but also by labor availability, agricultural cash requirements, and household needs. As a result, these goat keepers practice a "capital-manipulation strategy" in which goats and kids are used as a form of capital. The paper provides an empirical representation of these two marketing strategies based on slaughterhouses' records and a complementary field survey. 
27654289|Small-scale fisheries in developing countries are often vital to the livelihoods of the rural poor, yet the dynamic and variable nature of household engagement in local fisheries remains poorly understood. This paper describes a small-scale fishery for aquarium fish in two proximate villages of the Peruvian Amazon, and explains observed differences within and between villages in participation, reliance and organisation of the fishery. A framework is developed to guide the systematic description and characterisation of small-scale fisheries organisation in Amazonia and beyond. An improved understanding of the socioeconomic factors that shape the organisation of artisanal freshwater fisheries promises to better inform research and management initiatives aimed at promoting sustainable local fisheries and poverty reduction among fishers.
4602679| A number of researchers have suggested that polyculture is characteristic of native tropical forest swiddens and have adduced theory from community ecology to account for its adaptiveness. Ye'kwana and Yanomam swidden cultivation is examined, and it is shown that polyculture is not practiced to any significant degree. Instead, the concept of polyvariety is introduced along with a number of other cultivation practices that more simply account for the adaptiveness of Ye'kwana and Yanomam gardening. In addition, comparative data from other parts of the tropical world indicate that polyculture is no more common than monoculture and recent advances in ecological research indicate that the diversity-stability hypothesis that underpins adaptive arguments of polyculture is in need of drastic revision. 
40343963|This study documents labor migration and its impacts on household income, material well-being, and land-use practices in Mexico's southern Yucatn and examines the relation of labor migration to local forest recovery. Drawing on a 203-household survey in 14 communities, we contrast migrating and non-migrating households, showing that migration earnings substitute for agricultural earnings and that migrating households cultivate significantly less farmland. A larger percentage of migrating households maintain pasture, but, on average, not more hectares. These dynamics are consistent with the decline in deforestation registered in the area for the year 2000. Incipient local forest recovery is considered in light of current forest transition theory, with an examination of three hypothesized paths to forest recovery: economic development, forest scarcity, and smallholder agricultural adjustment. The southern Yucatn case illustrates the need to explicitly incorporate the role of globalizing household economies into forest transition theory.
24015694|Pastoralists employ different strategies to minimize the risk of losing their livelihood due to drought, disease, and other disasters. Livestock transfers have been considered critical because they provide not only a safety net during disasters but also contribute to the resilience of pastoral societies by allowing pastoralists to rebuild their herds after disasters. I examine whether and how livestock transfers serve as risk management strategies in a comparative, ethnographic study of three pastoralist communities in the Far North Region of Cameroon. The findings show that livestock transfers contribute to short-term survival of households but not long-term viability of family herds. Here I argue for a more holistic, anthropological approach that considers the social and cultural aspects of strategic decisions that individual pastoralists make when they engage in these transfers.
40603030|The fact that humanlarge carnivore relationships tend to be filli of material and social conflicts raises applied questions concerning the origin of human perceptions linked to these animals and more theoretical questions concerning the link between identification and relational processes. This study, based on ethno-ethological surveys in the Republic of Macedonia (SE Europe), aims to show that the widely contrasting species specific behavioural characteristics of brown bears, wolves and Eurasian lynx influence local perceptions of these species through the nature and frequency of their interactions with humans. It appears that a high frequency of interactions allows the relational processes to dominate, leading people to modify their actions in response to the behaviour and ecology of the species. However, the fact that the virtual absence of interactions with lynx has not prevented the construction of a particular image of the species also highlights the complexity of the relationship between the level of interactions and people's perception about animals.
4602878|Previous research into drought-response tactics has tended to be undertaken after the fact, and hence has been forced to be impressionistic. This study quantifies the importance of farmer drought-response strategies in southcentral Niger based on a survey which began during the drought of 1984. Livestock sales, food aid, temporary migration, remunerative non-agricultural activities, and loans were the principal drought-survival tactics employed.
4602705|This article describes the colonization process of the Japanese pioneer farmers in the Bolivian subtropical lowlands. Quantitative data for each of the farm households that can be matched for comparison between the initial phase of colonization and a later phase provide the basis for an examination of a reciprocal relationship between household organization and successively introduced agricultural practices. Two hypotheses are tested: (a) pioneer agriculture stimulates the formation of large family households to cope with an assumed labor shortage; and (b) existing variation in household organization produces variation in agricultural practices. The analysis reveals that the size of swidden farming in the initial phase and the size of permanent field cultivation in the latter phase both relate positively to the size of the male labor force. Despite the significant advantage of a large family household for providing free labor during rapid agricultural growth, a diachronic analysis does not support the hypothesis that the pioneer condition stimulates adaptive social change toward the formation of large families. Rather, the data indicate that changes in household composition have major effects on the size of cropland and the transformation from swidden farming to mechanized cultivation. Underlying mechanisms of agricultural change are further explored, and the implications for a colonization project are discussed.
4603593| Hovsdalur, an area delimited by the great cirques of upland central Suuroy, draining into the valley of the Hovs and terminating in the east at the coastal amphitheatre of Hovsfjrdur, is a microcosm of the Faroes. The area contains the physical and economic features which characterize the greater part of the island group--mountain, valley, and coast, and marine, cultivation, and grazing environments. Data comprising mainly geomorphological, palynological, and pedological evidence, covering the period prior to and subsequent to the initial Norse settlement (landnm), are used to test a series of hypotheses which exemplify the human ecology of the area. Not all the hypotheses, or aspects of them, proved acceptable--the Norse period clearly coincided with a number of vegetational and pedological changes, but this must be set partly against a backdrop of long-term geomorphological activity. 
4602899|The collapse of the Classic Maya state is investigated from an ecological perspective. Settlement and palynological data from the Maya center of Copan, Honduras, are presented which indicate that substantial clearing of the upland pine forest had occurred prior to and during the abandonment of that urban center. A comparative use-rate analysis suggests that the increased clearing of pine was primarily caused by demands for domestic fuel wood by an expanding urban population. This forest mismanagement is directly linked to accelerated erosion rates which are considered primary elements in the collapse of the Maya state.
4602803|Regional analyses of the interaction between human populations and natural resources must integrate landscape scale environmental problems. An approach that considers human culture, environmental processes, and resource needs offers an appropriate methodology. With this methodology, we analyze problems of food availability in African cattle-keeping societies. The analysis interrelates cattle biomass, forage availability, milk and blood production, crop yields, gathering, food subsidies, population, and variable precipitation. While an excess of cattle leads to overgrazing, cattle also serve as valuable food storage mechanisms during low rainfall periods. Food subsidies support higher population levels but do not alter drought-induced population fluctuations. Variable precipitation patterns require solutions that stabilize year-to-year food production and also address problems of over-population.
4603374|Shifting cultivation (jhooming) has been identified as one of the main human impacts influencing biodiversity in Tripura, Northeast India. Over the last few years a new class of shifting cultivators has emerged that has adopted non-traditional forms of jhooming, which have been responsible for the loss of biological diversity in the state. This paper describes the successes achieved by the state government in providing the jhumias (tribes practicing jhooming) with various non-jhooming options. Recommendations include the need for short and long term control measures, improvement of existing jhooming methods, and integration of traditional knowledge with new practices.
41433092|In the early 1980s residents of Hobeni, in South Africa's Eastern Cape, were subjected to forced resettlement, under "betterment" policy ostensibly aimed at soil conservation. They were moved into a spatially contiguous but socially differentiated village. South Africa's political transition ended this policy, and in the early 1990s, some people, mainly from part of the resettlement area (Kunene) characterized by dense kinship networks who had faced pressure to leave, and began to return voluntarily to their former sites, opting to live in dispersed, flexible settlements. Few people resettled in Mhlanganisweni, a part of the village more diverse in its social composition, returned to their former sites. This research highlights the ways exclusion within "socially-embedded" land tenure systems, together with the layout of resettlement areas and other forms of social and economic differentiation, caused patterns of resettlement to diverge from planners' intentions.
4603438|On the southern Caribbean island of Tobago, we excavated two archaeological deposits, the preceramic (ca. 2900 years old) Milford 1 site (TOB-3) and the ceramic (ca. 1200 to 900 years old) Golden Grove site (TOB-13). The non-fish bone assemblages from these sites are very different, with an emphasis at TOB-3 on sea turtles (which seldom nest today on Tobago) and the collared peccary Tayassu tajacu, a large (17-30 kg) mammal extremely rare now on Tobago. TOB-3 also yielded bones of two somewhat smaller mammals that are extinct on Tobago, the red howler monkey Alouatta seniculus and paca Agouti paca. The non-fish species at TOB-3 comprise only four reptiles and seven mammals, whereas they are more diverse (29 species) at TOB-13 and mostly represent small- to medium-sized vertebrates (<10 kg, often <1 kg), such as a toad, lizards, snakes, birds, opossum, armadillo, and eight species of rodents, as well as sea turtle and peccary, although the latter is uncommon. We interpret these differences as possibly being due to a local or island-wide scarcity of big game (peccaries) in ceramic times, which would have promoted diversification of hunting practices. Related to this may have been a more sedentary way of life for Tobago's ceramic peoples, with increased agriculture leading to more hunting near the site and less time being devoted to longer distance big-game hunting. While prehistoric anthropogenic extinction or population reduction of vertebrates is well documented on Caribbean islands to the north, our data from Tobago show that such depletions probably occurred as well on continental, land-bridge islands with more diverse faunas. Models of post-Pleistocene faunal "relaxation" toward a lower value for species richness should not ignore human-caused losses, which may be impossible to distinguish from non-anthropogenic losses.
27654274|During the last quarter century, China's agricultural sector has undergone a dramatic transformation from collective to private production under the so-called "Household Responsibility System." This incentive system, designed to increase yields, reallocated communal land to peasant households, creating hundreds of millions of smallholders with relative autonomy over land use decisions and crop selection. Based on recent ethnographic research, this paper discusses the smallholder farming system of a mixed-ethnic community that intensively cultivates small land plots for subsistence and market exchange in China's populous southwestern province of Sichuan. The paper characterizes the smallholder system in terms of biodiversity of plant and animal species, market distribution of crops, multiple cropping systems, and labor and technology inputs. The paper also describes how smallholders adapt their agricultural practices and decisions to changing market conditions and agricultural policies. Significantly, these adaptive strategies focus on shifting to the production of various cash crops, including melons and mangoes. Implications for the long-term viability of China's smallholders, particularly in ecologically and economically marginal areas, are also discussed.
4602297|The relationship between political organization and hydraulic development is discussed, using illustrations from the Valley of Oaxaca, Mexico. It is suggested that change in political organization toward greater or lesser centralization of control over local water resource use may be part of a social response to environmental degradation (in this case, a receding water table) resulting from the effects of change in resource use (in this case, intensified water extraction). Economic stress due to environmental degradation varies in duration and intensity; such variations must be taken into account in understanding shifts in response patterns. Small-scale hydraulic development which places pressure on the availability of water for irrigation may elicit an initial response of centralization of control over its use to correct for the disturbance, water shortage. However, this response itself tends to exacerbate the disturbance through reducing previously existing homeostatic controls on the extraction of water and hence leads to greater economic stress, up to the point at which new responses must take place. Other kinds of environmental disturbance resulting from initial development attempts appear to have similar feedback effects which contribute to potential systemic instability.
41474611|Studies using Optimal Foraging Theory to understand human behavior have stated that daily variation in patch profitability could explain mismatches between theoretical predictions and actual behavior. In this paper, we tested whether the return rate of the last fishing trip could predict fishers' choices to return or choose a different fishing ground for their next trip. We collected data on fishing trips using interviews and direct observation of fishers' activities at the main landing point in So Francisco, a small-scale shrimp fishing community on Brazil's southern coast. We found that fishers returned more often to fishing grounds where the return rate of the previous fishing trip was above the average gross return of the environment. Daily variations in patch quality accounted for fishers' decisions, but other factors may also influence the observed behavior, such as scale of analysis, information exchange, environmental conditions, and economic variables.
40928141|This paper analyzes how local seed system institutions support seed diversity, itself a requirement for agrobiodiversity maintained on-farm. The paper focuses on maize seed diversity in the central Peruvian Amazon. Using household and community level data from three different cultural groups from the central Peruvian Amazon, empirical results show the importance of collective action and the mediating role of ethnicity in the functioning of informal seed systems that in turn affect farmers' choices regarding conservation of seed diversity. This implies that policies are needed to protect the relatively open seed exchanges of such local practices as a way to sustain onfarm agrobiodiversity.
4603558|The ethnobotanical study on edible wild plants was carried out from May to December, 2001, in four districts of Ethiopia. The study areas included the rural and semiurban settings of Alamata, Cheha, Goma, and Yilmana Denssa districts of Tigray, Southern Peoples, Oromiya, and Amhara regional states, respectively. Voucher plant specimens were collected along with ethnobotanical information, and scientific names were determined. One hundred and fifty two plant parts from 130 species were recognized and consumed in these districts. Children consumed more wild plants during seasons of food availability (sufficient crop stock) than adults. There was marked increase in quantity and number of wild plant species consumed during food shortage and famine. A few of the reportedly edible species caused health problems that sometimes lead to fatality. Research into the safety and nutritional composition of edible wild plants and fungi is warranted. Selected edible wild plant species should be promoted as supplements to dietary variety and/or bridging the hungry periods of food shortage.
27654239|This article argues against the idea that indigenous cultural change and knowledge loss are inevitably bonded to one another, with particular reference to agro-productive transformations. This view has not only ignored the potential of these productive systemswell documented in recent decadesbut has often threatened them by promoting development policies based on mistaken premises. It is suggested here that some indigenous peoples' productive responses to market integration may in fact offer alternatives to the paradoxes of development in seemingly fragile tropical environments. This article reports, in particular, on the strategies developed by the Piaroa, from southern Venezuela. Contemporary large and permanent Piaroa communities, which resulted from their involvement in aspects of national society, have been able to sustain the forests on which they depend while satisfying their food and market necessities. This has been possible due to a series of market strategies based on their agroforestal tradition, which have emphasised the commercialization of secondary forest products. The article proposes that these strategies have been underestimated due to the market conditions in which Piaroa farmers are immersed, and from which they have learnt the very principles of "capitalism." Oil dependent and saturated with corruption, the Venezuelan market hampers their full economic integration, contributing to the idea that their agroforestry system can only produce at subsistence levels.
4602937|The maize (Zea mays)-cassava (Manihot esculenta)-Musa relay-cropped sequence as practiced among 28 Yanesha families in the Palcazu Valley in Central Amazonian Peru was surveyed to determine why farmers rotate fields into bush fallow. Typically, this sequence is planted on alluvial Inceptisols after the clearing of 2-5 year tree and shrub growth. During the 18-30 months of cropping, fields showed a buildup of weeds and an increase in banana stem borer and nutrient deficiency symptoms. Farmers attributed the decline in Musa yields from the first to third harvests to stem borer, weeds, or soil infertility but were not unanimous. Any or all of these factors facilitate the decision to abandon a field. A 3-year record of fields cleared by each farm family indicated that field rotation stems from two independent decisions: selection of a fallowed field to clear for maize and vegetables, important for family nutrition, which are planted right after field clearing, and discontinuation of weeding in old fields as labor is used primarily on new fields, a decision leading to bush fallow recovery. Work with these families during 4 years suggests that the distribution of land and labor is based on a sense of relative labor productivity, on diverse dietary needs and preferences, and on the maintenance of a balance between areas in cropping and under fallow.
4602468|In a commons dilemma laboratory analog subjects were allowed individually to draw valuable points from a slowly regenerating pool. Subjects participated in groups of four and faced the dilemma of either rapidly drawing a large number of points for themselves (but thereby destroying the pool), or limiting their own harvesting so that the pool would regenerate, benefiting the group. All subjects were, in addition, informed of the optimum strategy for harvesting before the game began, but results showed that this strategy was rarely used. Two factors were added to the basic game: (1) dividing the resource pool into individual harvesting territories, and (2) making the varying levels of resources visible. Each of these increased the harvest and production of the resource, but only territoriality increased the supply. Only when both factors were applied together did the groups approach the optimal harvesting strategy earlier spelled out to them. Possible mediating variables and applications are discussed.
4603045|This paper reconsiders two widely held hypotheses about the effects of the green revolution, that it led to biological simplification and instability. The hypothesis of biological simplification (genetic erosion) is tested with evidence from Andean agriculture, where farmers maintain a significant degree of crop diversity even as they adopt modern crop varieties. The hypothesis of increased instability is tested with evidence from Asia where wheat and rice yields show no general pattern of increased instability. Neither of these hypotheses is confirmed. The conventional wisdom about the green revolution should be reconsidered with emphasis on resilience and variation in modernizing farming systems.
4602402|The Siriono Indians of eastern Bolivia have one of the simplest cultures on record. In a famous ethnography, Allan Holmberg explained Siriono cultural poverty mainly with a psycho-functional model, in which the demands of the food quest were said to have prevented the elaboration of most aspects of Siriono culture. This article reexamines the cultural status of the Siriono in terms of population decimation, flight into a new ecological niche, acculturation to Whites and to other Indians and Afro-Americans, and a strategic but culturally corrosive shift from patrilocal to matrilocal residence. The article concludes that the reexamination of all past ethnographic work, and perhaps especially of the "classic," or more influential ethnographies, is one of the most urgent tasks facing cultural anthropology.
4602696|Demographers and anthropologists have recently turned their attention to the fertility increases that seem to have occurred with the "demographic transition." This study examines various explanations for historical changes in fertility among the Mekranoti-Kayapo Indians of Central Brazil. Data from pregnancy histories and genealogies suggest that changes in health status, use of contraceptives, lactation periods, and post-partum sexual abstinence are not as important in accounting for Mekranoti fertility as is warfare. Because of high male mortality from war, many Mekranoti women spent a large portion of their reproductive years without a husband, and their fertility was significantly lower as a result. This finding may have implications for demographic changes elsewhere and in other periods of human evolution.
4603469|As a result of increasingly apparent and problematic effects of global information system and remote sensing technologies, there has been increased emphasis on demonstrating and incorporating indigenous environmental knowledges in land use and cover analysis. Such approaches, though ethnographically revealing and politically efficacious, tend to reproduce a model of difference between local and scientific knowledges that is epistemologically untenable. This paper demonstrates an alternative use of geographic information system and remotely sensed imagery to both demonstrate the partiality of mapping technology and show possibilities for critical usage of the tool. Using a case from India, the research shows a method to elicit and explore competing environmental knowledges, including and especially those of "scientific" experts. The analysis concludes that, for both local producers and expert managers, the cultural meaning of landscapes is dependent on their roles in regional production and resource politics.
27654240|Recent discussions of local knowledge emphasize its dynamic nature invoking local peoples' ability to effectively integrate traditional or local with science-based or "modern" knowledges. The smallholder timber industry of the Amazon's estuarine floodplain provides an outstanding example of local patterns of resource management and economic activities transformed from within by smallholder farmers who participated in the industrial timber boom of the 1970s and 1980s. These farmers of eastern Amazonia have developed a vertically integrated local industry based on expertise reflecting profound locally developed knowledge of specific forests and management of ecological processes, individual observation and experimentation, as well as concepts and practices derived from temporary employment by large-scale industrial timber firms. At each stage of the smallholder forestry processfrom managing natural regeneration to running small sawmills and marketing lumberlocal managers apply an innovative set of practices reflecting their diverse experiences. This combination of technical, market, and ecological knowledge results in forests, timber markets, and economic patterns that do not correspond to many of the widely-held generalizations concerning either local or industrial tropical timber exploitation. This article uses data from 7 years of research in the Amazon floodplain.
40343945|Many scholars claim that open access due to the effective absence of state control is the major reason for the overuse of common-pool resources such as fisheries. Based on data from the Kafue Flats fisheries in Zambia, we argue that the main problem in open-access situations is the paradox of a state that is simultaneously absent and present: present in actions that dismantle local fishery institutions but absent when it comes to the ability to enforce the laws that might protect the resources. Thus, the state is present in the voice of immigrants from other parts of the country who use their Zambian citizenship to legitimize free access to the fisheries. But it is absent when the Department of Fisheries is not able to enforce its own formal rules or control these immigrants' activities. Local groups are unable to act collectively to reinstall new institutions due to the absence of formal law enforcement. This paper analyses this historic process of institutional change within the theoretical framework of New Institutionalism. We test the hypothesis that the main reason for the lack of local collective action in the Kafue Flats is ideology (the notion of citizenship) strengthening the bargaining power of external actors, who profit most from open access constellations.
4603254|Between ca. A.D. 800-1000, Scandinavian chiefly societies with a mixed maritime and agricultural economy expanded into the North Atlantic, colonizing Shetland, Orkney, Caithness, Hebrides, Faeroes, Iceland, Greenland, and Vinland. The settlers brought continental European economics and expectations to a widely varied set of island ecosystems. In many regions, rapid degradation of flora and soils took place associated with social and climate change. Recent research coordinated by the North Atlantic Bicultural Organization (NABO) highlights the extent of pre-modern impacts.
4603122|The Gitksan and Wet'suwet'en peoples of northwest British Columbia occupy the upper drainage of the Skeena River and the western headwaters of the Fraser River. They live in a region of diverse topography, vegetation, and climate. Berry patch burning was the most important traditional vegetation manipulation. Black huckleberry and lowbush blueberry patches were burned to stimulate growth of new stems and production of berries, while preventing invasion by other shrub species and conifers. Maintenance of berry patches by burning was discontinued in the 1930s and 1940s because of fire suppression by the British Columbia Forest Service. Spring burning on south facing slopes, village sites, and garden sites was also practiced, and continues to the present. It occurs in aspen, pine, or grass dominated seral communities, or cottonwood floodplain forest, and is intended to control brush and encourage growth of grass.
40343974|For centuries swidden was an important farming practice found across the girth of Southeast Asia. Today, however, these systems are changing and sometimes disappearing at a pace never before experienced. In order to explain the demise or transitioning of swidden we need to understand the rapid and massive changes that have and are occurring in the political and economic environment in which these farmers operate. Swidden farming has always been characterized by change, but since the onset of modern independent nation states, governments and markets in Southeast Asia have transformed the terms of swiddeners' everyday lives to a degree that is significantly different from that ever experienced before. In this paper we identified six factors that have contributed to the demise or transformation of swidden systems, and support these arguments with examples from China (Xishuangbanna), Laos, Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia. These trends include classifying swiddeners as ethnic minorities within nation-states, dividing the landscape into forest and permanent agriculture, expansion of forest departments and the rise of conservation, resettlement, privatization and commoditization of land and land-based production, and expansion of market infrastructure and the promotion of industrial agriculture. In addition we note a growing trend toward a transition from rural to urban livelihoods and expanding urban-labor markets.
4602966|The opinions of rural people living near conservation areas have largely been ignored by conservationists. Several studies, however, have attempted to rectify this oversight, including two from southern Africa, whose findings can be compared. This paper examines the attitudes to nature conservation of people living near the Umfolozi-Hluhluwe Corridor Complex Game Reserve in southeastern South Africa with those of people living near the northeastern game reserve complex in Swaziland. Although the former study used a questionnaire survey and the latter semi-structured interviews, comparisons are possible because of common objectives. This paper concludes: (1) general support for nature conservation exists in both areas, (2) there is, however, little support for local conservation areas, (3) there appears to be little active hostility toward the conservation authorities managing protected lands, and (4) rural people's attempts to reconcile conservation and economic development are largely unsatisfactory.
40343988|In this study, we examine the effect of Tarangire National Park (TNP) on local perceptions of risk and how these perceptions may influence behavioral responses. Data were collected during 2004-2005 through household surveys and participatory risk mapping (PRM) in eight villages east of TNP. By identifying and rank-ordering respondents' perceived risks, PRM enhances understanding of the nature and variation of risks faced within a population by distinguishing between the incidence and severity of subjective risk perceptions. Results indicate that proximity to the park has a strong effect on the type and severity of perceived risks. Within villages close to the park, however, behavioral response to perceived risks varies considerably. This study contributes to an appreciation of how behavioral response to environmental and socioeconomic factors is mediated by human perception.
4602621|The estuarine system of the Clarence River in northern New South Wales, Australia is examined. Although many such systems in Australia have been placed at risk as a result of human-induced environmental pressure, it is contended that this is not the case with the Clarence River system. Rather it is suggested that perceived environmental threats in this case are the result of particular local environmental cognitions and that actual stress exerted on the system is largely independent of human use.
23353264|Most fires in Africa are anthropogenic yet remain understudied. Studies typically address managed fire, or the "fire triad" of early dry season-late dry season-suppression, and fire regimes which are annual or less, leaving unstudied the anthropogenic fire regimes that occur in the majority of African savannas. I take the case of the Bateke Plateaux area where burning today occurs both annually and semi-annually and measure the impacts of these regimes on savanna structure, measuring stem survival post fire and post fire regeneration of resprouts of the dominant savanna tree. While annual fires are hot and burn completely, semi-annual fires are cooler and patchy, favouring re-sprout survival and an escape route for small stems to mature into trees. This work extends the fire triad model to include an anthropogenic semi-annual regime which favours tree survival. The integration of local fire regimes into future studies will help increase our understanding of climate, vegetation dynamics as well as help orient policy and conservation.
4602634|Self-regulation of human populations has been proposed by various authors, despite the fact that no biological or cultural mechanisms have ever been established. POPREG I, a computer simulation of ritual warfare among the Tsembaga Maring of New Guinea, demonstrates that the self-regulatory mechanism proposed by Rappaport (1968) ignores the demographic consequences of external variables. When the effects of epidemics are taken into account, the regulatory nature of the ritual cycle becomes suspect. Future research in anthropological demography requires careful analysis of both internal and external variables; POPREG I provides the basis for a synthetic model of population dynamics in human societies.
40603004|Indigenous medicine is important to rural livelihoods, but lay knowledge and use of medicinal plants has not been extensively studied. Research in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, showed that medicinal plants were frequently used by villagers and contributed to their ability to cope with health problems. Knowledge of plants and household remedies was extensive and varied in that households often held different knowledge. Villagers mainly relied on common species, and were generally aware of alternative species for a certain ailment. People were flexible in their use of indigenous and western health care, which were both perceived as beneficial. Improved cooperation between health care systems could improve health standards. Extraction of medicinal plants has been described as unsustainable in the regiona situation not found in the study area. It is argued that conservation policies aimed to restrict access should be differential and potentially not include local consumption, since this may be ecologically unnecessary and entail local hardships.
4603301|Community-based management is increasingly viewed as the most appropriate arrangement for promoting sustainable development of natural resources. A common assumption is that the values of community members, often assumed to be homogeneous, foster successful outcomes. However, analysts often treat these values and their homogeneity as exogenous factors, ignoring the community's potential role in managing members' values. This study of community-based forest management in two southern Indiana sites examines how the members of the two communities created institutions to screen, maintain, and defend their values. Analysis reveals that different institutions shaped members' preferences and led to different levels of community stability, conflict management, and natural resource condition. We argue that understanding community-based management processes and outcomes requires careful attention to how institutions facilitate or hamper the construction of community members' values.
4602457|The effects of residential density were examined in the following study through a comparison of experiences of tenants living in 14-story apartment buildings and those in three-story walkups within the same low-income housing project. It was hypothesized that tenants in the high-rise buildings would come into contact with large numbers of others in the public spaces of their buildings. As these contacts exceeded residents' interaction capacity or ability to process relevant incoming social stimuli tenants would experience social overload. This experience would be manifested by tenants' perceptions of crowding in the building, feelings of less control, safety, and privacy in the immediate residential environment, problematic social relationships among tenants and alienation and dissatisfaction with the residential environment generally. These experiences were not expected to occur for tenants in the low-rise walkups. Interview data supported these hypotheses and revealed, in addition, that high-rise apartment residents were less socially active beyond their building and felt a greater sense of powerlessness in effecting management decisions. Correlational analyses provided further evidence of the vast differences between residents' experiences of the two building types.
40343962|Indigenous knowledge is unevenly distributed. Individual knowledge level may be affected by many factors such as gender, age, ethnicity, profession, religious and cultural beliefs, abundance and usefulness of the species. This study documents indigenous knowledge of herbaceous and woody plant species of farmers and herders in southwestern Niger. Specifically, we examine the effects of age, gender, and ethnicity on knowledge of local vegetation. Results from the study showed that on average a higher proportion of woody species was identified by the respondents compared to herbaceous species. Both gender and ethnicity had a significant effect on the identification of herbaceous species but no effect on identification of woody species. Respondents in lower age group (10 to 30 years) identified lower number of species compared to other age classes. There seems to be a curvilinear relationship between age of respondents and number of plant species identified. Results from this study reaffirm the uneven distribution of indigenous knowledge within a given area due to social factors. The main challenge is how to incorporate these social differences in knowledge of native plant species into sustainable management and conservation of community natural resources.
27654124|In southern Mali and throughout the semiarid tropics, small-scale family farmers are faced with the challenge of producing adequate harvests in difficult biophysical and socioeconomic environments. Professional plant breeders have had much difficulty developing modern varieties that outperform farmers' traditional varieties in these environments, in part because of an incomplete understanding of why farmers choose the varieties they grow. Improved understanding of farmers' varietal choices can contribute to collaboration between farmers and formal plant breeders. Based on a 15-month field study in Dissan, Mali, we examine farmer's choices among their traditional sorghum varieties in terms of one or more than one variety, and short-cycle or long-cycle varieties, and the interaction between these two choices. Results support our general hypothesis that farmers choose varieties to optimize outputs in the face of variation in the growing environment and in human managed inputs such as labor and tools.
41474654|India is home to thousands of community-protected forests, called sacred groves. Sacred forests or groves are sites that have cultural or spiritual significance to the people who live around them. These areas may also be key reservoirs of biodiversity. In India, most sacred groves are managed by a community group, not by a government agency. They are often private or community land, not formal protected areas or parks. This poses an interesting challenge in terms of future management and possible policy relating to the sacred groves. On the international level, organizations such as the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and UNESCO have created guidelines for management of sacred sites. On the national level, India's past Forest Acts and recent Forest Rights Act have relevance to the sacred groves. Local differences in land tenure also affect the groves. Ethnographic research conducted in 2009 and 2010 in the states of Meghalaya and Karnataka, India, evaluated the historic and current management and beliefs associated with sacred forests. Cultural change and pressure to use natural resources within the groves is leading to reduction of these forest areas. In the future, a creative combination of policy approaches to conserve groves that respects their spiritual values is recommended.
4602259|Population growth in Java paralleled the development of a colonial economy based on the production of export crops using Javanese land and labor. The increase in population may be interpreted as a demographic response to demand for labor within the family, created by the need to intensify subsistence production in the face of colonial demands on land, labor, and produce.
4602310|In the last few years, considerable evidence has been obtained regarding the importance of zinc in human nutrition. Zinc is an important component of many metalloenzymes and is also required for metabolism of nucleic acids and synthesis of protein. Human requirements for zinc vary at different times in development, but appear to be particularly high during embryonic life, during periods of rapid growth, and during pregnancy. Although zinc is widely distributed in foods, a number of types of diets appear to be deficient or marginal in terms of available zinc. In addition, there is physiological loss of zinc in bleeding and sweating which may lead to low levels of body zinc. A syndrome characterized by markedly retarded growth and sexual development that occurs in the Middle East has been shown to be due to zinc deficiency. This syndrome is reviewed. It is thought that the zinc deficiency syndrome is only one end of a continuum of growth-related problems associated with low levels of physiologically available zinc. In rats, zinc deficiency during pregnancy has been shown to lead to congenital malformations in a large percentage of the offspring. A number of these malformations involve the central nervous system. We have suggested that epidemiological data support the possible importance of maternal zinc deficiency as an etiological factor in human CNS malformations. These data are discussed.
41433096|This paper examines the contribution of human migrations to the propagation and maintenance of Caesalpina bonduc by means of an analysis of its population genetics and distribution patterns. One hundred and forty seven sites were surveyed in the three climatic zones of Benin and all individuals of the species were recorded. A set of individuals was randomly selected and sampled from seven populations and morphological variation and genetic diversity were assessed. The study confirmed the presence of the species in all climatic zones but its abundance varied greatly. Morphological variability between populations and zones was low in comparison with the high amount of variation within populations. AFLP and cpDNA finger-printing revealed an extremely low genetic diversity within populations and a low genetic differentiation, suggesting parental links between populations. The results support the hypothesis of human involvement in Caesalpinia dispersal and persistence in Benin. However, the low genetic diversity may imply high risks for future extinction. We recommend that gene flow among the remaining populations be supported in order to conserve the species.
4602724| Preliminary results from an energy analysis of the coal fuel cycle in an Appalachian coal county have provided a systematic assessment of hidden energy subsidies in extraction, transport, processing, and combustion. Current results indicate that the system operates at an annual energy deficit of approximately 350  10
4603594|We present palaeoenvironmental, geomorphological, archaeological, and place-name data which allow a holistic assessment of the history of landscape change on Sandoy, Faroe Islands, especially in terms of the changes that occurred in response to the colonization of the island by humans. In contrast to other situations in the North Atlantic region, there is considerable continuity in the patterns and processes of landscape evolution across the initial settlement horizon. Many of the characteristic features of post-settlement North Atlantic landscapes--absence of trees, widespread blanket mires, high rates of soil erosion--were already in place when the first people arrived. Although human impact on Sandoy appears to have been light, conversely, the unusual environment forced major alterations of the subsistence economy imported by the colonists. Settlement-era archaeological records suggest that, from the start, patterns of resource use differed substantially from the regional norm, and these differences became amplified over time as the Faroese economy created a locally sustainable cultural landscape.
4603604|Malaria prevalence has been one of the most dramatic outcomes of the occupation of the Brazilian Amazon as exemplified by Northern Mato Grosso, one of the areas of highest malaria prevalence in the Americas in the early 1990s. This paper associates the dynamics of high malaria prevalence in Northern Mato Grosso with three land uses--small-scale gold mining (garimpos), agricultural colonization/cattle ranching (rural), and urban activities--and their related population characteristics, which constitute risk profiles. Furthermore, spatial proximity and population mobility between (a) garimpos and new rural settlements and (b) older rural settlements or urban areas are key factors explaining malaria diffusion throughout the region. The paper identifies and characterizes populations at high malaria risk and the effects of land use types on malaria diffusion, providing policymakers with information for regional and local policies to control malaria and minimize its effects on Amazonian populations.
4603335|Medicinal plants are an important part of the environment as it is perceived by Mexican indigenous groups. The aim of this study, which was conducted over a period of 18 months in three Yucatec Mayan communities, is to better understand the selection criteria for medicinal plants. An important group of selection criteria are the flavor and aroma of plants. The absence of smell or taste indicates that the taxon has no potential medical value. Medicinal plants are more often considered to be sweet or aromatic (to smell good) or astringent, while a similar percentage of medicinal and nonmedicinal plants are considered bitter, spicy, acidic, or bad smelling. The relationship between the ethnobotanical data obtained for the individual plants and the secondary plant products (natural products) prominent in each species is specifically addressed in this paper. It shows that an understanding of the indigenous concepts used to distinguish medicinal from nonmedicinal species has considerable heuristic value.
4603277|The relationship between size of landholdings and household economic status is fairly clear, particularly in societies where agricultural exports dominate the economy. Less clear is the effect of differential access to and control of productive property within households and the ways in which it affects the economic opportunities of individual household members. This paper examines property holdings and inheritance patterns among coffee-producing households in Costa Rica. I show that while cultural norms regulating labor contributions do affect the balance of authority within households, de facto property rights can significantly enhance an individual's decision-making power both within households and between generationally-related households. Unless new opportunities arise, as population increases, coffee production expands, and lands become increasingly scarce, we shall likely see increased stratification both within households-as women inherit less land-and among households, as some sons inherit at the expense of other sons and daughters.
25652785|How farmers perceive the state of their pastures is an important component of their management decisions and affects natural resources in arid and semi-arid regions. In an explorative study conducted in the Rehoboth farm area of central Namibia, we addressed the question whether the judgments of commercial farmers on pasture conditions are consistent with a botanical assessment of these pastures based on measurements. The perceptions were inferred from the comparative statements of farmers on the pasture quality of adjacent farm pairs. For the botanical assessment, biomass and plant species frequency counts of the same pastures were used. The results of the statistical analysis show a large agreement between perceived and measured pasture states of corresponding farm pairs, thus pasture quality dimensions perceived by the farmers agreed with the measured pasture quality variables. We also discuss the problems of designing more elaborate studies of this type.
24015743|An established body of literature documents current changes in rural livelihoods, agricultural practices, and agrobiodiversity patterns in smallholder communities across the globe. Contributing to this literature, this paper documents change in agricultural practices and agrobiodiversity patterns in a tidal floodplain settlement in Amap, Brazil, where in recent years farmers increasingly devote their attention to the production of aa fruits, an important regional crop with strong local, national and international markets. Research results indicate that farmers are abandoning subsistence production in annual fields to make room for aadominated agroforests. At the same time, farmers are diversifying home gardens, and as a result conserve a portion of the crop diversity once maintained in annual fields in these areas. Agrobiodiversity documented in home gardens is much higher than previously recorded in the study area, and is equal or higher than previously reported in home gardens in other less-market integrated Amazonian communities. Research points to the need for innovative methods to document agrobiodiversity patterns in today's modifying landscapes and for the historical analysis of such patterns to avoid presumptions that observed changes are unilateral and unidirectional.
24015699|In September of 1996, without prior warning to Utah residents, the Clinton Administration announced the creation of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument (GSENM) in southern Utah. Reactions by residents in neighboring gateway communities were both swift and intense. Lack of citizen input in the process drew ire among Utah citizens living near the monument and statewide. In this article we examine how the designation process has impacted residents' trust in the federal agency managing the monumentthe Bureau of Land Management. Research on trust in federal resource management agencies is important for successful natural resource planning and management. We extend the research by incorporating the manner in which the designation of the GSENM occurred as an additional factor in the analyses on trust. We find the manner of designation matters, and discuss implications of this finding for both research and policy makers.
27654242|The ability of rural people to protect their food consumption matters because it captures their economic vulnerability. How well do foragers protect consumption from adverse income shocks and does protection work equally well for all people in the household? We answer the queries with data from 156 adults and 169 children collected over five consecutive quarters from the Tsimane', a native Amazonian society of foragers and farmers in Bolivia. We estimate whether quarterly changes in the logarithm of consumption bear an association with quarterly changes in the logarithm of cash income while controlling for many confounders, including covariant shocks. We use anthropometric indices of short-run nutritional status to proxy for food consumption and use instrumental variables to abate biases from the endogeneity of income. We found that child consumption was fully protected from income growth, but adult consumption was not as well protected. Estimates of income elasticities of consumption fell toward the lower range of estimates from previous studies of farming and industrial societies. We present several hypotheses to explain how the Tsimane' smooth consumption.
4602974|Sahelian decision-makers must discern whether wider adoption of irrigation techniques would relieve the existing food production crisis. This case study of the Kirene District illustrates, how, despite the capital intensive investment, the prevailing design fails to adequately adjust or reform existing institutions so as to provide incentives to farmers. Consequently, the full economic potential of irrigation remains untapped. Vested interests in the status quo to perpetuate the monopoly of the State further compromise the potential benefits that irrigation could provide.
4603258|Information collected on herding practices and economic activities of nine Bedouin households is used to define livelihood strategies and examine their economic viability. Large variations found in herding practices and other means of subsistence are a response to external policies and constraints which limit herding space and sources of income. Differential access to resources and different sociocultural norms are important factors. The identification and analysis of different livelihood strategies is a useful point of departure for discussing the development of Bedouin herding in the Negev and for formulating policy that is more effective and empathetic.
41474622|In recent years, states have ceded governance over large territories to indigenous organizations. This article examines the history of an early case of territorial governance (dating from the 1970s) to probe the social, political, and environmental processes that occur when an indigenous social movement becomes a governing body. It argues that indigenous organizations can quickly learn to "see like states" (Scott 1998) without adopting the particular visions promoted by the state that facilitated their new role. In the case explored here, indigenous leaders created landscape improvement schemes that went beyond those promoted by the state and others in terms of changing the legibility of land use and tenure categories. Furthermore, their schemes had significant impacts on forest cover as evidenced by remotely sensed images. These processes challenge theories that position the state as the primary arbitrator of human-environmental relations as well as theories that dichotomize between states and indigenous organizations.
4603121|Despite a steady increase in population since the 1930s, farmers on Rusinga Island in Kenya have abandoned many traditional intensive agricultural practices, including the construction of hillside terraces. At the same time, low crop yields have led to a chronic shortage of food on the island. This paper, based on an analysis of archival materials and a detailed agronomic study of the farming system, analyzes the causes of this process of disintensification. Labor scarcity resulting from migrant wage employment and the growing importance of the fishing industry has been a major factor in the decline of agriculture on the island. The loss of soil conservation practices and serious weed infestations have contributed to the collapse of farm productivity. This study highlights the importance of understanding not only the local ecology but also the broader political and economic environment in order to explain farmers' decisions and the process of agricultural change.
4602888|This paper presents quantitative data on blowpipe hunting among the Semaq Beri, a group of the aboriginal peoples of Peninsular Malaysia, with special reference to daily activity rhythms, space use, efforts, and efficiency of hunting. The role of hunting is examined in the diet of the population studied, which is in transition from a nomadic to a sedentary lifestyle. The special hunting focus on a few species (the leaf monkeys, Presbytis spp.) is examined in relation to ecology of prey items and using the optimal diet breadth model. Technological efficiencies of the Semaq Beri blowpipe and dart are compared with the Waorani of Ecuador.
4603162|In a growing number of cases throughout Africa, communities' resource bases are being undermined or appropriated by outsiders, a process which seriously threatens the continuation of local cultures and livelihoods. In this article, we use a political ecology framework to examine how the linked processes of economic development, political power, and environmental change are transgressing the rights of fishing communities on the shores of Lake Malawi. In the cases described, these communities, or community members within them, find themselves powerless to prevent the expropriation of the resources over which they previously had either legal or customary control. Thus, it is not the economic processes of dispossession alone which lead to human rights violations but rather dispossession combined with an authoritarian political context.
4603280|Ancient Maya subsistence practices and their relation to the rise and decline of Maya civilization have long been the subject of archaeological debate. Traditionally Mayanists correlate subsistence strategy with political economy, positing that a change in one must correspond to a change in the other. Since smallholders, as defined by Netting, can exist within a variety of political and economic systems, their ubiquity in the Maya Lowlands may explain why household studies often fail to detect political or economic change at a macro level. The absence of smallholders, however, may correlate with the depopulation of many Maya cities at the end of the ninth century.
4603330| Theory in political ecology emphasizes the role of competing interests in shaping resource use. Although supportive of these approaches, this article draws on the importance of meanings assigned to ecological systems to question how epistemological differences also contribute to environmental conflicts. Following calls to examine the interface between environmental knowledge and action, consideration is given to ethnoecological constructs of forests on Mexico's southern Yucatn peninsula, home to the Calakmul Biosphere Reserve. To quiet opposition to the Reserve, government agents increased financial aid to the region in the form of conservation development projects. With the counsel of a Reserve director, local residents effectively used these projects to press for an environmentalism based on sustainable resource use. This position has associations with a local ethnoecology of land as a place of work. In examining how ethnoecologies played out in contests surrounding conservation, possibilities for a localized, alternative environmentalism are discussed, as well as the importance of environmental constructs for research in political ecology. 
4603603| Livestock agrodiversity of Mazahua smallholder 'campesino' systems in the highlands of Central Mexico was investigated in the villages of San Pablo Tlalchichilpa (SPT) and La Concepcin Mayorazgo (LCM). An animal inventory of 142 households in the two villages was made, followed by the monthly monitoring of 25 households through interviews and participant observation. Thirteen species of domestic animals were found, with a median of three species per farm. The main species were chickens, donkeys, sheep, cattle, mules, and horses, with some also keeping rabbits, ducks, and pigeons. Draught animals are fundamental. Poultry represents a dynamic asset that provides food, income, and short-term savings. Sheep are medium-term savings, and provide stability. Livestock are managed in interaction with crops, providing draught force, manure, and cash, and receiving feed. Livestock are fed weeds of the maize crop and stover during the dry season. Donkeys and sheep are also grazed on common land and in the fields after harvest. High prices for sheep have meant more flocks with possible detrimental environmental effects. Men usually own the draught animals, although anyone may own animals. Women are commonly owners of small stock and receive animals as wedding presents or inheritance. Other arrangements include shared ownership and borrowing. Livestock and produce may be traded in regional markets but are generally sold locally. Compesinos are aware of unfavorable local terms, but reckon possible benefits do not warrant increased transportation costs and time. The villagers say their animals allow them to meet their needs and remain in their villages while improving their livelihoods. 
4602951|A long-term study of land tenure, land transfer, and succession in one subclan of the Chimbu in the Papua New Guinea highlands takes up the relations between the agricultural cycle, family, and population growth in a period of rapid commercialization and cash cropping. Over a generation, land was held and allocated within families, among families within the subclan, and to kin and affines in neighboring groups. The land tenure, ownership, and use system allows for a very great deal of individual movement and land gifts, temporary or long-term, by land owner to kin and friends. Despite an agnatic ideology, individuals and local groups opportunistically accommodate to land needs. As cultivation becomes more intensive and semi-permanent, there appears to be a progression from fluidity of land rights in the clan or subclan to anchoring of rights and boundaries to individuals and families. It is suggested that this characterizes Chimbu land tenure; it is not a post-colonial phenomenon.
27654210|Integrated assessment seeks to combine models of the ecological as well as the social system to allow different scenarios to be tested in terms of their likely impacts on ecological functioning and household well-being. We outline such work undertaken in four case studies in East and southern Africa: pastoralist communities in northern Tanzania, agro-pastoralists in southern Kenya, communal and commercial ranchers in South Africa, and mixed crop-livestock farmers in western Kenya. Results from these case studies are synthesised to test the hypothesis that households' capacity to adapt in the face of increasing external stresses is governed by flexibility in livelihood options. The results support this hypothesis. There is considerable variation in how households in these places cope with external stresses. Options include intensification, diversification, and increasing off-farm economic activities, and these depend on household objectives and attitudes as well as on access to natural resources, inputs and output markets. The results also indicate that generally it is the poorer households that can gain the most from implementing such options for coping and managing risk. Quantifying likely household and ecosystem impacts of different options is a crucial step in targeting appropriate technology, policy and adaptation interventions in the face of considerable system changes. We conclude with some research needs to improve integrated assessment tools that may allow us to represent more realistically the highly complex decision-making milieu of householders in sub-Saharan Africa who are dependent on ecosystem goods and services for a large part of their livelihoods.
4603415|Horse breeding is well-known to be one of the traditional means of subsistence for the Sakha (Yakut) of Siberia. Existing research, however, lacks clear descriptions of the reproductive process of the horse-bands and the role which herders play in that process. The objective of this paper is to clarify these issues. Currently the peoples of Northern Yakutia are not subsistence pastoralists but rather ranch workers. Rural development policies of the Soviet regime and the contemporary decollectivization process have infiltrated all spheres of indigenous life. I describe the nature of state property, labor organization of the state farms, and relations among the administrative village, herders' camp, and pasture, which were defined by the former socialist government and now are unstabilized, as well as how pastoral techniques and practices of horse husbandry shared among herders have been shaped, mediated, and channeled by state-institutional arrangements. My primary focus is the historical interactions among subsistence herders, indigenous ecological knowledge, and state administration, in light of the interaction between herders and horses in the reproduction process of the herds involved with state institutions.
24013716|In the Andean region of South America, understanding communities' water perceptions is particularly important for water management as many rural communities must decide by themselves if and how they will protect their micro-watersheds and distribute their water. In this study we examine how Water User Associations in the Eastern Andes of Colombia perceive water scarcity and the relationship between this perception and observed climate, land use, and demographic changes. Results demonstrate a complex relationship between perceptions and observed changes. On the one hand, observed changes in land cover match perceptions of deforestation as the primary cause of increasing water scarcity. On the other hand, perceptions of climate driven changes in water availability are not reflected in observed precipitation data. Furthermore, water scarcity was perceived in regions where seasonal rainfall variability is higher but not in regions where annual rainfall is lower. We discuss how these results contribute to our understanding of adaptation to climate change and the implications of possible mismatches between environmental changes and local perceptions.
23280341|Religious beliefs and practices have long influenced human perceptions and uses of nature. Animals in particular play a prominent role in magico-religious practices and given the historical and cultural depth of these relationships, understanding human-faunal relations is often fundamental to the cause of meaningful wildlife conservation. This study investigates the domestic and wild harvested species used for spiritual and religious purposes by adherents of the Afro-Brazilian religion Candombl. Introduced by enslaved Africans, this belief system combines animal and plant traditions derived from Africa with many others assimilated from Amerindians. We identified a total of 129 species of animals (or animal derived products) used and/or sold for magico-religious purposes; of these, 34. 8 % (n=45) are included in some list of threatened species. Most animals reported were mammals (n=29), followed by mollusks (20), fishes (19), birds (18) and reptiles (16); the majority (78 %) of reported species were wild-caught from terrestrial habitats (62 %), followed by marine and estuarine (24 %), and freshwater (14 %). We identified an extensive commercial network of collectors, middlemen/distributors, shop owners, and consumers. Rarity of a given species was often positively associated with economic value. Considering the ubiquity and underground nature of these practices, future conservation strategists are encouraged to work with Candombl practitioners.
27654228|The paper describes factors influencing artisanal fisheries at the So Francisco River in Brazil as an example of the challenges of managing socially and economically valued common-pool resource systems. A rapid assessment of problems affecting So Francisco River fisheries in 10 communities was carried out in 2003, representing the upper, middle, and lower river portions. Field visits, interviews, focus group discussions and a literature survey allowed us to map socioeconomic and environmental factors important to the fisheries, including conflicts and tensions between stakeholders. Federal, state, and municipal governments, industries, farmers, hydroelectric companies, and urban and rural populations all have a stake in river use. Traditional fishers are the most disadvantaged of these stakeholders. With declining fish populations, most of the fishing communities surveyed are now poor, socially excluded, and with few alternative livelihood options. The stakeholders involved in access and use conflicts are artisanal fishers, professional fishers, sport fishers, farmers, enforcement and regulatory agencies, and hydroelectric companies. Traditional fishers have close ties to the river and its environment and they are usually not invited to contribute to resource management decisions. We recommend changes to management structures involving the fishing communities that are essential to resolve the major conflicts and to improve equity and sustainability of artisanal fisheries.
27654182|Since the late 1990s, there has been a boom in tourism focused on the Khushmaan Ma'aza Bedouin of Egypt's northern Eastern Desert. While entrepreneurship on the part of a Bedouin, along with growing numbers of potential visitors, has fuelled this growth, a natural drought has pushed large numbers of Bedouin into the tourist trade. Almost no rain fell over the Khushmaan homeland between 1997 and 2005. Historically, such severe droughts compelled households to settle permanently along the Nile Valley, or men to take up temporary jobs in Red Sea coastal cities. The response to this drought is unique. Bedouin have clustered not in towns or villages but in a dozen tourist mahattas (stations) in the desert, where tourists visit for a few hours. The station structures are made of reeds, and two other factors make this sedentarization "soft". Most Bedouin say they would disperse into the desert if rains return. The capricious trade itself could evaporate due to political events in the region. But is also possible that sustained drought combined with tourism impacts could take Khushmaan culture beyond a tipping point, depriving youth of traditional pastoral education and channeling them toward a permanent settled existence.
41474653|The cultural landscape of the European Alps was formed over centuries through human agricultural activities. Smallholder family farms, made famous in the cultural ecological literature by Robert Netting (1993), are still the predominant socioeconomic unit of agriculture. This study assesses the resilience of farm households in relation to climate change in the village of Vals, Switzerland. Using ethnographic methods, farming households' resilience to environmental change was investigated from two perspectives: 1) an assessment of traditional ecological knowledge (TEK) in the household and its social networks; and 2) the assets of the various livelihood strategies of the farms. TEK was found to be of vital significance for management of the local environment, despite its reduced integrity due to contraction of farmland holdings, mechanization of certain tasks, and fragmentation of the agricultural ecosystem into different jurisdictions. Today the strongest and most critical areas of TEK are centered on production of agricultural goods and hazard management. Households' TEK, in combination with their flexible structure, gives them a high degree of adaptive capacity that nevertheless must be viewed in the context of an environment including not only significant natural constraints and variability, but also local and nonlocal sociopolitical factors, including state subsidies, which constitute a significant share of farmers' income, and political directives to maintain biodiversity. TEK must also be responsive to these constraints and the premises of biodiversity conservation and landscape and livelihood maintenance that underlie them.
23280272|Barton et al. (2011) claim that western Eurasia witnessed a shift in hominin land-use from a predominantly residential mobility strategy to a predominantly logistical mobility strategy during the Late Pleistocene, and that this shift would have led to increased interaction rates between Neandertals and modern humans. But an important assumption of their modelthat foragers employing a predominantly logistical mobility strategy cover a greater geographic extent over the course of their lifetimes than foragers employing a predominantly residential mobility strategymay not be universally true. Here, I reevaluate Barton et al.'s conclusion with a simple foraging-radius model. My results show that a shift to a predominantly logistical mobility strategy can inhibit rather than enhance forager interaction under conditions that presume less of Pleistocene hominin foragers.
4603017|A model of herd management is presented for Aymara alpaca herders in the south central Andes. Linear programming methods and subjective utility values are used to model how pastoralists choose the size of their herd and the species they raise. These decisions are modeled in light of the land and labor resources available to pastoralists, and the products Andean herders must derive from their herds (meat, wool, and dung). The model predicts typical herd size in the community of Chinchillape, and has implications for social and economic changes seen in the Andes today. Specifically, pastoralists in Chinchillape are pursuing maximizing strategies, optimizing herd value by concentrating on alpacas, and decreasing the proportion of llamas in their herd in response to expanding transportation systems. Finally, results of the models indicate that sheep are a very poor option for Andean herders. This explains the reluctance of indigenous herders to adopt sheep herding in some areas of the Andes.
4602249|Orientations toward privacy were identified and individual differences in orientation assessed by means of the newly developed Privacy Preference Scale. Principal components analysis of the PPS revealed six major factors from which subscales were constructed, their content centering on orientations toward noninvolvement with neighbors, seclusion of the home, solitude, privacy with intimates, anonymity, and reserve. In a suburban adult sample (n = 101), these orientations toward privacy were related by means of correlation, multivariate analysis of variance, and canonical correlation to density of past and present environments and to features of the physical environment affecting potential privacy.
4603576|Recent literature on migration and the environment has identified key mediating variables such as how migrants extract resources from the environment for their livelihoods, the rate and efficiency of extraction, and the social and economic context within which their extraction occurs. This paper investigates these variables in a new ecological setting using data from coastal fishing villages in North Sulawesi, Indonesia. We do not find as many differences between migrant and non-migrant families regarding destructive fishing behavior, technology, and investment as might have been expected from earlier theories. Instead, the context and timing of migrant assimilation seems to be more important in explaining apparent associations of migration and environmental impacts than simply migrants themselves. This finding fits well with recent literature in the field of international migration and immigrant incorporation.
4603468|Although remote sensing techniques have become important methodologies in geographical studies, their quantitative tradition and empirical strength have discouraged their use in ethnographically based research of cultural landscapes. Using Uxin Ju of Inner Mongolia in China as a case study, this paper, adopting the approach of "mixed methods," explores the integration of remote sensing techniques with ethnographic research in the study of cultural landscapes. In particular, it examines how remote sensing techniques, combined with ethnographic methods, can contribute to the study of cultural change and human perceptions as they relate to the landscape. Remote sensing analysis offers additional stories about changes in the landscape-stories not told by interviewees, or stories that supplement the account of interviewees. These stories provide important insights into cultural change and culture-landscape relationships. Through this case study, I argue that remote sensing techniques can greatly enhance ethnographic research in the study of cultural landscapes.
4603217|Different forms of management of wild, weedy, and domesticated plants carried out by the Nahua and the Mixtec in the Balsas River Basin, Mexico, are described. Along with cultivation of domesticated plants, these forms of plant management include gathering from wild populations; in situ tolerance of plant individuals during clearings of natural vegetation; in situ enhancement and protection of particular plants among populations of some species; as well as sowing or planting of propagules and transplantation of complete individuals of weedy and wild plants in controlled ex situ environments. Processes of artificial selection and possible routes of domestication occurring in these forms of plant management are discussed.
4603480|This paper describes an indigenous hunting/fishing/trapping economy in the Taimyr Autonomous Region, northern Russia, and traces the continuities and developments in property since the collapse of the Soviet command economy in 1991. Indigenous relations to hunting grounds and renewable resources are discussed with ethnographic case material from Dolgan and Nganasan communities. Land tenure is analyzed in terms of inclusive and exclusive property and informal and formal resource management. The asymmetric growth and distribution of common-pool territories and private holdings is a central issue. A number of factors when examined together appear to favor common property and traditional management including ancestral frames of morality and access, crosscutting kin relationships, principles of ownership and mutual aid, cooperative hunting, sharing of meat and fish, as well as migration patterns of prey species and relative increases in the cost of freight transport since 1991. In addition, private holding often make commercial sales and generally have better access to urban centers, while they are more closely regulated through land, tax, and environment offices of local government.
4602323|A central focus of neighborhood studies has been on the cohesion of neighborhood social groups. When it has been studied as an independent variable, concern has been with the effect of varying levels of neighborhood cohesion on the behaviors of residents within the area. In studies of cohesion as a dependent variable, emphasis has been on changes occurring in the larger community and society which may affect the formation of cohesive neighborhoods. In most cases, however, the concept of cohesion has been inadequately conceptualized and measured. This paper discusses two considerations that are important in measuring neighborhood cohesion but are often neglected. These considerations refer to the number of separate dimensions of the cohesion concept and the system level at which the concept is measured. Four different dimensions of cohesion are discussed: use of local facilities, personal identification, social interaction, and value consensus. Differences between individual and structural measures of the concept are also discussed. A review of some of the ways in which neighborhood cohesion has been measured within the literature is provided, according to these two considerations. Some suggestions are made for constructing new measures, and an empirical example, concerned with land development, is presented to support the argument that cohesion must be measured on a number of different dimensions.
4602484|This paper presents three propositions. First, the author suggests that there is a growing potential for technologically induced catastophes. Second, our capacity to analyze technological risk is inhibited in part because: (1) we tend to confuse low-probability/low-consequence events with low-probability/high-consequence risks; (2) we seldom adopt a holistic approach to the analysis of risk; and (3) we tend to underestimate the effects of catastrophic events. The author further argues that existing control systems, including federal regulatory bodies, are inadequate. In the conclusion the author discusses difficulties likely to accompany the design and creation of risk control systems.
4602365|The ecological approach to the etiology of disease involves consideration of the complex interactions of factors related to the host, agent, and environment. Although the ecological approach was developed with regard to infectious diseases, this article suggests its application as a meaningful approach to understanding the etiology of anencephalus and spina bifida. Host, agent, and environmental factors thought to be important in the development of these malformations are discussed. Translation of this conceptual approach into a testable model is needed.
4603411|With perhaps controversial implications for theory and practice, this paper suggests that the validity of Hardinian theories of the commons are dependent on the implicit rational choice assumption that resource users are aware of resource degradation. Without an awareness of the collective costs of resource use, there can be no dilemma between pursuing individual benefits and avoiding collective ruin. In such situations, the dilemma of the commons cannot be validly said to be the cause of resource depletion, and many traditional policy options to address common resource depletion may not be effective. Two reasons for the lack of awareness about resource degradation are (1) fatalistic beliefs that humans cannot harm a resource base, and (2) the growing complexity and abstraction of modern environmental problems that have obscured the collective costs of resource use from our individual and societal awareness.
4602414|It has been assumed that public or collective goods, such as resource conservation or pollution reduction, will not be created or maintained since rational actors in the international system will choose to consume these goods while avoiding the cost of preserving them. I argue that on the contrary private and public goods are so interrelated that cooperative coalition behavior over their generation is possible. The problem of the maintenance of such cooperative coalitions, via an internal bargaining process, is considered. It is suggested that local optimizing behavior by a coalition may bring about qualitative change in the system, to the extent that the stability of the coalition is destroyed. Such a catastrophic change could lead to entirely new patterns of cooperation, and hence to qualitatively different development paths for the economic and ecological system.
4602612|Fieldwork conducted in new and old swiddens in the Maring territory of the Bismarck Mountains of Papua New Guinea indicated a successional sequence of crop composition, diversity, and biomass regulated by human and ecological processes. With increasing swidden age, the number of cultivated species, individuals, varieties, and net productivity decreased. In contrast to new swiddens, old swiddens were characterized by a simplified crop composition and a distinct vertical stratification. While a 3-month-old garden contained 10 cultivar species, 43.5 plantings of taro, a cultivar biomass content of 2.54 kg/25 m
4602437|The changing economy of a group of tropical forest hunter-gatherers is examined. The Batak of the Philippines today earn many calories by participating in an external market system; once they would have earned these calories within the traditional subsistence system. Gathering and selling Manila copal to purchase rice has partially displaced digging wild yams as the major source of subsistence. Data show that this change has reduced the productive efficiency of human labor. The Batak must work longer and perform more difficult tasks to obtain the same number of calories by collecting copal as they can obtain by digging wild yams, even as they must today work longer hours anyway to earn necessary cash to satisfy new, nonfood consumer wants. The growing dietary importance of rice is only one aspect of changing food consumption patterns that may be having an unfavorable impact on Batak nutrition.
4602424|Actions to improve local water or air quality are likely to combine collective benefits with specific costs. This suggests that the variations among communities in their actions to improve water quality will involve opposition from industries bearing the specific costs. The use of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-funded matching grants for sewerage construction by large U.S. cities varies inversely with the imputed opposition from polluting industries. Use also increases with assessed need and with the extent of certain resources, including the credit rating. Matching grants funded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) are not likely to have such specific costs, and imputed opposition does not affect their distribution. When location and the growth rate are controlled, use of restrictions and surcharges on industrial wastes increase with imputed opposition. It is possible that industries influence the specific regulations. Alternative explanations of the statistical relationship between opposition and EPA grant use are discussed.
40603012|This study examines the acculturation of ethnobotanical knowledge in association with modernization by analyzing similarities and differences within a language group, the Roviana people of the Solomon Islands. Cultural consensus analysis and evaluation of either village-level or individual-level modernity were performed for seven villages. In one modernized and one less modernized village, detailed socioeconomic data at the individual level were collected. Intervillage variation of knowledge correlated with modernity only when the villages were referenced to the less modernized villages, while there was no correlation when the most modernized village was used as the base knowledge. An informant's knowledge in the less modernized village was affected by socioeconomic factors, but this was not observed in the modernized village. From these results, I suggest that modern knowledge is easily integrated into the ethnobotanical knowledge system but is not directly related to the loss of indigenous botanical knowledge.
4602557|This paper examines social responses to the 1973-1974 gasoline crisis in the United States, using newspaper reports of automobile driver behavior in two metropolitan areas and American Automobile Association data on the adoption of rationing plans and the availability of gasoline in 48 states. From these data it is possible to identify two types of responses: individual responses by automobile drivers, which occurred in every region affected by the shortages, and collective responses in the form of rationing plans adopted by governments and gas station operators in the regions with the most severe shortages. In the latter regions the responses occurred in sequence, with individual responses emerging first and collective responses developing later.
41474642|The ecological knowledge and understanding of indigenous peoples and long-term settlers is heterogeneous and continually in flux as they adapt to ecological, political and economic changes. This research focuses on Khumbu Sherpa ecological knowledge and its relation to environmental decision-making. The Sherpa, Tibetan Buddhists who practice agro-pastoralism, provide tourism services to visitors of Sagarmatha (Mount Everest) National Park and Buffer Zone. Utilizing mixed quantitative and qualitative methods, I selected a stratified random sample of 100 individuals to assess spiritual values, and species and landscape knowledge. The results generally showed that individuals who lived on the tourist route and younger generations had less knowledge of these domains. These findings suggest that some Sherpa ecological knowledge and understanding had shifted from spiritual and agropastoralist socioeconomic values to a more tourismcentered economic logic. Future environmental decisions may be influenced by these changes.
4602447|This paper considers projections made about world population levels and world food production from 1945 to 1970, attempting to evaluate them in terms of actual levels of 1975. Most underestimated the population explosion of the past two decades; short-term estimates were more reliable than long-term ones; there was little variation in population estimates at any one time; and U. N. figures were generally the most useful. Projections of world food production were less satisfactory than those of population levels, as both data and measures were debatable. The research suggests some of the problems in evaluating the danger of world famine by examining projections of population and food supply mechanically and in isolation from the complex processes which affect these factors.
4603592|Apart from the possible, but unproven presence of some Irish hermits, the Norse colonizers of the Faroe Islands arrived in an unsettled landscape around A.D. 800. The archipelago was essentially unwooded and rich in bird and marine life. The area of land suitable for settlement and farming was relatively meagre and concentrated in coastal areas; inland areas were suitable for shielings (summer pasture) and subsequently more extensive grazing (outfield) activities. Reconstruction of the settlement distribution has not been a well-developed aspect of Faroese historical study. Using archaeological and documentary evidence, we are able to present the first comprehensive distribution map of Norse settlement, which emphasizes an overwhelmingly coastal focus of considerable density. Using historical (including place-names), archaeological, and environmental evidence, we examine the nature and organization of the Viking (early Norse) and medieval (later Norse) settlement. Colonization and economic activity in the islands were strongly influenced by topographic and ecological factors. This, along with social organization, was subject to influences which may have derived, at least in part, from experiences in a Norwegian homeland.
4603056|Understanding the problem of pesticide misuse in the Third World requires analysis of both political-economic forces and local-level variations in peasant behavior and attitudes. This study, based on 12 months of fieldwork during 1988-1989, examines growing agrochemical dependence and misuse in St. Vincent and the Grenadines in the East Caribbean. Consistent with findings from other political-economic studies, this research documents the influence of the state, export agriculture, consumer pressure, and foreign aid in leading to increased chemical use in agriculture. This study also considers the extent to which farmer behavior and attitudes limit or exacerbate the problems that can accompany increased pesticide use. Some researchers emphasize that farmers are careless and indiscriminate when using pesticides, thereby contributing to pesticide-related problems. In contrast, data from the village level reveal that although some farmers are careless, others are cautious in their use of pesticides, a pattern reflective of variability among farmers in pesticide-use practices and attitudes in general. By exploring the issue of variability in patterns of pesticide use among villagers, this paper emphasizes the utility of the concepts of individuality and experimentation in agriculture in examining problems of pesticide misuse.
4603218|The objectives of this paper are to quantify the annual household consumption of wood for different purposes and to investigate the types of wood used for each purpose. Households in part of Gokwe Communal Area, a rural Zimbabwean study area in which wood is considered plentiful, use a mean 4.8 tons per household per year (t
4602332|A new approach to the problem of linking social organization and the physical environment is claimed on the basis of an analysis of the relationship between the complexity of the irrigation facilities and the institutional differentiation of the service centers of a sample of townships in Taiwan. The hypothesized strong relationship holds, supporting the claim that the differentiation of institutions and technology can be interpreted by the same concept. The strategy is elaborated by showing that a wide range of data can be compressed in terms of differentiation and that the result holds when other measures of township organization are controlled and despite the blunting effect of the subregion-wide irrigation association.
4603309|Straight growth forms of wild shrubs and trees unaffected by insects, diseases, or accumulated dead material have been valued cross-culturally for millennia for use in basketry, yet these growth forms do not occur readily in nature without disturbance. California data are presented that demonstrate how fire and pruning were ancient horticultural techniques that were utilized by Native Americans in various temperate ecosystems to shape ecosystem structure, reduce the occurrence of insects and diseases, and activate specific developmental stages in shrubs and trees for twined and coiled basketry. It is suggested that the magnitude and extent of burning applied to wildlands for basketry and many other cultural purposes in most indigenous cultures in California have been drastically underestimated in the published literature. A methodological approach is outlined for unraveling past and present-day wildland management for basketry materials in various temperate regions. Working hypotheses to explain the ecological rationale for indigenous management at both the organismic and ecosystemic level are proposed.
4602275| The net primary production of the biosphere is about 160  10
4602648|The Wopkaimin are a population of hunter-horticulturalists who live near the Upper Fly River in Papua New Guinea. In this paper, ecosystem heterogeneity is related to diversity of strategies in the Wopkaimin subsistence system. Subsistence subsystems of shifting cultivation, silviculture, gathering, pig raising, hunting, fishing, and collecting are associated with 11 biotopes. Biotopes are useful descriptive categories for subsistence ecological research and they are recognized Wopkaimin emic categories, having cognitive and behavioral consequences. The relationship of the Wopkaimin population to other biota in the ecosystem is shown to be related to a very steep biotope gradient.
40343960|This study explores the management of inland fisheries on common lands (ejidos) within the Mayan Zone of Quintana Roo, Mexico. Qualitative survey data are used to examine whether there are (a) ongoing fishery conservation activities; (b) local caretakers of fishing sites; (c) restrictions on where fishing can take place; and (d) particular groups of individuals who lack the right to fish within the ejidos. Results indicate that in contrast to other local resources, fisheries in the ejidos have less defined use rights, being viewed as largely "open access". In particular, most feel that outsiders can fish in an ejido if they abide by local rules (notably not damaging the local water bodies, asking consent to fish, and having a friend or relative in the community). However, there are within-community differences in views concerning management and conservation, with those more dependent on fishing being more likely to support exclusion of outsiders.
4602671|Examination of Thai ethnographic materials highlights several problems in comparative analysis of social processes that are population linked. Marked differences in family composition among four Central Thai villages are shown to arise primarily from a common family system operating on different underlying sociocultural and demographic processes. Satisfactory analysis requires detailed demographic data, information on other sociocultural processes, and a formal model of family dynamics relating the demographic to the other kinds of data. Lack of even one of these three components may make comparison meaningless. Demographic anthropology and historical demography provide complementary data well suited to anthropological studies of social organization.
23280260|Palaeodietary isotope studies have long assumed C 4 signals in South American archaeological populations to be due to the consumption of maize (Zea mays), which in turn, underlie interpretations important social processes. We presents  13 C data from wild plants (n=89) from the south coast of Peru, which may have been significant in the diets of humans and animals in the past. A combination of these with previously published results from domesticates of the Andean region (n=144) brings the proportion of C 4 species likely to have contributed to the human dietary isotopic signal, whether directly or indirectly, to almost one third. This undermines the widespread assumption that maize is the only plant to contribute a C 4 signal to diets. By considering both direct and indirect routes whereby C 4 plants may have contributed to the human isotopic signal we show the need for a reassessment of how palaeodietary studies are interpreted in the Andes, and perhaps elsewhere in the Americas.
40343946|This paper examines people's experiences with economic compensation for losses due to humanwildlife conflict (HWC) in Uttarakhand, India. Employing a combination of qualitative and quantitative approaches, we used a case study approach to investigate (1) socioeconomic characteristics of applicant versus non-applicant households, (2) explanations for why only some households chose to apply, and (3) perceptions of program effectiveness. We found that despite widespread complaints, the participation rate was only 37%. Our results broadly support the findings of other studies which have identified inadequate remuneration, processing delays, and corruption as key problems. However, we also found that nonparticipation was itself a critical problem. Our study indicates that participation in the scheme was shaped by factors including wealth, gender, social networks, and preexisting expectations. We highlight the need for improved communication about what "compensation" can and should be, advocate for reconceptualizations of compensation that are more closely based on ground-level realities, and point to the potential for alternative forms of payment to be more sustainable and socially just.
4603250|Scholarly views on the prehistory of the Pacific Islanders are currently undergoing a major shift in perspective and underlying assumptions. This shift is driven by new research data and a need for new theoretical perspectives on space, time, and causal process. A new research agenda is coming to the fore, replacing the agenda guiding Pacific studies since the 1950s. Instead of looking at these islands as remote, undeveloped human colonies scattered across a vast and empty expanse of sea, we are finding that the Pacific was a notably early sphere of human accomplishments, on land and sea, where the ocean was more an avenue than a barrier for cultural interchange. The roots of this new perspective can be traced back, in part, to the Wenner-Gren/Smithsonian conference on human biogeography held in Washington, D.C., in 1974.
4602953|This paper examines land-use practice among the Turkana pastoralists of Kenya. Drawing on work of both ecologists and anthropologists, it examines the argument that posits that pastoralism is inherently destructive to the environment, commonly referred to as the "Tragedy of the Commons." Results of this research suggest that the livestock management practices of East African pastoralists do not degrade the environment, that livestock numbers do not exceed the carrying capacity of the land, and that social institutions successfully function to cope with environmental problems.
4603192|Since the 1970s, the study of gender relations and labor and resource use in different production systems has become an important subject of inquiry. While there has been recent interest in gender and livestock issues in pastoral societies, most of the work on gender and agriculture to date has focused primarily upon the role of women in crop production, to the virtual exclusion of the contributions women, children, and the elderly make to the livestock component of the farming system. The topic of gender (broadly defined to include age and sex criteria) and livestock management was addressed at a session at the 1992 Annual Meetings of the American Anthropological Association entitled, "Gender and Livestock in African Production Systems," the contributions to which form the basis of the present volume. Topics presented in the papers include: a conceptual framework for investigation of gender and livestock production and disease control, responsibility for productive tasks, livestock ownership and rights to livestock products, and impacts of and responses to change. Nearly all papers in the volume argue explicitly or implicitly for the need to include gender considerations in the planning of livestock development programs, thereby rendering the collection of interest to both scientits and policymakers.
40603000|High prevalence rates of overweight and obesity are increasingly common among indigenous Amazonian societies experiencing greater involvement in market economies. An important factor in such nutritional transition is internal socioeconomic differentiation, which partially accounts for fatness frequencies. We report the results of a diachronic anthropometric comparison and crosssectional anthropomtric and socioeconomic survey of Xavante adults from a single, large community. Our data show an accelerated nutrition transition, with significant weight and BMI increases for males and females between 1962 and 2006. We also found income and wealth to be significantly associated with fatness measures for both sexes combined and for females separately. We interpret the observed gender differences as reflecting differences between male and female social dietary practices. Comparison with other studies in the Amazon region suggests that the relationships between internal socioeconomic differentiation and dietary health vary between cultural and economic settings. We also argue that parallels between Xavante health perspectives and epidemiological interpretations demonstrate the potential for proactive interchange between native and scientific health discourses.
4603074|Ethnographic research in the central Aravalli Hills of Rajasthan documents a coherent system of groundwater irrigation distinctively different from the system of dams, wiers, and perennial canals redesigned for India by the British during the early nineteenth century and continued by contemporary Indian governments. This paper articulates these indigenous principles and practices and contrasts them with those found in the scholarly literature on irrigation in Rajasthan which follows modern engineering concerns. Our analysis indicates a difference set of questions to guide future research on surface impoundments and groundwater management. Furthermore, this study has broader implications for an understanding of the human-shaped hydrology of northwestern India, where the earlier system has been overlaid, but not fully displaced by subsequent irrigation projects. Indeed, indigenous practices involving groundwater recharge and retrieval may have continued to flourish and expand, achieving a new order of hydrologic and adaptive complexity, through the local initiative of the peasantry to adapt to the unintended spillage, soakage, and siltage from the grand system of dams and perennial canals constructed by the state.
4603186|Human perceptions of the relationship between pollution and food safety are often haphazard and contradictory, based on a variety of sources of information. Recent media events concerning seafood and coastal pollution have generated concern that an otherwise healthy food--fish and shellfish--has become dangerous. We assess consumer knowledge about seafood safety and coastal pollution using several methods, including tests of cultural consensus. We find that consumers view seafood as far more threatened by pollution than scientific analysis suggests, due in part to their perceptions about the dynamics of the marine environment. Finding variation in perceptions within our population based on income and other factors, we explore the use of the cultural consensus approach in large and heterogeneous populations.
4603501| Witness tree data from the southeastern United States (lat 33 30 N, long 86 30 W) were analyzed using catchment and distance analysis to quantify the effects of Native American settlement on the composition of forest trees. Thirty Creek Indian villages comprising 18 settlement catchments were included in the sample, which is the largest Native American-forest interaction study using witness trees to date. Lower frequencies of Pinus spp. were observed within village catchments of the Coastal Plain and Ridge and Valley. Elevated frequencies of early succession species were observed surrounding 2 km village catchments. Distance analysis at two relatively isolated towns showed that Pinus increases in frequency beyond 2000 m from villages while Carya had the opposite result. Field and fruit species were more frequent within 6000 m of villages and then dropped off in frequency. Fire-sensitive tree species appear to be in a spatially cyclical pattern. 
24015696|Social learning is hypothesized to result in shared knowledge and skills, trust, self-efficacy, and democratic decision-making for collective action. This paper uses a multi-method approach, including ethnography and nonparametric and multivariate statistics, to test this hypothesis and describe what specific process characteristics can predict social learning outcomes. Data are based on two communities, each with a subset of members participating in social learning processes for communal timber management and collective Brazil nut marketing in the Bolivian Amazon. Those who participated in the social learning process had significantly more knowledge about communal forest management, gained more skills, were more active in specific management activities, and had more intentions to work collectively than those who did not. The development of trust during the process, the equal involvement of all who participated, and the presentation of various ideas were most predictive of these outcome variables.
4602547|This paper argues that the altitude-oriented "mixed mountain agriculture" model in which mountain dwellers move to higher altitudes in summer and lower ones in winter does not fit the empirical situation in many areas of the Himalayas where north-south or latitudinally differentiated habitat and production zones play important and, in some instances, central roles.
4602334|A previous study of the effects of overcrowding on social behavior is discussed and replicated in this article. Consideration of two major methodological problems -- the construction of the class and ethnicity indices and the measurement of social class -- leads to reanalysis of the data and to results differing in several significant respects from the original results. Although these new results do not provide a definitive answer to the question of the effects of population density on social pathologies, they do show that studies of the problem are subject to several, possibly severe, measurement problems. Until these are more adequately dealt with, conclusions regarding the relation between density and human behavior must be both cautious and tentative.
24017350|Fires in humid tropical forests are increasingly frequent due to severe dry seasons, forest degradation and agricultural expansion. One agent implicated in current discourse surrounding tropical forest fires is the small-scale farming peasantry who rely on fire in swidden (shifting cultivation, slash-and-burn) agriculture. The environmental degradation associated with fire has led to government responses at multiple scales (international, national, state, regional) via policies aimed mainly at managing ignition sources. However, continued increase in forest fires suggests that these policies may be having limited impact and a fresh evaluation of current policy approaches to fire management is needed. We review fire policy measures with insights of caboclo farming practices and perspectives from Eastern Amazonia and examine the congruence between policy and practice. We demonstrate a significant disparity between policy requirements such as firebreaks and actual fire management practices, in which measures rarely meet requirements outlined in legislation. We explore the origins and the impacts of these disparities, focussing on smallholder farm-level management measures and local capacity. Incomplete knowledge coupled with marginal awareness of legal requirements served to propagate widespread erroneous beliefs in what these are. This analysis at multiple scales (international, national, state, regional) will contribute to developing greater congruence between fire policies and smallholder farming practices.
4602342| Patterns of ecosystem resiliency and differential exploitability by man exist, but they have not yet been worked out in detail. This article presents a systematic approach for quantifying the responses of different ecosystems to various levels of human exploitation. It presents a model of the operations of natural ecosystems and suggests a useful analogue between "exploitation" ecosystems and different stages in ecological succession. This analogue enables us to define a coefficient of exploitability which relates the intensity of ecosystem responses to the intensity of management. The coefficient should prove useful in elucidating a number of types of man-environment interactions. It can be calculated from empirical data. Since it is a function of independent ecosystem variables such as climate, we can also suggest its probable global distribution patterns. Sample values of  are calculated from two different types of data. The range of values is greater than one order of magnitude, and their trends are entirely consistent with their predicted distribution. 
27654237|The World Health Organization (WHO) and other organizations report that the prevalence of human diseases during the past decade is rapidly increasing. Population growth and the pollution of water, air, and soil are contributing to the increasing number of human diseases worldwide. Currently an estimated 40% of world deaths are due to environmental degradation. The ecology of increasing diseases has complex factors of environmental degradation, population growth, and the current malnutrition of about 3.7 billion people in the world.
4603311|Overlapping patchworks of farm spatial units are characteristic of the mountain landscapes of Andean regions of Peru and Bolivia. Patchiness and overlap (200-600 m) are shaped by the broad tolerances of major crops, high variability/low predictability of habitat factors, multifaceted cropping rationales of cultivators including their linkages to extraregional influences, and, to varying extents, the sociospatial coordination of crop choice among farmers. Indian peasant farmers manage overlapping patchworks using a concept of farm spaces as loosely bounded. They apply a naming system to farm spatial units based primarily on topographic features in order to serve their cultural, social, and political purposes. Key processes suggest a regional-global model of overlapping patchworks. The model elucidates the roles of landscape flexibility and uncertainty in conservation-with-development. Implications are shown by farm units of diverse food plants and prospects for in situ conservation. Findings caution against universality of the zone model of mountain agriculture.
4603185|Zimbabwe is devolving substantial wildlife management responsibility to local government, and ultimately to local communities, through its Communal Areas Management Program for Indigenous Resources (CAMPFIRE) program. This paper's purpose is to explore the notion that CAMPFIRE offers a useful model for sustainable development discussions by examining the program's impacts in one case study location. It presents a legislative history of the CAMPFIRE Program before specifying the spatial criteria that explain ideal CAMPFIRE sites. Thereafter, it reports results from a study of the development impacts of locally controlled wildlife management in Masoka, an isolated CAMPFIRE community in the Zambezi Valley. The village has developed a land use plan, fenced its fields and settlements, reduced wild animal attacks on people and crops, provided access to primary education for both boys and girls, created local employment, and provided money for household food purchases during a severe drought. In Masoka, the implementation of CAMPFIRE seems to successfully provide incentives to protect megafauna and their habitats. For Masoka, CAMPFIRE has provided an alternative model to statist solutions emphasizing centralized control for biodiversity conservation purposes.
4603302|A survey of 101 Tawahka Amerindian households in the Honduran rain forest examined the effects of schooling on the clearance of old-growth rain forest. The results of tobit, ordinary least square, probit, and median regressions suggest that: (i) each additional year of education lowers the probability of cutting old-growth rain forest by about 4% and reduces the area cut by 0.06 ha/family each year, and (ii) the effect of education on deforestation is non-linear. With up to 2 years of schooling forest clearance declines; with between 2 and 4 years of schooling, clearance increases, but beyond 4 years education once again seems to curb deforestation. Even a little education curbs forest clearance because it is easier for individuals to acquire information about new farm technologies from outsiders in order to intensify term production by river banks. Estimates of the social rate of return to education for indigenous populations of Latin American have been shown to be high. We suggest that these rates of return may need reappraisal for Amerindians in the rain forest to take into account the positive and negative environmental externalities of education.
4603120|This paper analyzes the relationship between leaders and ordinary shepherds among the raikas--nomadic shepherds from western India. It uses a neo-institutional perspective to show how control over information is crucial if shepherds are to prevent their leader from misusing the extensive powers he possesses to make decisions on their behalf. Control over information is not, however, sufficient. The paper argues that shepherds must also possess the capacity to impose sanctions if their leader oversteps the bounds of delegated decision-making authority. The paper highlights the importance of politics and the divergent interests of the shepherds and their leaders. In so doing, it allows inquiry into a system of social interactions that is characterized by conflicting interests and the negotiation of conflict, but is often perceived as harmonious. At the same time, the investigation offers new insights into other social situations structured by principal-agent relationships.
27654115|This paper reviews the theoretical and empirical literature on labor productivity in shifting cultivation systems, and relationships between labor productivity and production parameters are analyzed in two case studies of Iban communities in Sarawak, Malaysia, during two farming seasons. In addition, the labor productivity in shifting cultivation compared to off-farm wage labor opportunities is explored. Establishing firm relationships between labor productivity and production parameters, such as fallow length, fertilizer use, and herbicide use was not possible. We are thus unable to verify or reject the thesis that more labor is required for managing fields after short fallow compared to long fallow periods. We do demonstrate that shifting cultivation of hill rice can compete economically with common off-farm employment opportunities, and conclude that farmers' decisions to maintain their practices is based as much on economic rationales as on tradition.
4603083|Traditionally, the ribeirinho economy has been based on strategies of multiple resource use including agriculture, fishing, and small-scale stock raising. In the last two decades though, ribeirinho strategies of resource management have undergone major changes due to the decline of jute production (the principal cash crop), and the intensification of the commercial fisheries. As a result of these trends, there has been a shift of ribeirinho labor from agriculture to commercial fishing. Today, the diversity which once characterized ribeirinho subsistence strategies is disappearing, and fishing has become the primary economic activity for the great majority of varzea families. As pressure on varzea fisheries has increased, ribeirinho communities have attempted to assert control over local varzea lakes and exclude fishermen from outside the community. In a number of cases, ribeirinho communities have closed lakes to outsiders and established informal lake reserves under local community management. These lake reserves are a promising strategy for managing lake fisheries on a sustainable basis.
25652766|By adopting nature conservation practices, farmers can enhance the environmental quality and biodiversity of their land. In this exploratory study, a behavioral intervention that focused on improving Dutch farmers' nature conservation practices was developed and tested. This intervention was based on insights derived from social psychology and combined tailored information and public commitment. Participating farmers were divided in three groups: one group received tailored information only, one group received both tailored information and a public commitment manipulation, and one group served as a control. A questionnaire measuring relevant aspects of conservation was completed before and after the intervention. Results show that tailored information combined with public commitment making resulted in a stronger desire to engage in conservation, an increase in surface area of non-subsidized natural habitat, and an increase in time farmers spent on conservation. The intervention affected both subsidized and non-subsidized conservation, but the effects were stronger for non-subsidized conservation.
41474614|Floral and faunai assemblages from rocksheiter sites have provided data on the transition from a Late Stone Age way of life to an Iron Age way of life on the Shire highlands in southern Malawi. The data have come from the excavation of seven rocksheiter sites located in the area. They show that while there were no noticeable changes in the exploitation of wild flora and macrofauna during the Late Stone Age period, exploitation of microfauna and use of domesticated plants by Later Stone Age hunter gatherers became prominent with the arrival of Iron Age agriculturalists in the area. The change appears to have been a direct response to a declining resource base of hunter-gatherers caused by Iron Age subsistence strategies that may have led to a hunter-gatherer dependence on Iron Age agriculturists.
24017351|We analyze the floristic and ecological diversity of plants traditionally used in the Arribes del Duero Natural Park (Central Western Spain, Iberian Peninsula). We identified all plant species used by the local people and classified them in 10 general use-categories. All the ethnobotanical data used derive from global ethnobotanical research carried out from 2005 to 2009. The results are analyzed with respect to the total flora of the area and to the ecological diversity of the species in their habitats. The conservation and management of these taxa are also analyzed. We discuss the implications of their harvesting for the development and conservation of their natural populations and habitats.
4602837|The relocation and consolidation of subarctic native populations into settlement patterns designed according to southern, urban models has often resulted in cultural confusion and an increase in interpersonal tension, alcohol abuse, and violence. Through a review of selected case material, and the detailed examination of one relocated community, the dynamics of this situation are highlighted. Where native communities have re-established themselves beyond the reach of government planners, the re-creation of more culturally appropriate settlement patterns has ensued.
4602486|Maasai settlements in Amboseli are distributed in a pattern which reflects various physical and biological characteristics of the landscape. The settlements avoid hillslope gradients exceeding 0.08, and the lower sections of long hillsides, which receive large amounts of runoff. Long, relatively high hillslopes are difficult for exhausted cattle to climb at the end of the dry season, and even the welldrained sites at the upper ends of these slopes are not commonly used. Deep, poorly drained, and light-colored soils are avoided because they affect the comfort of humans, and especially the milk production of cattle. The settlements are located away from dense tree and bush vegetation because of the danger of predators, but during occupation of the site important changes in the vegetation are wrought by the use of trees for settlement construction and firewood. The reasons for the pattern were elucidated by making a set of systematic measurements of settlement distributions and various environmental factors. The conclusions of this analysis were then checked and extended through conversations with Maasai elders. These latter exhibited a sophisticated knowledge of environmental characteristics and processes which is reflected in their choice of settlement sites. Such knowledge has commonly been overlooked by other writers on the subject of pastoralism.
4602922|Minute-by-minute observation of individual women over the period of a year provides a reliable and valuable description of their daily activities. The extent to which Nepalese rural women vary their subsistence responsibilities during pregnancy and lactation is examined by comparing mothers with a non-childbearing sample. The remarkable behavioral similarity between the two groups of women when workloads are high is explained by reference to childcare practices and labor constraints prevailing in the community.
4603163|Development schemes aimed at reducing Central America's social and economic problems historically have stressed intensified exploitation of the region's natural resources through augmented exports of agricultural commodities and forest products, enhanced agricultural productivity, and expanded industrial fisheries. There is plentiful evidence documenting how succeeding waves of export expansion have displaced small farmers from their lands often initiating cycles of repression and violence while also generating or intensifying environmental destruction. This paper explores the environmental quality and social justice implications of the current prevailing development strategy in the region, the promotion of so-called nontraditional exports. Focusing on the expansion of shrimp mariculture in coastal zones along the Gulf of Fonseca, Honduras, it uses political ecological analysis to examine the interconnections among the dominant export-led development model, the policies and actions of the state, the competition among various classes and interest groups, and the survival strategies of an increasingly impoverished population. Analysis suggests that problems of social justice and environmental quality cannot be understood apart from the underlying social structure of the region.
40343941|Zooarchaeological analyses of animal remains from the Petexbatun sites in the Guatemalan lowlands provide proxy evidence to test a hypothesis of dietary insufficiency during the Maya "collapse." Ecological foraging theory and resource depression models are used to interpret animal use patterns before and after the disintegration of the Petexbatun polity at the end of the Late Classic period (around A. D. 800). Environmental failure models of the Maya "collapse" at the end of the Late Classic imply that a dietary insufficiency, and particularly a lack of animal resources, was associated with the political and social transitions of this period. However, the results of this zooarchaeological study do not support this hypothesis and point instead to very limited early reductions of only highest-ranked dietary species. The lack of evidence for specific resource depression associated directly with the period of political collapse does not support a model of environmental failure during political disintegration in the Petexbatun. Correlations are found between animal use patterns and the specifics of site size and periods of peak political activity, suggesting that smallscale resource depressions might have resulted at some sites during early periods of human population growth, site expansion, and increasing political activity.
41432982|We measured mobility patterns that describe walking trajectories of individual Me'Phaa peasants searching for and collecting fuel wood in the forests of "La Montaa de Guerrero" in Mexico. These 1-day excursions typically follow a mixed pattern of nearly-constant steps when individuals displace from their homes towards potential collecting sites and a mixed pattern of steps of different lengths when actually searching for fallen wood in the forest. Displacements in the searching phase seem not to be compatible with Levy flights described by power-laws with optimal scaling exponents. These findings, however, can be interpreted in the light of deterministic searching on heavily degraded landscapes where the interaction of the individuals with their fuel wood-scarce environment produces alternative searching strategies than the expected Levy flights. These results have important implications for future management and restoration of degraded forests and the improvement of the ecological services they may provide to their inhabitants.
4603510|This paper investigates the effects of mother's age and parity on the prenatal allocation of resources in sons and daughters using a sample of 6994 in 20-to 34-year-old mothers from Granada (Spain). This study tests the Trivers-Willard allocation model, which predicts that, depending on the mother's condition, there can be a bias from 50/50 expected investment in the sexes. The results show that mothers of 25-29 age class produce relatively heavier sons compared to younger mothers, suggesting a bias in the allocation of resources before birth favoring neonate boys. This extra investment in boys appears to be related more to the mother's age than to her parity. Offspring of multiparous mothers had shorter gestation length, but multiparous mothers of the 25-29 age class had boys with a longer gestation than the younger ones. The 25-29 age class mothers are in the peak of fertility and they are presumably in better condition than the other mothers in the study sample. The results suggest that Granada women performed a sex-biased prenatal investment favoring sons by prolonging the gestation period. An index of boys' extra birth weight is proposed as a suitable variable to measure the maternal prenatal investment.
40603002|Ethnobotanical knowledge and practices are dynamic and they change as they are transferred and appropriated by people who are adapting to new surroundings and changing environments. Using tifey, a multispecies drink, as a case study, we discuss the changes that emigration brought about related to tifey, and the processes that determined these changes. Tifey is a Haitian drink prepared by soaking Artemisia absinthium and other plants in rum or aguardiente. It probably had its origin in the adoption of the absinthe-based liquor used by French settlers and troops during the colonial period. Haitians progressively added culturally relevant flavorings and medicinal plants to this drink, and differentiated its production and use for medicinal, medicinal food, ritual (religious and social), and economic purposes. When Haitians migrated to Cuba, they brought tifey with them, but over the course of the twentieth century its use declined and its composition changed due to sociocultural factors such as the dissolution of Haitian settlements, and to ecological factors such as difficulty in cultivation and/or procurement of A. absinthium in the new environment.
27654135|There are two broadly conceptualized ways in which conservation knowledge may evolve: the depletion crisis model and the ecological understanding model. The first one argues that developing conservation thought and practice depends on learning that resources are depletable. Such learning typically follows a resource crisis. The second mechanism emphasizes the development of conservation practices following the incremental elaboration of environmental knowledge by a group of people. These mechanisms may work together. Following a perturbation, a society can self-organize, learn and adapt. The self-organizing process, facilitated by knowledge development and learning, has the potential to increase the resilience (capability to absorb disturbance and reorganize while undergoing change) of resource use systems. Hence, conservation knowledge can develop through a combination of long-term ecological understanding and learning from crises and mistakes. It has survival value, as it increases the resilience of integrated socialecological systems to deal with change in ways that continue to sustain both peoples and their environments.
25652760|The highlands of Eastern Africa are characterized by high population densities and tightly coupled interactions between adjacent landscape units and users. Effective formal or informal natural resource governance is necessary to mitigate the potential negative social and environmental effects of individuals' behavior. Yet many natural resource management and development problems that require or benefit from collective solutions remain unresolved (German et al. Environ Dev Sustain 8: 535552, 2006a; German et al. 2006b; German et al. Q J Int Agr 47(3): 191216, 2008). We argue that many of the more intractable problems in improving governance stem from the tradeoffs that underlie them, which may include a loss of livelihood options for at least some households, leading to governance break down. Following a brief introduction to natural resource management and governance in Eastern Africa, we analyze the results of participatory by-law deliberations by distilling the restrictions proposed governance reforms pose to certain local stakeholders. We recommend that future policy for improved landscape governance couple institutional reforms with livelihood alternatives that reduce the burden of good governance on households.
4602600|Few social-psychological theories of intraurban residential mobility have been offered, despite a number of empirical studies of personal motives. A complete explanation of residential mobility would interrelate macroscopic economic factors with household preferences. A cross-cultural socio-psychological model is presented as a step toward a comprehensive theory. Data from an exploratory study of middle-class Mexico City residents are used to test the model. Results suggest that middle-class Mexicans decide to move because of space needs accompanying life-cycle changes, desire for home ownership, and environmental reasons. Home selection was primarily a function of availability, cost, and terms. Unlike North Americans, suburban Mexicans were uninterested in community activities and maintained close contact with relatives; central-city respondents enjoyed living in the city despite dissatisfaction with residence or neighborhood. Most would avoid the suburbs because of communication problems and distance from relatives. Results support the model and justify further testing and development.
41474628|Differences in land use and land cover often coincide with social and political borders. Using vegetation indices and a visual inspection of Landsat imagery, we consider a rural section of the central Arizona-Sonora border dominated by government-owned land on the U. S. side and seek to understand where and why cross-border land cover continuity exists in some places while distinction exists in others. Land cover distinctions are attributed largely to differential population and economic pressures in the two countries, but are also exacerbated by social and political distinctions. By contrast, historical relations, common use of the land, and relative remoteness provide cross-border homogeneity in land use and land cover in rural areas, especially on the Tohono O'odham reservation.
4602839|The subsistence ecology of Venezuelan Cuiva foragers during the early dry season is described. Data on diet, time allocation, demography, and physical measurements are presented. Analyses show that the Cuiva depend primarily on game and wild roots during the early dry season for their subsistence. Sex differentials in productive efficiency, total contribution to the diet, and time allocation to food acquisition and other activities are also examined. As in most other foraging societies, men specialize in hunting while women specialize in gathering. During the early dry season, men provide more calories than women and are the more efficient food producers. However, men spend slightly less time than women in food acquisition. Demographic data show that child mortality rates, female infertility rates, female infanticide rates, and the sex ratio among juveniles are high in the Cuiva population. Comparisons between the patterns found among the Cuiva and other foraging populations are made.
27654168|A significant change in the geography of livestock raising over the past 30 years is the southerly movement of FulBe herds into the humid Sudanian and Guinean savannas of West Africa. The literature suggests that the severe droughts of the early 1970s and mid-1980s were the driving force behind this southern expansion of mobile livestock raising. The conventional view is that drought forced herders to seek greener pastures to the south, an area that zebu cattle have previously avoided because of the presence of tsetse flies, the vector of animal sleeping sickness (trypanosomiasis). This "sudden push" hypothesis places Sahelian herds in savanna pastures in a matter of a 13 years. This stimulus-response model runs counter to our observations and understanding of the social and ecological processes influencing FulBe herd movements. We challenge the "sudden shift" thesis at the regional scale by arguing that the southerly expansion of FulBe herds has proceeded according to a more complex temporal frame that includes generational, biological, and social historical timeframes and periodicities. We distinguish between short-term shifts ("test movements") and more permanent shifts ("migration movements"). These mobility patterns are linked to contingent factors such as cattle diseases, drought, and political instability, as well as to more structural and adaptive features such as the establishment of social networks, herding contracts, and cattle cross-breeding. Shifts in livestock ownership and the social differentiation among herders are important variables for understanding changes in herd movements. We conclude that the permanent shift of herds to the humid savannas of West Africa has been preceded by a series of social and agroecological adjustments that operate on decadal and generational time scales.
23353261|Indigenous people of northern Australia make extensive use of wild resources as a source of food, in their art and craft, and for medicinal purposes. These resources are part of a socially and culturally significant landscape. Using data collected from household surveys across two catchments in northern Australia, the Daly River, Northern Territory (NT) and the Fitzroy River, Western Australia (WA), we describe indigenous aquatic resource use patterns. The former is a perennial system with extensive vegetated wetlands that can remain inundated for 45 months, while the latter can cease to flow during the winter dry season (MayOctober) and its floods usually last for weeks. Subsistence strategies depend on seasonal availability of a wide array of aquatic species and are attuned to the life histories and movement patterns of key species, such as Long-necked Turtle (Chelodina rugosa) and Magpie Goose (Anseranas semipalmata). Indigenous households harvested resources from different habitats. Our results show a clear progression from use of the main river channel shortly after the wet season to use of billabongs late in the dry season in the Daly River, and a constant reliance on the main river channel and tributaries in the Fitzroy River. Difference in the main species utilised appears strongly related to habitat use, with four of the five most commonly harvested in the Daly catchment being non-fish species associated with billabong habitats. Commonly harvested species from the Fitzroy catchment included small bodied species used as bait and two popular food species, Black Bream (Hephaestus jenkinsi) and Catfish (Neoarius spp.). Results suggest that indigenous subsistence strategies are vulnerable to changes in the natural systems that provide the "ecosystem goods," particularly annual inundation of floodplains that drives productivity and provides habitat for some key species. Water resource developments, such as river regulation and increased abstraction for irrigated agriculture, could adversely affect a highly valued customary component of the indigenous economies of tropical Australia.
4603596| In the early Norse settlement period throughout the North Atlantic, effective management of the land area surrounding the domestic settlement, the home-field, was essential. In the Faroe Islands, the extent of home-field land suitable for growing fodder or cereal crops is limited by topography and by drainage highlighting the need to optimize the management of these land areas. In this paper we examine the management of home-fields through a modeling approach, allowing the long-term sustainability of the past agrarian system in the home-field area to be examined. The CENTURY agroecosystem model is used to predict soil organic carbon levels and the potential hay meadow and cereal production for locations around three settlements on the islands of Sueroy, Sandoy, and Eysteroy. Using paleoclimatic data and measurements from buried soil materials alongside ethnographic and historical evidence on land management, the results from this model reveal maximum hay and barley yields attainable through early agrarian practices. Comparisons between modeled outputs and recorded yields from the nineteenth century show that there is a strong moderating influence on longer-term climatic fluctuations. The role of soil management is emphasized through comparison of long-term climate/yield data. This has been undertaken using statistical time series analyses, which reveal fluctuations in yield related to climate are relatively slight, except going into the twentieth century. It is concluded that intensity of soil management is the primary determinant of yield and could buffer cereal and hay yields against climatic downturns, and that from a low yield baseline in the early Norse settlement period, yield improves to an equilibrium level by the twelfth century. 
4602411|A nutrient balance is established for the contemporary urban ecosystem of Hong Kong. The flow of nutrients in the Hong Kong food system in particular is examined, including current and potential nutrient recycling patterns. Losses of nutrients in food for human consumption are found to be up to 20% for major nutrients. The flow of mineral phosphorus in the Hong Kong food system is examined in detail. About 3600 tonnes of phosphorus are lost from the Hong Kong food system each year. A comparison is made between the land-based forage area demand of the Hong Kong population and a similar-sized Western population, that of Sydney, Australia. It is estimated that the average Hong Kong person consumes a diet which requires only half the land area needed to produce the diet of the average Sydney person. However, Hong Kong relies on the ocean for 25% of its animal protein supply compared with 2.5% for Sydney. Patterns of food production and nutrient recycling are proposed, with the aim of optimizing resource utilization in close association with contemporary urban settlements.
4602532|Humans and domestic animals in 14.94 square kilometers of rural West Bengal were intensively studied between 1967 and 1970. In 1977, 3.81 square kilometers (25.5%) of the same area was resurveyed and all humans and cattle enumerated. The human population has increased 10% from 1969 to 1977, but the total number of children in the younger age groups has actually diminished. The cattle population has decreased 3.7% since the 1969 census, but in 1977 there were 19% fewer working bullocks present. Other significant observations relative to the primary productivity and economics of the area are noted.
24013720|The relationship between fishing, livelihood diversification and poverty was investigated in the lower Mekong basin, in Laos, where fishing forms an important, but usually secondary part of rural livelihoods. Results from a household survey show that participation in fishing is common and positively associated with higher occupational diversity and more agricultural activities. This is likely due to the low opportunity costs associated with many forms of fishing and factors such as tradition, enjoyment of fishing, underutilised labour and low capital requirements. Alternative livelihoods within the rural setting are therefore unlikely to cause fishers to leave the fishery, but instead strengthen the livelihood portfolio as a supplementary activity. Fishing is not an activity only for the very poorest households, but is undertaken by all wealth groups. However, fishing forms a greater proportion of income, employment and food security for the poor and is important in households with poor quality farm land.
4602241|The comparative perspective is of central importance to effective analysis in human ecology. The present paper compares "traditional" irrigation systems in two quite disparate settings: east central Morocco and southeastern Bali. Bali, which has a tropical climate and a plentiful water supply, displays a highly collective approach to the organization of irrigation facilities. Morocco, which is essentially an arid country, displays, on the contrary, a much more individual, property-based approach to water regulation. The internal organization of these two regimes is described and their connection with more general cultural and ecological factors is traced, in an attempt to demonstrate that patterns of adaptation are susceptible to the same pattern of analysis as other aspects of social and cultural life. The contrast between the strongly group-oriented Balinese approach to water control and distribution and the highly individualistic Moroccan one is said to extend in an overall way to the two societies as a whole.
4602799|The Mbuti pygmies, hunter-gatherers of the Ituri Forest of Zaire, trade forest products and labor for agricultural foods. It has been assumed that the Mbuti lived independently in the equatorial forest prior to its penetration by shifting cultivators. We assessed forest food resources (plant and animal) to determine their adequacy to support a hunting and gathering economy. For five months of the year, essentially none of the calorically important forest fruits and seeds are available. Honey is not abundant during this season of scarcity. Wild game meat is available year round, but the main animals caught have low fat content. This makes them a poor substitute for starch-dense agricultural foods, now staples in Mbuti diet. In general, in the closed evergreen forest zone, edible wild plant species are more abundant in agriculturally derived secondary forest than in primary forest. Similarly, they are more common at the savanna ecotone and in gallery forests. We suggest that it is unlikely that hunter-gatherers would have lived independently in the forest interior with its precarious resource base, when many of the food species they exploit are more abundant toward the savanna border.
4602855|From 1980-1985, the Turkana District of Kenya experienced both drought and above average rainfall. The effects of a 2-year drought on the livestock population of the nomadic pastoral Ngisonyoka are discussed. Detailed data on mortality rates and offtake are presented for the animals of four herd owners, and the recovery process is followed for the 5-year period for one herd owner. It is concluded that during the drought, 63% of the cattle, 45% of the camels, and 55% of the small stock left the sample herds. The livestock population of one herd had recovered to pre-drought levels 3 years after the drought.
27654173|The detrimental impacts of invasive alien species (IAS) on ecosystem goods and services and local and regional economies are well documented. However, the use of IAS by rural communities is little understood, and rarely factored into IAS control programmes. Understanding the use of IAS by rural communities and factoring these into cost-benefit models is complex, depending upon a range of local-level attributes such as the time since invasion, abundance, and local-level costs and benefits. This paper reports on two case studies examining the role of IAS in rural livelihoods in the Eastern Cape, South Africa. In both cases, rural communities made widespread consumptive use of the IAS and generally would prefer higher densities, except in certain key localities. Several households traded in IAS products to generate supplementary income. We present a conceptual framework to guide interpretation of these and future case studies, considering attributes such as time since invasion, the competitiveness of the species, and the relative costs and benefits.
4602976| This paper explores familial contexts of transition to a wage labor economy using ethnographic and survey data from Tamang communities at the northern edge of Nepal's Kathmandu Valley. Historically agro-pastoralist, the Tamang of this area have experienced social watersheds drawing them into ever closer relationships with Kathmandu. The earliest was their nineteenth century induction into corve labor for national elites; more recent has been the accelerating monetization of the twentieth century. This analysis demonstrates trends and frames hypotheses about the social structuring of this latest process, testing them at the individual level with combined ethnographic and survey data from 1028 respondents. Multivariate analyses explore the effects of birth cohort, education, domestic group status, and settlement location on participation in non-family organized wage work. Substantive findings are related to the broader historical literature on household and family with special attention to varieties of subsistence to monetized transition. 
4603062|Preliminary demographic data are presented on the Datoga, a semi-nomadic pastoral population of northern Tanzania. In comparison with other pastoral populations Datoga fertility is high. There is a marked seasonal distribution of births that is only partly associated with rainfall patterns. Survivorship chances up to the age of 15 are poor, and are independently affected by both length of the preceding interbirth interval and survivorship of the previous child. The results are discussed in the context of ecological and social factors that affect fertility and offspring mortality rates in pastoral populations.
25652761|Community forestry offers potential for socioeconomic benefits while maintaining ecosystem services. In Mexico, government and donor efforts to develop this sector focus on issues within forest communities. Often overlooked are effects of external non-government actors (NGOs and foresters) as links or barriers between communities and funding, capacity building, and technical support. To analyze the role of these actors, I analyze household survey and interview data from 11 communities with varying levels of vertical integration of forestry production in states with divergent records of community forestry, Oaxaca and Michoacn. Results suggest that strong community governance is necessary but not sufficient for vertical integration, and strong interactions with non-government actors are critical. These actors, operating within the existing framework of government regulations, have a range of incentives for engaging communities. Availability of these actors motivated by concern for community capacity instead of timber income may be a determinant of community forestry development.
27654314|Crop diversity protects food consumption in poor households within developing nations. Here we estimate the association between crop diversity on swidden fields and ethnobotanical knowledge. We conducted research among 215 male household heads from a native Amazonian society. Using multivariate regressions, we found higher crop diversity among households that depend on agricultural production for household consumption. We also found a statistically significant and positive, but low, association between the ethnobotanical knowledge of the male household head and crop diversity. Doubling the stock of ethnobotanical knowledge of the male household head is associated with a 9% increase in the number of crops sown by a household. The association remained after we controlled for the household level of market exposure, but vanished after we controlled for the social capital of the male household head. Future research should compare the association between ethnobotanical knowledge and crop diversity across different agricultural systems (i.e., home gardens, fallow fields).
4602497|Domestic cattle serve a variety of purposes in human society. In most cultures they are used primarily as a source of food: either meat, milk, or both. However, in some societies products such as blood and manure are important and elsewhere cattle are important draft animals or symbols of status and prosperity. Comparisons of energy flow in Indian, Ugandan, and North American cattle reveal how these different human strategies shape the energetics of cattle herds. Despite allegations to the contrary, Indian cattle appear to be rather productive when all consumable and nonconsumable products are considered. North American range cattle are considerably more productive than Ugandan cattle; however, the latter are efficient at maintaining high biomass. Other aspects of cattle energetics demonstrate the divergence in grazing strategies used by different peoples and the ecological efficiencies of these diverse strategies.
4603297|This paper presents the botanical and historical evidence for the role of African rice (O. glaberrima) and slaves in the crop's introduction to the Americas during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. By focusing on culture, technology, and the environment the research challenges the perspective of the Columbian Exchange that emphasizes the diffusion of crops to, rather than from Africa, by Europeans. The evidence presented in this paper suggests a crucial role for glaberrima rice and slaves in the introduction of African crops to the Americas.
27654273|Group formation, social capital and collective action have been the focus of much recent attention amongst donors and policy makers. Optimistic scenarios highlight their contributions to poverty reduction and effective natural resource management. However, recent critiques have focused on the exclusionary potential or 'dark side' of groups and social capital. Not only are their longer term livelihood impacts unclear, but lacunae persist in our understanding of how social capital, especially trust, is built. This paper presents a longitudinal evaluation of trust, collective action and cooperation among herders in post-Soviet Mongolia in the context of recent donor projects. Results highlight the important catalytic effect of external interventions in overcoming a lack of trust and promoting formalised collective action, but only in the context of a particular conjunction of circumstances. Indications for livelihood outcomes confirm the differentiated benefits, exclusionary potential and fragility of social capital and new institutional forms.
24013746|Terracing is an important and ubiquitous landscape feature in the Mixteca Alta region of southern Mexico. It is a land-management strategy that has been in use for millennia, perhaps starting around 300 B.C.E. We discuss terracing as an adaptive and resilient strategy of food production and land management that continues to be culturally significant to modern-day farmers. Through the integration of archaeological, geomorphological, ethnohistorical, and ethnographic data we document the history of terracing and discuss how Mixtec communities and terraces have responded to natural and cultural perturbations through millennia. We find that different stages in the history of terracing show parallels with the adaptive cycles of a resilient system.
4603072|Deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon was less than 1% before 1975. Between 1975 and 1987 the rate increased exponentially. By 1985, world opinion and attention to the destruction of the richest biome on earth led to elimination of some of the major incentives that had fueled deforestation. Favorable credit policies for cattle ranchers, rather than population growth, explains the process of deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon. The paper suggests other actions that may be taken to reduce deforestation, and examines the rapid growth rates of secondary successional species in a colonization area.
4602299|Data are presented from the first four groups studied in a long-range investigation of human ecology in the Solomon Islands. The groups varied in habitat, way of life, genetic background, and exposure to Western influence. Coverage of residents in designated hamlets was 78% for Kwaio, Malaita Island; 91% for Nasioi, Bougainville Island; and over 95% for both Lau and Baegu of Malaita. In all, 1626 persons were studied: 256 Nasioi, 443 Kwaio, 442 Lau, and 485 Baegu. All four groups were demographically "young," with a high ratio of persons under 15 to those over 45 years of age, but a significant proportion lived to old age. Nutrition was adequate, though low in protein and fat. They had very little color-blindness and virtually no myopia, astigmatism, glaucoma, or hypertensive and coronary heart disease. Malaria, trachoma, and intestinal parasitism reflected differences in habitat and ways of life, but tuberculosis did not. Despite a density as high as that recorded for any human population, the Lau, living on small artificial islets in a saltwater lagoon, enjoyed robust health.
4603173| Recent work has dealt with the local management of aquatic resources as an alternative to Hardin's (1968) "tragedy of the commons." In communities with no formal management of resources, informal ownership of fishing spots or conflicts with outside competitors may determine the basis for future local management. In this study, I analyze the use of aquatic resources by five fishing communities on the Atlantic Forest coast of southeast Brazil: Bzios Island, Puruba, and Picinguaba in So Paulo State, and Jaguanum and Itacuru Islands at Sepetiba Bay in Rio de Janeiro State. Informal ownership of fishing spots, used for set gillnet fishing, is regulated by kin ties at Bzios Island. The artisanal fishers of Sepetiba Bay, especially those from Jaguanum Island, have a conflict with Bay "intruders," such as the shrimp and herring trawlers. Two coastal communities, Puruba and Picinguaba, have conflicts with fishing regulations from a State Park (Parque Estadual da Serra do Mar), created in 1977. The transformation of populated areas of the Atlantic Forest to Extractive Reserves might be a way to avoid conflicts with intruders and with governmental agencies, and to involve local populations in management. Kinship rules at Bzios Island and the territorial behavior of fishers at Sepetiba Bay may form a basis for local organization. 
27654290|This study describes the seascape ecology of the Roviana Lagoon in the Western Solomon Islands. Using a combination of ecological and ethnographic data, we analyze the dominant characteristics of the habitats represented in the area, the prevalent environmental phenomena, and the productive practices exerted in these habitats by the local inhabitants. The lagoon offers an ecological structure characterized by micro-patchiness and a productive system in which the members have a detailed knowledge of an extremely complex environment and a set of extractive practices that take advantage of this intimate knowledge to selectively use most of the niches provided by the ecological heterogeneity of the lagoon. The correlation of ecological structure and social use of a landscape is not just a descriptive endeavor. It is a fundamental step toward understanding humanenvironmental relations and developing integrative base resource maps for planning marine and terrestrial conservation in the Roviana Lagoon and elsewhere. More generally, the socioecological analysis of seascapes is of key importance for formulating ecosystem-based management plans.
27654211|The primary objective of this paper is to examine more closely the complex nature of the natural environment dimension of community attachment using the narratives of local community members. This work seeks to build and elaborate on previous quantitative analyses that demonstrated two distinct dimensions of community attachmentsocial and natural environment. The findings reveal several distinct facets of the natural environment dimension of community attachment and demonstrate both a discreet perception of the natural environment in terms of community attachment as well as one that is more embedded within the social context of a particular lifestyle. The findings further demonstrate the need to include consideration of the natural environment in the broader assessment of community attachment and bolster previous quantitative research findings.
4603513| Cattle transhumance has been practiced since colonial times in Mapuche communities of northwestern Patagonia, which travelled seasonally along the Andean valleys from arid lands towards temperate forests. In this study, we analyzed how this migratory practice affects the abundance and variety of wild edible plants utilized by the Mapuche community of Paineo. Patterns of use for those who practice transhumance were compared with those who do not utilizing ecological variables. Gender and age were also evaluated. The Paineo people collect wild plants in 3 different gathering sites: the A. araucana forest, the "Travesa," and their dwelling surroundings. However, those who practice summer transhumance utilize a more diverse variety and a tan greater quantity of wild edible forest plants than those who do not. Moreover, the nutritional value of plants collected by transhumants is greater than those used by non-transhumants. Men practice summer cattle transhumance in a greater proportion than do women and consume significantly more wild edible plants. In contrast, plants from their dwellings and from the Travesa are used in a similar way by both sexes. It was observed that the elderly do not presently participate in transhumance. Our results illustrate a change in wild plant knowledge influenced by the transformation of the summer transhumance pattern. 
4602929|Fieldwork in the village of Dadahup along the Lower Barito basin in Central Kalimantan (Southern Borneo, Indonesia) shows that smallholder rattan cultivation is financially profitable to smallholders and economically profitable to the nation. The financial net present value (NPV) for green and processed canes is Rp 828,000 and Rp 946,000; the economic rate of return is about 22% for both green and processed canes. The article contains a discussion of the methodology for evaluating the shadow price of a non-timber forest good.
4603447| Mori continue a centuries old harvest of tt chicks (sooty shearwater, Puffinus griseus) on islands adjacent to Rakiura (Stewart Island). This study measured time limits on the number of Tt taken each day from Putauhinu Island. In the first period of the harvest ("nanao") the chicks are extracted from the breeding burrows during daytime. In the second period of harvest ("rama") the chicks are caught at night after they have emerged from their nesting burrows. Capture rate is much higher during the rama than the nanao. More time is spent processing (plucking, cutting-up, gutting, and packing) chicks during rama than the nanao because of a 1.3-1.7 increase in the number of chicks caught. Recently introduced motorized plucking machines decrease the time required to pluck each chick and make plucking less physically demanding and less painful. However, motorized pluckers did not increase the number of chicks harvested on Putauhinu. Other social limits may control harvest intensity and influence sustainability of muttonbirding. 
4603046|Established approaches to human hunting-gathering behavior have failed to integrate economic, political, and cultural motivations and to describe the rich array of meanings foragers derive from their practices. This essay examines an Australian Aboriginal community's foraging and settlement behavior. It argues that in order to understand the form and meaning of Australian Aboriginal economic practices, researchers must attend to local and regional economic, historical, and ecological constraints on foraging behavior. Equally important are local understandings of the productive potential of foraging activity, including a capacity to maintain the physical and mythic topology of the countryside and human body.
4602458|Rapidly accumulating evidence indicates that light reduces the human pineal's inhibitory effect on the gonads. Artificially extended daily photoperiods, by allowing increased production of gonadal steroids, have probably accentuated the secular growth trend and may be causing males, especially adolescents and young adults, to have an overready hormonal response to situations which elicit aggressive behavior.
23280261|Mercury is known to be a powerful neurotoxin, particularly in its organic form. Amazonian populations living along contaminated rivers are exposed to mercurial contamination through fish consumption, but spatial disparities of contamination have very seldom been explored. The problem was addressed along the river Beni, in the Bolivian Amazon. Fifteen communities have been studied by a multidisciplinary research team, to explore the socio-geographical determinants of contamination by mercury. Using quantitative and qualitative methods, from the community to the regional level, this paper shows how spatial contrasts of mercury contamination are determined by contrasted types of resource management and contrasted social networks from one community to another, and how the places' and societies' specificities play an essential role in the determination of the mercurial risk.
41474613|This article reports on an example of early archaeobotanical evidence for beer-making in Iron Age South-Eastern France. An archaeological sample from a fifth century BC house at the site of Roquepertuse produced a concentration of carbonized barley (Hordeum vulgare) grains. The sample was taken from the floor of the dwelling, close to a hearth and an oven. The barley grains are predominantly sprouted and we argue that the assemblage represents the remains of deliberate malting. Malt was most likely related to beer-brewing. The neighboring oven could have been used to stop the germination process at the desired level by drying or roasting the grain. Beermaking evidence in Roquepertuse is discussed in the context of the consumption of alcoholic beverages in the Iron Age Western Mediterranean using archaeological and historical data.
4603113|Historical research at different time scales from 10s to 1000s of years suggests that solar variation may have influences on global climate. Climate change has had significant impacts on cultures during these periods. Very high solar output during the Medieval Optimum would be expected to have particularly large impacts on peoples of that time as sunspot numbers are thought to have reached one third again any values observed in the current century. Certain other impacts can be inferred from modern populations. For example, the higher parts of the solar cycle are associated with greater incidence of skin melanoma.
4602870|This article presents a concept of energy accounting that is novel because of two features. One is the valuation of human labor in terms of the workers' shares of their societies' energy use, which allows that workers in different societies or time periods may be more or less intensive energy users. The other is the valuation of resources in units of renewal time, which allows renewable resources to be treated as less ecologically costly than depletable ones. These new proposals are used for a reconsideration of the energy balances of Spanish agriculture.
40603027|This study explores the association between individual beliefs in local Islamic Saints in the High Atlas of Morocco and the use of the environment. This exploration is done within the framework of a traditional institution of natural resource management, based on the regulations (called Agdal) of access to common pastoral resources. Research methods included participant observation and interviews during several stays between 2003 and 2008 among the Amazig (Berber) people of the Mesioua tribe, and a survey of 80 households in the village of Warzazt. Our data show an association between the transformation of traditional individual beliefs in local Saints and new agro-pastoral practices that have previously been linked to the disappearance of Agdal-managed pastures and biodiversity loss. We conclude that, in addition to the more material dimensions of climate change, population increase, migration, or expansion of cash economies, religious beliefs should also be taken into account when analyzing the use of natural resources and agro-pastoral change processes.
4602315|The Hutchinsonian concept of the ecological niche can be made operational for studies in human ecology by defining it in terms of the distinctive ways of using resources for subsistence that set "cultural species" apart. Subsistence variety, the number of resources used for subsistence, and how much each is depended on are measures of distinctiveness, and the amount of variety present can be defined as the width of the ecological niche. The calculation of niche width from subsistence data is discussed, and examples are given from several human groups with reference to total resource variety, resource variety in space, and resource variety in time. The importance of selecting niche dimensions for niche width measurement is stressed, and examples are given of width differences resulting from measuring variety in quantity (biomass or calories) and variety in quality (protein, essential minerals, etc.). Finally, some implications of niche width measurements for human ecology are discussed.
40343949|This study is focused on ethnobotanical usages of wild plants growing within the Afyonkarahisar province districts of Sinanpaa, Hocalar and Dazkin. Ninety local informants in 11 villages were interviewed. A total of 129 different usages of wild plants in the study area were recorded. Out of 650 plant species commonly present, 93 plant taxa (14.3%) belonging to 43 families were used for medicinal (52 citations), foodstuff (37 citations), fodder (14 citations), dye (six citations), firewood (five citations), construction materials (four citations) and miscellaneous purposes (11 citations). At least 15% of the information regarding ethnobotanical uses of wild plants was obtained by showing herbarium voucher samples to the informants. It was noted that Sideritis leptoclada and Verbascum stenostachyum are endemic to Turkey and their endangered status has markedly increased in recent years because of increased collecting for ethnobotanical purposes. Informants indicate that members of the younger generation have a much reduced interest in ethnobotanical knowledge and that this is a danger to the continued use of local plants.
4603567|Ecotourism has been heralded as a potential economic and environmental savior in much of Latin America, though explosive foreign investment in ecotourism ventures raises questions about the validity of ecotourism as a tool of sustainable local development. This paper uses three case studies from coastal Belize and the Bay Islands of Honduras to illustrate the challenges that local communities face when attempting to derive ecotourism benefits. Whether these communities are poised to take advantage of foreign capital is largely dependent on their ability to direct the investment and establish control over their common property resources. This appears to require a marked cultural shift toward planning and politicization.
40343998|While wildlife conservation efforts have become increasingly aggressive around the world, illicit use of resources in conservation areas has not subsided, raising questions about the ecological character of noncompliance activities. This paper reviews the results of research conducted amongst foresters and households living adjacent to a wildlife sanctuary in India in a period following a ban of human use activities. Using a formal survey supplemented by interviews and participant observation, the research sought to determine the intensity of illicit use, the demographics of resource users, and the attitudes of rulebreakers. The results suggest that noncompliance with conservation restrictions is nearly universal, that forest use is highly specialized, that available village resource assets do little to offset forest use, and that rule-breakers prefer current governance arrangements. These results paint a picture of deeply institutionalized forest use that suggests serious barriers to any simple enforcement solutions or governance reforms.
40603016|This study examines potential climatic influences on historical agrarian populations in Finland by means of historical weather diaries, rye phenology, and rye and barley grain-figure (ratio between sown and harvested grain) data from the sixteenth to the nineteenth centuries. Crops exhibited great temporal variation. During the poorest years, the amount of harvested grain was less than that sown whereas during the better years the sown grain was harvested more than tenfold. Depending on the locality, 37-84% of this variability could be explained by monthly variables of growing season temperature and precipitation over the latter half of the eighteenth century. Although the grain-figure data showed clear spatial synchrony, it was found that this synchrony was much weaker than that of temperature, precipitation or rye phenology. Consequently, individual crop failure years should not be extrapolated over widely extended areas from spatially restricted data. Further, it was found that the desertion of farms in the sixteenth and the seventeenth centuries occurred coterminously with long-term summer temperature cooling, indicating that the desertion may have resulted from climatic deterioration that significantly impeded agriculture as a means of subsistence.
4603362|Following its introduction on the island of Timor, the shrub Chromolaena odorata has expanded dramatically across the landscape. A highly flammable but fire tolerant plant species, Chromolaena is an extremely successful plant coloniser of disturbed ground and open savanna woodlands. For Timorese semisubsistence agriculturalists, Chromolaena odorata represents the most recent in a long history of invasive weed spcies that have periodically covered their lands and challenged their ability to farm and prosper. Already its impact is being felt in a number of domains of socioeconomic life. This paper explores some of these issues and the prospects for future management and control strategies.
4602426|Introduction of a cash economy in Melanesia has initiated a broadening range of individual acculturation and affluence. In the course of medical surveys in two Melanesian communities, socioeconomic status was assessed for 1,982 adults and correlated with a variety of biological and medical parameters. In one population that had had only brief exposure to modern technology, we were unable to identity status-dependent medical conditions, but in the other, more economically differentiated group, weight, respiratory disease, anemia, subnutrition, and skin disease demonstrated the biological advantage of the most affluent class. In general, striking differences in health between socioeconomic groups were not revealed in this study and either our investigation of effects of sociocultural change was premature or biological change was too subtle for detection.
4602756|The following analysis holds that explanation of the emergence of agricultural wage labor in northern Nigeria depends on determining the dynamics of what are here called critical historical conjunctures. It examines three such conjunctures, historical moments in which an ecological calamity converges with a crisis in the political economy. It is proposed that identification of such conjunctures expedites the movement of the analyst from the micro to the macro level and between the domains of ecology and political economy. As such, it addresses the methodological issues of boundary definition, scale, and time depth in human ecological study.
4602682|Candoshi sharply defined crop zonation and other farming practices are examined and compared with neighboring dissimilar Cocamilla practices and patterns. The comparison indicates that the Candoshi swiddens are probably more typical of aboriginal swiddens in the region than are the Cocamilla swiddens. Candoshi gardens may better be understood as a sophisticated response to microenvironmental conditions, specific plant needs, and equatorial rainfall patterns than as replicas of the tropical forest.
4603257| This paper explores the process of change in a Brazilian indigenous community, relating it to historical, economical, and political forces at the regional and national levels, as well as to environmental variables. In the light of current fieldwork, we examine the predictions of a model constructed 20 years ago based on fieldwork in this and three other Indian communities of Central Brazil by Daniel Gross and collaborators. This model ascribed involvement in the market economy of small-scale communities primarily to land circumscription and resulting environmental degradation, increasing the labor cost of subsistence food production. We find that in the case of the Xavnte community entry into the market was more the result of a top-down government plan to implement mechanized rice production on Xavnte reservations. With the collapse of the project the Xavnte have, on the one hand, returned to a more "traditional" economy based on hunting, gathering, and swidden agriculture and, on the other hand, are innovating by marketing their cultural image through connections with national and international environmentalist organizations. 
4603357|Nongovernmental organizations active in the field of biodiversity conservation such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), have contributed to the legitimation of "unproven assumptions" and romantic notions about forest people as traditional conservationists. In this paper, I will look at a form of indigenous forest tenure, tana ulen, in the area of the Kayan Mentarang National Park, East Kalimantan, Indonesia. I explore how tana ulen has been used and interpreted by local communities and WWF staff in relation to emerging issues of community rights and conservation of biodiversity in the area. In doing this, I argue that without an account that discloses the ways in which forms of forest management are variably affected by and effecting the social, economic, and ecological circumstances in which they are situated, we would be unable to understand local practices and, consequently, would be unprepared to design viable policy alternatives with regard to community-based management of conservation areas.
4602273| The seas occupy the greater part (70%) of the earth's surface, but their total net primary production is less than that of the land. Depletion of nutrients in the lighted surface waters is responsible for low productivities of most of the open ocean; higher productivities occur in coastal waters and areas of upwelling. A recent estimate of total production for the marine plankon is 50  10
23280264|Humans, animals and plants suffer from similar types of diseases (e.g., fungal, viral etc.). These can "emerge" as new diseases by expanding their geographical range or by jumping species (from plants to plants, or from animals to humans). Emerging diseases place an additional burden on developing countries which are often struggling to manage the diseases they already have. New diseases spread through weather, insects or other vectors, or by the movement of people, animals or goods. This study examines the role of cross-border travel in the spread of diseases. A survey of travelers and of residents along the Malawi-Mozambique border found that most cross it frequently and that they rarely travel empty-handed, often taking plants and animals with them. People also cross borders seeking medical attention. Attempting to limit travel would hamper an already struggling economy, where many people make a living by producing, processing or transporting plants and animals for food. Cross border travel per se may pose slight danger for the spread of diseases, if governments can collaborate on sharing information about the status of diseases within their border.
41432991|Pastoral production systems in the Spanish Pyrenees have changed dramatically in recent decades, leading to the loss of traditional ecological knowledge (TEK). We documented TEK of pastoralists from two valleys in the western Central Pyrenees of Aragn and explored its potential applications to resource management and adaptation. Pyrenean pastoralists possess extensive knowledge of relationships between terrain, climate, vegetation and animal nutrition and behavior. TEK could contribute to sustainable stewardship and facilitate adaptation by informing pasture monitoring; providing traditional practices to manage mountain vegetation; and preserving knowledge of extensive livestock production strategies, such as transhumance. Institutional barriers to applying TEK include weak economic cooperation among stockmen, their dependence on EU subsidies, and lack of voice in regional government decisions about local resources. A more collaborative, place-based stewardship of the Central Pyrenees might begin with direct involvement of pastoralists in designing monitoring of pasture conditions and vegetation type changes.
4603156|We use microeconomic theory to frame hypotheses about the effects of income on the use of non-timber rain forest products. We hypothesize that an increase in income: (a) encourages foraging specialization, resulting in the extraction of fewer goods; (b) increases the share of household income from occupations besides foraging; (c) produces a yearly value from the extraction of nontimber forest goods of about $50 per hectare; and (d) produces depletion of forest goods entering commercial channels and sustainable extraction of goods facing cheaper industrial substitutes. To examine these hypotheses we present worldwide ethnographic information and preliminary findings from field work carried out among the Sumu Indians of Nicaragua. Field work suggests that higher income produces: (a) foraging specialization with animals rather than with plants; (b) a decline in the economic importance of forest goods in household income; (c) and a rise in the value of non-timber goods removed from the forest to about $35/ha/year. We did not have time to test hypothesis "d."
4603228|The mainstream view in natural resource management in African drylands has been that local people are responsible for natural resource degradation. Today, alternative views or new paradigms are emerging in several fields. These new paradigms, which support decentralization of natural resource management, are discussed in relation to the ongoing decentralization process in Mali. During the colonial period, heavily centralized governments were installed in all the French colonies. This structure was maintained by Malian governments after independence. However, following the recent transition to democracy, a decentralizing reform is being implemented. It is presently not clear whether these reforms will lead to mere deconcentration, involving the redistribution of administrative responsibilities within the central government, or whether Mali is heading toward real decentralization, devolving decision making powers to local communities. The gestion de terroir approach, which may be a useful tool in achieving decentralization in farming communities, would, in pastoral areas, cause more damage than benefit.
25652782|Concerns about the impacts of national parks and protected areas upon local populations have generated significant interest in community conservation initiatives that attempt to include local knowledge and participation in natural resource decision-making. While there has been much interest in the institutional frameworks and livelihood impacts of community conservation, emerging research is documenting the various factors that shape local perceptions. This paper uses a case study of the Mahushe Shongwe Game Reserve in South Africa to examine the key variables shaping community perceptions of community conservation. We employ multinomial logistic regression models to understand views of the benefits and future direction of the reserve. These models are coupled with information collected from semi-structured interviews that assists in providing a detailed, and more complex, understanding of the diverse ways that community conservation is perceived by local residents. The paper demonstrates that multiple factors, particularly household history, education, and gender contribute in shaping views of the reserve. While these variables are often identified in the academic literature as important, we argue that the combination of qualitative and quantitative methods helps reveal the interplay between them in shaping perceptions of community conservation.
4603102| Using oral histories, archival materials, and observations of present behavior, a largely hypothetical historical reconstruction of the natural resource exploitation and subsistence practices of Lese farmers and Efe foragers in the Ituri Forest of northeastern Zare is presented. Distinct epochs associated with the advent of forest agriculture, Belgian colonization, and post-independence economic collapse have resulted in changes in local population density, the range of forest resources exploited, and the spatial distribution and intensity of resource use. Broadly speaking, there has been a historical trend toward sedentism, spatial clumping of settlements, localization of resource exploitation, reduced importance of forest carbohydrates in the diet, and an increased reliance on agricultural products. Over time the Efe and Lese exchange system has changed, in relation to the items traded and the relative dependence of each partner on the exchange relationship. Involvement in this alliance has had a considerable impact on Efe settlement pattern, diet, and probably fecundity. It ultimately placed the Lese in a position of power over the Efe, and provided the farmers with means to enter a transient monetary economy. By providing a retrospective on Efe and Lese subsistence, we hope to demonstrate that to decipher the relative benefits and constraints of this contemporary exchange relationship, we must understand their historical etiology. 
24015701|The Itzamma Garden and Medicinal Plant Project is a collaborative effort focused on identifying traditionally important plants used by the Q'eqchi' Maya of southern Belize. The Garden represents a cornerstone of the project where these plant resources (~130 in total; of which 102 have been identified to the species level) are cultivated ex situ as a means of providing primary healthcare by traditional healers. Here, we present a comprehensive agro-ecological survey of the Garden describing the layout and cultivation scenarios, development challenges encountered, and associated implementation strategies for improving site practices. A general recommendation for the adaptation of this strategy to other localities is the thorough depiction of ecological features based on interactions with local practitioners, for example, leading to the effective cultivation of plants, the enhancement of soil, and the surveillance of crop nutritional status and medicinal potency. We consider that the 'ethnobotanical garden approach' could provide a collaborative 'working model' for rural development, especially indigenous communities interfacing with their local agro-ecosystems.
4603146|The Commonwealth of Dominica, hereafter referred to as Dominica, is one of only two islands in the English-speaking Caribbean with two species of extant, endemic Amazona parrots, namely the Imperial or Sisserou Parrot (Amazona imperialis) and the Red-necked or Jaco Parrot (A. arausiaca). These birds are of national as well as international significance, as their populations have been on the decline for several years. During the last 15 years the local authorities, with the support and cooperation of various regional and international agencies, have mounted a campaign to save both species from extinction. An islandwide public awareness campaign has been attempted, with encouraging results. An increase in the species population as well as an increased level of private and public support for parrot conservation, are among the positive results to date. In spite of these accomplishments, however, the parrots are not out of danger and therefore continued vigilance is necessary. Additional measures are proposed to ensure the continued existence and complete recovery of the Dominican Amazons.
4602449|A number of neighborhood studies have supported the view that urban areas are a mosaic of local communities or neighborhoods with clear boundaries and a high degree of identity. However, many of these studies are based on highly identifiable inner-city natural areas in large metropolitan centers; thus, the generalizability of these findings is limited. Two studies broadened the investigation of these issues by looking at neighborhood perceptions of residents living in relatively undifferentiated inner-city, outer-city, and suburban areas of a middle-sized metropolitan area. In both studies, residents were asked to draw and describe their neighborhood. The first study (N = 72) indicated that the content of neighborhood images differed by area of the city: city residents ascribed the same number of positive characteristics, but more negative characteristics to their neighborhood than did suburban residents. Moreover, suburban residents in both studies drew neighborhoods that were substantially larger than the inner-city neighborhoods. The second study, conducted with 24 immediate neighbors from the inner city and suburb, indicated that in both areas there was a high degree of agreement among neighbors on the neighborhood limits, but little consensus on a neighborhood name. These results support and extend the local community model of neighborhoods: From city to suburb the imagability of neighborhood does not differ; it is both high and consensual. But the content of the image does change; suburban neighborhoods are seen as larger and less negative.
4603116| A general discussion is given of climate variability over the last 1500 years as interpreted from two ice cores from the Quelccaya ice cap, Peru. The possible role of climatic variability in prehistory over this period is discussed with emphases on (1) relationships between climate and the rise and decline of coastal and highland cultures; (2) the possible causes of two major dust events recorded in the Quelccaya ice cores around AD 920 and AD 600; and (3) implications of climatic variation for the occupation and abandonment of the Gran Pajaten area. The remarkable similarity between changes in highland and coastal cultures and changes in accumulation as determined from the Quelccaya ice cores implies a strong connection between human activities and climate in this region of the globe. Two ice cores drilled to bedrock from the 6047 masl col of Huascarn in the Cordillera Blanca, Peru in 1993 offer the potential of an annual to decadal climatic and environmental record which should allow the study of human-climate and human-environmental relationships over 10,000+ years. The 1991 and 1993 evidence from the Quelccaya ice cap indicates that recent and rapid warming is currently underway in the tropical Andes. Thus many of the unique glacier archives are in imminent danger of being lost forever. 
4603249|Environmental conditions of the Eastern North American Arctic make this region suitable for biogeographical approaches to culture. Although composed of a vast assemblage of large and small islands, the Eastern Arctic differs from other "oceanic" environments where modern biogeographical work has been pioneered. This paper outlines conditions which make the Eastern Arctic suitable for biogeographical study and considers the nature of "islands" as analytical constructs rather than as discrete entities. Biogeographical concepts are considered in relation to the "core-periphery model" that has been the organizing principle for interpreting patterns of Eastern Arctic culture history. Abstractions, aspects, and conclusions reached from these studies outline some of the opportunities available for application of more directed anthropological biogeographical work in the future.
4602820|Humans participate in ecological systems as one means of extracting and distributing environmental resources. Such ecosystems manifest themselves in the archeological record. Settlement systems represent subsistence systems latent with information relevant to explaining the spatial organization of people and change through time. Three subsistence settlement systems were segregated from the record of prehistoric farmers in southwestern Zambia. One is associated with the practice of pioneer populations successively occupying and abandoning favored microenvironments. The second is associated with the cyclical swiddening of a few opportunities within a single microenvironment. The third set spreads centers of production throughout several environmental segments. It is suggested that swiddening the marginal soils of the Zambezi periphery enabled the colonization but did not permit a burgeoning population. It is further suggested that internal networks were crucial to equalization of access to necessary resources and that these were incorporated in the segmentary, descent group.
4603386|Many scholars are concerned that globalization and "scientization" of local management systems threatens the survival of valuable indigenous knowledge of agriculture and agroforestry. This paper addresses such concerns by drawing on a field study of knowledge about tree and crop cultivation in central India to examine dynamics of knowledge system change. It uses concepts from systems studies, including hierarchy, adaptability, connectedness, and scale, to show how parts of indigenous knowledge systems might be more likely to be lost or preserved under various socio-economic circumstances. It then suggests some concrete lessons for those interested in conserving indigenous knowledge: that knowledge is best conserved in situ; that concepts can be more important to communicate and preserve than mere facts or practices; that researchers might identify those parts of a knowledge system most in need of conservation attention; and that technical innovation might allow local-scale indigenous knowledge to interface more effectively with large-scale global technologies.
40344000|The world-wide debate on land degradation in arid lands, usually linked to local land use practices, does not reflect methodological advancements in terms of assessments and monitoring that integrate local communities' knowledge with ecological methods. In this paper, we evaluated the efficacy of three different methods related to herder assessments and monitoring of land degradation; herder knowledge and ecological methods of assessing impacts of livestock grazing along gradients of land use from settlement and joint monitoring of selected marked transects to understand long-term vegetation changes in southwestern Marsabit northern Kenya. The performance of each method was carefully evaluated and interpreted in terms of the indicators used by herders and ecologists. Herder interpretations were then related to ecologists' empirical analysis of land degradation. The Rendille nomads have a complex understanding of land degradation which combines environmental and livestock productivity indicators, compared to conventional scientific approaches that use plant-based indicators alone. According to the herders, the grazing preference of various livestock species (e. g., grazers versus browsers) influences perceptions of land degradation, suggesting degradation is a relative term. The herders distinguished short-term changes in vegetation cover from long-term changes associated with over-exploitation. They attributed current environmental degradation around pastoral camps, which shift land use between the alternating wet and dry seasons, to year-round grazing. We deduced from long-term observation that herders interpret vegetation changes in terms of rainfall variability, utilitarian values and intensification of land use. Long-term empirical data (23 years) from repeated sampling corroborated herder interpretations. Land degradation was mostly expressed in terms of declines in woody plant species, while spatial and temporal dynamics of herbaceous species reflected the effects of seasonality. The efficacy of the three methods were inferred using explanatory strengths of ecological theory; insightfulness of the methods for describing land degradation and the likelihood of using the methods for promoting local community participation in the implementation of the UN Convention on Combating Desertification (CCD) and the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD).
4603170|This paper attempts to identify the main threats to and sources of sustainability in African agricultural systems by examining cases of unsustainability and resilience at various levels. Current concepts of sustainable agriculture are based mainly on the experiences and norms of western industrial nations and may not be appropriate to sub-Saharan Africa and other developing regions. The things we want to sustain comprise a hierarchy of attributes, components, and systems at increasing scales, and it is important to examine the dynamics of sustainability at each significant level as well as the impacts of events at one level on others. Cases of crop declines and of collapses of larger systems indicate that extreme perturbations, both biophysical and social, are more important as causes of unsustainability than suggested in the literature, while the significance of resource degradation or of overuse of technological inputs have been overemphasized. Survey data from Kenya and Nigeria show that the main causes of crop disappearances have been major disease or pest outbreaks, followed by changes in crop preferences. Fertility and land use stresses have been only a tertiary factor. Sources of resilience that have buffered households and larger systems from the impacts of these range from farmers' strategies of crop and income diversification and searches for resistant cultivars to interventions by national and international bodies. Numerous population and large-scale system collapses have also occurred over the past century in Africa, almost all caused by extreme social and/or biophysical perturbations. There is no evidence that land degradation or land use pressure has played a significant role in these. Increased land use pressure has led to the disappearance or alteration of many prior practices, though farmers have generally adapted to these. Resource management systems have also declined due to outmigration as regions undergo a transition from remote and relatively closed systems to more open systems. These may call for a greater rather than lower use of modern technology to enhance the income earning potential of agricultural production.
27654126|Indigenous peoples of western Arnhem Land, central northern Australia, have detailed knowledge of the rock kangaroos of the region, species that are little known to science. Information about the ecology of the species is required for their conservation and management. Ethnoecological studies can assist senior indigenous people with transfer of knowledge and can give respect and meaningful employment to those involved. We used semidirected interviews in the regional vernacular, Bininj Kunwok, to record indigenous knowledge of the ecology of the four rock kangaroo species (Petrogale brachyotis, P. concinna, Macropus bernardus and M. robustus). Discussions focussed on habitat preferences, diet, activity patterns, reproduction, predation, and hunting practices. The ethnoecological knowledge of the rock kangaroo species was extensive, and both complemented and extended that reported in the scientific literature. In contrast to scientific understanding of taxonomy and ecology, consultants recognized the rock kangaroos as a natural group. They also described subtle differences in the species' comparative ecology. The methodology used proved highly successful and we recommend recording indigenous knowledge of the ecology of fauna species in the local vernacular wherever possible. This study is one of the most comprehensive ethnozoological studies of a group of species undertaken in Australia.
4603138| Landsat-thematic mapper images recorded April 1986 and 1990 were obtained for northern Guatemala. The study area corresponds to a major portion of Guatemala's Maya Biosphere reserve but also includes land outside the western and southern boundary of the reserve. The normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) was computed at each date and image differencing (subtraction) was performed. The resulting image was thresholded into three categories: regrowth, no change, and forest clearing. A 10  10 km grid system was superimposed on the image to categorize the percentage of each 100 km
27654141|The purpose of this paper is to explore adaptive learning networks as a contemporary means by which new resource management knowledge can develop through social learning forums. The paper draws upon recent discussions within two disparate literatures on indigenous knowledge and network theory and is grounded in fieldwork with two Anishinaabe First Nations in northwestern Ontario. The paper has three objectives. First, problematize the principle of representation as a basic way of including the knowledge of indigenous peoples within natural resource and environmental management. Second, utilize network theory as a way to weave together adaptive learning by individuals into a cross-cultural social learning process. Finally, propose an adaptive natural resources and environmental framework that brings together, through a social learning process, the different ways individuals, indigenous peoples and resource managers, perceive environmental change.
41474601|Two grassland management patterns, multihousehold and single-household, have developed in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau of China since grasslands came under household control. In the multi-household management pattern (MMP), grassland is jointly managed by two or more households without fences between individual household pastures. The single-household management pattern (SMP) refers to a system in which grassland is separately managed by an individual household with fences separating these pastures from those of other households. This paper compares the benefits of the two management patterns using a field investigation and a social survey. We found that the MMP has greater economic benefits compared with the SMP because multi-household cooperation was more likely to reduce production costs and so reduce resource expenditures. Furthermore, the social benefits from MMP collaboration were also important. The results also indicated that the SMP was more likely to cause grassland degradation. In conclusion, the comprehensive benefits created under the MMP were greater as a result of social learning in this coupled human and natural ecosystem. The MMP has important policy implications for conservation and development initiatives in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau and other similar areas.
40343995|Traditionally, models of resource extraction assume individuals act as if they form strategies based on complete information. In reality, gathering information about environmental parameters may be costly. An efficient information gathering strategy is to observe the foraging behavior of others, termed public information. However, media can exploit this strategy by appearing to supply accurate information while actually shaping information to manipulate people to behave in ways that benefit the media or their clients. Here, I use Central Place Foraging (CPF) models to investigate how newspaper propaganda shaped ore foraging strategies of late nineteenth-century Colorado silver prospectors. Data show that optimistic values of silver ore published in local newspapers led prospectors to place mines at a much greater distance than was profitable. Models assuming perfect information neglect the possibility of misinformation among investors, and may underestimate the extent and degree of human impacts on areas of resource extraction.
4602571|Belowground plant parts were important potential food resources in the habitats associated with Pliocene and early Pleistocene hominids. The food gathering and dental adaptations of three groups of modern mammals -- bears, pigs, and humans -- testify to the earlier convergence of these animals on this resource. Since belowground food reserves are relatively unaffected by the factors controlling aboveground food supply (fire, drought, and grazing stress), exploitation of this stable nutritional bank had distinct energetic and behavioral advantages for hominids.
4603241|By marshaling empirical data from five Machiguenga communities studied over 20 years, this paper disputes two common assumptions about the behavior of indigenous peoples in the face of increasing commercialization. First, many Amazonian researchers suggest that the social and ecological deterioration confronting native populations results from externally-imposed political, legal and market structures that compel local groups to pursue short-term, unstable economic strategies. Second, these structural explanations are combined with the increasing recognition that indigenous peoples possess a substantial agroecological knowledge to suggest that, if indigenous people receive control of adequate land and resources, they will implement their traditional knowledge in conservative resource management practices. In contrast to these assumptions, this analysis shows that the Machiguenga are not compelled by external forces (such as land tenure, migration policies or economic trends), but instead are active enthusiastic participants seeking to engage the market in order to acquire western goods. Further, despite highly adaptive traditional subsistence patterns and a vast agroecological knowledge, households and communities facing increasing degrees of market integration are progressively altering their traditional cropping strategies, planting practices, labor allocation and land use patterns toward a greater emphasis on commodity crop production and domesticated animal breeding. This increasing concentration on income generating activities subverts the environmentally-friendly nature of traditional productive practices and creates a socially, economically, and ecologically unsustainable system.
4603256|Datoga herding follows a cyclical pattern depending on the availability of grazing and water. This analysis focuses on two questions: (a) Is the herding strategy followed by individual households limited by the amount of labor available to that household? and (b) does the herding strategy followed by individual households influence the dynamics of cattle herds? The results show that the availability of labor on a household level does not influence either the herding strategies used by individual households, or the dynamics of cattle herds. This suggests that once minimum labor requirements are met, livestock productivity is insensitive to additional labor inputs.
4602545|Previous investigations have yielded contradictory conclusions concerning the importance of the economic contribution of children to households in agricultural societies. The present study evaluates the significance of children's economic input in rural Ancoraimes, Bolivia by using child growth as an indirect indicator of the economic value of children. Children whose households differed in size and age composition were compared on the basis of five anthropometric measurements. Children from households with many young, nonproducing children were found to be significantly smaller for their age than children from households with few nonproducing children. Absolute household size had no major effect on child growth. While young children have a negative effect on the growth of children in the household, the positive effect of children as they grow older appears to make up for this loss. In terms of child growth, children are neither a net liability nor a net asset to agricultural households in Ancoraimes.
41474638|The tree management practices of a Dogon village in Mali, West Africa were investigated to learn how a rural population adapts its strategies to cope with institutional change, climate change, unequal land distribution, and expanding market access. A range of methodologies was used, including semi-structured interviews, seasonal calendars, community mapping and matrices. Special focus was given to baobab (Adansonia digitata L.) and tamarind (Tamarindus indica L.), two highly used and valuable trees within this community. This research reveals that community members have realized that traditional management practices are no longer effective in dealing with the impacts of these transitions, and highlights the fact that management practices, while historically uniform, have begun to diverge in recent years based on unequal land and water endowments within the village. Understanding the rights and abilities of all users to access and protect these species is crucial to their conservation.
4602936|Secondary succession in tropical deciduous forest is often characterized by vegetative reproduction, or coppicing. Coppicing is also observed in forest sites that are disturbed by farming activity. This observation raises questions about the role of established management practices in determining the succession of vegatation on farmsites once they are abandoned to fallow. To what extent is the coppicing succession the result of specific aspects of swidden farming technology and management? And what variations in coppice successions occur in swidden sites following deviations from the standard farming practice? In research on swidden farming among the Susu of Sierra Leone, I examined the successional pathway in an age series of forest fallow sites. I show that the standard pattern of minimal cultivation favors the coppicing of felled trees in the subsequent fallow periods. By contrast, deviation from this pattern results in stump deaths and favors the invasion of fallow sites by grasses and vegetatively reproducing pioneer trees from the savanna. Variations in the environmental outcome of disturbance to plant communities, then, are the result of interactions between processes of tropical tree reproduction and the agricultural practices of local farmers.
27654137|Common property arrangements govern the subsistence harvest of berries in the Gwich'in region of the Northwest Territories, Canada. Some of these arrangements, including rules for resource access, sharing information and harvest sharing, enable the Gwich'in to deal with ecological variability. The rules change in response to year-to-year variations in the abundance and distribution of the species, spatially and temporally across the region. This paper illustrates the interrelationships between ecosystem dynamics and local institutions, a neglected area of commons research.
41474643|We examine the role that habitus, an individual's or group's dispositions, has played in the retention of traditional ecological knowledge among the Noongar people of south-western Australia. We sought to determine if current plant knowledge reflects Noongar habitus or, alternatively, the use of fall-back species that were important due to the intermittency of agricultural employment and the social exclusion of Aboriginal people up until at least the 1960s in Western Australia. We compared the seasonal availability of Noongar food plant resources currently known by Noongar Elders to those described at the time of European settlement. We used non-metric Multidimensional Scaling (nMDS) and multivariate statistics to compare the seasonal availability of plant resources with the seasonal availability of work prior to the introduction of civil rights for Aboriginal Australians in the 1960s. We show that the seasonal pattern of plant knowledge has changed little since settlement and that there was no significant relationship between the seasonal availability of work and plant knowledge. This result suggests that prior to 1960 Noongars maintained a reasonably traditional round of seasonal activities involving traditional plant use. We suggest that Noongar habitus guided their response to the colonising culture and helped preserve traditional ecological knowledge.
4603549| Community wildlife management is being tested across the tropics as a means of promoting the conservation and sustainable use of wildlife resources. Key to successful programs is the effective participation of local hunters and communities in monitoring, planning, decision-making and implementation. We evaluate one method to achieve this participation, namely hunter self-monitoring. Between 1997 and 2000, Izoceo hunters from 22 communities in the Bolivian Chaco have voluntarily participated in monitoring their hunting activities, measuring and recording data on captured animals and hunting methods in personal notebooks. Despite the lack of remuneration, participation exceeds 60% of active hunters. However, the written information and specimens provided are not complete, and are biased according to hunting methods and prey characteristics. Complementary research is essential to answer specific research questions. Nevertheless, hunter self-monitoring serves to raise awareness of wildlife management issues at the communal or indigenous territory level, as evidenced by preliminary actions taken by hunters and communities in the Izozog. 
4602793| Several investigators cite population control, frequent settlement relocation, trekking, expansion of diet breadth, and food taboos as strategic responses to game depletion by indigenous populations living in interfluvial zones of lowland South America. The Ka'apor Indians of the interfluvial forest of northern Maranho, Brazil, employ other means of optimizing hunting efficiency, partly based on ritual. Menstruating women, pubescent girls, and parents of newborns can consume meat only of the tortoise (Gochelone denticulata), the first prey species to be hunted out of an area. Tortoise capture requires, on average, one full day of hunting. This means that the full potential of hunting pressure does not materialize near the settlement. Meat productivity is unusually high even near old settlements. I argue that ritual tortoise hunting helps to regulate environmental utilization, to maintain a sustained yield of meat protein, and to expand the catchment area gradually. 
4603206|This article attempts to conceptualize the dynamics of resource allocation by colonist farmers under the unique conditions of land abundance and labor scarcity which characterize frontier environments, such as the smallholder agricultural settlement areas in the Amazon basin. In contrast, most previous theoretical literature on household agricultural decision making and land-use change in rural areas considers conditions of high population density and land scarcity, and is not, therefore, adequate for understanding critical land-use changes which may be occurring in frontier regions. This article first discusses the appropriateness and inadequacies of the analytical frameworks commonly used to explain the expansion of settler agriculture into remote forest regions and the unsustainable land-use practices observed in these areas. This review serves as the basis for characterizing resource allocation under the particular conditions of frontier environments. A conceptual advance in the analysis is its consideration of the way institutional/policy factors and farm-level characteristics can interact to produce land-use outcomes. This knowledge is essential to understand not only the social and economic factors affecting present land use and choice of technology, but also those factors influencing farmers' demand for more optimal systems of land use which are consistent with varying agro-ecological potentials, demographic situations, and their own management capacity.
4602262|In assessing the impact of European influence on sociocultural characteristics of the Murapin tribal community of the Western Highlands of Australian New Guinea, the authors have gathered and, where possible, quantified information on family size, polygamy, marital status, religious beliefs, education, linguistic ability, economic development, occupation, housing, clothing, alcohol intake, and dietary patterns. Our findings suggest that the results of contact have not been uniform but that various social characteristics have been influenced at differing rates. European influence has been greatest in religion, less significant in matters of occupation, education, economic development, and housing, and negligible as regards diet. This differential effect of contact affords hope that it will prove possible to discriminate between various social and nutritional factors in their influence on the health status and biological characteristics of the population as the process of acculturation proceeds.
24013750|Urban forests are multifunctional socio-ecological landscapes, yet some of their social benefits remain poorly understood. This paper draws on ethnographic evidence from Seattle, Washington to demonstrate that urban forests contain nontimber forest products that contribute a variety of wild foods, medicines, and materials for the wellbeing of urban residents. We show that gathering wild plants and fungi in urban forests is a persistent subsistence and livelihood practice that provides sociocultural and material benefits to city residents, and creates opportunities for connecting with nature and enhancing social ties. We suggest that an orientation toward human-nature interactions in cities that conceptualizes the gathering of forest products as a legitimate social benefit may support and expand urban forest justice. Urban forest justice recognizes the rights of local people to have control over their own culturally appropriate wild food and health systems, including access to natural resources and to the decision-making processes affecting them.
4602435|In a sub-Arctic band of Hare Indians, considerable discrepancies have been found in the style, consistency, and degree of environmental involvement characterizing different individuals and families. The distinct subsistence patterns of subgroups within the population are explored. Ideological, psychological, historical, and experiential factors that contribute to this variability are examined. These factors are seen to affect strategies concerning trapping, hunting, mobility, wage labor, identity maintenance, and the quality of life that people seek. While some individuals pursue freedom from traditional subsistence hardships, others focus on self-sufficiency and freedom from constraints imposed by greater integration with Western society.
4602257|A methodology is described for the utilization of ecosystem concepts in land-use issues of urban development and urban design. The issues are discussed of utilizing science specialists to develop in-depth understanding of ecosystem structure and function, synthesizing the information into usable form, and communicating the ecosystem knowledge to engineers, architects, landscape architects, and planners. Case studies from Ontario and New York illustrate some of the difficulties and opportunities in this kind of interprofessional work. The issue of identifying who is an ecologist and the related matter of professionalization are then discussed.
4603251|Inter-island paleoecological comparisons have provided useful information concerning the role of humans vs. background-level disturbance in tropical ecosystems. Major ecological changes have occurred since human arrival in Madagascar, the West Indies, the Hawaiian Islands, and elsewhere. Prehuman vegetation changes and disturbances have also been documented for many islands. Instructive inter-island similarities and differences have been detected in the chronology, distribution, and extent of human activities, vegetation changes, and biotic extinctions. The earliest stratigraphic proxy evidence for initial human impacts (including increased charcoal particle influx to sediments, first appearance of exotic pollen, increase in ruderal pollen, and paleolimnological evidence for cultural eutrophication of lake waters) generally confirm but sometimes predate the earliest conventional archaeological evidence for human activity. Carefully chosen sites permitting the close integration of palynological, paleontological, and archaeological data from a variety of island settings with differing geographic and historical contingencies can enable investigators to more fully evaluate the importance of a range of human and ecological variables in determining the overall character and dynamics of ecosystems.
4602927|Amid discussions of an agricultural crisis and the failure of large-scale, mechanized, capital-intensive development schemes in Nigeria, the Kofyar of Plateau State provide a case study of farmers spontaneously expanding food crop production for the market, using indigenous low-energy technology. Temporary, followed by permanent, migration from the Jos Plateau homeland to frontier settlements on the fertile Benue plains has been accompanied by a change from initial shifting cultivation in forest clearings to permanent, intensively tilled and fertilized homestead fields. Labor is organized primarily in households that have grown in size and complexity. Cooperative and exchange work groups are also important for meeting seasonal bottlenecks and providing the careful, disciplined cultivation that intensive agriculture requires. Kofyar now devote up to 50% of their labor to cash crops, and they purchase considerable quantities of manufactured goods and medical services. Their uncoerced adaptation to an environment of new land resources and market incentives suggests both the advantages of indigenous development with a minimum of state control or interference and the limitations of a conventional dependency theory perspective.
4603000|This article contains a comparison of the profits of cultivating modern and traditional varieties of coconuts as a monocrop and as an intercrop, in ideal and in average growing conditions, with good and with average management. We carry out the analysis from a private (financial) and from a national (economic) perspective. The results show that intercropping generates more income than monocropping. In the conclusion we discuss why development organizations and Third World countries encourage monocropping.
41474597|Today, people in the U.S. commonly engage in mutual relationships with white-tailed deer (WTD) in manners consistent with those that ultimately resulted in the domestication of animals in the past. Using a wide range of media depicting perspectives of sport hunters, biologists, ecologists, and game managers this paper explores: 1) the influence of anthropogenic environments on WTD behavior, 2) 'game' management and the ability to create valued demographics, and 3) the selection for increased antler size in farmed WTD. This study demonstrates that in order to gain a more accurate understanding of domestication, analyses should focus on the evolution of mutualisms between people and animals. Insights gleamed from this analysis also contribute toward our archaeological understanding of prehistoric animal domestication.
4603427|Based on a case study from Ferlo in Senegal, this paper discusses how pastoral mobility can be studied and understood with special emphasis on the use of GPS data. It has a dual objective: first, to investigate the methodological potential of using GPS data; second, to discuss the analytical use of GPS data for understanding mobility. The methodological potential for using GPS data is related to quantifying mobility and characterizing mobility patterns in space and time. Analytically, GPS data can be used in combination with qualitative information to make method triangulation. The GPS data can be used both prior to qualitative interviews to make informed questions about mobility and they can be used after qualitative investigations to illustrate points made or to reveal inconsistencies. The study shows that cattle walk about 5000 km per year (excluding night grazing) and different mobility patterns occur depending on the season. Issues such as "the cattle complex" and the notion of the independent, nomadic pastoralist are discussed in relation to pastoral mobility. Although cattle are of major importance to the Fulani, it is not important for them to walk with their animals, which are left to roam freely or supervised by paid herders. It is necessary to take into account all these issues if we want to go beyond the simple understanding of mobility as a means to find pasture and water.
4603595|For the first time in the Faroe Islands, the paleoecological content of an early Norse farm has been sampled comprehensively in an effort to understand how it functioned and its relationship to the landscape in which it was located. Organic deposits indicate an increase in species diversity at the time of settlement, including the introduction of several new species. Plant resources from various areas of the treeless landscape were exploited and farm buildings contained suites of synanthropic insects dominated by those associated with accumulations of decaying plant debris. Potential fuels included wood, peat, dung, and seaweed. Insect faunas lacked both ectoparasites and a significant foul beetle component. This may be a reflection of animal husbandry, with stock not being stalled over winter in the farm buildings examined, or an absence of wool-processing in the buildings. Results compare well with other sites in the North Atlantic and argue for the consistent nature of the Norse farming economy across the region.
4603402|There are numerous incidences of impoverishment and livelihood change in pastoral societies following transformations in land use, and land and livestock ownership. Opinion is divided over the effect of these changes on women. This paper considers the case of the former residents of the Mkomazi Game Reserve. Pastoralists were evicted from the Reserve in the late 1980s and their livelihoods have changed as a result. I show that women from poorer households now have to sell milk, firewood, or medicine frequently to meet daily family needs, but I argue that increased income-earning activity by women is not only the result of impoverishment. Selling goods is useful for women as it provides an income that they control and some choose to earn their own money. The income resulting is also subject to intrahousehold power dynamics. Women may have to sell more goods more often and may be less free to use the money as they wish because men sometimes withdraw "normal" provisions for day-to-day needs in the expectation that women's income will meet the deficit. Debates over the changing status of women in pastoral society need to be cognizant of these intrahousehold contests.
41474606|The Yanomami are a hunter-gatherer and gardener people with high mobility, which influences the regeneration of forest in agricultural clearings. Increasing contact with the wider Brazilian and Venezuelan societies may lead to sedentarization. Population groups and clearings were mapped in the Yanomami Land in Brazil using four mosaics of Landsat images from within a two-year period. The mosaics were separated by intervals of 7 years. Few groups were sedentary, and most of these maintained alternative residences. The Yanomami cleared 16,856 ha (0.17% of the Yanomami territory in Brazil) over the 21 years covered by this study. Individuals in mobile groups deforested more than those in sedentary groups, but secondary-forest regeneration occurs mainly in clearings made by mobile groups. Permanent settlements had impeded regeneration of 48% (2,025 ha) of the area cleared prior to 1988. Access to health care has led to population growth but has not increased sedentarization.
4602681|The proposition that tropical polycultural gardens simulate the structure and dynamics of the surrounding forest is examined in the light of research on Jivaroan manioc cultivation. Garden transects were used to measure the diversity of intercropped species and of locally recognized varieties of manioc. Huambisa and Aguaruna Jivaro gardens have much lower species diversities than the surrounding forest, even though crop compositions reflect the age, topography, and soil type of the swiddens. Furthermore, the number of manioc varieties is far greater than that of all other crop species combined. It is argued that a pure stand of Jivaroan manioc can itself be considered a polycrop of distinct cultivars with differing branching patterns, leaf shapes, and growth periods.
4603184|Recent research suggests that, under unconstrained human circumstances, pastoral nomads within arid environments have at their disposal means of evading ecological stress that could impel them to cause damage to their grazing and land resources. The Israeli-Egyptian border has imposed a severe constraint upon the range management strategy of the Bedouin whose traditional territory it bisects. The border forced them to exert an increased pressure upon local resources. Considerable damage was thus caused to the perennial vegetation cover (both macrophytes and microphytes) and to the structure of sand dunes on the Egyptian side of the border, with opposite effects on the Israeli side to which the Bedouin had no access. This case study adds a further dimension to the discussion of range management by pastoral nomads in arid and semi-arid areas.
4602797|The cropping systems of seventeenth century traditional organic agriculture in the Jiaxing region of eastern China required about 2000 hr of labor per hectare for rice production. Rice and related grain crops were produced employing only human power. The input was about 200 times that for most mechanized grain production today. The charcoal or fossil energy input to produce simple hand tools accounted for only 1-2% total energy in the crop systems. Organic wastes including manures, pond sediments, and green manure crops supplied most of the nutrients. Rice yields, ranging as high as 6700-8400 kg/ha, were similar to some of the highest yields today. The energy output/input ratio ranged from 9 for compost-fertilized rice to 12 for green manure-fertilized rice production. These ratios were 2-10 times higher than most mechanized rice production systems of today. Knowledge of the crop and soil system enabled the early Chinese farms to maintain high crop yields and sustain highly productive soils.
4603073|While many recent studies of East African pastoralists have begun to consider the social and material contexts within which cattle come to be valued, few have stressed the importance of pastoral production for subsistence needs, and even fewer the conditions under which this production takes place. This paper will show that a thorough understanding of herd management strategies, including the circulation of cattle through bridewealth, demands that we consider the long-term environmental risks inherent in pastoral production in arid lands. A computer simulation demonstrates the manner in which, in the course of 50-year spans, stochastic and environmental factors affect small herds. I go no to show the manner in which differing levels of bridewealth payments can offset the risk associated with a highly fluctuating environmental context.
4602849|By describing the ecological implications of Mormon settlement in the Little Colorado River Basin, the paper demonstrates: (1) the application of general ecological concepts in human ecology, (2) the ecological basis for the evolution of complex human communities, (3) the interactive, hierarchical relationship between community diversity and environmental stability, and (4) the positive contribution that human ecology can make to the general discussion of diversity and stability in ecological systems. The paper gives a brief description of Mormon colonization in the Little Colorado River Basin. Local differences in community development are then related to environmental variation within the basin and compared to general ecological research expectations. The implications of community development in this region for explaining the relationship between diversity and stability in ecological systems are discussed.
40981192|Located in the north-western extreme of the Iberian northern plateau with the Portugal border on the west, Zamora province is one of the current divisions of the autonomous region of Castile-Leon (Spain). According to natural boundaries and historical records, the province of Zamora can be subdivided into six different regions: Aliste, Benavente, Bajo Duero, Campos-Pan, Sanabria and Sayago. The geography of the area is configured by two major rivers: the Duero that crosses the province in a west-east direction and its affluent the Esla that crosses the province in a northwest-southeast course. In this work, we analyze both surnames of 166,349 individuals from Zamora province. The main goal of this study is to explore the differential weight of historical, demographic, geographic and sociocultural factors in shaping the bio-demographic and genetic structure of this specific population. The highest value of total consanguinity based on random isonymy is observed in Sanabria, which also has the lowest values of heteronymy and the highest intra-population a priori kinship. By contrast, Sayago exhibits the highest value of heteronymy and the lowest intra-population a priori kinship. The consanguinity values observed in Zamora are, in part, related to the population structure. Notwithstanding, the values of non-random consanguinity observed in some municipalities could be associated with particular mating behaviors that favor isonymic marriages. Finally, the results of analyses indicate that the levels of micro-differentiation in the province cannot be considered high; however, some degree of substructure could be deduced. It appears that the current population structure of Zamora has been determined not only by settlement history, geographic distance and geographic boundaries, but also, by land system distribution and population size.
27654196|Substantial attention has been given in recent years to forest and peatland degradation, transboundary haze, and biodiversity and economic impacts associated with major fire events in perhumid western Indonesia. Conversely, little information is available concerning underpinning conditions associated with burning practices and resultant fire patterns in other parts of the Indonesian archipelago, especially in markedly seasonally dry regions. As part of a broader study examining the patterning and drivers of burning in the monsoonal province of Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT), the paper explores cultural, socioeconomic, biophysical, and, in discussion, political dimensions associated with landscape-scale patterns of burning at each of two village locations on the islands of Sumba and Flores. Assembled data illustrate that: (1) study villages are reliant on a range of subsistence agricultural activities, particularly annual food crops, livestock (especially pigs), and forest products; (2) while villages encompass mostly extensive areas of grassland savanna, proportionately most income/products are derived from limited areas of arable agricultural and very diminished forested lands; (3) despite this, considerable economic potential exists for developing certain tree products especially in agro-forestry settings, and more intensive livestock management; (4) these patterns are representative generally of surrounding regional agricultural landscapes. While burning is used as an essential agricultural management tool in defined seasonal contexts in all study villages, the reality is that today much burning is unmanaged and uncontrolled, with attendant significant economic impacts. As for western Indonesia, underlying drivers of such behavior are multiple and complex, but pointedly include: rapid societal change; conflicts within and between villages, and between villages and regulatory authorities (especially the Forestry Department), over access to land and resources; and continued nonrecognition in national and provincial fire policy frameworks of the practical necessity for using fire (wisely and safely) in many agricultural contexts. It is axiomatic that, without effective fire management and a supportive policy environment, sustainable livelihoods development will continue to be elusive in fire-prone savanna landscapes of eastern Indonesia.
40928156|Rural migration and its relationship to the rural environment have attracted increasing research interest in recent decades. Rural migration constitutes a key component of human population movement, while rural areas contain most of the world's natural resources such as land and forests. This study empirically evaluates a conceptual framework incorporating rural household livelihoods as an integrative mediating factor between rural migration and the rural environment in the context of rural-to-urban labor migration in Chongqing Municipality, Southwest China. The analysis draws on data collected through household surveys and key informant interviews from four villages. Results confirm the hypothesis that labor-migrant and nonlabor-migrant households differ significantly in livelihood activities including agricultural production, agricultural technology use, income and consumption, and resource use and management. Implications for the subsequent environmental outcomes of rural labor out-migration and corresponding natural resource management and policy in rural origin areas are discussed.
41474649|Given the complex and multidimensional nature of human evolution, we need to develop theoretical and methodological frameworks to account for and model the dynamic feedbacks between co-operational biological and cultural evolutionary systems to better understand the processes that produced modern human behavior. Equally important is the generation of explicit theory-based models that can be tested against the empirical paleoanthropological record. We present a case study that examines evidence for culturally-driven behavioral change among Late Pleistocene hominins that altered the social niche occupied by hominins in western Eurasia, with consequences for subsequent biological and cultural evolution. We draw on a large sample of 167 Pleistocene assemblages across western Eurasia and employ mathematical and computational modeling to explore the feedbacks between cultural and biological inheritance. Shifts in land-use strategies changed the opportunities for social and biological interaction among Late Pleistocene hominins in western Eurasia with a cascade of consequences for cultural and biological evolution, including the disappearance of Neanderthals from the fossil and archaeological records, and the acceleration of cultural evolution among ancestors of modern humans.
4603291| Nongovernmental organizations are increasingly influencing resource management and land use in areas of small farm agriculture in Latin America. A field study of NGOs working in upper Caar, a region in the southern highlands of Ecuador, documents the changing human-environment relations in an indigenous area and the influence of NGOs in the change process. Case studies of PLAN International and CARE indicate that the NGOs are helping marginalized producers shift land use away from traditional grains and tubers toward dairying and vegetables. Given current needs and resource constraints, the new land uses represent effective adaptive strategies. However, the NGO work is having notable consequences for land use intensity and labor utilization patterns. 
4602999|Black-American culture has been tied to the land and agriculture for over 300 years. However, Blacks have had limited access to land ownership due to a historic relationship with a dominant White society based on discrimination. This major resource constraint prevented the full participation of the Black farmer in traditional commercial agriculture. Research conducted in the Black Belt Region of Alabama is used to examine the importance of land, particularly the multigenerational ownership of land, on current farm participation and landholdings. Strategies employed by farmers to pass this scarce resource to succeeding generations are also examined.
40928140|Based on participant-driven photo elicitation and in-depth key informant interviews conducted in an American and Norwegian rural amenity area, this article argues that newcomers, seasonal home owners and other stakeholders in rural amenity areas may fail to appreciate, or choose to ignore, the social relations tied to their property or the consequences that their seemingly innocuous decisions can have for local communities. Viewscape fetishism can cause the "magic" of commodified natural amenities to obscure more complex, holistic understandings of the land in favor of a simplified view based on individualized use or exchange value, both of which are highly influence by the sign value inherent in property situated with access to scenic viewscapes. This phenomenon can create barriers to social interaction and community building, and lead to environmental degradation in places that are rich in natural amenities and vulnerable to change.
27654158|Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA), Tanzania, contains renowned wildlife, an expanding human population, and cultivation by Maasai agro-pastoralists and non-Maasai agriculturalists. We used integrated assessments to explore some effects of cultivation on livestock, resident wildlife, and people. Using a Landsat image from 2000, we mapped 3,967 ha [9,803 acres (ac)] of cultivation within NCA, or 39.7 km2 of the 8,283 km2 conservation area. Using integrative ecosystem (Savanna) and household (PHEWS) models, we assessed effects of: up to 50,000 ac (20,234 ha) of cultivation; cultivation concentrated into two blocks totaling 10,000 ac (4,047 ha) and 20,000 ac (8,094 ha) that may be more palatable to tourists; and human population growth. Simulations with from 10,000 to 50,000 ac in cultivation showed no large changes in ungulate populations relative to there being no cultivation. When cultivation was altered to be in two blocks, some wildlife populations changed (15%) and ungulate biomass remained the same. When cultivation was increased linearly with human population, poor households needed 25% of their diets to come from relief as populations tripled, because livestock could not increase significantly. Our results indicate that having <1% of NCA in cultivation, in its current distribution, is not overly detrimental to wildlife or livestock populations, and is important to Maasai well-being.
4603035|In this paper I examine the complexity of human forces involved in tree cutting in a Ghanaian forest region. I provide evidence to link the indiscriminate tree-cutting activities of some local communities to the gradual loss of communal control over land and the replacement of kin group control with state property regimes. I point to the interrelated factors of the state's promotion of an export-led development strategy, the intensification of agricultural commercialization, and household and group variations in access to land as all having deleterious impacts on local traditions of sustainable forestry.
4602975|A survey was conducted among the pastoral Twareg of Niger on their perceptions of rainfall impacts for each year from 1947 through 1988. The herders saw drought as a prolonged process with a multi-year onset that culminated in a single year of extreme crisis and abated gradually. The identified crisis years, 1973 and 1984, corresponded with historical rainfall data that showed each of these to have been the second consecutive year of extreme drought. Single years of drought, which may have served as red-flag signals of impending crisis scenarios, were not identified by the herders. Rainfall measurements from the zone of extensive cultivation, south of the pastoral habitat, did not correlate well with key crisis years or the herders' perceptions. Neither did national-level livestock market statistics. It was concluded that rainfall was a reliable indicator for a drought early warning system for the northern Sahel, provided that the measurements were taken from an ecologically-defined pastoral habitat.
27654149|What makes the structure and dynamics of coupled natural and human systems difficult to interpret in the Mediterranean is the extreme diversity in space and time of both environments and human societies. The succession of civilizations that waxed and waned in the Mediterranean Basin over several millennia has had great impacts on biota and ecosystems everywhere in the basin. A complex 'coevolution' has been claimed to shape the interactions between ecosystem components and human societies. Two opposing schools of thought traditionally have considered the consequences of human pressures on Mediterranean ecosystems. The 'Ruined Landscape' or 'Lost Eden theory' argues that human action resulted in a cumulative degradation and desertification of Mediterranean landscapes. The second school argues that humans actually contributed to keeping Mediterranean landscapes diverse since the last glacial episode. With this debate in mind, I show the following: (1) One cannot understand the components and dynamics of current biodiversity in the Mediterranean without taking into account the history of human-induced changes; (2) The various systems of land use and resource management that provided a framework for the blossoming of Mediterranean civilizations also had profound consequences on the distribution and dynamics of species, communities, and landscapes; (3) The processes of domestication of plant and animal species, which first occurred in the eastern Mediterranean area some 10,000 years ago, contributed to the increase of certain components of biodiversity at several spatial scales. Positive and negative feedback cycles between cultural practices and natural systems at the local and regional levels have kept ecosystems robust and resilient; (4) Assuming that human action can, to a certain extent, be considered a large-scale surrogate for natural sources of ecosystem disturbance, such patterns give support to the diversity-disturbance hypothesisspecifically, intermediate levels of disturbance have promoted biological diversity; (5) Intraspecific adaptive variation increased as a result of human-induced habitat changes over millennia, resulting in bursts of differentiation during the later Holocene of local ecotypes and gene pools of domesticated and wild plant and animal species, with region-specific characters fitting them to local climate and environmental conditions. High intraspecific adaptive variation also arose from earlier natural processes of the Pleistocene, mainly from a combination of periodic refugia formation and climate dynamics. During the Holocene, the main sources of disturbance came increasingly from humans, specifically from the coupled cultural and natural modifications of community and landscape structure. It is concluded that a high degree of resilience of Mediterranean ecosystems resulted in a dynamic coexistence of human and natural living systems, which in some cases provided stability, while fostering diversity and productivity (Blondel and Aronson, 1999). The word "design" used in the title and elsewhere in this paper metaphorically indicates that the long-lasting influence of human impacts resulted in an unintentional shaping of individual components of landscapes.
41433088|Forests in Vietnam are heavily utilized resources. Some 25 million people who live in and near forests depend on timber and non-timber resources for subsistence and income. Vietnam's timber processing industries, which are in a steep growth phase, demand raw material from the nation's forests, but that demand greatly outstrips available, high quality supply. A national forest development strategy through 2020 calls for broad expansion of plantation forests coupled with third-party forest certification. One type of forest certification, involving certification of groups of smallholder farmers, is comparatively understudied. A recent effort to promote group forest certification in Vietnam yielded measurable benefits to stakeholders, including enhanced income streams to plantation smallholders. However, long-term challenges to group forest certification remain, including smallholders' ability to cover recurring costs for certification  costs that are subsidized by a bilateral donor. Vietnam's recent experience with group forest certification represents an early chapter in that nation's ambitious plans to increase forest cover, make forests more productive through plantation forestry, and improve forest management and market access through forest certification.
27654279|We used a quantitative ethnobotanical approach to analyze factors influencing the use value of plant species among men and women of the Rarmuri people in Cuiteco, Chihuahua, Mexico. We constructed a use value index (UV) combining the use frequency (U) and the quality perception (Q) of useful plant species by local people. We identified all plant species used by the Rarmuri and classified them into 14 general use categories. We interviewed 34 households in the village to compare men and women's knowledge on the five main general use categories (and on their respective subcategories and specific uses), to document how they practice gathering activities and to calculate scores of plants UV. A total of 226 useful plant species were identified, but only 12% of them had high UV scores for the 42 specific uses defined. When the overall knowledge of plant species was examined, no significant differences were detected between men and women, but significant differences were identified in general use categories such as medicinal plants, plants for construction and domestic goods, but not in plants used as food and firewood. We identified a division of labor in gathering activities associated with gender, with women mainly gathering medicinal and edible plants and being involved in preparing medicines and food, whereas men were primarily gathering and using plants for manufacturing domestic goods, firewood, and building materials. Plant species UV associated to gender were significantly different between men and women at the level of specific uses in the general category of domestic goods and building. Frequency of use is highly associated with plant species quality perception.
4603306|Since the privatization of livestock in 1992, rates of absentee ownership of livestock have increased sharply in Mongolia. Unlike other documented instances of absentee herding in pastoral societies, absentee herd ownership has few detrimental ecological or social impacts in Mongolia. Rather, the relationship between absentee herd owners and herders may be viewed as a revitalized institution, with links to customary patterns of urban-rural exchange, emerging to meet the needs of both herders and town-dwellers during the transition from a socialist planned economy to a free market economy. Absentee herding in Mongolia differs from absentee and contract herding accounts from Africa and the Middle East in its continuing emphasis on subsistence rather than speculative investment and accumulation. Other important distinctions include: (1) absentee owners and herders are usually kin or friends; (2) herders tend their own private herds in addition to absentee-owned animals; (3) few ethnic, caste, or class differences exist between herders and absentee herd owners; and (4) herders from all wealth strata tend absentee-owned animals. Policies to restrict or regulate absentee livestock ownership must be carefully considered in the Mongolian context, making clear distinctions between informal, mutually beneficial subsistence-driven arrangements among kin and friends, and more formal investment-driven contracts between businesses or investors and herders.
4603458|We examine factors regulating numbers of domestic livestock and saiga antelopes during the major periods of Kazakhstan's history. In the pre-Soviet period livestock migrations were relatively unrestricted and covered huge distances. Little winter feed or veterinary care was provided for domestic livestock and numbers were regulated largely by winter snow or ice cover. Drought affected fecundity but did not cause large-scale mortality. During the Soviet period the provision of winter feed shielded domestic livestock from winter mortality while hunting controls allowed saiga numbers to recover from over-hunting. Livestock and saiga numbers during this period were high and there is evidence that productivity was affected. However, there were no crashes in livestock numbers linked to high densities, probably because rainfall variability is relatively low and catastrophic droughts are rare. Today livestock numbers in Kazakhstan have crashed because of the withdrawal of state support and the use of animals as currency. The collapse of the state also meant the end of hunting controls and increased poverty, which has lead to widespread saiga poaching and dramatic population declines.
27654296|Cultivation of agave was common in pre-Hispanic northern Mexico and the American Southwest, and scholars generally accept that it was a strategy to ensure food supply during years of drought when the maize crop failed. Some even suggest that incorporating agave cultivation make large, nucleated settlements possible in arid northern Mexico ca. 500900 CE. Yet the environmental circumstances under which farmers could reasonably expect such a strategy to decrease the chances of agricultural failure are not well understood. We explore the potential of this crop complementarity by assessing the risk of famine-induced migration events in different idealized environmental settings. We use Monte Carlo simulation to analyze a simple discrete-time, age-structured stochastic model for maize and agave agroecology, deriving the climatological conditions under which agave could have significantly reduced the probability of short- and long-term famile events. Investments in agave production made the most sense where average annual rainfall was between the levels that would ensure maximum maize yield and those that would mean loss of the maize crop due to drought-related mortality. Cultivating agave had little impact on famine risk at high (maize yields sufficient) and low (failure of both maize and agave) rainfall levels. Perhaps more surprisingly, it had its highest impact at moderate rainfall levels when variance in rainfall was relatively low. While a higher variance in rainfall increased the number of 'good' years for maizewhere production would exceed demand and allow for storageit also increased the probability of simultaneous failures in both agave and maize production. These findings are difficult to apply to specific times and places in the past, because rainfall distribution in complex, environments change, and it is difficult to take all relevant human interventions into account. The analysis does, however, offer support for the proposition that agave cultivation could have significantly enhanced survival probabilities of large, nucleated settlements in certain circumstances. It remains for further study to identify such circumstances more precisely geographically and temporally.
4602912|Based on a systematic sample survey among the residents of Minnesota Point, a fresh-water spit/baymouth bar on the southwest shore of Lake Superior, this study tests a number of hypotheses related to the perceived causes of lake level fluctuation and shore property hazards. The study found that, despite significant differences in property setting and the nature of flood and erosion hazards between the lakeside and the bayside of the spit, the majority of the respondents perceived that their property hazards were induced primarily by the manipulation of lake levels by the International Joint Commission (IJC). Consequently, one in every two respondents would like to lower the lake level by amounts ranging from 30 cm to more than 1 m. The study points out the physical limitations of controlling water levels and recommends that greater attention should be given to shoreline management, which could proivde guidelines for protecting existing coastal structures and for developing minimum standards for future encroachment of the remaining unused sections of the shoreline.
40928138|The introduction of invasive exotic plants has many social dimensions. Although a diverse literature identifies some of the social drivers of exotic plant introduction and subsequent invasion, relatively little attention has been given to the motives of individuals involved. This research focuses on the extensive conversion of native rangeland to exotic buffelgrass (Pennisetum ciliare) pasture by ranchers in Mexico's Sonoran Desert using data gathered through systematic interviews and ordinary least squares regression modeling to demonstrate how a few social variables determine the extent of buffelgrass introductions. Results show that land allocation to pasture is determined chiefly by ranch size, with significant roles also played by rotational grazing, buffelgrass seed harvest, and exposure to government research. Results are contextualized and explored in depth, illustrating how the extent of rangeland-to-pasture conversion in this part of the Sonoran Desert is determined by direct and indirect social factors. The study also highlights implications for buffelgrass invasion.
4602250|One component of a complex system operating so as to maintain the Mae Enga people of the New Guinea highlands in equilibrium with their limited resources is the Te, an elaborate cycle of ceremonial exhanges of valuables. It may be viewed as one in a series of material or substantive systems (including cycles) of varying extent, each affecting the others in an intelligible and predictable fashion.
4603015|Studies of past famines are useful as portrayals of a society under stress and valuable as testing grounds for ideas on the causes and consequences of famine. Older historical sources may lack some of the richness and detail available to students of modern famines, but history offers hindsight and valuable opportunities to integrate famine studies with long-term views of a society and its ecology. This paper takes a different tack from many economic histories of past famines, especially those that rely heavily on economic measures of ecological sufficiency, such as the prices of wheat, labor, and land. It describes the effects of the disastrous 1783 eruption of Iceland's Lakagigar (Laki craters) on a largely subsistent population for whom relief measures were belated and few. At the time of the disaster the entire population lived in households whose main livelihood consisted of farming or fishing. Both these activities were acutely disrupted by the eruption. In this paper, the course of the famine and its effects on population will be analyzed and reviewed in the light of long-term trends in Icelandic population and food production.
4603278|The links among family characteristics, pre-marital experiences organized outside the family, and participation in choice of spouse are now well established for historical transformations in a range of social settings. Less examined are the consequences of these changes for subsequent inter-familial relationships in societies where marriage organizes kin alliances and interfamilial labor obligations. Using survey and ethnographic data gathered in Nepal, this paper examines the implications of change in work, living experiences, and the marriage process for subsequent inter-familial relationships exemplified by cross-cousin marriage and the provision of brideservice. Hypotheses are developed which consider the impact of community context on these behaviors; these are tested in logistic regression analyses for the first marriages of all 430 ever-married women in the community. Cross-cousin marriage and brideservice are shown to be related to prior familial characteristics, life-course experience, and elements of the marriage process in ways that are significantly conditioned by community history and proximity to urban centers.
4603586|A better understanding of common property resource management systems and institutions is important for conservation and development, as fortress-based approaches towards conservation are increasingly questioned. This paper examines how an indigenous resource management system has operated and supported the protection of an Afro-alpine area in the Central Highlands of Ethiopia. The community was mainly concerned to regulate their own use of natural resources, including collection of firewood and thatch, and grazing by livestock. The original common property resource management system operated under a previously undescribed indigenous institution known as the Qero system, which was enforced through sanctions and punishments imposed by the community. The Qero system was suspended following the Agrarian Reform in 1975, which resulted in the breakdown of the traditional land tenure and land rights systems within Ethiopia. In the Central Highlands, user rights and management responsibility shifted to include formerly marginalized groups. Nevertheless, the common property management system has shown sufficient resilience to withstand these changes and pressures, and is still functioning with defined user groups and byelaws to regulate resource use and manage the area. Nevertheless, attitudes to current and future management are polarized between former and present managers of the common property regime.
27654272|Contemporary rural Viliui Sakha of northeastern Siberia, Russia, are a Turkicspeaking people practicing horse and cattle breeding in the subarctic. This article details their story of survival in the north as one not only of adapting a southern subsistence to an extreme climate but also to the effects of Russian colonization, Soviet collectivization, and post-Soviet decentralization. In the post-Soviet period a majority of rural Viliu Sakha adapted to the loss of a centralized agro-industrial state farm system by developing a smallholder food production system relying on cattle husbandry supplemented with other subsistence sources including fish, game, forage, other domesticates, and garden products. In the twenty-first century, this "cows-and-kin" system represents a resilient smallholder adaptation based on reviving pre-Soviet production knowledge, recalling ecological knowledge, and relying on kin. The article concludes with a discussion of the future of cows-and-kin by exploring issues of alienated youth, accessing land and the overwhelming concern of inhabitants about the local effects of global climate change.
40602999|The rapidly growing world population and rising consumption of biofuels intensify demands for both food and biofuels. This exaggerates food and fuel shortages. The use of food crops such as corn grain to produce ethanol raises major nutritional and ethical concerns. Nearly 60% of humans in the world are currently malnourished, so the need for grains and other basic foods is critical. Growing crops for fuel squanders land, water and energy resources vital for the production of food for human consumption. Using corn for ethanol increases the price of US beef, chicken, pork, eggs, breads, cereals, and milk more than 10% to 30%. In addition, Jacques Diouf, Director General of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, reports that using food grains to produce biofuels is already causing food shortages for the poor of the world. Growing crops for biofuel not only ignores the need to reduce fossil energy and land use, but exacerbates the problem of malnourishment worldwide.
4602783|The "Boserup hypothesis" contends that land-intensive systems of agriculture will be adopted only when high population density precludes the use of land-extensive methods. In the Kerayan District of East Kalimantan (Indonesia) the Lun Dayeh practice permanent-field rice cultivation despite very low human densities. An examination of the relative labor efficiencies of shifting and permanent-field agriculture in the Kerayan, as well as of local environmental and historical variables, explains why this "anomalous" situation exists. It is argued that since relative success in production of rice by shifting- and permanent-field irrigated methods depends on many natural and social conditions other than levels of population density, the "environment-free" Boserup hypothesis cannot adequately explain or predict the occurrence of particular forms of rice agriculture.
4602805|A decade ago in a seminal monograph, Anne Kirkby proposed a model of colonization for the prehispanic Valley of Oaxaca, Mexico, in which settlement location was determined by the distribution of prime agricultural land. The model was tested against the corpus of known prehispanic settlements and tentative support was found. In the years since this study, a systematic archeological settlement pattern project was completed, making a more adequate test of the model possible. Reexamination of the colonization process suggests that, although agricultural considerations were important, they were less determinant of settlement location than had been implied previously. The adoption of a broader perspective toward regional colonization is suggested.
4602333|The adaptive strategy of a population of New Guinea highland subsistence farmers is considered in the light of events surrounding a series of severe frosts experienced in 1972. Coping with frost is seen to be a critical preoccupation for all Enga, and agricultural mounding a universal response, adequate to deal with the mild frosts of Central Enga country below 2250 m but insufficient above. There, among the Fringe Enga, a sequence of responses at three different levels may be identified. These may be called the local, intraregional, and extraregional levels because of their progressively wider geographical spread in agricultural activity and attendant increased population mobility. A correspondence is indicated between response level and frost intensity. This response, while effective, is being modified through cropping innovations and disrupted by a colonial situation. Further, at higher levels, it is incompatible with the prescribed course of political and economic development.
4602790|Comparison of two nomadic peoples, one postoral, the other food-collecting, reveals that rapid bicultural oscillation of both is an adaptation to their multizoned environments. One may speak of their being flexible in the face of temporally variable environmental hazards and opportunities. For each people, the more nomadic of their two cultures is associated with norms of propriety, the more sedentary one entails what Freilich calls "smart norms." It is argued that this complementation gives both cultures continuing appeal, thereby facilitating rapid change. A major difference between decision-making mechanisms in the two cases underscores that we treat a system type in a very abstract sense. Other, possibly similar cases are noted from ethnographic literature. A formal theory is put forward concerning the tendency of people under certain conditions to develop oscillating biculturalism. Such rapidly oscillating systems are proposed to have a biological analogue in versatile acclimatizers.
4602274| Freshwater bodies include a small fraction of the earth's surface (0.5%) and the biosphere's production. Freshwater productivity is difficult to estimate because of both problems of measurement and the great diversity of water bodies. A total production of 1.3  10
24015698|This article addresses strategies of secrecy and deception in hunters' and fishers' appropriation of land-and seascape-based resources in northern Norway. We argue that in their management of relevant environmental knowledge and information, hunters and fishers often seek to avoid competitors and free riders by hiding their trails, and are particularly careful about who they share their knowledge with. Strategies of secrecy are also integral to individual hunter's and fisher's social reputation. Reputation is achieved not only by successful trips and sharing of spoils, but also through role enactments that become the subject of evaluating commentaries and information exchange guided by socially sanctioned rules of appropriate deference. In some important ways structural and economic changes in the social environment also change the generic properties of the practices investigated, while secrecy as practice shows a strong cultural continuity in spite of such changes.
40603028|Recent studies in West Africa and other parts of the world suggest that globalization and modernization make extended forms of domestic organization untenable in the face of modern economic and ecological circumstances. Unlike the large and extended domestic groups of pre-industrial and precolonial periods, households today tend to be small and nuclear. Thirty years ago, a series of case studies conducted on the Central Plateau of Burkina Faso documented this nucleation process among Mossi rural communities and predicted the decline and demise of Mossi extended households. This article tests the degree to which these predictions were correct based on ethnographic fieldwork in three villages in 2004. The results indicate that extended households indeed persist. Their persistence is explained by analyzing the roles of environmental and social change on the twin processes of household extension and fragmentation. Regional desiccation, off-farm income-generating opportunities, and agricultural intensification have created conditions that equally promote both household extension and fragmentation.
23353262|A widespread concern among ethnobiologists is the rapid process of erosion of indigenous environmental knowledge observed worldwide. This paper examines the ongoing transformations of knowledge about natural remedies in the Quechua-speaking Andes. Freelisting exercises and interviews were conducted with 36 households at Bolivian and Peruvian study sites. (Generalized) linear mixed-effects models were used to analyze the effects of age on knowledge about medicinal plants, animals, minerals, and their uses. Our study demonstrates that younger participants knew as much about natural remedies as their elders. However, proportional knowledge about some medicinal use categories of natural remedies varied with age. We conclude that knowledge about natural remedies is generally not being lost at the study sites. Nevertheless, it is undergoing transformations in terms of specific medicinal uses. A careful understanding of these complex transformation processes is needed to better orient initiatives for the conservation of biocultural diversity in the Andes and elsewhere.
27654227|Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) are promoted as an important marine ecosystem management tool. However, they are complex systems that, from a governance perspective, raise serious challenges with regard to their effectiveness. In this paper, drawing on recent contributions to the so-called "interactive governance theory," we argue that marine and coastal governance is basically a relationship between two systems, a "governing system" and a "system-to-be-governed." The former system is social: it is made up of institutions and steering mechanisms. The latter system is partly natural, partly social: it consists of an ecosystem, and the resources that this harbours, as well as a system of users and stakeholders who, among themselves, form political coalitions and institutions. We need to be concerned with the relationship and the interaction between the governing system and the system-to-be governed, which forms a system in its own right. Governance theory argues that both systems and their interactions share similar attributesthey are diverse, complex, dynamic and vulnerable. This raises serious concerns as to their governability. There may be limits to what the governing system can do, limits attributed to one or all three systems. But such limits are themselves issues and concerns for planning and institutional design. In this paper we present, in the form of a governance matrix, the relevant issues and concerns with regard to the governability of MPAs.
4602867|In 1967-1970, 3.81 km
24015745|Scholars have often puzzled over why ancient socioecological systems (SES) have collapsed or survived overtime. This paper examines the case of the 2,000-year old Ifugao SES in the northern Philippines and the contemporary challenges they now face. Five observations can be drawn. First, the Ifugao case does not fit some of the conventional theoretical explanations for the collapse or survival of SES. Second, the Ifugao's primogeniture system of property rights along with the their customary laws and practices have played important roles in maintaining the robustness of their SES through their effects on ecological integrity. Third, the Ifugao SES today is faced with contemporary challenges with varying effects on its robustness: integration into a post-colonial social order, the effects of tourism and agricultural development, migration, urbanization and the introduction of Christianity and mass education. Fourth, despite these changes, it is not a certainty that the Ifugao will shift to a new domain of attraction that cannot support a human population, or that will induce a transition that causes long-term human suffering. Finally, the Ifugao case study adds to our understanding of robust SES.
4602423|A 17-year period during which interaction occurred between the Chumash and Spanish colonizers is the focus of the study. Significant variation in subsistence and interactive patterns during this period is identified. The baptismal rite that marked the transition from native villager to mission Indian is interpreted in relation to the environmental and subsistence realities faced by both the Chumash and Spanish.
4603471|This article examines the process by which remotely sensed land cover maps work to both simplify and complicate landscapes. The central argument is not merely that the construction of land cover maps is complex, but that the points of complexity often arise through the process of trying to simplify. In other words, the forces of complexity are intimately connected to the forces of simplicity and vice versa. This article takes as a case study the production of WISCLAND, (Wisconsin Initiative for Statewide Cooperation on Landscape Analysis and Data), a statewide land cover map of Wisconsin derived from remote sensing data and GIS (Geographic Information Systems) technologies and proceeds by analysis of mapping methodology, practice, and representation. In addition to the development of a more nuanced critique of the use of land cover maps, it facilitates the possibility for a constructive dialogue between remote sensing practitioners and the critical GIS community.
4602305|When a community authorizes the development of a controversial project which may produce adverse ecological effects, the decision may be made on the basis of a differing geographical distribution of costs and benefits. Local benefits may exceed local costs while overall costs exceed overall benefits. This paper attempts, through a mathematical theoretical exposition, to show that this situation provides a rational incentive for hypocritical public behavior. Possible solutions are considered. One set of solutions implies return to laissez-faire type capitalims and the maintenance of a taut, spatial economic system which is sensitive to shock. Another set of solutions implies the development of a socialist economy. Mixed solutions are presented as unstable and tending to environmental deterioration. The mirror-image problem -- of concentrated costs and diffused benefits in the United States, and the State of New Jersey specifically -- is also considered, leading to similar conclusions.
4603327|This article examines continuity and change in farming and herder communities' strategies for coping with food deficits in S. E. Kajiado District, Kenya, through a comparison of coping strategies reported in surveys conducted in 1977 and 1996. It provides empirical evidence of the dynamic responses that one rural society prone to recurrent drought-related food insecurity has made to the complex interactions between exogenous and local political, economic, social and demographic, and environmental processes. It demonstrates that although driving forces emanating from national and international scales create the broad context for developmental change, local processes mediate these. As these alter, so do the options available for coping with food insecurity. The availability of these options differs according to a person's age, gender, and socio-economic status. Such dynamism and differentiation is inherent in rural development and should inform development planners and those seeking to include monitoring of coping strategies as a component of famine early-warning systems.
27654311|It is known that the relationship between humans and their animals is important for understanding many aspects of nomadic pastoralist systems, including nomadic movement. However, to date, these complex humananimal relations have not been analyzed in a way that has led to an explanatory model of nomadic movement capable of producing testable hypotheses. Based on ethnographic material collected amongst Komi and Nenets nomadic reindeer herders of the Russian Arctic, we argue that nomadic movements can be best understood as a product of the interplay that exists between animal behaviour and the herders' skilful actions to (a) maintain herd cohesion and (b) avoid hazards, whilst deploying the minimum amount of resources (i.e., human/animal effort and use of equipment) on rounding up the herd, stopping and turning it. Ecological factors affect movement through their influence on animal behaviour, whereas non-ecological factors do so by influencing the herders' skilful actions. We demonstrate that, based on these assumptions, it is possible to build a testable model explaining the movement of some nomadic groups.
41474581|This article takes issue with Stephen Lansing's bottom-up model of Balinese irrigation management. Based on archival research and extensive fieldwork in the former south Balinese kingdom of Mengwi, it is argued that in precolonial days large scale irrigation depended largely on dynastic involvement. During the colonial period (1906-1942) the Dutch took over the role of regional irrigation management while they strengthened the autonomy of local irrigation associations.
41433094|Historical domestic livestock grazing in sensitive landscapes has commonly been regarded as a major cause of land degradation in Iceland. Shieling areas, where milking livestock were taken to pasture for the summer, represented one element of grazing management and in this paper we consider the extent to which historical shieling-based grazing pressure contributed to land degradation. Based on a grazing model to assess pressures and tephrochronology-based soil accumulation rates allied to micromorphology as a proxy for land degradation, our findings suggest that the shieling system contributed to the maintenance of upland vegetation cover and related productivity levels without causing land degradation from settlement through to ca. AD 1300. As land degradation accelerated from ca. AD 1477 it is likely that shieling management continued to operate effectively contributing to the overall resilience of livestock farming.
4603382|Throughout the world it is unusual to find irrigation systems that work well, distributing water efficiently and with minimal conflict, especially in situations where the resource is scarce. This paper describes one such system in the Peruvian Andes, a peasant village where irrigation and water management are handled in an unusual way. It analyzes the village principles of social organization, showing that these create a situation of equity and transparency which provides people with a strong incentive to obey the rules and conserve water. By doing so, they are directly maximizing the frequency of irrigation, a benefit that is the same for everyone using a given source of water. The system is argued to be a highly effective and sustainable way of dealing with a scarce and fluctuating resource.
4603384|The current literature on common-pool resources suggests that appropriators'autonomy in determining access and harvesting rules is a pre-condition for successful local self-governance. Yet few studies have been done to examine how local communities that are faced with outside intrusion can regain such autonomy. This paper examines this issue by studying how two mountain tribal villages in Taiwan have attempted to rebuild their indigenous rules governing the use of their local stream fisheries. One village, Shan-Mei, has been more successful than the other village, Li-Chia, in restoring self-governance in fishery conservation. Shan-Mei's relative success is explained by its villagers' willingness and ability to develop mutually beneficial relationships with external stakeholders and to attain a negotiated autonomy from the larger society.
4602898|Taungya is a system of forest management in which land is cleared and planted initially to food crops. Seedlings of desirable tree species are then planted on the same plot, leading in time to a harvestable stand of timber. Taungya is believed to have been developed by the British in Burma during the nineteenth century. Historical research indicates that successional systems of forest management which follow the pattern of taungya have been used for at least three centuries by ethnic minorities in and by the Han population. The resilience of these systems is associated with economic and social factors which have made the cultivation of trees an adaptive strategy of land use for the inhabitants of the highlands of southern China.
4602921|Transhumant herding of cow-yak hybrids is a specialization of Helambu Sherpa villagers living at altitudes between 7,000-11,000 feet on the southern slopes of the Himalayas. Hybrids are ideally suited for the climate at this altitude, producing large quantities of rich milk for butter production. Focused on a village in east-central Nepal, this paper documents a shift by some families between 1971-1989 from the longstanding pattern of herding hybrids to an alternative pattern of producing them. This involves learning to manage yak, establishing new transhumance routes, a switch from dairying to livestock production, and a variety of economic, environmental, and social repercussions. The two types of herding systems are described, and possible causes for the shift are discussed within the context of the economic options available to people in this environment. A special emphasis is placed on the flexibility of options that is both necessary and possible with transhumant agropastoralism as practiced by middle and high-altitude Himalayan peoples.
40343975|This paper explores the major interactions between the transformation of swidden farming and the pursuit of rural livelihoods in the uplands of Southeast Asia. The paper draws on selected literature, workshop reflections, and six case studies to describe the causal processes and livelihood consequences of swidden change. Householdlevel livelihood responses have included both the intensification and 'dis-intensification' of swidden land-use, the insertion of cash crops, the redeployment of household labour, and the taking on of broader (often non-rural) livelihood aspirations and strategies. At the community level there have been emerging institutional arrangements for management of land and forests, and varying degrees of participation in or resistance to government schemes and programs. Swidden change has led to the loss and also the reassertion, realignment, and redefinition of cultures and identities, with important implications for access to resources. The impacts of these changes have been varied. Cash crops have often improved livelihoods but complete specialisation for the market increases vulnerability. Thus swidden can still provide an important safety net in the face of market fluctuations. Improved access to markets and social provision of education and health care have mostly improved the welfare of previously isolated groups. However, growing differences within and between communities in the course of swidden transformations can leave some groups marginalized and worse off. These processes of differentiation can be accentuated by heavy-handed state interventions based on swidden stereotypes. Nevertheless, communities have not passively accepted these pressures and have mobilized to protect their livelihood assets and strategies. Thus swidden farmers are not resisting appropriate and supportive forms of development. They are adopting new practices and engaging with markets, but in many situations swidden is still important to their livelihood strategies, providing resilience in the face of turbulent change. Active involvement of local people is essential in planning, implementing, monitoring and evaluating development and conservation programs in swidden lands. Positive market incentives and supportive government policies are better than standardised, top-down directives.
27654139|Questions centered on the development of local and traditional ecological knowledge and the relationship of that knowledge to the development of conservation and management practices have recently attracted critical attention. We examine these questions with respect to the dynamic commercial fisheries of the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. The knowledge of fish harvesters coevolves with fishing practices and is embedded in a dynamic socioecological network that extends into and beyond the fisher, fishery households, and communities to include management, technologies, markets, and marine ecological conditions. Changes in these networks have moved knowledge and practices related to fishing in directions defined by policy, science, economic rationality, and new ecological realities. We characterize this movement as a shift along a continuum from local ecological knowledge (LEK) towards globalized harvesting knowledge (GHK) as harvesters become increasingly disconnected from socioecological relationships associated with traditional species and stocks. We conclude with a discussion of how LEK/GHK have interacted over time and space with other knowledge systems (particularly science) to influence management, and suggest that contingent, empirical evaluations of these interactions will provide a fruitful avenue for future interdisciplinary research.
25652764|This paper investigates social-environmental factors contributing to differential ethnobotanical expertise among children in Rarmuri (Tarahumara) communities in Chihuahua, Mexico, to explore processes of indigenous ecological education and epistemologies of research. One hundred and four children from two schools (one with a Rramuri knowledge curriculum and one without) were interviewed about their knowledge of 40 useful plants. Overall, children showed less ethnobotanical expertise than expected and a great deal of variability by age, though most shared knowledge of a core set of culturally and ecologically salient plants. No significant difference was found between girls' and boys' knowledge. The overall use-knowledge scores were almost twice as high as naming scores (mean of 40% vs. 24.4%). This supports the conclusion that use-context is more culturally relevant, salient or easier for children to remember than names. The socialenvironmental factors significant in predicting levels of plant knowledge among children were whether a child attended a Rarmuri or Spanish-instruction school, and, to a lesser extent, age. However, these effects were not strong, and individual variability in expertise is best interpreted using ethnographic knowledge of each child's family and personal history, leading to a model of ethnobotanical education that foregrounds experiential learning and personal and family interest in useful plants. Though overall plant knowledge may be lower among children today compared to previous generations, a community knowledge structure seems to be reproduced in which a few individuals in each age cohort show great proficiency, and children make the same kinds of mistakes and share specialized names for plants.
4603239|Human ecology research in the high-altitude region of Ladakh (northern India) has tended to focus on the adaptive significance of Ladakhi social institutions given a natural environment characterized by numerous challenges. This research appears to lead to the conclusion that traditionally-living Ladakhis are in a state of well-being and harmonious balance with their environment, as social institutions such as polyandry constrain fertility to keep the population size in check relative to constrained resources. There has been little research on biological adaptation in Ladakh, and the view from biology presents a very different picture of the relationship between Ladakhis and their environment. Data presented here show that the health of reproductive women and infants is compromised by both natural and social factors. Since reproductive health is crucial to the production of future generations, it is argued that mortality plays a major role in constraining population growth in Ladakh, and may be due to the limited biological history that Ladakhis have in this high-altitude region. This may also help us understand Ladakhi patterns in relation to those observed in the Andes.
4602868|Incorporation into wider social and economic systems has brought a variety of changes to the hunting-gathering lifestyle of the Batak of the Philippines. Compared to 100 years ago, Batak hunting-gathering camps today are more limited in duration and smaller in size, hunting-gathering itself is more seasonal in importance, and there are significant differences in technology, resource utilization, the organization of labor, and length of workday. These changes are related to the growing importance of other economic activities and to the nature of Batak market articulation with lowland Filipino society.
4603591|In the context of the North Atlantic arena, the histories and landscape evolution of the Faroe Islands are comparatively less known. The position of the archipelago astride cyclonic tracks and the predominantly rugged terrain with meagre woodland and limited high quality agricultural land, conspired to produce an environment which might be thought to have severely challenged early colonizers. Those settlers, whether Norse/Vikings, or earlier Irish monks, had access to the vital resources of bird cliffs, rivers, and the sea to supplement the produce of their domestic animals and crops. The lack of apparent crises is a function both of the richness of the resources provided by the Faroe Islands, and of the development of appropriate land management practices such as outfield grazing and soil augmentation to counteract any detrimental effects arising from, for instance, reductions in the bird population, soil and slope erosion, the lack of naturally fertile soils, and any climatic downturn. From the research contained within this volume, it seems likely that there have always been sufficient resources available for an enterprising human population and that the Faroes did not exceed their carrying capacity during the Norse period.
4603446|Shifting cultivation is identified as a major cause of tropical deforestation. Sources that recount such impacts routinely employ an Eden-lost narrative structure that represents shifting cultivators as having their relatively harmonious human-environment relationships disrupted by various forces. While such disruptions lead to land degradation, official development institutions via research into alternatives to such agriculture offer redemption, or the return to relative ecological harmony. This Edenic narrative vehicle allows shifting cultivators to be represented as "primitives" in need of modernization, yet it also more commonly allows a sympathetic representation as holders of valuable, albeit threatened, indigenous knowledge that can be applied to the development of solutions. However, embedded within both hostile and sympathetic accounts from both scientific and policy sources are cultural images that persist as a legacy of colonialist assumptions of social evolution and cultural hierarchy.
25652743|This study documents natural resource use in a forest-adjacent western Ugandan village, and explains how what superficially appears to be a sustainable scenario is in fact quite unstable. Kibwona village is adjacent to Kasokwa Forest, comprised of a small Central Reserve owned by the National Forest Authority (NFA) and several contiguous community forests. Firewood and water collection is legal. However, empirical observations of women's daily activity budgets and details of resource acquisition show on average, women spent less than 5% of the time collecting natural resources. This is true for resources both in and out of the forest. This may be simply because firewood within household compounds, gardens and woodlandbush areas is abundant, accessible, and closer than the (also close) forest. However, two additional reasons for this behavior may, in fact, hinder long-term sustainability: (1) Many locals also plant eucalyptus trees for firewood, poles, and timber, which, although it is fast growing and makes good firewood, is water-draining and hard on the soils and thus a high cost to subsistence farmers. (2) Fears of harassment by NFA officials when collecting firewood inhibit local people from even entering the forest. Decentralized, collaborative forest management will not happen under oppressive and fear-based relationships, nor can a sustainable firewood supply be based on eucalyptus.
24017347|Indigenous communities commonly face a major impediment in their ongoing efforts to participate effectively in the stewardship and sustainable management of their traditional lands, waters and resources. Externally driven projects and policies can overwhelm communities' abilities to respond, severely impact in their resource base, and significantly eclipse traditional knowledge, practices and values. Such projects and policies can be devastating to small, Indigenous communities struggling to maintain their culture and economic independence in a changing world. While many examples of external impacts on small-scale resource use could be drawn upon for these communities, we illustrate this situation by examining the impact of fisheries management regimes on Indigenous coastal communities in British Columbia, Canada and Aotearoa New Zealand. We characterize the problem and identify key stressors involved. Within the context of Indigenous rights and Indigenous peoples' knowledge, perspectives and experience, we highlight the need to recognize this type of constraint on Indigenous Peoples' resource use and effective participation in resource management.
4603370|The ways that people experience, respond to and pattern recovery from major climatic aberrations must be understood within the context of existing socioeconomic arrangements and the ethos that informs these. This paper describes immediate and longer term impacts of a major drought on two populations--Bedamuni and Kubo-Konai--in the interior lowlands of Papua New Guinea. Though they occupy similar environments, are culturally related and reliant on similar technology and resources, these two populations differ in density, intensity of land use, and social complexity. The drought of 1997 affected one of the populations much more severely than the other. A comparison of effects on subsistence regimes, mobility and social life in the two areas suggests that these were mediated by understandings people held of relationships with both the environment and other people. Bedamuni pattern their lives around an expectation of favorable returns on effort, emphasising security of tenure to protect those returns. Kubo-Konai, in contrast, pattern their lives around an expectation that availability of resources will be often in flux, and emphasise means of ensuring security of supply. These understandings are reflected, respectively, in risk-prone and risk-averse strategies of subsistence and sociality which directly influence vulnerability and responses to disruptive events.
4602919|Knowledge of human adaptation in the Himalayas has developed more slowly than that for other world mountain systems. At the same time, the opening of the region to research has focused attention toward description in a "natural history" mode until quite recently. Where these studies have addressed issues of adaptation they have tended to do so more as a heuristic tool rather than in terms of contributing to the development of adaptive perspectives from a uniquely Himalayan vantage point. The contributions to this special issue suggest some of Himalayan cultural ecology's new themes as it more directly assumes a truly processual approach that incorporates the individual and domestic dimensions of adaptation within historical and social contexts.
4602438|A review is presented of issues relevant to the definition, measurement, and classification of stimuli, situations, and environments. Problems such as the lack of adequate definitions of concepts, error and bias in measurement procedures, confusion between measurement of a concept and measurement of its behavioral effects, and the lack of agreement among alternative measures are emphasized. It is suggested that concepts be defined in terms of objective characteristics while allowing for the study of the transactional relationship between organism and environment. The work of the ethologists in defining stimuli while studying their relationship to different organismic states and situational contexts is emphasized in this regard. Following Brunswik, it is also suggested that wherever possible there be a representative sampling of variables in natural settings.
41474666|It is well known that ethnobotanical knowledge can vary significantly among societies. However, it often remains difficult to fully capture the factors underlying differences in perceptions of usefulness. A quantitative ethnobotanical study was conducted in Indigenous Territory and National Park Isiboro-Scure (TIPNIS), Bolivia, to compare the plant use knowledge and management of the Yuracars and Trinitarios, two indigenous groups that share the same living environment. Results show that the Trinitarios have higher knowledge of plants from anthropogenic environments and maintain a significantly larger pharmacopoeia than the Yuracars. By contrast, the Yuracars are more knowledgeable of wild flora and particularly excel in their knowledge of wild food plants. I relate these differences to: (1) cultural heritage, customs and practices; (2) ethnomedicinal system; (3) (historical) mode of subsistence; (4) provenance; (5) history of contact with Western society; and (6) modernization and social position. I argue that although contemporary Yuracars are semi-sedentary, their plant use knowledge and management reflect their previous semi-nomadic foraging lifestyle. Similarly, Trinitarios' current plant use knowledge and management reflects their legacy of having developed one of the most advanced pre-Colombian agricultural societies in the tree savannahs of Moxos.
40928143|The socioeconomic and environmental features of local places (community context) influence the relationship between humans and their physical environment. In times of environmental disturbance, this community context is expected to influence human perceptual and behavioral responses. Residents from nine Colorado communities experiencing a large outbreak of mountain pine beetles (Dendroctonus ponderosae) were surveyed in 2007. Multiple analytic methods including ordinary least squares regression and multilevel modeling techniques were used to evaluate a community-context conceptual model of factors influencing individual actions in response to forest disturbance by beetles. Results indicated that community biophysical and socioeconomic characteristics had important impacts on participation in beetle-related actions and influenced the relationships of individual-level variables in the conceptual model with beetle-related activities. Our findings have implications for natural resource management and policy related to forest disturbances, and for developing a methodology appropriate to measure the general community context of human-environment interactions.
4602707|Matses women of the Peruvian Amazon rain forest hunt with men, and couples bring back more meat than men alone. This results from the association of women with capture of collared peccary, a large catch. Typical Amazonian beliefs about women persist, but some new features (like day care) are pertinent to Matses hunting adaptation.
41474627|Previously it has been found that an important risk buffering strategy in the Saami reindeer husbandry in Norway is the accumulation of large herds of reindeer as this increases long-term household viability. Nevertheless, few studies have investigated how official policies, such as economic compensation for livestock losses, can influence pastoral strategies. This study investigated the effect of received predation compensation on individual husbandry units' future herd size. The main finding in this study is that predation compensation had a positive effect on husbandry units' future herd size. The effect of predation compensation, however, was nonlinear in some years, indicating that predation compensation had a positive effect on future herd size only up to a certain threshold whereby adding additional predation compensation had little effect on future herd size. More importantly, the effect of predation compensation was positive after controlling for reindeer density, indicating that for a given reindeer density husbandry units receiving more predation compensation performed better (measured as the size of future herds) compared to husbandry units receiving less compensation.
40343978|The effects of swidden cultivation on carbon storage and soil quality are outlined and compared to the effects of the intensified production systems that swidden systems of Southeast Asia transform into. Time-averaged aboveground carbon stocks decline by about 90% if the long fallow periods of traditional swidden cultivation are reduced to 4 years and by about 60% if swidden cultivation is converted to oil palm plantations. Stocks of soil organic carbon (SOC) in tree plantations are 0-40% lower than stocks in swidden cultivation, with the largest losses found in mechanically established oil palm plantations. Impacts of tree plantations on soil quality are to a large extent determined by management. Conversion of swiddening to continuous annual cropping systems brings about substantial losses of time-averaged aboveground carbon stocks, reductions of SOC stocks and generally leads to declining soil quality. Knowledge of carbon storage in belowground biomass of tree based systems of the tropics is sparse but failure to include this pool in carbon inventories may significantly underestimate the total biomass of the systems. Moreover, studies that consider the ecological reasons behind farmers' land use decisions as well as spatial variability in biogeophysical and edaphological parameters are needed to evaluate the effects of the ongoing land use transitions in Southeast Asia.
4603512| Since the 1970s the Brazilian Amazon has received over 1 million migrant farm households from other regions of the country, many of whom were attracted to government-sponsored frontier settlement programs that offered free tropical forest land. As a result, pressures on tropical forests have intensified along several settlement corridors throughout the region. Despite their importance as agents of landscape change, surprisingly little is known about the land use practices of these farmers. This paper briefly reviews the research literature on smallholder land use patterns in Amazonia, describes the recent history of one important agricultural land settlement program in the western Brazilian Amazon state of Rondnia, and, based on 240 household surveys conducted in three separate settlement locations in the state, highlights key differences in land use patterns among the rural population. Typologies of farming systems are presented on the basis of cluster analysis of land use data and ANOVA tests. The findings indicate considerable complexity and heterogeneity in smallholder farming systems. Spatial variations in farming system types may be due to geographic differences in soil regimes, the social histories of specific communities, and site-specific responses to exogenous variables. 
4602900|Over the past decade international organizations and developing countries have been trying to promote agricultural diversification among smallholders under the assumption that smallholders are too dependent upon a narrow range of crops. The International Coffee Organization and the Government of Indonesia have promoted agricultural diversification among coffee farmers to curb production and, thereby, increase prices. In South Sumatra, Indonesia, coffee smallholders diversify on their own initiative and depend upon numerous resource systems. They diversify out of coffee and even agriculture because other investments yield attractive returns and because further diversification within agriculture is often limited by agronomic and financial constraints.
24013717|Discussions of maize agriculture in Mexico often treat "maize" as a uniform commodity, sold in a relatively homogeneous market, and for which there is a single, "economically rational" production strategy. Based on qualitative research on maize value chains, we suggest that this unitary notion entails significant oversimplifications. We offer a heuristic model of farm-size related "profitability crossover," based on observations of highland maize varieties' roles within a series of farm-cycle opportunities and constraints. We suggest that while improved maize varieties may be profitable for large-scale farms taking advantage of economies of scale, landrace cultivation may offer advantages to small- to medium-scale farmers, who utilize a diverse range of input strategies, and sell their products in specialty markets. Understanding maize agriculture as a multi-product and multi-market pursuit rather than uniform commodity production would add greater depth to policy and academic debates.
4602401|Hydrologic alteration of major rivers has the potential for environmental damage on an international scale. Soviet regulation of the Volga River is a case in point. Iran, bordering on the Caspian Sea to which the Volga is tributary, has been harmed by changes in the sea's physical and biological character which are partially attributable to Soviet modification of the Volga's natural flow regime. Soviet plans for southward diversion of flow from the European Arctic and Siberia, partially intended to alleviate the Caspian problem, could pose an even more serious international hazard. Possible adverse consequences range from further imperiling the survival of the Atlantic salmon to hemispheric, perhaps even global, climatic changes. The already apparent consequences of Volga development and possible future ramifications of related diversion measures emphasize the need for caution as well as international cooperation and consultation in planning the alteration of major river basins.
27654114|During the past decade the relationship between biodiversity and human diversity has received increased attention, resulting in the identification of what the Declaration of Belm calls an 'inextricable link' between biological and cultural diversity. Although the term biocultural diversity, introduced to denote this link, is being used increasingly, there has been little critical reflection on what it precisely refers to. I argue that it is used with particular reference to 'indigenous traditional' people, but that there is scope for extending its application within biocultural discourse. I therefore review the concept of culture and discuss what constitutes cultural values of the natural environment. I conclude that the concept of culture must be understood as involving a dynamic process of transcultural exchange and constant re-articulations of tradition resulting in the persistence of certain cultural practices. This approach ultimately reveals that the concept of biocultural diversity is also applicable to non-indigenous traditional communities.
23353256|Local communities in central Brazil harvest buriti palm (Mauritia flexuosa) fruit from swamp forests as well as using them for agriculture and cattle and pig farming. This study describes the intensity of forest use by buriti fruit harvesters and identifies how their socioeconomic conditions influence resource use. We visited 75 swamp forests where buriti fruits are harvested and interviewed the head of the nearest household. Agriculture was practiced in 72 % of forests and cattle farming in 52 %. For almost half (48 %) of households agriculture and buriti fruit harvest were the main sources income. Forests resources were equally important to all socioeconomic classes, even richer farmers. The intensity of fruit harvest did not differ between collective and private use regimes of forests. Market access was a limitation to fruit harvest intensity. The high intensity of swamp forest use suggests that their conservation will require change to current management practices.
4603227|We assembled information on the contribution and value of forests to world food security. An assessment was made of the role of forests and non-timber products in the food system of developing countries. We estimated that upwards of 300 million people annually earn part or all of their livelihood and food from forests. A total of about $90 billion in non-timber products are harvested each year. Forests also help to protect land, water, and biological resources, and they play an important role in maintaining the productivity of agricultural and environmental systems.
4603293|Archaeologists, geographers, and economists recognize a vital linkage between transport conditions and urban development. Archaeologists attribute aspects of the Mesoamerican urban tradition to the limiting effects of inefficient transport. The relationship between transport and population growth is evaluated here. A large sample of preindustrial European cities with known populations is categorized according to the navigability of their waterways, and their growth is monitored over three centuries. Median population sizes were consistently lower among landlocked cities than among seaports and cities on rivers. Effects of population stasis was more pronounced among landlocked cities. Capital cities appeared able to stretch population limits in each category, but not to elude them. The applicability of the model to prehistoric urban development is discussed, as are potential problems that would be encountered.
4603300|The paper first examines established theories on the population-environmental nexus. Farmers' options in responding to declining soil fertility or shortage of land vary from village to village and even household to household. Responses are conditioned by social relations with neighboring villages and the labor availability of individual households. The example from the Boulgou Province in Burkina Faso shows that some farmers have been able to expand their acreage in other villages' territories on a virtually permanent basis, thereby compensating for increased population pressure and for land degradation. Currently, labor availability, social relations, and distance to the land seem to be the main constraints on land expansion. However, the pattern of land use changes is expected to be increasingly influenced by the existence of more formally established rights than at present. In the light of the empirical findings, the relevance of the "Gestion des Terroir Villagois" concept as a tool for planning for sustainable natural resource management at the village level is discussed. This approach seems imperfectly suited to address a reality in which social and physical environments are superimposed in a spatially complex way.
4602456|The present research is based on a typology of crowding experiences incorporating two main dimensions: neutral-personal thwartings and primary-secondary environments. The thwarting dimension concerns the degree to which crowding experiences are associated with spatial inconveniences, alone, or with spatial as well as social constraints. The environmental dimension relates to the type of setting in which crowding experiences occur. A major assumption of this typology is that crowding experiences involving social conflict will be more intense and disruptive to the individual than those in which interpersonal conflict is minimal. The reported study examined the relationship between college students' evaluations of the physical amenity, social climate, and crowdedness of their residential environments, on the one hand, and their sensitivity to crowding in a classroom situation, their academic performance, and the frequency of their visits to the campus health center, on the other. Results indicated that perceived residential crowding and negative perceptions of residential social climate were strongly associated with increased sensitivity to crowding in a classroom situation, impaired course performance, and visits to the student health center. The implications of these correlational findings for future field-experimental research are discussed.
4603455|This study examined adaptive strategies of Huli-speaking migrants from the Tari Basin in the Southern Highlands Province to Port Moresby, the capital of Papua New Guinea. An interview survey of all migrant dwellers in two Huli communities, and time allocation and food consumption studies in their three primary settlements revealed that the subject households relied for their livelihood on a variety of activities in the informal sector (e.g., vending, small-scale retailing, moneylending, and chicken rearing) and jobs in the formal sector (e.g., driver, public servant, security guard, and storekeeper). Unexpectedly, the average income of households that exclusively depended on informal sector jobs was equivalent to, or higher than, that of households which included an employee in the formal sector. In addition, the average working hours were shorter in the former. Large interhousehold variation characterized the sample. The residential environment and composition of each household influenced economic strategies, which in turn determined the income, labor hours, and labor efficiency. However, food and nutrient intakes did not vary widely because leveling mechanisms among households, which are social norms in their homeland, still function in the urban settlements. The roles of settlements in Port Moresby are also discussed in relation to "urban problems" and rural-urban connections.
4603493|Archaeological and ethnohistorical evidence of "buffalo jumping" is concentrated in Blackfoot (Nitsitapi) territory. Although the "hardware" of buffalo jumps has been documented extensively, little is known of the "software," in particular the skills required to drive stampeding herds of bison over long distances to the deadfall, on foot, and often for days. The origins and nature of bison driving knowledge is explored on the basis of ethnohistory as well as Blackfoot chronicles, philosophy, and linguistics, and compared with the findings of recent field studies on the relationships between bison and wolves in the northern Great Plains. Blackfoot explanations of bison driving as knowledge learned from wolves are entirely plausible, and shed light on Blackfoot ecological methodology, as well as the development of human-canid hunting relationship generally.
4602729| Currently available models used for predicting human caloric requirements do not reflect the great variability in activity patterns observed among populations, and are insensitive to important anthropometric, demographic, and environmental variables. They are thus inadequate for application to many populations and problems of anthropological interest. We present a model for determining caloric requirements which more accurately accommodates the effects of variation in activity and in anthropometrics on individual needs, and which predicts population requirements based on individual needs and demographic parameters. The model is tested on four populations (the Andean community of Nuoa, Peru, the Dobe !Kung of Botswana, and two New Guinean villages) and is found to provide consistently better estimates of caloric requirements than are generated by the Food and Agriculture/World Health Organization's model. This model should be useful to anthropologists and human ecologists concerned with problems involving human energy consumption, such as the efficiency of subsistence strategies, optimum family composition, or certain consequences of increased labor migration or technological change. 
4603579|Wage work such as portage labor is one of several adaptive strategies by which rural households in Nepal supplement their subsistence agriculture. This study, conducted in the hills of eastern Nepal in 1997, surveyed the landholdings and household subsistence base of 50 commercial porters hired to transport loads from Jiri to various destinations in Solu Khumbu. A major goal was to test the hypothesis that porter households tend to have smaller landholdings than the average household in this region. An unexpected result was that porter households in this study owned nearly as much arable land (1.07 ha) as the mean of 1.15 ha for all hill families in eastern Nepal. Household grain sufficiency correlated significantly (P < 0.01) with farm size (r = 0.53). The majority of the porters lived in villages located at either the origin or the endpoint of their portage work. The study also examined several variables that might explain why portage labor is a full-time occupation for some Nepalis, but a part-time "casual" occupation for others. The most significant difference between households of full-time and part-time porters was the availability of workers at home for managing the household's land and livestock resources. Households of full-time porters were better able to spare a family member for full-time wage labor because they had significantly more adult workers of either gender (P < 0.05) than households of part-time porters. Full-time and part-time porter households did not differ significantly with regard to family size, land ownership, or number of food-deficit months.
23280263|We propose the integration of six data layers (topography, isohyets, soil potential, household localization, vegetation types and land lease titles) to assess the constraints facing food production in Vanuatu, Melanesia. All layers are digitalized allowing area computations of polygons associated with the various data sets. For each island, the following are computed: total area, good arable land area, coconut plantations, pastures/grasslands, area under land lease titles and average accessible good land per household. Although Vanuatu is often considered as not densely populated (19 hab/km 2 ), results indicate great variation among islands. The average area of good land per household varies from 530 ha on the island of Tegua (North) to 0.5 ha on Futuna (South). Shifting cultivation does not appear to be a serious threat to the environment. The establishment of coconut plantations and permanent pastures represents the main cause of deforestation and contributes to increased pressure on land used for food production. The integration of layers of data is a powerful tool for improving environmental planning in an archipelago under growing human pressure and natural changes.
