24707541|Using in-depth interviews, participant observation, and document analysis, we examine obstacles faced by a group of nuclear workers organizing to challenge the Oak Ridge Nuclear Reservation and the Department of Energy (DOE) over health grievances. The Coalition for a Healthy Environment (CHE) is comprised of ill employees, formed after workers from the nuclear facility realized a pattern of denial and resistance to their health concerns. We highlight environmental problems in Oak Ridge and share respondents' narratives regarding the use of social control to limit mobilization. We focus on hard and soft forms of social control utilized by DOE/corporate management, physicians, and co-workers, conceptualizing repression on a continuum representing severity of harm. Social control tactics included on-the-job harassment in the form of task reassignment and layoffs, monitoring, lack of diagnosis and treatment, stigmatization, and ostracism. We also analyze how social control impacts CHE's recruitment, tactics, and mobilization of resources and discuss implications for future research on ill workers and social control.
24707596|This article examines the spiritual and utilitarian values of sacred practices related to cow care among rural Sakha of northeastern Siberia, Russia. Founded upon a pre-Soviet animistic belief system, sacred practices relating to cows are not only important to post-Soviet Sakha identity and ethnic revival but also may make a difference in the productivity of a herd and in maintaining social cohesion within households and village communities in a period of continued socio-economic and moral decline. The article also draws parallels with the importance of reinstating the sacred in human-animal relationships globally.
24707191|In this paper, progress in human ecology is used to help understand political ideologies. Two processes that occur in advanced, dense, urban, agricultural societies are highlighted: impoverishment due to population growth and stratification due to diverging breeding strategies. Political ideologies are classified according to how they go about both obtaining resources and controlling population. The "aggressive strategy" seeks new resources and leaves population control to spontaneous "social chaos," resulting in a climactically poor, stratified society. The ecological shortcomings of the liberal, communist and fascist variants that unsuccessfully try to avoid this result are reviewed. The "religious strategy" does not seek new resources, but conforms to poverty, however the outcome is identical. Therefore, the only possibility of achieving a stable, rather egalitarian society with high standards of living is the "ecologist strategy," which seeks population control and a sustainable use of renewable resources.
24707571|Citizen sciencethe partnering of scientists with members of the public to do researchis increasingly utilized in environmental research, having been credited with enabling studies that would otherwise be cost-prohibitive while promoting scientific literacy and empowering and engaging participants in conservation. Although the value of citizen-generated data for scientific purposes is increasingly accepted, and there is a growing recognition of the role of citizen science in developing science literacy, there has been little investigation of its link to conservation outcomesparticularly in terms of volunteers' further engagement in conservation. This paper reviews the literature on the relationship between participation in citizen science and conservation attitude and behavior changes, and looks at the relevance of theoretical models to shed light on possible drivers of such changes. We discuss two citizen science projects in the New York metropolitan areathe Great Pollinator Project and the Earthwatch Coyote Projectas illustrations of the impact of citizen science on attitudes and behaviors as perceived by participants. We offer recommendations for further research on facilitating conservation outcomes through citizen science.
24707567|The "treadmill of destruction," as outlined by Hooks and Smith (2004, 2005, 2012), is a theoretical frame for understanding the environmental impacts and the related adverse consequences of militarism and war-making. One story that has been missed in this larger narrative about militarism and war-making is the use of Agent Orange and other herbicides during the American war in Vietnam and Southeast Asia. This story is told in several parts through the use of secondary sources. First, the origins and nature of Agent Orange and the related herbicides are briefly outlined. Second, the scope, scale, and nature of the military use of herbicides during the war are documented. Third, the adverse environmental, health, and economic consequences of herbicide use are discussed. Fourth, the argument is made that herbicide use during the war resulted from a set of interrelated geopolitical and domestic tensions. Fifth, recent developments in this fifty-year story are briefly discussed. It is concluded that militarism and war-making have contributed to the globalization and unequal distribution of environmental problems in the world-system.
24707017|This article examines the relationship between environmental pollution and health problems affecting human and non-human species. Specifically, it reviews existing evidence on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs)  a class of synthetic organo-chlorine chemicals and products introduced after World War II  and their adverse health effects on society and wildlife. Their fundamental characteristics, including toxicity, persistence, ability to migrate long distances, and bioaccumulation within the food chain, are presented. The reactions of international community, especially the U.N. Stockholm Convention on POPs recently signed by 122 countries, are discussed. The future needs of substitutes to harmful chemicals and mitigation of health problems already caused are discussed as well. The use of precautionary principles as a guide to public health and environmental policies is emphasized.
24707684|This study explored the relationships between household energy use and householders' intention to reduce their energy use on the one hand, and psychological variables and socio-demographic variables on the other. More specifically, the study examined whether the explanation of household energy use and intentions to reduce it could be informed by variables from the theory of planned behavior (TPB; Ajzen, 1985) and by variables from the value-belief-norm theory (VBN; Stern, et al., 1999), alongside socio-demographic variables. Household energy use appeared to be most strongly related to socio-demographic variables (income, household size, age), while attitudinal variables and self-transcendence values (tradition/security and power/achievement) were important too. Intention to reduce household energy use was positively related to perceived behavioral control and attitudes toward energy conservation. Implications of these results for future research in the domain of household energy use and conservation are discussed.
24707430|This paper reports the results of analyses of six years of written public comments on forest management plans and projects pertaining to the Hoosier National Forest in Indiana. The goal of the research was to gain an understanding of public concerns for the use of the forest lands, within the fabric of their underlying values and emotions. Research methods included the development of a comprehensive taxonomy of expressed values, emotions, and desired outcomes found in the data set, followed by the computerized coding and analysis of the text. Quantitative and qualitative analyses revealed a wealth of information on emotions and values expressed by the public, and provide support for previous theoretical positions and empirical findings.
24707527|This paper is a reflexive exercise based in a current research project (http://civgov.soc.unit.it) in which the main question is to what extent do the activities of environmental associations, advocacy coalitions and green movements bridge the large gap between the European citizenry and European level policymaking in the areas of transport and GMOs (genetically modified organisms). The movements and advocacy coalitions studied in the project are organizations that have previously been or are currently engaged in protest events, such as movement organizations, yet they are broader than movements in composition, objectives, and methods. This paper attempts to answer the following questions. To what extent do the agendas of the environmental movement and movement advocacy coalitions (MACs) reflect the preferences of citizens with regard to issues of transport and GMOs? What are the channels of preference transmission linking local, regional, state and European levels? How successfully are these preferences translated into the policy process and to what extent does the policymaking process distort the expression of citizens' preferences? How can differences, patterns, and successes of interest aggregation, articulation and implementation be explained in these two policy sectors, across regions and over time? Finally, how can we evaluate the different models of representation from the perspective of the construction of a democratic multilevel system of governance in an increasingly multicultural and multilevel identity policy community?
24707611|The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the physical health impacts of Hurricane Katrina among survivors in the severely impacted contiguous states of Louisiana and Mississippi. It has been recognized that major disasters have adverse effects on the physical and mental health of survivors both initially and over time. Using a comprehensive survey of Katrina survivors in affected Gulf Coast parishes (counties) of Louisiana and Mississippi, the pre-Katrina and Post-Katrina morbidity prevalence as reported by respondents is examined. Also assessed are the demographic and social factors predicting the likelihood of adverse health consequences of exposure to Hurricane Katrina. In a series of multivariate binary logistic regression models, gender (female), older age, and lack of social capital significantly predict the odds of Katrina-related health problems. Race (African American) is only slightly significant in predicting the odds of Katrina morbidity in one out of the three logistic regression models estimated; however, significant racial differences persist in specific Katrina-induced health symptoms with African Americans displaying higher incidence of health dysfunctions. The theoretical and policy implications of these findings are discussed.
24707485|Drawing on two decades of personal involvement, this autoethnographic analysis highlights a number of obstacles and opportunities for engaging with environmental matters in church-based contexts. Obstacles are summarized in four clusters: paradigmatic (beliefs that disable environmental engagement), applicability (doubt about the appropriate amount of attention to give environmental concerns), critical (inadequate attention to social or cultural factors as they affect faith or environmental matters), and conviction (lifestyle and willingness to act). Opportunities full into three categories: subcultural (social practices of faith communities that may lead to more effective learning), commitment (sense of responsibility, duty, and desire to follow through on religious commitment), and public theology (facets that aid constructive engagement with the public discourse). The study concludes that there is reason to believe that engagement of environmental topics in church-based contexts can be productive, particularly with attention to such obstacles and opportunities.
24707673|Knowledge system theory (KST) seeks to close the rift between hard and soft methods by reimposing the von Bertalanffy definition of a system while allowing that systems are epistemological constructs. KST is located within the broad thrust of western philosophy by association with classical rationalism, modernism and with the 20th century rediscovery of emergence. KST blurs the conventional distinctions of research management from research method and of science from metaphysics. A research team is an appreciative system whose purpose is to create useful new knowledge within time and budgetary constraints. An undisciplined research team can destabilize the human ecosystems it is contracted to serve. There are ethical and pragmatic reasons for accepting certain disciplines. One way of avoiding these ethical problems is to study academic knowledge creation both as a source of practical insights that can be used to manage the research process more effectively and of theoretical insights that provide a wider understanding of cultural ecodynamics. In general, the larger the group, the less it can be said to know. This suggests resolution into small workgroups with relatively simple and infrequent information flow between them. A provisional typology of knowledge communities and research problems is presented and practical advice for the organization of integrative research offered. This advice challenges the popular view that communication is best served by removing the boundaries between epistemic communities. Intellectual diversity is an asset that must be conserved.
24707466|The author engages the theory of ecologically unequal exchange to assess the extent to which growth in per capita anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions in Central and Eastern European (CEE) nations is a function of the "vertical flow" of exports to high income nations. Initial results of cross-national fixed effects panel model estimates for 1992 to 2005 indicate that growth in such emissions in these transition economy nations is negatively associated with the vertical flow of exports, which contradicts the tested theoretical proposition. However, additional findings indicate that the effect of the vertical flow of exports on emissions have increased in magnitude through time, going from being environmentally beneficial for CEE nations to quickly becoming environmentally harmful and increasingly ecologically unequal.
24707676|Terrorism is a dreaded environmental hazard. Shortly after the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, a nationwide random sample of 1,200 adults 18 years or older was gathered by the Pew Research Center regarding public perceptions about the attacks and their aftermath. A year later, they repeated the national sample and added special samples of New York City and Washington, D.C. Using these data and theories developed to understand public reactions to environmental hazards, we examined the extent to which U.S. residents were willing to allow government to monitor credit card purchases, telephone calls, and e-mails, and were willing to carry a national identification card, which would be produced upon request by police. In 2001, 36% of respondents supported two or three of these actions, and in 2002, the proportion was 31%. But in New York City, 49% favored two or three. The most interesting findings were the change in the correlates of public support. In 2001, a combination of demographic (education, age), residence of respondent, and feelings (praying more, depressed) were the strongest correlates of the willingness to sacrifice personal civil liberties. A year later, the strongest correlates, especially in New York City, were behaviors and feelings (suspicious, angry, scared, avoided certain cities and events). In other words, as expected from theory, some members of the public have begun to focus on what they can do to reduce their risk, and that behavioral pattern includes a willingness to surrender some civil liberties.
24707642|This review describes the evolving AIDS epidemic in Ethiopia and examines its driving forces within the socioeconomic, cultural and political context. The early concentrated epidemic, which infected mostly high-risk males and commercial sex workers has evolved in recent years into a generalized epidemic affecting all segments of the population. Whereas the pervasive impact of societal poverty persists and recent political unrest poses a new threat to prevention and control efforts, the influence of past wars, gender inequality, and various harmful attitudes and practices in HIV transmission and spread is declining, apparently due to recent awareness, prevention and control initiatives and programs. Spread of HIV from urban to rural areas is facilitated by population movements, widespread prostitution in towns, and lack of education. More research on transmission patterns and better HIV and behavioral surveillance systems are needed, especially in rural areas and among different socioeconomic and ethnic groups, to more fully determine the dynamics of the epidemic in Ethiopia's diverse population and to develop effective and sustainable interventions.
24706922|Many ordinary, everyday activities have the potential to impact the natural environment in multiple negative ways. The United States suburban lawn provides an excellent example of this phenomena. Boyden's Biohistory model is used as an investigative framework to explore the relationship of the American lawn ideal and the natural environment. Strong historical precedents support the continuation of the American lawn as a cultural artifact. Interviews with Georgia and Michigan suburban, homeowning couples reveal that the ideal lawn is viewed as an integral part of home ownership and the use of grass as groundcover is not questioned. The lawn provides strong aesthetic, psychological, social, and economic benefits. Any proposed change related to its care and maintenance must take into consideration the contemporary cultural and environmental forces that work to maintain the suburban lawn ideal.
24707645|This study investigated the use of National Forests by the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes of the Flathead Reservation in Montana. Although public lands in the interior American west often surround Tribal lands, managers know little about how the Forest Service (FS) rules and regulations impact the traditional values and culture of American Indians. Interviews were conducted in 2001 with a sample of 60 enrolled Tribal members. Results indicate that Tribal members participate in a variety of outdoor activities in national forests: hunting, fishing, berry and mushroom picking, camping, hiking, and collecting medicinal plants. Perceived racism from both managers and the visiting public, coupled with feelings of resentment at being pushed out of their aboriginal lands has created distrust among Tribal members. In order to preserve and respect Tribal culture and values, FS managers need to approach Tribal members with mutual trust and respect according to Tribal customs before requesting input and expecting open dialogue.
24707714|In this article, I examine Aldo Leopold's experimentation in his Sand County Almanac with a form of poetic discourse that seeks to reimagine the nature of science  ultimately, which seeks the possibility of what might be called a "poetic science." I engage a set of interconnected themes which are central to this project of reinvisioning the enterprise of science: Leopold's radical questioning of the meaning of perception, of our experience of the "other," and of the dichotomy of "subjectivity" and "objectivity." Finally, I offer a reading of "The Song of the Gavilan," the Almanac essay in which Leopold makes his most extended comments about science.
24707524|The longstanding quest for properly integrating stakeholder perceptions and attitudes into environmental decision making has not yet reached a definite answer. Particularly in a river basin context, the interaction of economic activities, ecological factors and social values contribute to an increase in the complexity of policy options and the likelihood of intervention failures. Conflicts between users, their relationship with the State and their interaction with the natural environment must be analyzed in depth. This paper attempts to analyze the active stakeholder groups in the river basin of Axios in northern Greece applying the methodological tools of stakeholder analysis and focus groups. Special attention is paid to their perceptions about risk, values of the coastal environment, and the role of State and individual responsibilities.
24706961|Environmental organizations and natural resource agencies often seek education and communication strategies to encourage effective conservation behaviors. This paper extends the discussion from the Conservation Psychology Dialogue in May 2002 to define two broad avenues for activities that may nudge individuals and society toward more responsible environmental behaviors: the specific route of changing behavior with social marketing tools and the general route of cultivating environmental literacy through educational programs. A review of the research literature identifies some of the factors that encourage targeted behaviors and factors that contribute to environmental literacy. Strategies related to implementing programs in both areas are offered. Behavior change strategies include: ways of tailoring a message to the audience, types of information to provide, and methods for creating commitment. Ideas for how to promote environmental literacy can be found in research concerning significant life experiences and environment-based education.
24707731|Journalistic reporting of global warming and of avian influenza rose and fell nearly simultaneously in newspapers of the United States, Canada, Britain, Ireland, and Australia. Some international news peaks are reasonably interpreted as American-generated "media events" of ambiguous connection to worsening real-world threats. Major international concern about avian flu, beginning in October 2005, resulted from a flurry of activity in Washington, D.C. to rapidly increase federal preparedness for a possible pandemic. This, in turn, was a face-saving action by the Bush administration after its dismal response to Hurricane Katrina, only weeks earlier. Major international coverage of global warming began in 1988 when NASA scientist James Hansen testified before Congress that the summer's drought was the result of climate change. Worldwide coverage dropped after 1992 while mean global temperature continued to rise. Coverage revived in 2006-07, largely but not exclusively due to the promotional efforts of Al Gore.
24707591|Since the early 1990s collaboration and consensus processes have become associated with success in the environmental policy and natural resource policy arenas. Interest in collaboration and consensus processes have emerged, in part, out of a frustration with more conventional efforts used to involve stakeholders, to work though conflicts, and to make decisions in the environmental and natural resource policy arenas. Collaboration and consensus processes, when designed well and applied appropriately, provide opportunities for meaningful stakeholder engagement. This essay features aspects of two government-led or agency-based (Koontz et al. 2004; Moore and Koontz 2003) planning efforts that consider collaboration and citizens/stakeholder engagement. Both projects, a forest management plan revision on the Allegheny National Forest in Pennsylvania, and a regional sediment management planning effort at the mouth of the Columbia River in the Pacific Northwest, have considered a Collaborative Learning (CL) approach (Daniels and Walker 2001) for stakeholder involvement. As part of these CL applications, citizens/stakeholders have been asked for their views of the kind of participation processes they value and how they prefer to be involved. This essay presents a summary of citizens' ideas. In doing so, it addresses the question: How do stakeholders want to be engaged in agency-led planning efforts? Data reveal that stakeholders prefer active engagement, access to information and events, and clearly defined decision space. Prior to presenting the project data germane to this question, the paper highlights the trinity of voice and Collaborative Learning.
24875132|Climate change, one of the most important social problems of the twenty-first century, challenges pedagogy to incorporate complex themes from social and biophysical sciences. We propose an approach to a course on "Climate Change and Society" grounded in pedagogical research. Integrating the development of higher-level learning skills into course learning objectives, we suggest such a course be implemented online to take advantage of the virtual teaching and learning tools available to educators of climate change and as a way to actively engage the learner, thus using online pedagogy as a key element in learning that spans social and biophysical sciences.
24707124|The 1992 moratorium on fishing for Northern Cod marked a symbolic end to the way of life that had sustained Newfoundland's outports for hundreds of years. It also marked the completion of an ecological regime shift, from an ocean ecosystem dominated by cod and other predatory groundfish, to one in which such fish are comparatively scarce, and lower-trophic-level invertebrates more common. We examine patterns of change seen in large-scale social indicators, which reflect the smaller-scale adaptations of individuals and communities during this ecological shift. Trends in population, migration, age, unemployment and dependency suggest declining conditions in rural Newfoundland over the years of fisheries troubles. The 1992 crisis accelerated previous trends, but did not produce great discontinuities. Some trends date instead to the late-1980s resource-depletion phase that ended the "glory years" of Newfoundland's groundfish boom. Government interventions meant to soften the economic impact of the 1992 crisis also blunted its social impacts, effectively postponing or distributing these over a number of subsequent years. Outport society is adapting to shifts in the regulatory and global-market environment, as well as changing marine ecology. Adaptive strategies include new investments in invertebrate fisheries, changes in education and migration, and continuing reliance on the informal economy.
24707432|Why does the provision of human rights vary across countries of the world-system? Three alternative macrosocial narratives address this question: modernization theory, dependency theory, and human ecology theory. Cross-national researchers have examined one or two of these theories, but no researcher has examined all three theories simultaneously with recent data. This paper reports results of such a study. Human rights performance for 77 countries in 1991 was modeled as a function of economic development, economic dependence, population growth, and several control variables. Regression results suggest strong support for the modernization and human ecology narratives, but little support for the dependency narrative. Implications of the results are briefly discussed.
24706895|This article examines the fair trade paradigm through a study of the Mexican coffee-producing cooperative UCIRI and the U.S. importer-roaster Equal Exchange. This alternative to conventional trade is a partnership aimed at satisfying the interests of small farmers, coffee roasters, and consumers. Farmers in democratic cooperatives collectively address crop and environmental improvement, organic certification, in-country processing, and the negotiation of contracts with roasters in the North. A portion of profits are reinvested in community improvements. Roasters pay a fair trade price, provide credit, and promote the community development context of the coffee in their marketing. We argue that the process is best understood as a social movement aimed at grassroots development. Roasters are both material beneficiaries and conscience constituents, linked to producers and consumers in a moral economy which promotes social solidarity and enhances the social capital of each sector in the movement.
24707699|In this analysis a largely unrecognized contradiction in environmental sociology is explored; on one hand as environmental sociologists we wish to see humans and their social systems as deeply connected to nature, but on the other hand we think of human consciousness as unique and somehow altogether different than the phenomena of the natural world. It is argued this contradiction comes from an uneven rejection of Enlightenment metanarrative. While we have been quite willing to reject the human exemptionalist vision of society as independent from nature, we have nevertheless been largely unwilling to reject the exemptionalist version of consciousness that comes to us from the Cartesian metaphor of the mind. A nonexemptionalist version of human consciousness is presented that places human thinking squarely within natural constraints.
24707704|The issue of sorting through who should bear responsibility for mitigating wildfire risk in the wildland-urban interface of the northern Inland West was approached using focus groups. The groups were selected to reflect a variety of stakeholders in the study area population for whom interface issues are relevant. Most participants believed that current forest fuel conditions exist due to human alteration and that changes in forests and the interface are needed to mitigate wildfire risk. Overall the focus group members believed that the government has responsibility for managing forests under its control, but does not "owe" safety to the people who choose to live in the wildland-urban interface; most felt that homeowners must take greater responsibility for having defensible property in order to protect those responsible for wildland and wildfire management.
24707605|Communities in New England are using a collaboration strategy as one means of tackling the socio-economic, environmental and cultural changes they face today. The paper reports on two case studies of collaboration on a fishing industry health care plan in Massachusetts and a working waterfront preservation effort in Maine. These New England coastal communities experienced many of the same challenges, and achieve many of the same benefits, as collaboration in other natural resource contexts. Partnerships with stakeholders outside of the customary network (i.e., reaching out to uncommon partners) were central in the case studies. The networks among participants in the cases were compact with no individual more than two to three individuals removed from the resources (e.g., information, skills, financial) they needed to achieve the projects' objectives. Ramifications for community leaders and public officials are discussed.
24707660|This paper explores some issues that have been important in the climate change mitigation debate in Australia. Media coverage reflects the prominence and nature of the debate and has risen almost exponentially since 2003. Clearly it has become a political issue. Media coverage is the lens through which the public view the debate, and whilst public opinion is not the only factor affecting policy formulation, in Australia it can be critical as voting is mandatory. A pilot study was used to explore perceptions of the nature of policy, the climate change debate, and its portrayal in the media, through the interview of key opinion leaders. Results indicate that opinion leaders believe that mitigation policy in Australia has been slow to progress due to media promotion of the uncertainty associated with climate change science, the weakness of leadership, and the political cost of unpalatable policy, even though effective policies at both national and international levels are needed.
24707568|The relationships among the economy, military, and environment have garnered increased attention recently. Likewise, a number of prominent environmental thinkers and activists have embraced civilian nuclear technology as a means to address climate change. This research considers the cross-national influence of both economic and military development on energy consumption and carbon emissions within the context of civilian and military nuclear development. To this end, we present random effects generalized least squares regression results using panel data for 136 countries from 2001 to 2007. The results suggest that increased democratization and civilian nuclear energy use fail to afford sufficient value in efficiency to offset carbon-intensive energy use, thereby contradicting ecological modernization theory and environmentalists calling for a nuclear energy solution as a means to combating the climate crisis. The results also support the treadmills of production and destruction pointing to compelling evidence of the emergence of risk-transfer militarism.
24706946|Much of the recent growth in population, jobs and income in the Greater Yellowstone Region, as well as other parts of the rural West, has been driven by ecological and social amenities, in contrast to the historical dependence on resource extractive industries and agriculture. This shift has been fueled by an increase in service occupations, retirement and investment income. Using the states of Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming, and the Greater Yellowstone Region as examples, statistical tests were conducted to test the relative influence of ecological, amenity, social and economic variables on rural population growth. The results indicate that ecological and amenity variables are necessary conditions for growth, but they are not sufficient. An educated workforce and access to larger markets via air travel are also important.
24707031|The debates over the future of human population and the earth's environment, and similar large issues, usually take place without reference to explicit models. Debate would be clarified if such models were employed. We propose that the logistic equation and its extensions like the Lotka-Volterra equations, so familiar to ecologists, can easily be modified to model the important "macro" questions that motivated the three thinkers of our title. The long term rate of population growth must normally be controlled by the rate of improvement in K, the carrying capacity of the earth. K will in turn be controlled by the rate of technological progress. The present situation, in which technological improvement (but also, perhaps, environmental deterioration) are increasing at rates above r, the Malthusian intrinsic rate of natural increase, is probably unique in human history. Can present levels of human prosperity and population growth be sustained? What processes are most likely to determine the answer to this and similar questions? We here sketch a model that endogenizes technological progress and environmental deterioration in the logistic framework. We discuss extensions of the logistic approach to multiple populations, such as other species, and sub-populations, such as human social classes, using the Lotka-Volterra equations.
24875123|Drawing on published research involving public trust and environmental risk regulation, this study explores a differentiated view of trust that includes aspects of uncritical trust, critical trust, distrust and cynicism. Using survey research of residents (n = 1,303) in three mountain pine beetle affected regions of Alberta, Canada, we examine the attributes of research participants who are grouped into these four types of trust and argue that critical trust relates to a category of citizenship that is ideally important for the effective functioning of democratic society. In contrast to research that draws a strong connection between public trust and public satisfaction with resource management decisions, this study identifies several subtle but significant differences in these terms, calling for more careful attention to trust-related concepts as they are utilized in research and practice.
24707469|William Catton's foundational book in environmental sociology, Overshoot, published over 30 years ago, provides a valuable conceptual framework for understanding human-environment interactions. Despite the importance of this work, over the past three decades, environmental sociology has drifted away from many of Catton's core concerns, especially his focus on natural limits. Reminiscent of the context in the 1970s following the Energy Crisis in which Catton wrote Overshoot, we now appear to be entering a new age of economic and environmental crises, where the ecological contradictions of modern societies and the verity of resource constraints grow ever more apparent. Given the re-emergence of crises similar to those which spurred Catton's work, we highlight some of Overshoot's most important conceptual contributions and argue that Overshoot deserves renewed attention, since it holds many insights that can help us to address the environmental and economic problems of the twenty-first century.
24707742|The question of how to measure sustainability remains vexing. We approach the problem by noting that most theories of environmental impact assume that exploitation of the environment provides benefits to human well-being. However, this assumption has not been subject to much empirical discipline. We propose a model of Efficient Well-Being (EWEB) inspired by the Stochastic Frontier Production Models commonly used in economics. EWEB assesses a nation-state's efficiency in enhancing human well-being through the use of economic, natural and human resources. This approach shifts attention from the elusive question of whether a nation is sustainable to the more tractable question of how efficient a nation is in producing human well-being. We model human well-being as a function of physical, natural and human capital. In a preliminary test of this approach here we operationalize human well-being as life expectancy, flows of physical capital as gross domestic product per capita, flows of natural capital as the ecological footprint, and human capital as education. Using data from 135 nations, we find that controlling for physical and human capital, exploitation of the environment has no net effect on well-being. This suggests that improvements in well-being may be attainable without adverse effects on the environment. We also find that many nations could substantially improve their efficiency in using human and natural resources to generate well-being.
24707224|Human ecology involves study of the adaptation of human activity to dynamic environments. The present environmental crisis is a special case of thathuman activity is now at a level that it determines both the rate and nature of much environmental change, and it is becoming increasingly evident that in many cases we are crossing at least the ethically acceptable limit of the human capacity to adapt. Community action to protect local environmental quality is one manifestation of this. This paper examines the role of scientific environmental information, and information management capabilities, in the community-based decision process. It reports on four areas in which it appears that scientific dataspecifically spatial data as managed by geographic information systemscan contribute to local decision making. These are (1) contextualizing space and time in local perception, (2) conceptualizing or modeling environmental change and establishing paradigms of interpretation, (3) projecting consequences and envisioning possible futures, and (4) integrating information and communicating with critical constituencies. A discussion raises questions about the extent to which external support for decision-making may undermine local autonomy, but concludes that local use of scientific information can lead to empowerment in the face of the apparently inevitable rise in the use of high-technology environmental information management systems.
24707498|Over this past century the Philippine state has sustained a campaign to criminalize swidden cultivation among small-scale farmers in the uplands of Palawan Island. This paper focuses on how such state conservation agendas unfolded to negatively affect swidden cultivation among the Tagbanua people who occupy upland forests flanking Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park. Ethnographic methods were used to examine a specific case where the traditional linkages between swidden cultivation and honey collectionthe basis of Tagbanua livelihoods and cultural beliefswere devalued as coercive conservation proliferated at the national park. Park managers upheld the state's conservation discourse that swidden disrupted "equilibrium" between livelihoods and forest ecology and, upon enforcing such views, neglected the local embeddedness of swidden cultivation. The conclusion asserts that park management can be enhanced on both moral and practical grounds by building on the interrelated ecological and cultural value of swidden cultivation.
24707741|Sociological literature has increasingly become concerned with environmental issues. One less developed area of inquiry in this vein has been the study of anthropogenic impacts on biodiversity. We approach this topic through the study of threatened bird species by drawing on the small number of existing studies and by contributing our own original cross-sectional analysis of country-level data. Utilizing OLS regression techniques, results reveal several interaction effects that provide support for the basic theoretical propositions of world-systems theory. We find partial support for Treadmill of Production theory and the various ecological perspectives in the Malthusian tradition. Our results fail to support ecological modernization theory. Future research goals are also addressed.
24707127|A theory of neighborhood civic activity is proposed, and a telephone sample of 2,517 residents of the Philadelphia metropolitan region gathered for the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press was used to test the theory. Two dimensions of neighborhood civic engagement were found, one with government and the political process, and the second with schools, hospitals, and other non-government organizations. Both forms of engagement were associated with a family history of public involvement, a strong sense of personal efficacy, relatively high socioeconomic status, and financial and long-term investments in the neighborhood. Beyond those similarities, those that engaged in government-related civic activities tended to be older, Black, cognizant of crime and blight problems in their area and not trust government and many people in their neighborhood. Non-governmental civic activism was most strongly correlated with younger women with strong religious ties who trust the people with whom they interact. Implications of these observations for building a broader theory of civic engagement and enhancing government policy are discussed.
24707752|There are relatively few articles in sociology and psychology on gender, ethnicity, and the environment, yet ethnic and gender neutral approaches to sustainability may be incomplete. We studied gender, ethnicity, and environmental concern with an internet sample of Asian American women (n=157) and men (n=69), and European American women (n=222) and men (n=99). Participants completed the New Ecological Paradigm measure (NEP; Dunlap et al., 2000), the value bases of environmental concern (Schultz, 2000), and the Multigroup Ethnic Identity Measure-Revised (MEIMR; Phinney & Ong, 2007). A 2 (ethnicity) x 2 (gender) ANOVA found no gender or ethnic differences on the NEP. A 2 (ethnicity) x 2 (gender) MANOVA with the three value bases as dependent variables found significant effects for ethnicity and gender. Ethnic identification enhanced cultural influences on environmental concern. Findings are discussed in terms of the marketing of environmental sustainability to address climate change and other environmental risks.
24707750|The increasing threat caused by wildfire in the United States has spurred the development of a number of policies and programs that encourage communities to reduce their risk by becoming "fire adapted." Yet despite these goals, there is little understanding of the characteristics that are crucial in the development of fire adapted communities. This research seeks to uncover specific aspects of local social context that lead to adaptive capacity for wildfire among communities in Flathead County, MT, by consulting local fire professionals, community representatives and emergency managers using focus groups and interviews. Results suggest that adaptive capacity is highly variable across the county and influenced by aspects such as community identity, strong communication networks and the local wood products industry. We contend that a better understanding of adaptive capacity to wildfire requires systematic documentation of how specific characteristics of local people interact to influence their ability to deal with change.
24707429|A planimetric analysis was made of aerial photographs from 1948, 1979 and 1991, to observe changes in and loss of vegetation in the region between the ports of Progreso and Sisal, Yucatan, Mexico. This analysis shows that in the 43 years between 1948 and 1991, 174.4 km of the region's vegetation has been altered, with a 4.05 km annual absolute rate of change. The study area has been influenced by: 1) road construction; 2) opening of the Yucalpeten harbor; 3) population growth; 4) saltwater intrusion through coastal sandbar breaches; and 5) freshwater spring sedimentation. Some chronic, anthropogenic stressors can decrease the natural recovery process during rainy periods. The continuing restoration activities in the region are commendable as they improve coastal wetlands' ability to cope with stress, and control energy loss. An educational program should be developed that provides community members the opportunity to understand and conserve the environment.
24706894|The concept of sustainable development is now considered a guiding principle of national and international action. Yet the widespread acceptance of this concept stands in contrast with the inability so far to alter effectively the development model responsible for environmental degradation. The lack of many positive and concrete results produced by massive efforts in the field of international cooperation for the environment indicate the contradictory character of this new "global" environmentalism. The purpose of this article is to explore how environmental considerations were reframed so as to become compatible with global development. Adopting an international political economy perspective and based on interviews with the main categories of actors involved, it provides evidence that environmental concerns were remodeled by the joint action of technocratic environmentalists, the international UN-related development establishment and business and industry sectors. Analyzing the results of international cooperation and in particular the review of UNCED's implementation five years after the Summit, the article questions the nature of the "sustainable development" consensus. The inability of the international community to deal with most global environmental issues reveals the limits of international cooperation in the name of the environment.
24707215|The paper describes the "limits to growth" in the Colorado River Basin by presenting a soft systems analysis of the current trends of economic and population growth, and relates these trends to changes in resource use and directions of quality of life indices. The limits to growth that are identified relate to "throughput" rather than to resource scarcity. It is not the limited water (or other resources) in this semiarid region that limits growth, but rather the inability to develop infrastructure and deal with pollution and waste; the destruction of biodiversity; and the resulting decrease in the quality of life. Given the progrowth political and economic climate of the region, there are few alternatives available for people who are increasingly frustrated with the decline in their quality of life. New "social infrastructure" needs to be created to reintegrate newcomers and longtime residents into coherent communities to conserve the high quality of life people previously enjoyed in the Colorado River Basin.
24707732|This paper proposes an appropriate mechanism for the maintenance of traditional knowledge (TK) associated with wild edible plants, seaweeds and mushrooms in the satoyama and satoumi ecosystems located in the Noto Peninsula, Japan. The conceptual framework of the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA) was adapted to this study to examine the impact of the drivers of change on TK and components of human well-being, changes in TK and components of human well-being, and interrelations amongst them. Relevant data were collected through conducting in-depth interviews and administering a survey. The results of the survey revealed that 46 wild edible plants, 12 seaweeds, and 19 mushroom species are widely collected for a variety of purposes in the selected sites. Unfortunately, it was determined that the current trend in the study sites is increasing erosion of traditional knowledge and relevant traditional practices due to the impacts of the drivers addressed in this study (e.g. ageing and migration). Assessment of the linkages between TK and human well-being shows that both the decline in TK and the drivers of change adversely affect five fundamental components of human well-being (e.g. health, development of good social relations, and security). Recognizing this undesirable trend, a holistic strategy was developed to sustain, use, and transmit TK as a living cultural resource in society. Within this context, a number of potential responses (e.g. economic, tourism-related, social and behavioural) and instruments (e.g. Community Development Fund) for providing benefit sharing among the target groups were developed to achieve success in the effective maintenance and promotion of TK and also to contribute to sustainable development strategies in the Peninsula.
24706948|In this research we analyze the diet of the caiara population in Ponta do Almada (Brazil), regarding the items of animal origin such as fish, and its connection to local fishing activities. Observations of fishing activities and diet were made every two months during 1995-6. Diet data were collected from a total of 436 meals of 12 randomly selected families and 89 fishing trips. Fish was the main animal protein consumed, but there was no direct relationship between fish catches and fish consumed per month, even though some of the most frequently caught species were observed in the diet. Niche breadth for animal protein consumed was larger for families of full time fishermen. The reduction of traditional occupations (such as fisheries and small-scale agriculture) and the increasing dependence on urban centers and on activities related to tourism may result in changes in the dietary patterns of caiaras.
24706878|This paper presents models of land allocation among primary forest, crops, pasture and secondary forest on small farms in the Brazilian Amazon. The discussion begins with a review of theoretical arguments as to why demographic variables should influence environmental outcomes at the household level, to complement population-level arguments more commonly alleged. The paper then focuses on the case of Uruar, a frontier colony along the Transamazon highway in the Brazilian state of Par, for an empirical analysis of land use in the Amazon frontier. Use of seemingly unrelated regression models allows efficient estimation of the effects of the explanatory variables, while accounting for the effects of correlated error terms among forest, crops, pasture and regrowth. The findings highlight the importance of household-level demographic processes for environmental change, and bear implications for future resource use and policy proposals in the Amazon as well as for research on human-environment interactions.
24707589|In the context of the growth in support for deliberative decision-making, this paper presents a new examination of an important and as yet largely ignored question of just how a deliberative process can capitalize on local knowledge and lead to shared (expert and public) learning and understanding. It speaks to both the academic and practitioner through a set of reflections upon the nature and demands of engagement management. Drawing upon a recent urban river restoration project in the UK, the subject of an innovative form of engagement, it identifies and examines the key management elements, i.e. the recruitment of representative interests; active facilitation; collaborative framing; optimizing interaction; and managing the unexpected. The paper concludes that both public and expert can learn if the right conditions for listening, sharing, reflecting on preferences and adapting are created and managed, and identifies the theoretical and practical implications.
24707739|During the 1960s ecologists outlined how the human treatment of the natural environment changed as places underwent economic development. The theoretical point of departure for this work, succession theory, then came under theoretical attack in ecology and the work on the human ecology of economic development stopped. Here I examine the theoretical predictions derived from this initial work against the empirical record. A wide range of historical trends, often endogenous in nature, seem consistent with the theory, but important trans-community phenomena like globalization, the spread of invasive species, and climate change do not fit easily into the community oriented focus of succession theory. On balance, the historical record confirms enough of the theory's predictions to make a case for the heuristic value of succession theory. It may even provide a new metaphor for sustainable development.
24707532|The cultural landscape is a concept that best depicts society and economic changes in an area. Cultural landscapes include more than just morphological characteristics of an area and act as symbolic tanks. The study of the cultural landscape and its transformations in morphological, economic, ecological and symbolic terms can thus provide a comprehensive picture of the social, ecological and productive changes in an area. Such a study can be used for understanding the major driving forces behind the dynamics of the changes and investigate future trends. In this paper the study of the changes of the landscape of Lesvos, a Greek island, is attempted on two levels: an economic level, which refers to land use changes linked to demographic changes and the transformations in landscape characteristics and images that these changes bring; and an ecological level that refers to the ecological consequences of the changes. The time span refers to the 18th to 20th centuries when major changes (local, regional and global) took place. Data come from a variety of published and unpublished local sources. Results indicate that economic and political changes brought forward major demographic changes and transformed the landscape significantly, particularly affecting 'traditional' elements in a typical Mediterranean development.
24706880|This "structural" theory of human ecology interprets communities as problem-solving organizations that are concerned with improving the welfare of the residents. It then makes a distinction between their general (structural differentiation, pluralism and solidarity) and specific (hospitals, public health agencies, public safety, etc.) problem-solving capacity and postulates a multiplicative interaction, in the sense of mutual reinforcement, between them. The combined strength of these two types of social problem-solving enables communities to overcome the impact of most environmental threats so that population health, which is the criterion of success, is improved. Although the theory draws on the (transposed) social evolutionary model of innovative institutions, environmental selection and population increase, it diverges from the natural selection model in using "population health" as the criterion of success and, especially, by postulating the causal primacy of the three general dimensions of "problem-solving capacity." The theory is compared to other frameworks in social and cultural ecology and illustrated with findings from the 47 Japanese prefectures.
24707656|State governments have done little or nothing about climate change, and individuals have done little or nothing about their own carbon footprints. Perhaps both parties would do something if the moral demand for action were clear. This paper presents two arguments for the necessity of meaningful state action on climate change. The arguments depend on certain clear facts about emissions as well as two uncontroversial moral principles  one owed to Peter Singer and the other connecting capacities with the demand for action. Arguments are presented for individual action based on a similar set of facts and the consistent application of principles which apply in state cases. The arguments put consistency, not consequences, at the heart of the call for individual action. This is a strategy which might help individuals recognize their obligations to the environment.
24707600|Although the Sustainable Fisheries Act that amended the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act in 1996 defined fishing communities to be places with significant harvesting and/or processing activities, a collaborative mapping project in the Northeast has made clear the limits of such a port-based definition by documenting the presence and nature of communities "at sea." Using vessel trip report data, unique maps depicting community territories were created for a variety of communities dependent upon Gulf of Maine fisheries. Community-based researchers interviewed fishermen from the region and asked them to engage with the maps, discuss the nature of community within those "at sea" locations, and document the type of local environmental knowledge they maintained. The participatory interviews made clear the varied ways that communities respond to and are changed by the recent history of regulatory and environmental change. While the dominant port-based vision of fishing communities sees communities as sites of impact and decline, a focus on relationships between fishermen and between fishermen and their environments reveals communities as ongoing and emerging processes. While the former produces doubt relative to the development of any community-based initiatives for fisheries management, the latter points to the resilience of "community" and the always-emerging potential for community-based approaches.
24706882|Modernity's predominantly carnivorous culture ensures the unquestioning reproduction of its values and practices through transformations of social space and its associated habitus. Klaus Eder argues that these transformations include the development of an industrial food culture and a gastronomic culture both of which represent modernity's attempt to distance humanity from animality. Today, industry and gastronomy combine to make farm animals little more than a standing reserve of meat products ready for consumption. The abattoir epitomises these modern transformations in its organisation, practices and routines. But, because it is here that the key transformation from living animal to dead meat takes place, the slaughterhouse also remains a site of potential moral danger and conflict for contemporary cultural logic. In the abattoir we risk coming face to face with the animals themselves as self-expressive entities and sometimes, in their final moments, their voices can awaken us from our ethical apathy.
24707658|This paper is about a certain kind of insensitivity (to people and, by extension to ecosystems) that ethical deliberation and theorizing produce when faced with the complexity that climate change scenarios present. In the first part of the paper, I examine the insensitivity to this complexity of traditional moral frameworks when prescribing courses of action. In the second, I attempt to sketch an approach to ethical deliberation that better handles and sensitizes us to the complex concerns that arise in such situations, referring to an interdisciplinary research project, Institutional Adaptations to Climate Change, as a way to illustrate how this ethic would work. Given the nature of the paper, the position I take is more programmatic than substantive.
24707733|China's rapidly expanding economic prosperity has created a scale mismatch between increased standards of living for a large population and environmental distress at the global level. The potential size of an affluent Chinese consumer class magnifies the ecological impact of Chinese consumption. In this study, the emerging Chinese consumer market is compared with two other high-consuming lifestyles fashioned in the wake of economic scarcity; that of the United States after the Depression, and post-war Europe. The Chinese consumption pattern is found to currently follow a lower-consumption style, similar to that of Europe, but one that is based in an ideology of development through mass consumption, comparable to the United States. I further argue that this consumer style will change as the incomes and the buying-potential of the Chinese continue to expand creating a unique consumer pattern moderated by high population density.
24707470|In the context of sustainable development, we investigate four subsistence communities, one each from India, Bolivia, Laos and Thailand, to understand the systemic interrelations between the food production systems and related environmental pressures. In doing so, we revisit Ester Boserup's theory of increasing land productivity at the expense of declining labour productivity as a consequence of agricultural intensification. Our data confirm Boserup's assumptions within the reach of traditional agriculture, but find them not to apply to hunting & gathering communities and to agricultural systems now increasingly dependent on fossil fuels and industrial fertilizers. Instead we propose a theory of "sociometabolic transitions" as being more appropriate to understanding transitions in land and labour productivity across a wider range of modes of subsistence.
24707663|Access to tenure security in dispute settlement contexts has become a serious concern in Ethiopia's rural areas, where eighty-five percent of the population resides, including Zeghie Peninsula. Intense struggles for land and property resulting from growing landlessness and female-only heads of households have rendered women's property rights a particularly contested terrain. Existing statutory laws and policies assigning rights to property and inheritance have done little to protect women from the theft of their crops, land, or tenure. This has left women with few options except those offered by civic courts and a local system known as the Shimgelina (a customary dispute settlement mechanism); yet both have been largely unfavorable to women. This paper examines these local legal and rule-based systems, and the enduring practices that reinforce inequality through imposed 'community harmony' where cultural and gendered expectations are invoked, and largely realized.
24707082|Meat production is a major hidden cause of many critical environmental problems, indicating that individual dietary habits are a form of environmentally significant consumption (ESC). We build upon the growing literature on ESC by analyzing the effects of social structural factors on the total meat and beef consumption of individuals. Our purpose here is to further our understanding of the factors that contribute to individual consumption patterns of environmentally significant commodities. Gender, race, ethnicity, location of residence (region and urban vs. non-urban), and social class all appear to affect dietary habits even when controlling for physiological variables such as body weight and age. We argue that social structural factors in combination with macro-economic structure and psychological factors provide a rich explanation of the consumption patterns of individuals.
24707100|This paper compares the phenomenological structure of zoological exhibition to the pattern prevalent in pornography. It examines several disanalogies between the two, finds them lacking or irrelevant, and concludes that the proposed analogy is strong enough to serve as a critical lens through which to view the institution of zoos. The central idea uncovered in this process of interpretation is paradoxical: zoos are pornographic in that they make the nature of their subjects disappear precisely by overexposing them. Since the keep are thus degraded or marginalized through the marketing of their very visibility, the pretense of preservation is criticized. It is suggested that the zoo as we know it be phased out in favor of more authentic modes of encountering other forms of life.
24707499|We examine the relationship between geographic scale and the emergence and transformation of "ingroup" effects using data from a qualitative comparative case study of two collaborative watershed planning efforts in Oregon. Evidence of ingroup effects is far stronger in the small watershed planning group where stakeholder perceptions of and patterns of interactions with one another centered on common group identifications. In the large-scale planning group, stakeholders perceive and interact with one another based on organizational affiliation. Furthermore, the geographic scale of the watershed planning process influences how watershed issues are framed. In the small-scale watershed group, watershed issues are framed as a direct relationship between watershed health and community well-being. As a result, stakeholders began to view themselves as members of a shared community, a new ingroup. In the large-scale watershed group, watershed issues are framed in terms of regional conservation efforts, with no direct link between watershed health and community well-being. As a result, community stakeholders view organizational representatives as belonging to a different, opposing group. Our examination suggests that the relationship between geographic scale and ingroup effects can contribute to mutually acceptable outcomes among stakeholders. As such, the geographic scale at which collaborative resource planning efforts occur merits attention.
24707213|As a result of the election of a Republican Congress in 1994, long standing federal commitments to science policy are being reconsidered and budgets seriously threatened. Because human ecology is a young discipline, one struggling to gain recognition in major academic institutions and from funding sources, it may be more affected by the current political debate in Washington than other more established scientific disciplines. Since one of the goals of scientific research, and particularly human ecology, is to develop knowledge that will improve the economic, social, and physical well-being of the world, a critical element in achieving that goal is the translation of scientific research into public policy decision making. For that reason, it is imperative that members of the human ecology community develop a system to educate members of Congress and their staffs about the scientific process and the developments within the field of human ecology. The integrative discipline of human ecology has a major role to play in the public policy debate, enlarging the more narrow perspective of other disciplines and improving the quality of decision making. This effort should be approached in a systematic fashion in conjunction with other interested organizations. However, success in translating this research depends on the interaction of three elements, each with its own internal dynamics. These include: (1) the quality of the research presented, (2) the ability of the researchers to communicate to elected and appointed officials, and (3) the willingness and availability of officials to listen.
24707216|A reasonable question that demographers often ask is, "What are the environmental impacts of population growth?" This paper examines conceptual issues raised by asking this question about air quality in California. The conventional IPAT model must be modified in conventional ways noted by others: e.g., it must be made stochastic; the specification of population must incorporate congestion, dispersion, and age composition; and both direct and indirect effects of population must be examined. Other conceptual problems have received less attention. One problem is boundaries; pollution in a geographic area may be caused by populations elsewhere, so analysis should focus on emissions rather than pollution. A second problem is the need for disaggregated analysis, as population may be more strongly associated with some sources of emissions than with others. Finally, population may best be measured as the number of households, not the number of individuals.
24707544|Integrative complexity is a measure of how complexly people think about an issue. A newly developed integrative complexity scale was applied in a study of perceptions of wildfire management. We explored the relationship between value-laden basic beliefs and attitudes, and integrative complexity's role as a moderator between them. The study data came from residents along the front range of Colorado, the Chicago metropolitan area, and Southern Illinois. While integrative complexity toward prescribed burning was not directly related to value-laden basic beliefs about prescribed burning, it was related to the direction and extremity with which people held attitudes toward prescribed burning. Also, the level of integrative complexity toward wildfire management moderated the relationship between value-laden basic beliefs and attitudes. Understanding the complexity with which people think about natural resource management issues such as prescribed burning can contribute to greater understanding of public perceptions regarding natural resource management strategies and policies. Additional information is also provided to guide further use and development of the instrument.
24707707|There are a number of benefits from wildland fire such as forest reproduction, habitat improvement, and reduction of threats from insects and diseases. However, along with these benefits are threats to human life, property and air quality. The trade-off between wildfire benefits and costs causes differences in public beliefs about fire management. We surveyed residents of the wildland-urban interface to determine the effects of contextual factors such as location of the forest, its primary use, wildfire history, and current fire conditions on acceptability of prescribed burning, mechanical thinning, and doing nothing. The current condition of the forest was the most important factor influencing support/opposition of management strategies for both individualists and non-individualists. The importance of forest proximity, wildfire history, and forest use depended on the management strategy under consideration and group. Results will help inform land managers in making fire management prescriptions and communicating with the public about those decisions.
24707537|A core question of sustainability science asks how and why human agents learn to deal effectively with complex problems. "Learning" refers to the process by which actors assimilate information and update their cognitions and behavior accordingly. Successful learning plays a vital role in our ability to achieve sustainability, and yet this process is poorly understood. Commonly-employed perspectives on learning tend to differentiate along two dimensions: the mechanism of learning (social versus individual learning) and the properties of the information being learned (empirical versus normative knowledge). This yields four ideal types of learning that correspond to a central challenge of learning for sustainability. An integrated framework that transcends all of these perspectives is needed. Such a framework is proposed here, and includes four essential features: the structure of internal belief systems, the role of social networks in shaping knowledge, the role of knowledge in shaping networks, and the role of individual experience in the learning process. This framework is introduced as a prolegomenon (a preface to more detailed and exhaustive theoretical development) to facilitate the development of better theories and empirically-testable models of learning for sustainability.
24707559|A number of recent approaches to sustainable development, such as the Sustainable Livelihoods Approach, are genuinely transdisciplinary as they are produced, disseminated and applied in the borderland between research, policy, and practice. Human Ecology has the capacity to contribute to a better understanding and a critical evaluation of such new approaches, but is currently lacking the tools for identification and formulation of standards for this purpose. This paper outlines an assessment framework of criteria for integrative approaches to sustainable development problems and is applied to the Sustainable Livelihoods Approach. The results show the benefits of formulating standards that can be applied to plan and evaluate integrative approaches. Such standards are necessary if the goals of holism and integration that are implied by approaches such as the Sustainable Livelihoods Approach are to be attained.
24875122|One underexplored area of great concern is the relationship between disasters and disposition of the waste they generate, which often amounts to the equivalent of 5 to 15 years of garbage that the same community would create under normal conditions. This paper develops a theoretical framework to analyze the factors that influence the distribution of landfills by integrating insights gained from the environmental inequality and human ecology traditions. The synthesis informs the quantitative analysis of the distribution of landfills across counties in the southeastern region of the United States by examining crucial associated variables, disasters, and other relevant factors gleaned from prior research. Findings suggest that natural disasters have indirect relationships with other communities that process waste. Results also point to the disproportionate concentration of landfills in counties with greater minority populations. The conclusions and implications of the findings are discussed in addition to a range of potential applications for future research.
24707058|This paper emphasizes the role of Participatory Research (PR) in the socialization and resocialization processes, in which individuals' behavior towards the environment is acquired. We studied PR in the childhood socialization process by teaching it in an elementary school in a rural community in Yucatn, Mxico. An experimental (E) group; and a control (C) group were studied. Only the former received PR methodology instruction, though both were tested before and after the PR course to evaluate the children's concepts of PR, and to identify and measure behavioral changes. The results show that the E group increased in its ability to identify PR characteristics and steps after the PR course. It also exhibited an improvement in skills, and its frequency, manner, and speed of participation were significantly higher than in the C group. Results suggest that E group children effectively modified their school behavior.
24707538|In Hayden, a formerly company-owned copper smelter town located in rural Arizona, pollution with toxic heavy metals and acids persisted for 90 years. Despite new environmental laws, the waning economic power of copper, and accumulating epidemiological evidence of health damage, Hayden residents received little help from state regulators. Environmental injustice in Hayden occurred through unequal power relations between copper workers and the multinational corporations that controlled U.S. copper production. Latino workers were subordinated and the labor force divided while corporations were able to mobilize bias and obtain favorable treatment from state government. But by the end of the 20th century, the relative power of copper corporations had declined while public awareness of environmental health and justice issues had increased, leading to a lawsuit by Hayden residents but not a reduction in the mobilization of bias.
24707686|In exploring new ways of building the capacity for regional land-use reforms, this paper, using a case study approach, compares the role of non-profit environmental and land-use organizations to public, state agencies that operate in the same or similar spheres. The context for the comparative study are two regions in the Hudson River Valley of New York State, a broad geography experiencing intense development pressures as well as corresponding calls for land conservation and historic preservation. Findings suggest that while state agencies can offer strategic incentives and protections to communities and regions that adopt regional-oriented land-use policies, both governmental and non-profit groups play an important role in educating and advising municipal officials and residents as well as fostering cross-jurisdictional communication. In addition, an advantage of non-profit agencies is their independence from the state and state budgetary constraints. Non-profit agencies are also capable of advocating on behalf of their public agency counterparts in the public arena.
24707754|This paper aims to explain why responsible consumers develop favorable attitudes towards responsible consumption. More specifically, the main purpose of this paper is to explain the role that biography or life experiences play in the formation of the ethical obligation and subsequent responsible consumption-related actions. This paper used a qualitative methodology (Grounded Theory) appropriate for theory generation. By applying personal projects theory and self-determination theory to account for the results, we have found that the formation and realization of the project "responsible consumption" pass through different stages. These stages span from childhood to adulthood and each stage is characterized by key life experiences. We conclude that responsible consumers become so because their social environment has provided the nutriments for the development of a self-determined project  responsible consumption  oriented to intrinsic motives and autonomously pursued, and for its maintenance, by satisfying the three needs that according to self-determination theory are innate to individuals: competence, relatedness and autonomy.
24707034|Ecosystem management is proposed as the modern way of managing natural resources and ecosystems. Championed as an approach that will protect the environment, maintain healthy ecosystems, preserve biological diversity, and ensure sustainable development, ecosystem management also has been derided as a new label for old ideas. The definitions of ecosystem management are vague. Here I offer seven core principles, or pillars, of ecosystem management to delimit the concept. As with all management paradigms, there is no "right" decision, but rather those decisions that best respond to society's needs. For selecting the most important research needs, the most important criteria are policy relevance and scientific tractabilityresearch that addresses important management or policy problems and is likely to be scientifically achievable. Ecosystem management would be enhanced by developing (1) credible procedures to determine ecosystem health, which is within the domain of social and biological science; (2) scientifically sound options on which to base policy decisions about biological diversity and endangered species; and (3) a clear understanding of the relationship between ecosystem stability and biological diversity, and how each responds to external stress such as altering habitat and harvesting biotic resources. While many other research priorities also are important, the three identified needs meet the specified criteria and are likely to improve implementation of ecosystem management.
24707468|While considerable literature examines place dynamics, including place meanings, sense of place and place attachment, nearly all these works focus on people's relationships with high amenity places such as mountain or lakeside resort-type settings. This exploratory study uses survey data to explore place dynamics among residents living near Utah's Great Salt Lake (GSL), a setting known among locals for negative images as well as positive  a mixed amenity place. Findings reveal that while sense of place and place attachment are related to people's involvement and experience with the place, as seen in prior studies, these relationships are more nuanced in this setting. Place attachment is considerably less widespread; for some, GSL holds negative meanings; and some appear to have no real sense of place with GSL. These dynamics not reported in studies of high amenity places are important to a better understanding of the complexities of people's relationships with places.
24706925|This paper critically examines the underlying premises of indoor climate control technologies and the HVAC industry (heating, ventilating, air-conditioning). It questions whether "total environmental control" is possible, effective, and desirable. The paper also reviews the methods and terminology of thermal comfort science, focusing on the question of predictability of people's environmental preferences. The paper concludes with a review of recent critical observations and ideas that transcend conventional control technologies and corresponding comfort standards toward new vistas in environmental design.
24707015|The introduction of community forestry in Nepal represents an attempt to decentralize control and instill democratic reform in the management of forest resources through the direct involvement of individuals in decision making and benefit sharing. Detailed analyses of community forest outcomes, specifically an understanding of the process of self-governance and the exercise of power, remains a critical gap. Using a purposive sampling methodology, we identified 38 forest users representing a diversity of interests in three communities of the middle hills of Nepal and conducted in-depth interviews focusing on perceptions of an ability to exercise power in forest management. Power in this context is defined as the ability to create rules, make decisions, enforce compliance and adjudicate disputes. Our results identify inferiority, vulnerability, and a lack of transparency as factors that keep forest users from exercising power. We conclude that while community forestry offers tremendous potential to practice self-governance, the behavior of individuals based on complex informal institutional arrangements, such as caste and gender, must be accounted for in such formalized policy initiatives. Opportunities to influence power through mandated processes alone fail to fully explain or affect the potential for community forestry. Instead, we note that genuine empowerment is related to capacities involving the skills and confidence necessary to exercise power.
24707222|A roundtable discussion was held at the Eighth International Conference of the Society for Human Ecology to discuss ways to foster collaborative linkages across institutions to promote scholarship in human ecology. This paper clarifies the concept of scholarship employed in the roundtable and gives a synopsis of the ensuing discussion organized around four parameters: needs and resources; available technology support; models for establishing interinstitutional linkages; and sources of financial support for building and maintaining interinstitutional linkages, together with follow-up activities.
24707627|In the high desert region of the southwestern United States, historical Spanish colonial and native Pueblo settlements long relied upon community-based water collection and distribution systems for irrigation and domestic use. This paper adopts a community-based planning approach to examine the ways in which the community water and irrigation systemsthe acequiastoday contribute to the maintenance of the cultural landscape and ecological balance in the face of development pressures on traditional land use and natural resources. The formal authority of the acequiasassociations of irrigators maintaining and operating irrigation channelsas political subdivisions of the state provide a means for coordinated regional resource planning in concert with state and local government, although challenged by powerful economic and political interests.
24707569|This paper aims to investigate human-environment interactions in the Chinese context by studying land-use change in terms of agglomeration of human activities. The research is based on theories showing that resource flows agglomerate differently in the spatial dimension. The paper creates the urban-rural linkage index and decomposes the study area into three parts: urban, peri-urban and periphery areas. Research findings show that urban areas tend to experience faster arable land and built land change than the peri-urban and periphery areas. The findings also indicate that in the Chinese context of fast urbanization and economic growth, resource flows like people, capital, goods and information tend to agglomerate in the urban areas, followed by the small towns and medium cities, as well as the rural peripheries.
24707481|Fermented foods arise in the human relationship to the microbial environment. Human survival is connected to yeasts and bacteria that produce lactic acid and alcohol in preserved foods. This constitutes a fermentation ecosystem that embodies the succession of species, partitioning of resources, disturbance and equilibrium found in larger ecosystems. Fermented foods are preserved by microbes that live in food storage vessels. In many societies, the contribution of fermented food has been central. Fermentation ecosystems can be used as an engaging instructional tool to illustrate ecological concepts and lead to a more complex understanding of the ecology of human nutrition.
24707515|This paper traces the development of the slaughterhouse as a specialized institution through three major periods. The first began with increasing concerns about animal slaughtering in the eighteenth century and resulted in "public slaughterhouse" reforms, which marked the beginning of the concentration of animal slaughter and its movement away from the gaze of the public. Second, slaughterhouses became industrialized, as exemplified by the development of the notorious Union Stockyard in Chicago during the late nineteenth century. Finally, during the latter part of the twentieth century, slaughterhouses in the United States were relocated to small rural communities, which began to exhibit negative consequences. This paper represents a modest step in developing an historical understanding of the slaughterhouse as a unique institution and moving towards an understanding of the consequences of modern slaughterhouses in what Bulliet (2005) refers to as "postdomestic" societies.
24706879|The aim of this paper is to explore the idea that in the UK 'the urban' can be constructed as an intrinsically unsuitable space for childhood. My suggestion is that romantic constructions of 'nature', 'childhood', the 'rural' and the 'urban' remain active symbolic legacies within contemporary culture and these can make the presence of the 'natural child' in the 'unnatural urban' problematic. The rural and the urban are markedly differentiated spaces both materially and symbolically, and account must be taken of that, but these spaces are also constructed as single symbolic spaces in broad but nonetheless powerful ways. This does have implications for childhood in both urban and rural areas, particularly through the ways adults see, judge and direct children. Childhood also has to be seen as a differentiated category, but again there are deeply imbedded assumptions about 'what a child is' that will have effects across that differentiation. Dimensions of class, gender and ethnicity are considered because these appear to bring differing trajectories to the central narrative attempted here. I end with some thoughts on reconfiguring childhood-urban symbolic relations into a more positive form.
24707059|China's environmental policy emphasizes the use of economic instruments. By levying a fee for discharges, the government hopes to internalize environmental costs associated with production and consumption. This policy has been working relatively well in the urban areas, but faces a grave challenge in the rural areas where there has been a development of rural industries on a massive scale since the late 1970s. Polluting industries scattered in villages pose a major threat to the rural environment. The dispersedness of rural industries and the insufficiency of environmental monitoring have become major obstacles for the implementation of environmental legislation. Based on a field study in Qinshan town in eastern China's Zhejiang province, this study discusses limitations in the implementation of China's environmental laws in combating industrial pollution in the rural areas.
24707703|Anthropogenic fires have been a key form of disturbance in southern ecosystems for more than 10,000 years. Archaeological and ethnohistorical information reveal general patterns in fire use during the five major cultural periods in the South; these are Native American prehistory, early European settlement, industrialization, fire suppression, and fire management. Major shifts in cultural traditions are linked to significant transitions in fire regimes. A holistic approach to fire ecology is necessary for illuminating the multiple, complex links between the cultural history of the South and the evolution of southern ecosystems. The web of connections between history, society, politics, economy, and ecology are inherent to the phenomena of fire.
24707610|The social acceptance of sustainable development has motivated research exploring an emergent, integrative and nondichotomic ecological worldview called the New Human Interdependence Paradigm (NHIP). This framework is based upon a conception of interdependent development, implying a process of integration and inclusion of human needs within the dynamics of environmental balance. This paper analyzes the role played by the NHIP in the prediction of proecological, altruistic, and austere actions and in the emergence of collectivistic identity. Two studies were conducted. The first developed an expanded NHIP scale and analysed its construct validity. An oblimin factor analysis indicated the presence of four first-order factors and a NHIP higher-order factor. The second study tested a structural model that confirmed the NHIP unifactorial structure, evaluated the predictive capability of the NHIP on proecological, austere and altruistic behaviors, and identified the influence of collectivistic identity on the relationship between the NHIP and sustainable behaviors.
24875135|Prior research has investigated differences in exposure to green space between racial and economic groups across the United States. Results have generally shown that people of color and lower-income groups tend to live in neighborhoods with less green space than their more-advantaged counterparts. Our research extends existing studies by measuring the association between racial and economic differences in exposure to green space and racial or economic segregation across neighborhoods within cities. Findings show that cities with lower levels of racial segregation exhibit smaller racial disparities in exposure to green space. By contrast, in cities with greater racial segregation, white people tend to live in neighborhoods with more green space than do people of color. This difference is more pronounced between white and Hispanic people. Finally, there is a strong association between segregation among different income groups and differences in exposure to green space between lower- and higher-income people. Consistent with much of the literature on racial and economic segregationand studies of environment (in)justicewe find that lower-income people and members of minority groups live in neighborhoods with much less vegetation than their wealthier, white counterparts and these differences are exacerbated in racially and economically segregated cities.
24875133|This study examined the effects of theoretical constructs from the theory of planned behavior (TPB) and value-belief-norm theory (VBN) on intentions to perform purchase and disposal behaviors that help prevent aquatic invasive species (AIS) spread by organisms-in-trade (OIT) hobbyists. More specifically, the goals of this study were to explore (1) the predictive ability of theoretical constructs on intention to perform desired behaviors and (2) differences in the strength of the constructs on future purchase and disposal behaviors. Regression analyses from survey research conducted at OIT events in the Great Lakes region (n = 542) revealed that VBN constructs have direct, positive effects on likelihood of performing future purchase and disposal behaviors; one TPB construct (perceived behavioral control) also predicted likelihood of performing future disposal behaviors. Seemingly unrelated regression results demonstrate differing effects of theoretical constructs between purchase and disposal behaviors. Findings suggest tailoring messages to target specific behaviors.
24707054|Policy relevant research into human ecodynamics involves the study and management of historical systems. All too often this work is predicated on the historicist fallacy that history is like a motor car which clever drivers can steer to Utopia. This paper presents an historian's view of human ecodynamics as a complex, irreversible, self-organising or synergetic system and tries to explain why historical systems are as they are and to prove that such systems cannot be predicted or driven at will. Two simple ecosystem models are presented which illustrate the strengths and potential value of the synergetic approach.
24707640|This study examines the major differences between native-born and foreign-born residents of the United States on measures of environmental risk perception and risk attitudes. Hypotheses derived from the cultural theory of risk were tested. Discriminant analysis of the General Social Survey (GSS) and International Social Survey Program (ISSP) data was conducted using environmental and technological risk perception and attitudes modules. The results indicate that foreign-born respondents are more risk averse and skeptical about sources of information about environmental risks than their native-born counterparts. While there are some points of agreement, these groups exhibit dissimilar environmental risk perception on several measures. Native-born respondents scored significantly lower on risk perception and attitudes toward technological and environmental risks relative to their foreign-born counterparts. Methodological and theoretical implications of these findings are discussed.
24706843|As environmental problems grow increasingly complex, environmental consultants are challenged to offer services that respond to these demands in the marketplace. While "human ecology" is not generally recognized as a term of art in the field of environmental consulting, the dimensions of sound environmental solutions are often those of human ecology. As our clients have become increasingly confronted with complex resource and ecosystem problems, environmental consultants have been compelled to advance the state of the art in applied human ecology. We describe an applied example of human ecology in consulting practice, focusing on integrated resource planning for water. Large-scale resource tradeoff and development decisions such as these require consideration of many dimensions and the integration of information from a number of disciplines. Because the costs of "studying everything" are infeasible and "trading off" cost for quality in decision-making is a poor solution, environmental consultants are searching for innovative means to secure the necessary "quality" of perspective and information within reasonable budgets. We discuss some of the drivers and resulting trends that we see emerging in environmental consulting in response to these needs.
24707601|Those engaging in fishing-related activities and the communities in which they live face many and varied pressures. Resource depletion and the associated regulatory responses impose constraints on fishing activities and can exacerbate economic and social pressures on fisheries stakeholders. Other factors, such as increasing coastal development and shifting demographics, have brought additional threats to the sustainability of fisheries and those dependent on them. Regional fisheries management councils and the National Marine Fisheries Service are required to consider the potential benefits and costs of proposed management measures, as well as vulnerabilities and risks to fishermen and fishing communities resulting from these measures. However, social and economic data related to fishery stakeholders are not always readily available. Additionally, information on specific sub-groups that may have special needs and vulnerabilities in terms of the potential for disproportionate impacts resulting from proposed measures is even more illusive. A large number of factorsor driving forcesmay contribute to individual and group vulnerability. In this paper we explore the utility of considering vulnerability in the assessment of potential impacts from fisheries management measures. We begin by reviewing a conceptual framework of vulnerability and the driving forces of vulnerability. We then discuss how a consideration of vulnerability can inform managers by presenting results from recent empirical work related to marine fisheries. Finally, we discuss the potential benefits of a specific focus on vulnerability to fisheries management measures.
24707104|New biological perspectives describe the members of the ecosystem as less tightly connected than earlier models. This deprives many environmentalists of one of their most important arguments that claims that harm to one species will harm all others. The nature of argument in ethics is raised and it is claimed that its structure is closer to analogical argumentation in the law than to the deductive model in logic or some parts of science. The loss of the "house of cards" argument is only a problem if one misconstrues the nature of ethical argumentation.
24875120|Community horticulture is central to the cultivation of plants for a range of human needs. This paper synthesizes available information on the use of indigenous plants in communal nurseries, medicinal and food crop production, agroforestry systems, ecosystem restoration, urban greening and botanical gardens. Despite considerable use of indigenous plant species in a number of community horticulture initiatives worldwide, their utilization in urban greening, food production and ecosystem restoration is infrequent and/or inadequately documented. Hence, this review highlights the potential for using indigenous plants to solve problems relating to food security, livelihood strategies, conservation of useful plants, ecosystem degradation, and biodiversity conservation in urban areas. While community horticulture programs pose potential challenges, it is important to acknowledge their many profound and all-encompassing benefits, especially with their increasingly important societal and environmental roles in light of rapid population growth and urbanization, large-scale environmental degradation, and global climate change.
24706919|Women can be reproductively parasitized by men. This is especially true when a male maximizes his own individual reproductive fitness at a huge cost to the female. A woman abandoned after becoming pregnant, can either abandon the offspring, or invest her resources in her offspring (related to her by one half). If the culture does not allow her to abandon the offspring, she is then forced to rear an expensive offspring with little or no resources from the fathera classic, but relatively neglected, case of parasitism. Seldom is the male parasitized in reproduction on the scale that the female is. This potential for exploitation of the female's time, energy, and resources highlights the need for a perspective outside normal social theories such as: Marxism, functionalism, exchange theories, and symbolic interaction. For example, in capitalism, the use of labor cheaper than its real worth represents exploitation(parasitism) of the worker. A woman, unlike a laborer, does not have the option of quitting her mothering job for better pay and benefits. This suggests the need for a feminist-evolutionary ecology theory which is distinct from models addressing struggles in class, race, or wages. Additionally, while differing sex roles can be adaptive, similar roles can also be selected for, depending on environment. Thus, the consistent separation of tasks by gender throughout different cultures may be a reflection of avoiding competitive exclusion between the sexes. The type and pressure of selection can focus more on reproductive pairs than on the individual, and this may mitigate for or against parasitism, depending on the environment. Thus, true love may have an objective scientific merit in facilitating reproductive strategies for the pair rather than the individual, after all.
24707613|Four surveys totaling over 5,000 U.S. residents in 2008 and 2010 were used to examine environmental risk perceptions of Americans 75+ years old compared to their younger counterparts. The senior elderly were less concerned about almost every environmental risk, especially water quality, loss of open space, traffic congestion and other chronic issues that they have lived with for many decades. Their concerns were much closer to the younger populations for acute environmental risk issues such as nuclear facility failures and natural hazard events. These differences in perception are related to more positive affect among the senior elderly (happy, good, great, and the colors green, blue and white), and their strong identification with the Democratic Party and social issues that began during the administration of Franklin Roosevelt. The paper concludes with thoughts about policy implications and options to close gaps between the senior elderly and the larger US population.
24707500|The incorporation of ethnopedological knowledge in soil science and the inclusion of indigenous communities as beneficiaries of the agricultural technology are indispensable premises to make a better use of soil. However, to achieve this, it is necessary to have clearer communication and understanding between peasants and soil specialists. This paper contributes to the understanding of the way in which the ethnopedologic knowledge of the community of Zoyatln (Mexico) has been used in making decisions on soil management and production. It also proposes a methodological alternative that will contribute to the communication among land users and soil specialists. Our results show that Zoyatln peasants identify seven soil types grouped into four classes according to their agricultural suitability. These classes are determined by distinctive land properties that enclose six agronomic characteristics of the topsoil and four specific characteristics of the work area. Based on this criteria, we designed a parametric method assuming that the agricultural suitability of the land is determined by several characteristics of the topsoil; among them topsoil thickness was outstanding. This characteristic was susceptible to being represented parametrically by numerical values (obtained from a mathematical model), which is a single numerical expression of topsoil thickness performance. The application of this methodology provided information that is useful and can easily be interpreted by both the peasants and the soil specialists. Furthermore, this information can be represented at different cartographic scales.
24707431|Interdisciplinary research on contingent valuation and normative standards is reviewed and integrated. The objectives of the study are to identify issues of concern to both areas of research and to describe findings from each area of research that might inform the other. Seven theoretical methodological issues are identified and reviewed. Based on this analysis a series of conditions are described in which contingent valuation and normative standards research are most applicable and effective, and recommendations for future research are developed.
24707630|The preservation of open space, preserved or minimally developed stretches of land, is a pressing issue facing many United States' communities. This paper examines one United States township's attempts to preserve open space. Most residents surveyed (96 percent) approved of preserving open space, and most homeowners (73 percent) were willing to pay increased property taxes for preservation. Strong identification with nature and the township were associated with willingness to pay higher taxes. Respondents also rated the importance of qualities afforded by preserving open space. Valuing qualities of open spaces related to preserving its present state (e.g., preserving ecology and historical places) and following already established plans mediated relations between residents' identification with nature and the township and their willingness to pay to preserve open space. Qualities that increase human access to the space (e.g., recreation and accessibility) did not show the same mediational relations. These results suggest that psychological identification with nature and the community play important roles in pro-environmental support. Both the practical and theoretical contributions of this research are discussed.
24875136|Places of residence have multiple, yet largely unintegrated, cultural characteristics. Here I make a distinction between human environments that offer demanding winters or summers together with collective poverty (
24707542|Neighborhood quality ratings among those 75+ years old are compared with their 50-74 year old counterparts. Using a sample of 400 from central New Jersey and a national sample of about 20,000, I find that the older elderly have constructed elaborate mental models of their environment that incorporate feelings and emotions about their home, ethnicity/race, religion, and the nation, as well as their perceptions about their neighborhood. About 30-40% of respondents have quite positive perceptions of their neighborhoods along with similar perceptions of their other environments and their own lives. Ten to 15%, however, do not. Their neighborhood quality ratings are fair or poor and many are not happy with their home or spiritual environments. Assisting this second group is a major challenge.
24707484|A survey of Michigan residents (N = 1,003) conducted in 2005 found a positive relationship between people's closeness to a "primary" terrorist target and their judgments of the likelihood of a terrorist attack in their home communities in the next 12 months. This relationship was especially strong among female respondents and people with lower household incomes. Similarities and differences between this study and a previous study conducted by Fischhoff et al. (2003) immediately following the 9/11 terrorist events are discussed. Empirical results suggest that public perceptions of terrorism risk are being shaped more by the environment in which people reside than by other common predictors of risk perception.
24707612|This article explores the adoption and use of technology as part of an effort toward greener living. I draw on 45 in-depth semi-structured interviews and participant observation of three groups who shape their consumption in various ways in order to address climate change and other environmental harms: green home owners, religious environmentalists, and voluntary simplifiers. I highlight divergent adoption practices, of innovative and ordinary technologies, within these three relevant social groups. Although differing in their approach (constitutive, strategic, and practical) all three groups construct or augment the green-ness and smart-ness of technology through their practices. I find that an intensive use of innovative technology, rather than avoiding a change in practices, cultivates equally intensive practices to support it. Thus green-ness is jointly produced by aspects inherent to technology design, as well as the ways users adopt technology through domestication practices in the interest of social change. This article also shows how domestication theory, the co-construction of users and technology, and an expanded definition of green technology may contribute to a reshaping of policy objectives and approaches.
24707730|The cultural and political implications of landscape change and urban growth in the western U.S. are well-documented. However, comparatively little scholarship has examined the effects of urbanization on sense of place in the southern U.S. We contribute to the literature on competing place meanings with a case study from the rural "Sewee to Santee" region of northern Charleston County, SC. Our research highlights conflicting cultural, environmental, and racial politics and their roles in struggles over place meanings. Using focus groups, interviews with elected officials, and participant observation, we document initial African American resistance and eventual compliance with the prevailing anti-sprawl discourse and associated sense of place promoted by the Charleston County Planning Commission and others. Our research suggests that dynamics driving development in the rural, U.S. South are similar in kind to those in the Third World where natural resource decisions are informed by class, cultural, and racial politics.
24707626|Human populations along the Brazilian coast have undergone transformations in their livelihoods and recent changes have affected local food security. Caiaras, traditional inhabitants of the coastal Atlantic Forest, have experienced processes of urbanization, intensification of tourism, and nature conservation, which have influenced their relationships with biodiversity. Within this context, the objective of this research was to analyze livelihoods and food security of the Caiaras based on a case study in southeastern Brazil, emphasizing the use of food plants that are cultivated and harvested within protected areas. Using an integrative approach of human ecology and ethnobotany, methods included free listing, 24-hour recall, and food storage analysis. The results indicate that food security requires a complementarity between food- and income-generating activities in the studied communities. From all food items consumed by the families interviewed, 8 to 12 percent were local plants; specifically, fruits and spices available in homegardens.
24707428|One important question concerning the sustainability of local or native populations refers to their interactions with local and global institutions. We should expect that populations with the capacity to interact economically and politically with institutions, might have a better chance for ecological and cultural continuity as well as for trade and subsistence. The level of ecological and social interaction of local populations, following concepts from ecology, occurs at different scales: for example, from the territories of individual fishers in the Atlantic Forest coast to communal organized Extractive Reserves in the Amazon. The scale of organization (individual/family/community) may influence the capacity to deal with institutions. This study analyzes how Brazilian native populations, especially caiaras of the Atlantic Forest coast, and caboclos from the Amazon, have interacted with regional, national and global institutions, concerning environmental demands. Concepts such as common management, natural capital, resilience and sustainability are useful when trying to understand these illustrative cases.
24875148|In recent decades there has been considerable optimism that information communication technologies may lead to structural transformations of production, consumption, and transportation systems, helping to reduce energy consumption. Here we analyze the effects of information communication technologies on energy production and consumption as well as on the number of cars used in nations, analyzing data for 19902012. We find that the prevalence of landline phones is positively associated with higher levels of energy and electricity production and consumption, that the extent of Internet use is positively associated with the number of cars on the road, and the ubiquity of cell phones is not associated with the number of cars or with electricity or total energy production and consumption. These findings suggest that information communication technologies have not typically contributed to environmental reform and, in fact, may have exacerbated some environmental problems.
24707688|Considering an array of perspectives on human-ecological problems and possible solutions is essential for developing strategies that are socially accepted, culturally appropriate, and ultimately supported by residents, whose views and behaviors significantly affect environmental conditions. Following a tripartite model of affective, cognitive, and conative judgments, this paper examines: 1) local concerns about municipal water consumption, 2) the perceived role residents' landscaping choices play in contributing to resource scarcity, and 3) attitudes about regulatory policies aimed at conservation. The analysis assesses how people's multifaceted perspectives are influenced by various cultural domains  specifically, ecological worldviews, political orientations, and ethnicity, which were more significant than social attributes controlled for in regression models. Advancing a robust conceptual approach to understanding the sociocultural basis of environmental judgments, we found a dominant influence for ecological worldviews across perspectives, with otherwise complex relationships between people's views and distinctive spheres of culture.
24875131|Studies on the role of nutrient balances in the socioecological transition of agriculture are scarce, particularly in the Mediterranean region where manure availability was low. The role of nutrient balance in this transition was evaluated in three representative localities of the inland Mediterranean region of southern Spain from 1750 to 1900. Changes in cropland distribution, population, manure availability and demand, and nutrient balance at cropland and aggregated scales were assessed. Data suggest that agriculture development around 1750 was limited by manpower. During this period manure availability was higher than demand and municipal balances for nitrogen were positive, whereas they were slightly negative for phosphorus and potassium. During the 19th century, the population increased while livestock numbers and manure availability decreased. Nutrient balances become negative at crop and aggregate scales, indicating that productivity was based on soil mining. This territorial imbalance and soil mining were the main reasons behind the turn-of-the-century crisis which led to the agrarian socioecological transition.
24707682|This paper suggests a framework for operationalizing the concept of a social-ecological system (SES), through a generic system model that can be applied to different situations and used as a management tool. Four functional subsystems are identified: natural (N), worldview (W), control / management (C) and technology (T). These encompass four orders of system complexity: physical, biological, social and semiotic. Emergent systems properties are conceptualized as arising through exchanges of matter and meaning between subsystems, and between the system as a whole and its environment (E). The second half of the paper draws on field work undertaken in the Manu Biosphere Reserve, Peru, to illustrate how the generic model can be applied to the case of family farm systems in the reserve. The aim is to facilitate collaboration among specialists from a range of disciplines, and non-academics, working together to address social and environmental issues from a systems perspective.
24707223|Human ecology requires a very broad spectrum of integration among disciplines. Such integration has many hindrances, but the advent of geographic information systems (GIS) has the potential to greatly aid interdisciplinary research. GIS's primary objective is to spatially relate and integrate a variety of data emanating from many different disciplines. Thus, GIS may have an increasingly important role in research applications of interdisciplinary human ecology.
24707543|This study focuses on mental health and psychosocial distress sequelae of Hurricane Katrina cataclysm among survivors. The purpose of this article is to: (1) assess the variation in psychosocial distress among the survivors of Katrina by socio-demographic, structural and situational factors; (2) determine if there are significant racial and gender differences in the extent of psychological stress, especially between Black and White, male and female survivors; and (3) to evaluate the influence of resource loss or financial burden imposed, social support, and perceived victimization on psychosocial distress among survivors. The Gallup/CNN/USA Today survey data collected in 2005 and 2006 from a representative (random) sample of Katrina survivors are used. Among the results, significant racial differences were found in psychological impacts including reported symptoms of sleeplessness, anxiety, depression, and worries about the future. In a series of multivariate analyses including factor analysis and OLS regression models, residency in Orleans parish prior to the storm, older age, female gender, having dependent children, unemployment, extent of property damage, and financial impacts sustained consistently predict psychological distress among the survivors. The theoretical, methodological, and applied policy implications of these findings are discussed.
24706921|Hard-to-reach and hard-core smokers represent a group of individuals within the Canadian population who require specialized interventions to encourage smoking cessation. In this paper, the characteristics of four groups of hard-to-reach and hard-core smokers are reviewed, and a template for intervention is proposed. The intervention integrates concepts from a Human Ecology Model of Smoking Behaviour with the Transtheoretical Stages of Change Model (Prochaska and DiClemente, 1992). Concepts from a resiliency perspective are also incorporated resulting in a holistic framework for intervention for this special population. Recommendations for application of the Integrated Human Ecology and Transtheoretical Model of Smoking Behaviour and Cessation are presented in the final section of the paper, and implications for future research and program development are outlined.
24707644|This paper explores locally agreed upon indicators to determine the success of Nepal's community forestry program. A workshop for community forest user groups (CFUGs) representatives and local forestry professionals was organized to develop the indicators. An interview schedule was developed to solicit CFUG members' views on the identified indicators. A stratified random sample of CFUG members was taken, and 487 members were randomly selected for personal interviews. Descriptive statistics were used to analyze data. Findings show that access to fuel wood, fodder and timber; amount of community funds; incidence of forest fire; use of compost; women's participation in forestry meetings; forest status; and quality of drinking water were the most often agreed-upon indicators to determine the success of the community forestry program. There tends to be congruency between the local people's perspectives and the views of scientific communities on many indicators of the success of the community forestry program.
24707102|Northern Atlantic fisheries have experienced a series of environmental shifts in recent decades, involving collapse or large fluctuations of the dominant fish assemblages. Over roughly the same period, many fisheries-dependent human communities have lost population, while their countries as a whole were growing. Population loss tends to increase with the degree of fisheries dependence, among communities and sub-national regions of Newfoundland, Iceland and Norway. A close look at Norway, where municipality-level data are most extensive, suggests that population declines reflect not only outmigration, but also changes in fishing-community birth rates. Multiple regression using 1990 and 1980 census data for 454 municipalities finds that fisheries dependence exerts a significant negative effect on population, even after controlling for six other predictors including unemployment and income. The general pattern of changes seen in northern Atlantic fishing communities resembles those identified by migration research elsewhere. Fishing communities are unusual among contemporary first-world societies, however, in that rapid and large-scale environmental shifts appear to be among the forces driving population change.
24707087|This paper emphasizes the importance of broadening behavioral, ecological, and conservation science into a more integrative, interdisciplinary, socially responsible, compassionate, spiritual, and holistic endeavor.2,3 I will stress the significance of studies of animal behavior, especially ethological research concerned with animal emotions, in which individuals are named and recognized for their own personalities and temperaments, for helping us not only to learn about the nonhuman animal beings (hereafter animals) with whom we share Earth, but also for learning about who we are, our place in Nature, our humanness. We can be best understood in relationship to others. I will also develop the notions of "minding animals" and "deep ethology." Animals are a way of knowing; sources of wisdom. I am an optimist, a hopeful human being. I never say "never." I ache with the pains of other beings and also feel pangs when I feel inanimate landscapes being destroyed. Surely we do not want to be remembered as the generation that killed Nature. Now is the time for everyone to work for universal planetary peace. There is no alternative to world peace and we must sow seeds without hesitation to accomplish this urgent goal. It is essential that we do better than our ancestors. No one could argue that a world with significantly less, rather, no cruelty and boundless compassion, respect, grace, humility, spirituality, peace, and love would not be a better world in which to live and raise our children and theirs. We are all citizens of Earth, members of a global community in which intimate reciprocal and beneficent peaceful relationships are mandatory. We have compelling responsibilities for making Earth a better and more peaceful habitat for all beings. Time is not on our side. We must reflect and step lightly as we "redecorate Nature." I yearn for a seamless tapestry of oneness, a warm blanket, a soul-scape, of deep and reciprocal friendships in which all individuals count, a single community in which individuals are at one with all others, in which the seer and the seen are one, a community in which it feels good and makes individuals happy to be kind to others. My own dreams and spirituality are based on a deep and passionate drive for reconciliation, a seamless unity  a wholeness and oneness  motivated by trust, compassion, respect, grace, humility, and love. I plead for developing heartfelt and holistic science that allows for fun, joy, and play, along with interdisciplinary talk about kindness, generosity, compassion, respect, grace, humility, spirituality, peace, and love. Science need not be suspicious of things it cannot fully understand. We must never avert our eyes or our other senses from the eyes and voices of all other beings, our kin, our friends, who urgently beg for and truly need our immediate, uncompromising, and unconditional aid and love. We are obliged not to do so. We certainly can do much more than we have done for animals and Earth.
24707664|During 2002-2005, research has been conducted within eastern Bosnia, on the use of mushrooms and lichens and their effect on people's survival in war shelters and on isolated guerilla fighters in the area during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina (1992-95). 51 adults have been contacted for this research, including former soldiers who were holed-up in the enclave during the siege between April 1992 and June 1995, when free territory was overtaken. At that time, residents of the area escaped and a number of defense soldiers formed guerilla groups. Using the method of "ethnobotanical" interview, 25 species of mushrooms and 7 species of lichens were used by interviewees during the siege. The most used mushrooms were: Agaricus campestris, Boletus edulis, and Cantharellus cibarius. The most used lichens were Evernia prunastri (oak lichen) and Usnea sp. (Old Man's Beard), used for porridge and for lichen flour.
24707615|Landscape fire regimes in the Earth system are believed to be changing rapidly. These changes will have significant environmental consequences since fires are a key ecological process in flammable ecosystems with feedbacks on carbon cycling, soil fertility, biodiversity and regional climate patterns. Based on the evolution of fire regimes in Mediterranean biomes, as illustrated by the case of Spain, this article suggests that one of the leading causes of these transformations was the disruption of the pre-industrial anthropogenic fire regimes (PIAFRs) that helped shape these anthropogenic biomes. State-led industrialization policies and fire exclusion transformed the local communities that generated PIAFRs in all likelihood contributing to today's fire regime changes. In light of the challenges posed by climate change this article suggests that fire governance policies in these biomes should be opened to greater scrutiny and argues for interdisciplinary research into PIAFRs with ABM/LUCC models to further this goal.
24707060|We present a theory of the basis of support for a social movement. Three types of support (citizenship actions, policy support and acceptance, and personal-sphere behaviors that accord with movement principles) are empirically distinct from each other and from committed activism. Drawing on theoretical work on values and norm-activation processes, we propose a value-belief-norm (VBN) theory of movement support. Individuals who accept a movement's basic values, believe that valued objects are threatened, and believe that their actions can help restore those values experience an obligation (personal norm) for pro-movement action that creates a predisposition to provide support; the particular type of support that results is dependent on the individual's capabilities and constraints. Data from a national survey of 420 respondents suggest that the VBN theory, when compared with other prevalent theories, offers the best available account of support for the environmental movement.
24707599|As populations of many fish species worldwide have declined, the price of fuel has increased, and coastal development has mushroomed, fishing communities have suffered economic and social vulnerability. Since its 1996 re-authorization, the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (which governs U.S. marine fisheries) has included a definition of "fishing community" as "substantially dependent on or substantially engaged in the harvest or processing of fishery resources to meet social and economic needs" and a requirement (National Standard 8) to minimize economic impacts and sustain participation in fisheries in these communities. These initiatives are being implemented in conjunction with a worldwide move towards ecosystem-based management. These legal and policy requirements add a new layer to theoretical discussions of "community" and "vulnerability." We review key themes and issues from the literature on ecological anthropology, vulnerability, disasters, ecosystem-based management and fishing communities in the context of applied anthropological work in the U.S. Critical factors for understanding vulnerability in fishing communities are discussed and put in the context of more inclusive and holistic forms of management.
24707662|Archaeological data from south-central Guam are presented to show that technological and social adaptations enabled the ancestral Chamorros of the Mariana Islands, Micronesia, to remain mobile farmer-fishers despite a major climatic oscillation, from the Medieval Warm Period (MWP, c. 800-1350 C.E.) to the Little Ice Age (LIA, c. 1350-1900 C.E.). For several centuries people responded appropriately to increased aridity and harvest shortfalls during the LIA but tolerance limits for stresses to their cultural system were exceeded during violent clashes with Spanish colonizers in the late 17th century.
24707220|An ecological model of the learning process is proposed. An overview of the assumptions about the leaner and the learning environment, a traditional versus an ecological teaching framework, and an overview of the systems model of the learning process are discussed. A summary of findings from a graduate course are presented which identifies advantages and disadvantages of implementing an ecological learning model.
24707501|Urbanization increases the physical and mental distances between urban and rural residents and separates city people from knowledge about where and how their food is grown. We recognize an increasing interest in diet and health, as well as the environment, yet at the same time most urban consumers focus only on product quality and price in the supermarket. Broader issues of environmental health and the economies of families where their food originates are external to most food buying decisions. In most industrialized countries, less than 5% of the population produces food, and there is a relatively secure food supply. When consumers are distant from where food is produced, many lose any appreciation of food systems, become indifferent about agricultural landscapes, and are unaware of the multiple ecosystem services provided by rural areas. This is part of a general de-contextualization of the modern market and monetary focused societies. Contextualization and positive linkages between urban and rural people can be built, however, by promoting local food systems and establishing connections to the rural landscape. Viable examples of positive linkages include on-farm direct sales, community supported agriculture and farmers' markets, locally grown food in supermarkets, and ecobelts that help to link rural and urban areas with activities of common interest. Urban people who are closer to their food supply can become more engaged and informed consumers who will support an ecologically-sound food production system, as well as appreciate a healthy multifunctional rural landscape.
24707657|The phenomenon of global warming, the anthropogenic theory of its genesis, and some implications of that theory, are introduced as a case-study of a global environmental problem involving issues of equity between peoples, generations and species. We should favour the proportioning of emission quotas to population, if the charges of anthropocentrism, international injustice and discrimination against future generations can be avoided. It is argued that these charges can be countered satisfactorily, if emissions totals are set low enough for the needs of other species and generations, and if limits are set to the trading of quotas to ensure that all countries retain enough of their quotas to satisfy basic needs. The anthropogenic theory might instead be held to favour tying emissions quotas to aggregate historical emissions of the last two centuries. But intergenerational equity requires a sustainable international regime, based on universal principles rather than history.
24707672|Consumption and concomitant environmental degradation are among the most pressing global issues confronting us today. Drawing from recent empirical studies in environmental sociology and international political-economy, I test the extent to which the impacts of urbanization, domestic income inequality, and literacy rates on per capita ecological footprints vary across zones in the contemporary world-system. This involves the construction of "slope-dummies" and their incorporation into contextual effects analyses that test for heterogeneity of slopes among zones in the world-economy while controlling for additional relevant predictors. Using partial data for 208 countries, I find that the effects of predictor variables do vary among world-system tiers. Domestic income inequality in the core has a positive effect on per capita footprints while the impact of the former in all other zones is negative. The effect of urbanization on per capita footprints is most pronounced in the core, followed by the semiperiphery, high periphery, and low periphery, and the overall effect of literacy rates on ecological footprints is positive while between zone differences are inconclusive.
24707207|Aesthetic value is included in virtually all accounts of the values of biodiversity, but this value is still incompletely understood. Here I offer an account of the aesthetics of biodiversity based on the understanding of aesthetics developed by Immanuel Kant. The claim of this analysis is that (to use Kant's terminology) while individual organisms may be considered beautiful, biodiversity as a whole is sublime. This distinction poses challenges and opportunities for those who manage lands for biodiversity value. Comparison to managing art museums and wine cellars and a new vision for the role of systematics and taxonomy offer some insight into the management of the sublime aspects of biodiversity.
24707639|We surveyed 1351 residents who lived near six U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) former nuclear weapon sites using random digit dialing and stratified random sampling in order to determine which risks most worried them and the predictors of their worries. Respondents' greatest concerns were threats to their drinking water, transportation accidents, and worker exposures. The strongest predictors of their worries were concern about the quality of the local environment and the feeling that the federal and state governments were not doing enough to protect it. Many distrusted DOE's communications to them, and they tended to be relatively poor and African American, women, not college educated, and admitted to little knowledge about the site. The results were largely, but not completely, consistent with the risk perception and trust literatures, and they pose a challenge to the DOE to establish an effective partnership with diverse communities that will allow the DOE to manage some of these risks in perpetuity at these sites.
24707604|Vulnerability takes on a visceral meaning in the context of plying the seas in one of the most dangerous occupations in the U.S. Despite enhanced safety regulations for the fishing industry, deaths and injury abound. The loss of the F/V Northern Edge out of New Bedford with only one survivor sparked a new move towards the Northeast's commercial industry's participation in safety training courses in 2005 and 2006. By looking at the New Bedford experience and an effort by the Massachusetts Fishermen's Partnership to build on that model, this paper explores the potential for developing a "culture of safety" in the fishing industry of the Northeast. Fishermen have long been noted as either overt risk-takers or simply fatalists, but improvements in technology have made survival in emergency situations more likely. Participation in safety training may be viewed as an optimistic choice, reflecting a community's resilience in the face of adversity.
24707016|The values that individuals associate with wildlife and biodiversity are many. This study explores the values associated with wildlife and biodiversity by residents of a small, rural community in the Intermountain West region of the United States. The community is located within an area rich in wildlife and, in general, the research aims to examine how these individuals define their own value orientations toward wildlife and biodiversity, how these value systems have been shaped by regular interaction with nature within a rural setting, and whether these rural residents view their value systems as distinct from other population groups. Overall, the results demonstrate the fallacy of assuming constant value orientations within rural population groups, the importance of local context within value formation, and the myriad ways in which individuals define "environmental value."
24706896|Numerous humans - in my opinion, far too many - continue to live apart from nature, rather than as a part of nature. In this personal essay I discuss various aspects of traditional science and suggest that holistic and heart-driven compassionate science needs to replace reductionist and impersonal science. I argue that creative proactive solutions drenched in deep caring, respect, and love for the universe need to be developed to deal with the broad range of problems with which we are confronted. Simply put, I have had enough. I want the world to be a better place for all of its inhabitants and time is not on our side. I feel a deep sense of urgency and passionate impatience. We are worrying about wildness as it is disappearing right in front of our eyes - as I write and we discuss. Thus, I am willing to open myself to criticism, to be vulnerable for expressing views that are not part of main-stream science. Rather than take a doomsday view that the world will not even exist in 100 years if we fail to accept our unique responsibilities, it is more disturbing to imagine a world in which humans and other life coexist in the absence of any intimacy and interconnectedness. Surely we do not want to be remembered as the generation that killed nature. To illustrate some of my points, I discuss various aspects of translocation studies in which animals are moved about from one place to another in humans' attempts to "redecorate" nature. In these projects interdisciplinary collaboration is necessary and disciplinary boundaries must be trespassed. I also emphasize the importance of teaching children well for their and our futures rest on their developing a deeply-rooted caring ethic. My vision is to create a world-wide community in which humans perceive themselves as a part of nature and not apart from her, in which humans who are overwhelmed and whose spirits and souls have been robbed and squelched by living in and amongst steel, concrete, asphalt, noise, and a multitude of invasions of their private space reconnect with raw nature - with the wind in their faces, the odors of wild flowers, and the sounds, sights, odors, and touch of other animals and inanimate environs. A world in which sensing is feeling. Nature is our unconditional friend and reconnecting with nature can help overcome alienation and loneliness. The power of love must not be underestimated as we forge ahead to reconnect with nature.
24707685|News media are an important source of information that the public uses to collectively define and respond to wildfire. Yet research on this topic rarely examines the mechanisms behind continued messages of fire exclusion, despite prevailing scientific notions of wildfire as an inevitable and vital ecological process that residents should learn to live with. This study analyzes newspaper coverage during wildfire events in two Western U.S. States and compares emergent themes with existing fire social science literature. We use discourse analysis and the concept of framing to demonstrate how newspaper coverage of wildfire events both draws from broader social contexts and continues to perpetuate notions of fire exclusion. This is accomplished by focusing coverage on the threat to private property and in treating public lands as a "non-property." Similarly, resident support or criticism of firefighting efforts is presented as contingent on the protection of private property.
24707719|This paper proposes a simple heuristic model of environmental regulation choice, incorporating both market failure and government failure. It relates the comparative costs of alternative forms of environmental regulation to measurement difficulty and matches appropriate regulatory responses in a discriminating way. The model is then applied to the concrete problems of transboundary environmental pollution encountered by the United States and Mexico. The implications for business, public policy, and research are developed.
24707557|This essay includes a review of major strategies for preservation of earth's biodiversity including the biodiversity "hotspots," "Wildlands Project," and the "consensus" strategy. The essay includes a review of reasons for protecting biodiversity including the deep ecology, inherent value argument, and a review of philosophies and organizations that place low value on preservation of biodiversity. Local, national and international organizations working for protection of biodiversity are discussed. The paper concludes that preservation of significant portions of the global biodiversity is cost-effective, reasonable, and prudent. The paper calls for international organizations, national governments, and regional and local communities to focus attention and resources on preservation of biodiversity as a high priority of action because to do otherwise could cause irreversible harm to the diversity of life on the planet.
24707251|Environmental Justice Movement activists have mobilized on the basis of grievances involving the disproportionate exposure of working class and minority subgroups to various environmental risks. Academics have frequently offered empirical documentation of such exposure. Public interest lawyers have sought legal remediation for injustice claims. But substantial structural changes to ameliorate disproportionate exposure have not occurred. Why? We argue that activists, researchers, and lawyers speak with different voices in different venues, with the consequence of creating "noise," instead of uniting to speak in one voice. We review the sociological literature to identify the separate voices of activists, researchers, and lawyers, analyzing each one's focus, target audience, and types of evidence offered. Then we discuss the consequent noise and conclude with some suggestions for uniting the voices in a cooperative, coherent argument for amelioration of the unequal distribution of environmental risks.
24707126|Watershed planning is an important focus of environmental protection efforts in many states. Still, how to involve the public in watershed planning remains controversial. This paper reports on research that used Q methodology to study how experienced watershed management planners and activists perceive the proper way to involve the public in decision-making. Four perspectives about how best to involve the public in watershed planning emerged. One emphasizes that a good process is credible and legitimate and that it maintains popular acceptance for outcomes. A second sees a good process as one that produces technically competent outcomes. A third focuses on the fairness of the process. A fourth perspective pays attention to educating people and promoting constructive discourse. Differences among these views suggest an important challenge for those responsible for designing and carrying out public participation processes. Conflicts may emerge about process designs because people disagree about what is appropriate in specific contexts.
24875145|Structural human ecology is a vibrant area of theoretically grounded research that examines the interplay between structure and agency in humanenvironment interactions. This special issue consists of papers that highlight recent advances in the tradition. Here, the guest co-editors provide a short background discussion of structural human ecology, and offer brief summaries of the papers included in the collection.
24707128|This paper addresses the traditional resource use by Caiara communities, their means of subsistence and the critical aspects related to their survival within a restrictive protected area  the Estao Ecolgica de Juria-Itatins (EEJI). This study is based on historical and social data and its approach is ethnographic and ethnoecological. Caiara communities descend from the intermarriage of Portuguese colonists, Indian populations and African slaves. Traditional activities linked to the ecological calendars are analyzed within economic and environmental policy contexts. The response of Caiara subsistence economy to external changes is also appraised. The EEJI is located on the southeastern coast of So Paulo State and is covered by the Atlantic Rain Forest. This forest is a severely endangered tropical and subtropical ecosystem, due to 500 years of demographic and urban growth. Knowledge of the historical background and the comprehension of the Caiara resource and land use practices should be integrated to policies of preservation of the Atlantic Rain Forest and, particularly to EEJI management plans.
24707625|This paper articulates the essentially philosophical character of human ecology. The first section argues that the oftennoted concern of human ecology for both sustainability and equity is best understood as a concern to help humans implicated in problematic humanenvironment interactions to identify how to refashion these interactions so as to enable a more sustainable balance between the moral claims of others and their own needs and desires. Human ecology is therefore governed by a unitary practical interest in facilitating a more sustainable balance between virtue and happinessliving well in Aristotle's sense. If this is so, then human ecology must be done, in certain phases of its practice, as philosophy. The second section then illustrates how this general conception applies to and shapes the investigation of a concrete issueconsumptionparticularly in first world economies. It also shows how, given this conception of human ecology as philosophy, this issue is not just one important target of investigation alongside others but the central human ecological topic. Finally, the third section argues that human ecology, done as philosophy, also requires grounding in philosophy. Specifically, it needs a general account of what it is to be the rational animals we humans are since only this can give actionguiding content to the idea of living well without tendentiously prescribing any specific form of life. In conclusion, it is argued that the philosophical character of human ecology explains what it means to describe it as a multi-, inter-, trans-, and even adisciplinary fusion of biological and social sciences.
24707749|Recent decades have seen an evolution in thinking on the sustainability of forest-dependent communities from community stability to community resilience, which seeks to enhance communities' ability to respond to drivers of change in ways that sustain the multiple dimensions of well-being. However, the process of community response to drivers of change is not well understood and methods for assessing community resilience are not fully developed. This paper proposes a theoretical model to understand the structures and processes influencing the adaptation of communities and households to drivers of change and which can serve as a guide to the development of indicators for assessing resilience across multiple scales. The model synthesizes the interactional community theory from rural sociology and the theory of resilience in social-ecological systems from the field of applied ecology. The implications of the model for theory and methods are discussed.
24875121|In this paper we overcome limitations of extant models of long-term social evolution by developing a formal theory that explains the emergence of environmental injustices and movements for environmental protection by incorporating the concept of ecological value, a value derived from the supply and quality of ecological services demanded by a society or group(s) within a society. The theory explains how intra- and inter-societal imbalances of political and/or economic power are harnessed to capture distant ecological value in response to selection pressures resulting from reductions in the local level and/or quality of ecological services and in response to the growth of environmental concern. Opposing the continued capture are the same forces that generate itecological degradation and ecological concernthe dynamics of which shift along with the scale; as the forces move from the local to the global they lead to a bifurcation point at which either solutions for ecological sustainability are implemented or failure occurs in the form of ecological collapse. We close by considering the ramifications of this model in which the relative levels of these forces shape the future.
24707659|Climate forcing can be gauged by national contributions. Human GHG (CO) emissions can be compared by country and year, but, ranking annual national emissions by per-capita shares tell us more. That measure, together with cumulative emissions over time as well as policy actions, reveals the USA as the dominant contributor to warming. Anthropogenic climate change is thus largely Amerigenic. I argue that this circumstance arises from the unusually high reliance on fossil fuels as well as from a specific geography of thought that informs conventional culture and affects policy in the US. Salient features of this geography are monotheism (Protestantism), individualism, capitalism, and skepticism. Each of these prevailing social traits is innocuous by itself, but they coalesce to a critical mass  a square of flawed cognition  in the context of climate change. Climate change is ultimately a cultural problem, and US normalcy is to be blamed for worsening climate forcing and for delaying rational policy.
24707585|Here I draw attention to two socio-ecological paradoxes. The Jevons Paradox is based on the observation that an improvement in the efficiency with which a natural resource is used is often associated with an increase in the consumption of that resource. Similarly, the Paperless Office Paradox is based on the observation that the development of substitutes for a natural resource is not always associated with a decline in consumption of that resource, and in fact may occasionally lead to an increase in the consumption of that resource. These two paradoxes call into question whether technological advances alone will necessarily lead to conservation of natural resources.
24707472|Socio-ecological models contribute to the understanding of how context influences human development and construction of worldviews. However, the claim that socio-ecological models represent the "true" influencers of an individual might be a misrepresentation of the complexity of whole ecological systems. This paper explores the possibility of adapting the use of the "socio-ecological model" to better represent the ecological influencers, rather than the primary focus of human and social factors. With reference to the new trends in environmental education, this paper explores the definitions of ecologically-based language, outlines the current domain of socio-ecological models, and proposes a re-orientation of socio-ecological models to "eco-sociological models." The conclusion provides five ways to incorporate a more ecologically-based approach to understanding contextual influencers and a rework of Bronfenbrenner's socio-ecological model as an eco-sociological model.
24707603|The purpose of this paper is to develop a heuristic model to account for the attachment that many particularly successful fishermen seem to have to their occupation. It is argued here that the relatively risky nature of the occupation of fishing attracts and holds individuals manifesting an active, adventurous, aggressive, and courageous personality; hence, these risky components of the job have a positive influence on their levels of happiness. There is more to fishing than money. What other occupation is reflected in a popular recreational activity like marine sport fishing? It takes one into a different environment, away from shore-based activities and allows participants to become involved in the thrill of the hunt, pitting ones' luck and skill against others as well as against elusive prey hidden beneath the water. As a consequence, some fishermen resist leaving the occupation even when economic returns suggest they should. The paper first develops a heuristic human ecology model that illustrates relationships between aspects of the physical, political, and social environments that generate stress among commercial fishermen. The model is then elaborated to include psychological, biobehavioral, technological, ideological and social adaptations that mediate between the stress causing variables and the individual fisherman, reducing or eliminating the stress. A possible genetic component is also discussed. The model is discussed in terms of its application to fisheries management in New England and elsewhere.
24707056|This work aims to describe certain landscape ecology concepts applied to the possibility of environmental restoration and reinstatement, starting from recent studies carried out on land that once underwent Roman centuration. We considered an area containing an old quarry, subsequently converted into a rubbish dump, and applied certain concepts of ecology scale, hierarchy and metastability that, together with traditional investigations, were able to provide a thorough description of the conditions of prior territorial development and helpful indications of future potential uses. This experience has shown that the application of centuriation could still be beneficial for the territory concerned, revaluing the advantages of early biological agriculture (archaic cultivation, etc.) and its produce as a means for restoring deteriorated situations (conversion of rubbish dumps, reinstatement of forgotten land-marks and road-ways, etc.), for renewing traditional rural tourism (traditional local cuisine, historical handicrafts, etc.), and ultimately for proposing prestigious cultural schemes (an open museum).
24707085|What constitutes a good decision about the environment? Some research traditions offer concepts, theories and methods intended to improve both individual and collective decision making about actions that will effect the environment. But there is relatively little explicit discussion of what would be appropriate criteria for calling an environmental decision a good choice. Six criteria for evaluating environmental decisions are suggested: human and environmental well-being, competence about facts and values, fairness in process and outcome, a reliance on human strengths rather than weaknesses, the opportunity to learn and efficiency. It is hoped that an explicit discussion of the appropriate criteria for environmental decisions will lead to better conceptualizations, better tools and ultimately better decisions.
24707677|This research evaluates whether increased learning, local political participation, and more extensive social networks are related to participation in a volunteer stream monitoring project in Wisconsin. We hypothesize that participation in volunteer monitoring increases factual learning among experienced volunteers compared to inexperienced volunteers, that participation also is associated with increased community political participation in community natural resources management, and increased size of personal action networks. We find that participation does not significantly increase factual learning; rather, new volunteers and experienced volunteers were equally knowledgeable about stream-related topics. However, participation does significantly increase the political participation, personal networks, and feelings of community connectedness among volunteers. We consider our findings in light of the possibility of using volunteer monitoring to enhance local social capital and contribute to the adaptive management of water resources.
24707252|The influences of economic factors, agricultural pesticides, and industrial carcinogenic wastes on rates of cervical and ovarian cancer mortality were examined for 254 Texas counties. Regressor variables included: median family income, county proportion of state female employment in agriculture, county proportion of state female employment in the chemical/petrochemical industries, percentage of pesticide-treated acres in county land area, and accumulated pounds per acre of known carcinogenic wastes released by manufacturing industries in a county. Data for most of the variables were averaged for the period 1980 to 1990 to stabilize values for rural, sparsely populated counties. Levels of carcinogenic wastes reported by the Toxics Release Inventory were summed for the years 1988 to 1994. Standardized age and race-adjusted mortality rates were based on the average number deaths due to each of the two gynecological cancers for the period 1986 to 1994 and the 1990 size of population subgroups in Texas. Bivariate correlations were computed and ordinary least squares regression (OLS) was conducted. The OLS model explained 83 and 77 percent of the variation in cervical cancer and ovarian cancer mortality rates. Regression findings indicated that cervical and ovarian cancer mortality rates were positively influenced by both of the employment measures and by median family income. Contrary to the research hypotheses, these rates were negatively influenced by pesticide coverage and the per acre volume of accumulated toxic wastes.
24707188|Research has shown that adult Americans react to their neighborhoods and the attributes of their neighborhoods in predictable ways. A survey was made of matched pairs of 15 to 24-year-old and older Americans who resided in the same dwelling unit in order to determine if younger Americans perceive their neighborhoods in the same way as their older counterparts. The survey found almost identical neighborhood quality ratings among the matched pairs of younger and older adults. Crime and other forms of fear-provoking behaviors, blight, and littered buildings and streets were clearly the strongest correlates of neighborhood quality ratings among both the younger and older populations. Neighborhood amenities and resident characteristics were weakly or less strongly associated with neighborhood quality ratings. These results clearly point to the key factors that need to be controlled for good neighborhoods to maintain their status.
24707125|In this article, I trace organizational sociology's inability to develop a comprehensive framework integrating structure, agency and environment to the persistence of essentialism within the ecological tradition and nominalism within the constructivist tradition. Drawing on parallels with the Darwinian revolution, I argue that these impasses can be overcome through a combination of population thinking and a relational approach to categorization. This combination provides the metatheoretical foundation for an "ecology of social action" which merges organizational ecology and resource mobilization theory's insights into structure-environment interactions with constructivists' attention to agency, language, culture and power. The concept of a socially constructed adaptive landscape is put forward as a central metaphor for linking the ecological and constructivist traditions.
24707101|This study examines the effect of race on place attachment to wildland areas. It is generally assumed that African Americans have a more negative impression of wildlands, compared to white ethnic groups. Studies from past decades report that blacks show less aesthetic preference for wildland, unstructured environments and are also less environmentally aware than whites. While it is assumed that blacks are wildland averse, few studies have considered some of the sociohistorical factors that may have contributed to the formation of such attitudes. One possibility is that blacks' collective "memory" of sociohistorical factors such as slavery, sharecropping/Jim Crow, and lynching may have contributed to a black aversion for wildland environments. Racial differences in aesthetic appreciation of wildlands are tested with a place attachment scale developed by Williams et al. (1992) using confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling. The data are from a 1995 survey of residents in a rural, southern county in the Florida panhandle. Results show significant racial variation, with African Americans having less attachment to wildland recreation areas. Sex and age are also significant predictors of place attachment.
24706915|Although environmental sociology has made some important gains, it does not exist "officially" in Germany (until 1995) -- it is neither recognized as an accredited field of study at German universities nor does it constitute a section within the German Society of Sociology (DGS), prior to 1996. In light of this amazing fact, this article will first sketch some of the most important elements and trends of environmental sociology in the United States, and then compare these to recent German approaches. The conclusion is that environmental sociology was not ableeven in the US and in spite of promising recent theoretical endeavors in Germanyto change mainstream sociology. At the same time, new perspectives for future research are identified.
24707540|Following the 1989 Velvet Revolution, Czechoslovakia experienced a period of heightened environmental awareness characterized by strong public support and a proliferation of non-governmental environmental organizations. The political and economic climate shifted dramatically in 1992 with the election of the conservative Civic Democratic Party. Environmentalists soon found themselves out of favor with the political establishment and they experienced government harassment, dwindling public support, and a loss of funding for their campaigns. Drawing from in-depth interview data, archival research and fieldwork we find that these external pressures contributed to ideological cleavages and ultimately organizational schism within Rainbow Movement (Hnut Duha), one of the largest and most influential environmental movement organizations in the country. Our research has important implications for environmental movements in diverse political and economic settings.
24706945|Grassroots leaders are crucial in stabilizing and improving neighborhood quality. But who are they? What are their demographic and personality characteristics? How do they perceive their neighborhood environments? A survey was conducted of 35 neighborhood leaders and 250 other respondents who chose them. The leaders participated in twice as many types of neighborhood activities as the people who selected them. The leaders were more optimistic, felt that they had considerable control over what goes on in the neighborhood, and coped with neighborhood problems using a multiplicity of outreach methods. Notably they were less reliant on television and radio for neighborhood information. Leaders also trusted the office of the mayor and officials elected to represent them in the state legislature, although much more so in high quality than in poor quality neighborhoods. Leaders were not markedly different from other respondents with regard to demographic characteristics such as age, race/ethnicity, education and perceptions of their neighborhoods.
24707055|Four ordinary least squares regression models were run for age-, race-, and sex-adjusted cancer mortality rates, standardized by the direct method. Digestive cancer, genital cancer, lymphatic and hematopoietic cancer, and urinary cancer rates were based on the average number of cancer related deaths for the period 1986 to 1994 and the 1990 size of population subgroups in 254 Texas counties. The four cancer rates were highly intercorrelated indicating that particular counties had high rates for many of the four cancer groups. Black proportion of population and urban county status had statistically significant influences on high cancer mortality rates in all of models. Median family income was inversely related to cancer mortality rates in all of the models, except that of urinary cancer. Contrary to expectations, Hispanic proportion of county population, level of manufacturing employment, accumulated pounds of toxic chemical wastes, and number of insecticide-treated acres had unimportant influences on cancer death rates. Foreign-born proportion of county population was associated with only digestive cancer mortality. Future research at the individual level in high death-rate counties is needed to better identify causal factors, and to improve variable measurement and model specification.
24707678|The publication of Rachel Carson's Silent Spring in 1962 is widely regarded as one of the major events that launched the modern environmental movement. Silent Spring is a compelling blend of stories, natural history, human values, and biological facts. In this essay we consider Carson's attitude toward animals in Silent Spring and in other texts. Despite the facts that she was raised to love Nature and animals, little direct attention has been given to Carson's views about our moral responsibilities to, and the moral standing of animals. Carson favored responsible stewardship, was more of an animal welfarist and environmentalist/conservation biologist who privileged ecosystems and species than an animal activist who privileged individuals, and she did not advocate an animal rights agenda. There is clear tension in Carson's text. Often she seemed troubled by attempting to come across as a moderate and practical scientist and some of her words, when considered out of context, could lead one to lable Carson as an animal rightist. While some of Carson's text favors human-centered interests, she did not believe that only humans counted. Her warnings about silent springs  silent seasons  must be taken seriously, perhaps even more seriously than when they were penned more than four decades ago. Surely, on the other side of silence, await magic, awe, and Nature's cacophony of sounds  along with a panoply of innumerable other sensory (visual and olfactory) experiences that help us to feel at one with all of Nature. We must be careful never to allow Nature to be silenced. Carson was a passionate and extremely influential activist, and there is no doubt that if there were a world of Rachel Carson's in charge of our global environmental policies, we and our fellow animals would surely be in much better shape than we currently are.
24875134|To effectively organize cooperation with stakeholders in the planning and management of protected areas, it is important to understand their perception of the protected area and the factors influencing that perception. This study identifies the factors and their impact on locals' perceptions of the Kamniko-Savinjske Alps Regional Park in designation, Slovenia. The results of discriminant analysis show that the local population that supports the park has significantly different views of its potential from the population that opposes it. In addition, the local population that supports the park was personally notified by the founders about the plans, while the opposing population was not. Therefore, the former is more trustful of the founders' procedures and there is more cooperation with all interest groups than with the opposing population. Contrary to our expectations, higher education, place of residence, and gender do not affect the population's support for the park. These results confirm that a consideration of the factors that affect the local population's perception of the protected area contributes to more effective involvement of stakeholders in the process of park creation, which is important for the successful management of protected areas.
24707513|The structural factors shaping human society's relationship with water have only begun to be quantitatively explored by environmental sociologists. The current study aims to contribute to this discovery by asking the question: Why did some counties in the American state of Texas consume greater amounts of water than others in the year 2002? To help answer this question, using county-level data from two main sources (the United States Census Bureau and the Texas Water Development Board), agricultural and non-agricultural water use are regressed on a selection of variables informed by the critical human ecology approach. The results of the regression analysis indicate that these two dependent variables are positively related to critical human ecology factors. This analysis supports the argument that the societalecological dialectic plays an important role in the maintenance of the hydrologic cycle and freshwater provisioning services for humans, especially in the context of anthropogenic global warming.
24707528|This paper first explores the conflictual discourses employed by government agencies, citizens' initiatives, and environmental organizations over the construction of a High Voltage Power Station (KYT) for demands of the 2004 Olympic Games, as presented in media reports and movement literature over a period of one year. Having in mind recent criticisms targeting the lack of empirical evidence in Ulrich Beck's risk theorization, this exploration is of distinct importance. Secondly, it takes into account that both the defensive character of societal action and mistrust to expert authorities have been confirmed as prevalent characteristics of both the Greek and the general risk social context. The paper attempts to re-evaluate and/or complement existing perspectives of societal activism in general and environmental mobilizations in particular within the confines of the Greek social context. As a tentative conclusion, it is suggested that the risk perspective offers a novel prism for the examination of societal activism without confining it to the characteristics of individual national contexts.
24707717|Although a growing body of evidence suggests that publicly disclosing information about plants' environmental performance can motivate emissions reductions, this phenomenon remains poorly understood. To help fill this gap, this paper presents original data from a survey of plants participating in the Program for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating (PROPER), Indonesia's widely acclaimed public disclosure program. The data suggest that a key means by which PROPER spurs abatement is improving factory managers' information about their own plants' emissions and abatement opportunities. These finding contrast with the prevailing view in the literature that public disclosure enhances pressures to abate placed on firms by external agents such as community groups and shareholders. But our data also suggest that PROPER's "environmental audit" effect operates in concert with external pressures. Therefore, simply supplying new information to plant managers without making that information public may not be sufficient to motivate significant abatement.
24707237|The role of food has changed from a local product that connects people with each other, and with nature, to simply being a global commodity. The potential consequences include difficulties in identifying our food, and perceiving our own identity. We are now distant from our food sources and increasingly distant from each other. This distance can be spatial, temporal, and psychological. One result is that many citizens place low priority on agriculture and food systems, lack insight and concern about resources and the natural environment, and have a short-term focus on immediate comforts at the expense of long-term sustainability. To search for alternatives, a visioning workshop brought together people with different roles in the food system, and we identified concerns with the current situation and created a shared vision for future interconnections in the food system in Hedmark County, Norway.
24875119|The neoliberal rejection of a strong role for governmental regulation of industry has led to increasingly negative consequences for the environment and the people who are forced to bear a disproportionate share of the health and safety hazards created by corporate polluters. The voices of the victims of environmental injustice often go unheard in the policy arena, while an arsenal of paid industry lobbyists exerts undue influence and power over legislative and regulatory agency processes. In this paper, I argue that we as social scientists are frequently positioned in such a way that we could serve as links between the people we study and policymakers, providing an avenue for exposing the ways that neoliberal policies negatively affect the health, safety, and well-being of disenfranchised groups. Through presenting a "Photovoice" project I conducted with 54 women living in five coal-mining communities in southern West Virginia, I demonstrate how feminist activist ethnography, as a distinct type of activist research, can be used for social science inquiry while simultaneously providing an opportunity for research participants' stories to be heardand acted uponby those with political power.
24706959|The diverse literature related to "place" is discussed in the context of several psychological frameworks to highlight connections to conservation psychology research and practice. The study of the human relationship to place is first cross-cut by distinctions between built versus natural places, explanatory versus normative stances, and humanistic versus scientific approaches. Several typographies are then provided as ways to organize some of the psychological research related to place. Place perception and cognition provide insights into mental and collective representations of place. Affective or emotional constructs, such as place attachment and dependence, offer ways to consider the strong bonds people form with places, which can be significant factors in land management. Place identity research describes how a person may have a sense of belonging in a place, and how this may vary with background variables. Finally, development of a sense of place is examined for both children and adults. Lessons for mental health, education, and communication, and public involvement in adaptive ecosystem management are suggested, and illustrated by experiences in the Great Lakes region.
24707556|My essay was written as a response to four papers that were presented at the 2004 annual meetings of the American Academy of Religion (AAR) in a session that was devoted to my research on animal behavior and cognitive ethology. Here I stress the importance of interdisciplinary research and collaboration for coming to terms with various aspects of animal behavior and animal cognition, and argue that we have much to learn from other animals with regard to a set of "big" questions including: Who are we in the grand scheme of things? What is the role science ("science sense") plays in our understanding of the world in which we live? What does it means to "know" something? What are some other ways of knowing and how do they compare to what we call "science"? What are the uses of anecdotes and anthropomorphism in informing studies of animal behavior? Are other minds really all that private and inaccessible? Can a nonhuman animal be called a person? What does the future hold in store if we continue to dismantle the only planet we live on and continue to persecute the other animal beings with whom we're supposed to coexist? I argue that cognitive ethology is the unifying science for understanding the subjective, emotional, empathic, and moral lives of animals because it is essential to know what animals do, think, and feel as they go about their daily routines in the company of their friends and when they are alone. It is also important to learn why both the similarities and differences between humans and other animals have evolved. The more we come to understand other animals the more we will appreciate them as the amazing beings they are and the more we will come to understand ourselves.
24707558|This essay develops a way to think about the aesthetics of wind energy systems. The inquiry begins by considering an increasingly familiar clash between aesthetic responses to wind farms: the NIMBY appreciator of wind farms who likes their ecological rationality but not their look, and the aesthetic appreciator who sees the wind farm as beautiful, in part because of its ecological rationality. I raise the following questions: Is one of these perceptions more objective than the other? Is one of the aesthetic judgments uttered more truthful than the other? Or is this simply a question of subjective or intersubjective preferences? The essay goes on to explore dialectically the various ways we can think about the different aesthetic responses to wind farms. I lay out an argument, using a concept of beauty from complexity theory as the perception of wholeness, to argue that the aesthetic perception of wind farms as beautiful is objectively more truthful than the NIMBY response.
24707480|Ecovillages provide important insights into the human dimensions of sustainability, but remain relatively unexplored. In this paper I highlight critiques of the society/nature divide and emphasize the need to pay attention to the paradigms that influence how people think and what they do. I discuss the ecovillage model as a rejection of the outmoded "dominant western worldview" in favor of one that recognizes human-ecosystem interdependence. Drawing on field research, I examine the practical means by which ecovillages strive to institute and reinforce an alternative paradigm. In addition to explicit intention, rules, the organization of social interaction, and physical characteristics, I identify an expanded notion of community and its accompanying ethic as distinguishing features of the ecovillage. I suggest the possibility that these are necessary features of a sustainable society.
24707588|Cooperative research among fisheries scientists, industry and managers in the Northwest Atlantic has expanded since 2000, in part due to increasingly disputed science, adversarial politics, and socioeconomic hardship. Surveys of individuals actively engaged in commercial fishing in New England (n=295), and fishermen (n=60) and scientists (n=37) participating in Northeast Consortium-funded cooperative research examined improvements in stakeholder engagement, the distinction between levels of cooperation, and the extent that cooperative research reflects democratic science. We found that through cooperative research, fishermen and scientists are more informed about science and fishing, respectively. These fishermen are more likely to believe the science to be credible. Fishermen and scientists report greater mutual understanding, trust, and likelihood of long-lasting partnerships. Fishermen in particular, but scientists as well, became more active in management after participating in cooperative research. Multiple participation choices are important to ensure broader participation. Last, fishermen and scientists remain skeptical about cooperative research's impact on management.
24875124|We describe the rules, norms, and strategies (institutional statements) that characterize ecological restoration across 10 organizations in the Chicago Wilderness region. Our use of Ostrom's IAD ADICO grammar tool is novel in both context (non-extractive resource management) and data type (qualitative interviews). Results suggest that, in contrast to a focus on rules in the literature, restoration is overwhelmingly guided by strategies (institutional statements void of tangible or emotional sanctions). Moreover, a small, but critical set of norms exist. From over 1,700 institutional statements extracted, we found a suite of rich principles that guide behavior in all of the organizations: (1) qualify, don't quantify; (2) listen to the land; (3) practice follow-up; (4) do no harm; (5) respond to sanctions from the land; (6) balance diverse internal stakeholders; and (7) balance diverse external factors. These principles suggest that Chicago Wilderness restorationists have a strong shared understanding upon which collective action and adaptive management occurs.
24707687|Within environmental sociology there exists a debate between competing theories of societal development and its accompanying ecological repercussions and possible solutions. Environmental reform (ecological modernization) and unsustainable economic system (treadmill of production, ecological unequal exchange, and structural human ecology) theories propose two very different paths for the direction of society in addressing the multiple ecological crises of the 21 century. Both approaches provide theoretical and practical strides in addressing these questions within environmental sociology; however, both also fail to address important foci for the future. For us to continue to thrive as a species we must reconsider our relationship with nature and abandon our anthropocentric views of nature by taking a position that recognizes our role in a complex system. Ultimately, mechanisms for building resilience and adaptation and reducing vulnerability rely upon a paradigm shift, an understanding of "true" and "false" sustainability, and adaptation and resilience strategies that afford us an opportunity to recast social-ecological relationships towards "true" sustainability.
24707233|This article examines the political cultural context and sociopolitical dimensions of wolf management and restoration in the United States. Drawing on the experiences of various wolf programs throughout the country, including New England, the Northern Rockies, Upper-Midwest, Southwest, and Yellowstone National Park, it documents how wolves are often used as a political symbol and surrogate for a number of socially significant policy issues. It also examines the politics of problem definition in the policymaking process. A "politics" model of public policy is used as an analytical framework to examine the following dimensions that are inextricably tied to the debate over wolf management and recovery: land use and the politics of ecosystem management; wilderness preservation; The Wildlands Project and the role of conservation biology in political decisionmaking; the merits and future of the Endangered Species Act; rural culture, concerns and interests; and the contested role of science and public participation in wildlife policymaking and management. The article ends with a discussion of how these sociopolitical and contextual variables affect political decisionmakers and those responsible for wolf management.
24707530|This paper discusses the historical geographical construction of a contaminated community in the heart of one of the largest and fastest growing Sunbelt cities in the US. Our focus is on how racial categories and attendant social relations were constructed by Whites, in late 19th and early 20th century Phoenix, Arizona, to produce a stigmatized zone of racial exclusion and economic marginality in South Phoenix, a district adjacent to the central city. We consider how representations of race were historically deployed to segregate people of color, both residentially and economically in the early city. By the 1920s race and place were discursively and materially woven together in a mutually reinforcing process of social stigmatizationa and environmental degradation in South Phoenix. This process constructed a durable zone of mixed minority residential and industrial land uses that survives into the present day. 'Sunbelt apartheid' has worked to segregate undesirable land uses and minorities from 'Anglo' Phoenix. Class and racial privilege has been built in a wide range of planning and investment decisions that continue to shape the human ecology of the city today.
24706949|Even in the face of growing evidence that global warming is a very real threat to human social systems, global warming has received relatively little media coverage. From a phenomenological perspective this paper explores the possibility that one reason for this limited coverage may be that on an experiential level, proposed solutions offered for global warming have not provided closure to the loss of taken-for-grantedness associated with the problematic disturbance of the everyday life-world brought about by the initial problem claim. To address this issue the public arenas model of social problems (Hilgartner and Bosk 1988) is extended through a discussion of social action and typification drawn from the phenomenology of Alfred Schutz. A content analysis of UPI wire reports, Readers Guide articles, and Science articles from 1976 to 1998 suggests that the types of proposed solutions to global warming in these sources have largely not permitted the taken-for-grantedness of the life-world to be maintained. As a result media coverage of global warming has declined over the last twenty years and counter claims have become a significant part of the discourse.
24706944|Individuals' self-described identities were hypothesized to change as a result of participation in voluntary face-to-face groups engaged in environmental action. Semi-structured interviews and a standard interview test of identity were conducted with 159 members of 20 environmental groups and 2 non-group comparison samples from North Carolina and the Delmarva Peninsula. In agreement with the theoretical literature, interview text suggests that individual identity forms and changes over time  we refer to these transitions as "reformulations." Definitions of self that prevent the further development of an identity as an environmentalist, or that lead to an unwillingness to perform a particular environmental action, are here called "barriers." Interviews were coded for identities, reformulations, barriers, and actions taken, revealing significant differences across types of groups. Although some of the variation among groups may be explained by prior individual differences leading a person to join a compatible group, the qualitative interview data suggest that many of the differences come about in the processes of participating in the group and carrying out actions encouraged by the group. This perspective on action, that it leads to identity formation, is in contrast to a traditional view that environmental actions follow from attitudes, values, or knowledge of environmental damage.
24707083|Over the past decade, a number of factors have negatively impacted the Michigan carrot industry and carrot growers have responded to the problems in various ways. We examine growers' use of various rationalities in making decisions about adaptive strategies. We investigate the extent to which ecological rationality exists among Michigan carrot growers and influences their strategic decision making. We first elucidate the most relevant analytical lenses of rationality presented in the literature, and focus finally on several types of ecological rationality. Using material from interviews, we demonstrate that Michigan carrot growers' reliance on a practical ecological rationality provides a ground for their farming practices as well as for their overall attitudes about the farming life.
24707019|The aim of this interdisciplinary review is to provide a new framework for the research in the history of human transformation of the biosphere. It focuses on the major transitions, which resulted in a considerable increase in our species' impact on the biosphere (in relation to the state before the transition). Six such transitions are identified, in chronological order these are: 1) the use of fire, 2) language, 3) agriculture, 4) civilization (states), 5) European conquests and 6) the technological-scientific (r)evolution and the dominance of fossil fuels as primary energy sources. Such an inquiry of our biosphere transforming activities may be of great importance in establishing ecologically sustainable societies.
24707217|The ecology of surrounding social and physical environments affects international exchange dynamics and national development, which in turn impact factors associated with health care and infant mortality. Tropical climate, in particular, reduces a country's ability to function as a viable and protective system for its population. We use data compiled by the World Bank and the World Resources Institute to test a select set of propositions regarding tropical climate, national viability in the world system, national development, local health care, and infant mortality. Our findings indicate that while tropical climate affects infant mortality directly, it also has sizeable indirect effects, largely mediated by world-system position and related dynamics of domestic development.
24707193|Participatory research (PR) methodology strengthens the community's capability to identify, rank and solve its main problems, to negotiate with outside agents such as official and private agencies, and to change local behavioral patterns that contribute to impoverishing human health and well-being. Here we report results of the application of PR methodology to health and environmental issues in The Port, a rural coastal community in Yucatan, Mexico, and how PR methodology helped to improve cultural, social, biotic, and abiotic characteristics of the environment. Our results suggest that microenvironmental changes in the socialization and resocialization processes of participants in PR have positive effects on health and the quality of community life. Such changes respect the communal culture (local timetables, places and ways of meeting, political and religious affiliation, and relevant issues), while providing the community with new methodological tools to analyze its problems.
24707555|Sea Islands off the South Carolina coast have experienced rapid development rates in the past half century. This trend is now impacting the rural Lowcountry (coastal) near Charleston, SC. A better understanding of traditional rural communities' responses to expanding urbanization is critical because of the obvious threat to the natural environment in rural areas and also because of the potential threat to the culture and value systems held by long-time residents. This exploratory, qualitative study examines the response of two municipalities to growth. Majority black "Newborn" has initiated legislative actions that may encourage growth and is much more receptive to development initiatives. In contrast, mostly white "Seaside Village" is strongly opposed to proposals that may result in development. The bifurcated town responses are theorized in terms of procedural justice and sense of place.
24875152|We examine the impact of access to an improved water source and sanitation facility on maternal and neo-natal mortality. We analyze data from a sample of 32 Sub-Saharan African nations from 1990 to 2005 using a two-way fixed effects regression model. We find that access to both improved water and sanitation facilities are associated with decreased maternal and neo-natal mortality. We also consider other structural barriers or facilitators of good reproductive health and find that International Monetary Fund structural adjustment, gross domestic product per capita, female educational attainment, and conflict intensity are related to maternal and neo-natal mortality. We conclude by talking about the theoretical implications, methodological implications, policy suggestions, and directions for future research.
24706917|Abundant evidence suggests industrial civilization must be "downsized" to curb damage to the ecosphere by the "technosphere." Trends behind this prospect include prodigious population growth, urbanization, cultural dependence upon ravenous use of fossil fuels and other nonrenewable resources, consequent air pollution, and global climate change. Despite prolonged Cold War distraction and entrenched faith that technology could always enlarge carrying capacity, these trends were well publicized. But there remain eminent writers who persist in denying that human carrying capacity (Earth's maximum sustainable human load) has now been or ever will be exceeded. Denials of ecological limits resemble anosognosia (inability of stroke patients to recognize their paralysis). Some denial literature resembles their confabulations (elaborately unreal stories concocted as rationalizations). Denial by opponents of human ecology seems to be a way of coping with an insufferable contradiction between past convictions and present circumstances, a defense against intolerable anomalous information.
24707539|Worldwide, studies have shown increases in environmental values and beliefs over the past four decades. However, in few cases have researchers observed parallel increases in environmentally-supportive behaviour (ESB). In fact, the gap between environmental values and ESB is of growing concern for both academics and practitioners. We explored 'the environmental values-behaviour gap' through a nationwide survey in Canada (n=1664). Approximately 72% of respondents 'self-report' a gap between their intentions and their actions. We explore three categories of explanatory variables to account for the gap: individual, household, and societal. The descriptive analysis presented here provides a better understanding of why good intentions do not always translate into environmentally supportive behaviour. We demonstrate the relative importance of the three categories of constraint variables.
24707103|A theoretical basis is presented for a unified discussion of the sustainability and habitability of the built environment. This theory is inspired by concepts in human ecology, information theory, and thermodynamics. It suggests, in a first approximation, to subsume the quality of the built environment in view of provision of comfort, flexibility, control, and informational quality as a "Habitability Index," which, ideally, could be ordered on a negentropic scale. Likewise, the environmental impact of buildings may be captured in terms of a "Sustainability Index," which is assumed to inversely correspond to the entropy increase (in the relevant environmental system) attributable to the building activity.
24707675|The concept of "keystone species" has been widely used in biology and ecology to better understand certain biological dynamics at the ecosystem level of analysis. It illustrates the complexity of ecosystem interactions and the dependency of the entire web on certain species that are critical to its stability. While great effort has been put into studying those species that are central to the functioning of the natural ecosystem where they are embedded, not enough is known about the importance of certain plant and animal species for the cultural stability of human communities. Historically, some animal and plant species have been attributed tremendous spiritual or symbolic value by different cultures. Some of these species are so important that a cultural group may define them as critical elements in their relationship with and adaptation to the environment. In this paper we propose the concept of Culturally Defined Keystone Species (CKS) to designate those plant and animal species whose existence and symbolic value are essential to the stability of a culture over time. We use examples from research conducted among indigenous communities from the Amazon to illustrate the relevance of the CKS concept and propose criteria to define which species may be labeled as such. Important implications for environmental policy and social sciences are discussed and we propose further lines of research on CKS. The CKS concept has special relevance as a parameter of evaluation within the Cultural Impact Assessment framework since the United Nations Environmental Programme has emphasized the strong connection between ecological and cultural preservation in the context of indigenous communities.
24707465|Sustainable behavior (SB) generally encompasses a series of actions intended at protecting both the physical and the social environments. SB may be indicated by pro-ecological, frugal, altruistic, and equitable conducts and one of the aims of environmental psychology is to investigate the psychological consequences of such actions. Previous studies had reported that the practice of pro-ecological and altruistic behaviors might result in enhanced levels of happiness; people living in more equitable countries seem to be happier, while a frugal consumption often conduces to a state of satisfaction and intrinsic motivation. Yet, so far no study considering the relationship between an aggregate of the four abovementioned instances of SB, on the one hand, and subjective wellbeing, on the other hand, had been conducted. Six-hundred-and-six undergraduate students at a Mexican university responded to an instrument assessing pro-ecological, altruistic, frugal and equitable behaviors, as well as their report of happiness. By using structural equations we modeled a higher-order-construct of "sustainable behavior", indicated by the interrelations of their four first-order (proecological, altruistic, frugal and equitable) factors. The higher-order-factor coherently emerged from such interrelation. In turn, sustainable behavior significantly influenced a "happiness" factor, also specified within the structural model. Implications for the study and promotion of sustainable behaviors are discussed within the framework of a positive psychology of sustainability.
24707086|In the quest to conserve global biological resources there has been a growing recognition that conventional scientific methods and institutional arrangements are not always effective in dealing with the biophysical complexities and sociopolitical dimensions of biodiversity issues. Meeting these challenges requires an integrated approach that combines scientific methods with societal values. Community-based research promotes social change, by building the capacity of communities to find collective and culturally appropriate ways to achieve sustainable development on their own terms. Ecosystem management recognizes the interconnectedness of social and ecological systems and attempts to link science, policy and societal goals through interdisciplinary research and multistakeholder decision-making. In 1998, the Canadian Museum of Nature in Ottawa, Canada, in partnership with government agencies, educational institutions and community groups began a three-year multidisciplinary study of the ecosystem health of the Rideau River in eastern Ontario, Canada. This paper presents the Rideau River Biodiversity Project as a case study in the application of an integrated approach to assess the biodiversity of an aquatic ecosystem. Ultimately, we present a framework for an integrated approach to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity that combines the strengths of community-based research and ecosystem management through a process of social learning and transdisciplinary inquiry.
24706911|There is widespread skepticism among those with deep commitments to the natural world about the idea that humans can improve upon nature. While it seems obvious that humans can alter nature to better serve human uses, it is far from clear that humans can improve nature in non-utilitarian ways. Can human beings enhance intrinsic natural value? Perhaps the strongest reason for skepticism about this possibility is the value that many see in the "wildness" of nature, understood as the extent to which a natural system has not been humanized. Alleged human improvements of nature humanize nature and thus degrade it in terms of wildness value. This idea of valuing and preserving relatively pristine nature for its wildness value has been severely criticized for instituting a false and harmful human/nature apartheid that provides no positive role for humans in the natural world. Critics suggest that we must move beyond preservationism and learn to integrate humans into nature, celebrating humanity's creative potential with respect to nature. This paper explores if and how human participation and involvement in nature might be seen as enhancing, rather than degrading, intrinsically-valuable natural systems.
24707529|This article is based on extended fieldwork carried out in the United Kingdom and particularly in Kent between 1997 and 2001. The discussion addresses key social and cultural issues highlighted by the contemporary British debate on hunting with hounds and their political, legislative and economic significance. As social anthropologists with a research interest, and subsequent participation, in hunting with hounds in Britain and elsewhere in Europe, we find this debate fascinating. It must be understood in the context of the Judeo-Christian ethic and its influence on Western views of nature and on the relationship between humankind and the natural environment. Western attitudes toward hunting belong to a historically identifiable process; from the mediaeval view of nature as an object of romantic conquest  hence, hunting as a 'noble sport,' a special rite of passage into manhood  to the 17th century Puritanical condemnation of hunting as morally and socially debasing, to the 19th century Evangelical concern for animal rights.
24706891|Technological stigma  the tainting of products or places as dangerous due to associated fears about health  is gaining prominence in the social and policy sciences as a theoretical construct. The consequences of this new stigma is defined primarily in economic terms such as the devaluation of real property nearest a technological hazard or the demise of a product's value (e.g., British "Mad Cow" beef) in the wake of fears about contaminants. This paper argues that a preoccupation with market or economic impacts obscures the profound social and psychological repercussions for those exposed to technological hazards, of their inward reflections and outward responses to a world that has projected its fears and its lethal byproducts upon them. It will detail the physical, psychological and sociopolitical experience of living in a contaminated African-American community and in so doing paint a decidedly noneconomic portrait of the stigmatization of body and place.
24707526|Technology mediates our relations with one another and with nature. Modern environmentalism recognised this from its inception. Alternative Technology (AT) activists called for innovations that would pre-figure ecological society. This paper analyses AT advocacy of technology. Using the history of AT, two issues will be explored: 1) the relations between conceptualisations of environmental problems and the kinds of technology solution promoted; 2) the interplay and compromises environmentalists must make with other actors important in technological development. The paper concludes by reflecting upon how social actors advocate and construct technology. The AT experience highlights how technology-fixes provide only temporary solutions to problems that are, fundmentally, questions about prioritising multiple social values that are always shifting and developing.
24706914|Through the use of in-depth interview and content analysis techniques, this study aimed to explore how a variety of people experience environments over a lifetime, and how their perceptions of these environments developed over time. We examined physical environments, social milieu, and emotional and spiritual elements to better understand the personal environmental histories from a broad perspective. This study focused on a relatively small group of ten individuals, representing a broad cross-section of backgrounds and orientations. We analyzed the narratives generated for their thematic content, as well as for patterns of difference among the participants in their experiences of environments. Common themes in the personal environmental histories were revealed to us, even though those participating had vastly different life experiences. Our analysis of individual differences found distinctions between active and passive orientations to the environment, and a distinct array of nature experiences.
24875118|Recent studies have highlighted the ways in which activism can be suppressed in democratizing nations, yet much of this work tends to be state centered. Our research examines the role that private actors play in the repression of environmental activism in post-socialist Czech Republic. Following the 1989 collapse of the communist regime, the environmental movement experienced a brief period of widespread public support, which quickly gave way to anti-environmental trends and the general vilification of environmental activists. Drawing from in-depth interview data, newspaper coverage, and direct observation, we analyze a contentious highway bypass controversy around the city of Plze. Results indicate that environmentalists have been forced to contend not only with political hostility, but also with organized forms of public opposition from an anti-environmentalist countermovement organization.
24707753|Farmers and government agency watershed specialists use narratives to interpret and give meaning to the tension between farming practices and the impacts of management decisions on the environment. We trace how farmers construct responsibility for water quality management, how farmers and governmental agency staff perceive management decisions that transform the land, and how local knowledge influences tillage practices. In our analysis, we find a pattern of row crop farmers in Iowa claiming individual stewardship and responsibility as social actors, while not holding themselves accountable for personal investment in conservation practices that would reduce water quality impacts. These findings are linked to a discussion of two different approaches to motivate behavior change in agriculture: regulations versus incentives. Increased understanding of the cognitive processes of farmers provides a foundation for developing policies and educational interventions to strengthen long term behavior changes that protect the environment while assuring productivity and profitability in agricultural systems.
24707602|Data from the National Marine Fisheries Service, from interviews with fishing crews, and from settlement houses show that between 1993 and 2002 employment decreased, net crew share increased, and hours of work per day increased for New Bedford scallopers and draggers. These results are consistent with predictions from economic theory on the effects of restricting user rights in common space, in this case restrictions on days at sea (DAS) for scallopers and draggers, which began in 1994. However, we cannot claim that the effects were caused by the reductions in DAS because we did not control for changes in biological and other factors over the period. Large scallop stocks in closed areas opened to scallopers and growing stocks in the open areas probably increased the scallop catches. Declining stocks of groundfish reduced the catch in the dragger fishery. As expected, employment dropped more and net crew share rose less for draggers than for scallopers. Frequent changes in both the scale and number of factors affected by regulations and the increasing complexity of the regulations also affected these results.
24875130|Contemporary systems of production, distribution, and retail provide many end-consumers, although certainly not all, with an unprecedentedly wide choice of cheap, high quality goods and services. Yet this bounty comes at ever higher, ultimately unsustainable environmental and social cost. Something must change but what and how? Simply how production, distribution and retail are organized? Simply patterns of consumption, that is,
24707629|Place attachment research can shed light on how farmers form relationships with their land and therefore have implications for landscape management and food systems. Unknown is how farmers develop place attachment. In this qualitative study, we examine psychological and physical experiences as antecedents to place attachment using attachment theory. Following 29 semi-structured interviews with 34 respondents in Upcountry South Carolina, we examined farmers' security-seeking and exploration behaviors. Farmers receive security through feelings of peace and safety while on their farm and provide economic security to their families and environmental security to their land. Farmers' exploring behaviors include trying to be more innovative in sustainable management of their land. This research helps elucidate how farmers develop attachment. It has implications for how farmers manage their resources as well as understanding the environmental, social, and economic impacts of these decisions and land conservation in the American south.
24707214|If Earth's human load is too large to be sustainable there is reason for people to be apprehensive. Anxiety, often seen as a response to imagined or unrealistically appraised danger, can also be an adaptive response to omens of real danger beyond time's horizon. The world's human carrying capacity is not infinitely expandable. Neither "fight" nor "flight" can answer problems arising from that fact. Redundancy anxiety, the dread of not having a niche for oneself in an overloaded world, leads to "appeals for help" which may take the form of declaring one's own nonredundancy by asserting others' redundancy. Redundancy anxiety is a concept that may help explain contemporary news reports of militant, combative, uncivil, self-indulgent, or escapist behavior.
24707497|Building off of the path-breaking works of Roy Bhaskarand in particular his philosophical position of critical realismthis paper works toward a realignment of sociology with the life and ecological sciences. Sociology has been cautious of looking too far into the realm of the biophysical for causal potentials out of fear that such analyses might mark the beginning of a slippery slope toward biological reductionism. Yet, as this paper argues, such fears of reductionism are conceptually misguided. Critical realism argues that reality is stratified, rooted, and emergent. Consequently, to bracket social life from those levels "beneath" itor, in some cases, to write out nature entirely (e.g., discursive theory and "strong" social constructionism)is to approach the study of those phenomena with a degree of institutionalized blindness. Instead, this paper argues that sociology must open its doors to all causal potentials, regardless of where this search may lead.
24706912|Environmentalists are sometimes criticized for implausibly separating human beings from nature. However, in the debate between the "wise-use" and environmental movements, it is the proponents of "wise-use," and not the environmentalists, who implausibly divide human beings from nature. The "wise-use" movement calls for landowners to be compensated whenever environmental regulations reduce the economic value of their land. However, a well-established principle of constitutional law is that compensation is not required if the regulations prevent harm to others. Insofar as they can plausibly be construed as preventing harm to others, then, environmental regulations can be enforced without running afoul of the just compensation clause of the Fifth Amendment. I argue that while the public trust doctrine of U.S. common law can be extended to cover ecological processes on which the long-term wellbeing of the nation and its people depend, environmentalists must do a better job of articulating how this is so. In doing so, however, they will show that the wise use movement's position depends on an implausible separation of humans from the eco-systems on which we depend.
24707700|Qualitative interviews were used to understand visitors' experiences on the summit of Cadillac Mountain in Acadia National Park, and the potential effects of resource protection interventions on those experiences. Results suggest the summit of Cadillac Mountain is a centerpiece of the park, and visitors' experiences are centered on the aesthetics and naturalness of Cadillac Mountain. Site management structures that were perceived to blend in with the surroundings, be constructed of natural materials and protect vegetation generally appear to be of little consequence to visitors' experiences. In contrast, fencing and regulatory messages on signs were more likely to negatively affect visitors' experiences, in part because they were perceived as demonstrating a lack of trust in visitors.
24706883|This paper outlines an investigation into the rights of individual animals belonging to species that live in Antarctica and the Southern Ocean, home to many species of mammals, birds, finfish, crustaceans and cephalopods. I address the identification of prominent animal rights issues, an assessment of the relevance of those issues to Antarctic management and an examination of Antarctic legal provisions and management guidelines.
24707189|Archaeology provides time depth to considerations of cultural change at global and local levels. I focus on the Neolithic Revolution, which swept the globe from 8000 to 3000 bc (uncalibrated radiocarbon years). Although agriculture became widespread over a relatively brief period, it developed independently in many places. No single factor or set of factors has been identified to explain this global phenomenon. When the scale of analysis is changed to the local level, diversity characterizes the reasons for both agricultural invention and adoption. I consider patterns of adoption by Southern Scandinavian societies, which exhibit a complex, sedentary hunter-gatherer lifeway, and early Irish societies, which conform to a simple, mobile hunter-gatherer model. I suggest that a new paradigm may be needed to explain global patterns that emerge from diverse, local decisions. I conclude with a brief critical discussion of the Santa Fe Institute's approach to the study of emergent complex phenomena.
24706947|This paper deals with the use of 34 animals that are prescribed as folk medicines, cosmetics, and charms in the county of Tanquinho, Northeastern of the State of Bahia, Brazil. Data were obtained by performing semi-structured interviews with local residents from Tanquinho community. The animal-based medicines come from insects, arachnids, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. These resources provide 46 raw materials that are recommended to treat a wide range of common illnesses and injuries. The results show how important this ethnozoological phenomenon is, and indicate that traditional knowledge on zootherapy is to be studied in order to lead to the discovery of new sources of drugs.
24706918|All environmental problems involve dimensions of justice, not only among existing people belonging to the same community or nation, but also between nations and between generations. The purpose of the article is to give a short presentation of two different main approaches to questions of justice, their respective merits and demerits, and to discuss to what extent they are incompatible. In the first section an Aristotelean approach is presented, in the second section it is contrasted with a Humean approach, whereas the last section discusses a possible area of convergence, political justice. Each section includes a brief sketch of what an application of the different conceptions of justice might look like in relation to international and intergenerational justice.
24707708|We predicted that social trust in the USDA Forest Service would mediate the relationship between shared value similarity (SVS) and attitudes toward prescribed burning and mechanical thinning. Data were obtained from a mail survey (n = 532) of rural Colorado residents living in the wildland urban interface (WUI). A structural equation analysis was used to assess the mediation role of social trust. Results indicated that respondents shared the same values as USDA Forest Service managers, and trusted the agency to use prescribed burning and mechanical thinning effectively. As hypothesized, social trust fully mediated the relationship between salient value similarity and attitudes toward prescribed burning and mechanical thinning. As salient value similarity increased, social trust in the agency increased. As social trust increased, approval of prescribed burning and mechanical thinning increased. These findings reinforce the role of social trust in gaining public support for wildfire management and support prior SVS research suggesting that trust mediates the relationship between value similarity and attitudes.
24707683|Global climate change is among the most visible environmental issues on the public agenda. This paper examines skiing in British Columbia, Canada, as a site where the cultural dynamics of climate change play out. Szerszynski (2007) uses the concept of "irony" to describe the gap between professed environmental values and environmental behavior. The relationship between skiing and global climate change is an exemplar of ecological "irony." The ski industry is often viewed as a "canary in the coalmine" for climate change. Skiers' interview talk also describes climate change as a major environmental concern. At the same time, discussions of climate change and skiing often neglect the intimate connections between skiing, mobility networks and global flows of tourism. These networks produce significant amounts of greenhouse gas emissions, further contributing to the environmental risks of climate change. This places skiers in an ecologically ironic situation, where pro-environmental discourse conflicts with environmentally-harmful behavior.
24706897|Neither Modernism nor Postmodernism provides an understanding of the human person that is adequate to reveal our relationship to the non-human world. In particular, the science of human ecology is increasingly dominated by an abstract vision that only increases our alienation from ourselves and the natural world. To change this we have to realize the necessity and power of Not Knowing that is the deepest meaning of the open-endedness of the scientific spirit. We should understand that our primary task as teachers is not to transmit knowledge, but to nurture in our students the precise and sensitive attention which the mystery of the world demands.
24707587|Research on public meetings and environmental decision making has increased greatly over the past 30 years. Much published research evaluates specific public meeting techniques or officials' and participants' expectations regarding public meetings. However, three questions remain largely unexplored. First, why do or don't people attend public meetings? Research suggests that beliefs and values regarding a meeting's topic are important, but work on this question remains limited. Second, how does working with the public affect decision makers and their willingness to conduct future public meetings? Few researchers have worked on this question. Third, how does public meeting input affect decision making? A great deal of research describes cases where input fails to influence decision making. However, few studies have presented and explained successful incorporation of public input into decision making. Answering these questions is critical to moving forward with the next generation of effective citizen involvement through public meetings.
24707738|It has been well documented that many societies around the world are currently experiencing the consequences of water scarcity, and this scarcity is likely to be one of the major resource crises of the 21st century. While environmental sociologists and human ecologists have analyzed the social forces driving a variety of biophysical impacts, the socio-structural factors influencing water consumption have not been extensively investigated. We discuss the variety of challenges facing analyses of water consumption at the national level, particularly those stemming from data limitations and the diversity of forces, both social and biophysical, which influence water use. Recognizing the limitations of conducting cross-national research on water resources, we present our analysis as exploratory. We use a simultaneous equation model to analyze the factors influencing both water withdrawals for agricultural use and withdrawals for other uses. We find that economic development and connections to the global economy are key forces influencing water consumption, where at the national level, affluence and globalization lead to a decline in agricultural water use, but an escalation of water use in other sectors.
24706881|The idea of a National Park contains a diversity of values and missions. This paper takes a multi-dimensional, context-specific approach to measuring the perceived values of Yellowstone National Park. It is an initial step in recording how perceptions of National Parks are changing over time. Responses of 1064 winter visitors to 24 park value items were factor and cluster analyzed to produce four groups. Examination of the relationship between cluster membership and support / opposition to a variety of management actions showed significant differences for all 19 proposed actions. Groups of visitors with different value orientations showed correspondingly different levels of support for management actions. The National Park Service (and other natural resource agencies) can, therefore, expect to encounter and manage for a diversity of perceived values and conflicting attitudes towards park management and planning.
24707483|We conducted a participant observation study of recreational fishing in the industrialized Calumet region of north-west Indiana and southeast Chicago to gage the extent of fishing for consumption and to learn about perceptions of the risks of eating contaminated fish. Of the 97 study participants who provided definitive information about their fish consumption habits, 70% reported ever eating fish from Calumet waters. When assessing pollution, anglers relied mainly on their senses, personal experiences, judgment, and/or information from friends, family, and other anglers rather than on written fishing guides, local officials, or the media. When considering consumption risks, they focused on four primary factors: the general environment, water quality, fish characteristics, and observable human health. Different anglers used different risk assessment cues. There were also differences in risk perceptions and fish consumption patterns across racial-ethnic lines. Finally, we consider the challenges of disseminating risk information to diverse urban populations.
24707032|NIMBY may be more than a pejorative acronym. In Pierce County, Washington, a garbage hauling corporation attempted to override local residents' opposition to its proposed construction of a "state of the art landfill" on a 360-acre site subject to annual flooding. Neither side in the long running controversy saw the area's solid waste disposal problem as part of a national or global predicament in which the ability to segregate three functions of environment (supply source, activity space, and disposal site) has been severely diminished by population increase, urban growth, and industrial progress. Inability to segregate the three environmental functions may be an important indicator of having overshot carrying capacity. Despite organized opposition by two citizens' groups concerned with defending the area's "sole source" aquifer, as well as protecting residential property values, the for-profit corporation had recurrent editorial support by the area's metropolitan newspaper and persistent concurrence by county officials in claiming that local disposal was more cost-effective than shipping county garbage to a drier landfill east of the Cascade Mountains (as adjacent cities and counties were doing). The corporation gained one required permit after another from county and state authorities, as well as repeated postponements of required closure of a previous (Superfund site) landfill it was already operating for Pierce County. When the proposed new landfill was "killed" by denial of a final permit by the Army Corps of Engineers, the corporation sought court reversal of the Corps' decision, while county officials began reluctant accommodation to the long-haul alternative.
24706841|Collective decision making requires both descriptive and prescriptive knowledge. Prescriptive, or normative, understanding must rest upon a theory of human action, including decision making. The Rational Actor Model (RAM) is the dominant model of human action in the social sciences, but is being challenged by an evolutionary linguistic model (ELM) that takes the rational actor model as a special case appropriate to self-interested behavior in markets but not to other contexts. Welfare economics and benefit-cost analysis are prescriptive techniques that follow from the RAM, and can be criticized for unrealistic assumptions about human decision making. Contingent valuation has been suggested as a method to correct some limitations in benefit-cost analysis, but it is grounded on the same unrealistic assumptions about human decision-making. The ELM implies that collective decision-making should be based on discursive methods, that have been implemented experimentally in a number of contexts. While the RAM and its prescriptive derivatives are based on an extensive literature, the ELM and discursive analysis is a relatively new approach. Much more work will be required before its strengths and weaknesses are fully understood.
24707597|Conflicts or disagreements within communities have become commonplace where decisions concerning the allocation of natural resources must be made. Institutions responsible for governance and environmental decision-making frequently struggle to gain broad community and stakeholder approval for proposals concerning natural resources such as water allocation. At the centre of such complex problems are issues of equity and justice. Although there is a substantial body of research and theory on justice, much of this has been in the abstract or external to a social context. The lack of contextually applied justice research is recognized as a gap in environmental resource allocation research. Theories and constructs from several disciplines can be used to unravel the tangle of issues embedded within social problems. This paper outlines one such transdisciplinary research approach and provides an overview of its first application in the understanding of a real-life social conflict concerning the allocation of water for irrigation farming.
24707751|Environmentally friendly consumption has become a widespread phenomenon, yet little research exists concerning normative social influence on eco-friendly behavioral intentions and their relationship with green identity. This study examines how consumers' intention to purchase eco-friendly products is influenced by green identity and by the mediating role of injunctive and descriptive social norms and of personal norms. An online survey was administered to a sample of active online shoppers. The results indicate that both types of social norms mediate the relationship between green identity and purchase intentions, whereas personal norms do not. Moreover, injunctive social norms have a greater effect on purchase intentions than descriptive social norms do. The theoretical and managerial implications of the results and limitations are discussed and future research directions suggested.
24707706|An interagency research team studied fire communications that took place during different stages of two wildfires in southern California: one small fire of short duration and one large fire of long duration. This "quick-response" research showed that pre-fire communication planning was particularly effective for smaller fire events and parts of that planning proved invaluable for the large fire event as well. Information seeking by the affected public relied on locally convenient sources during the small fire. During the large fire, widespread evacuations disrupted many of the local informal communication networks. Residents' needs were for "real-time," place-specific information: precise location, severity, size, and direction of spread of the fires. Fire management agencies must contribute real-time, place-specific fire information when it is most needed by the affected public, as they try to make sense out of the chaos of a wildland fire. Disseminating fire information as broadly as possible through multiple pathways will maximize the probability of the public finding the information they need.
24707053|Industrial power is grounded in epistemological and ideological choices made during past centuries. The modern self has evolved to be consistent with these choices, so that the psychological concept of "intelligence" indicates the facility with which a relatively autonomous thinker can manipulate a world consisting mostly of 'raw materials'. I explore the ways in which this concept legitimates and naturalises the exploitation of the natural world, and suggest that it also normalises a psychopathological personality configuration. I argue that an alternative conception of human abilities based in a recognition of and sensitivity to natural order and intelligence rather than in a conception of intelligence as a solely human property, is necessary if environmental, educational, and developmental theory and practice are to be consistent with the needs of the natural world.
24875151|Previous research in macro comparative environmental sociology analyzes both environmental and human well-being outcomes of urbanization. The carbon intensity of well-being (CIWB) concept simultaneously measures environmental and human well-being. Here I ask how various types of urbanization, an underexplored concept in the CIWB research, contributes differently to the CIWB of nations. Using longitudinal two-way fixed effects Prais-Winsten regression models for the years 19902011 for 78 countries, I find that level of development and urbanization are associated with higher CIWB, as are the percentage of urban populations with access to improved water and sanitation; conversely, urban slum prevalence is associated with lower CIWB. Comparing more versus less developed countries, I find the results are especially robust for lower-income countries. I also find that overall population access to water and sanitation is associated with lower CIWB. The findings suggest directions for sustainable development that take into account different forms of urbanization and both rural and urban population well-being.
24707052|Experts and the public frequently disagree when it comes to risk assessment, indicating a lack of trust among the general public. The reasons for such disagreement are discussed, and it is pointed out that disagreement among experts and lack of full understanding of real risks contributes to skepticism among the public. The notion that people are in general reacting in a highly emotional and non-rational, phobic, manner is rejected. The conditions for risk assessment, and common-sense cognitive dynamics, are better explanations of risk perception. If trust is to be established in a country or community where it is quite low some kind of politically regulated public influence on decision making and risk monitoring is probably needed, e.g. by means of a publicly elected and responsible ombudsman.
24707084|Data from international comparison surveys was analyzed to explore differences in environmental values amongst Asian and Western countries. We found that the structure of environmental values in Asian countries differs from those in Western countries. While an environmental way of thinking conforms to traditional Asian values of honoring parents and family security, Western people believe that such thinking opposes their traditional values. These structural differences, which have been documented by White (1967) and by several Japanese researchers (e.g., Watanabe 1995), are confirmed and clarified by our surveys. Our study reveals the following conclusions: First, in the Netherlands and the United States, environmental values are linked with altruistic values that are perceived as being contrary to traditional values. In Japan, Bangkok, and Manila, environmental values are linked with both traditional and altruistic values. Second, environmental values are contrary to egoistic and progressive values in all surveyed countries. Third, factors encouraging environmental actions differ by country and by type of actions.
24707748|Through a case study in Qubec (Canada), this paper focuses on the changes induced to the social structure of a community by a conflict related to a wind farm. Data were gathered through interviews and sociometric questionnaires with 93 people involved in the public hearings process. The conflict brought about the deterioration of 3 relationships per participant on average, including the deterioration of strong ties. Participants had on average 14.5 reciprocal relationships before the conflict. The deteriorations are almost exclusively relationships that linked opponents and supporters, confirming the social divide. The conflict provoked a decrease in mutual help, while the wind farm was a taboo topic in a number of central places. Many new relationships were also created (on average 5 per participant) and pre-existing ones intensified. The conflict encouraged an important pursuit for social support through existing and new relationships, but also the use of various coping strategies to deal with stress.
24875149|Although achieving sustainability remains a key goal of development, efforts to attain it vary across places, making a regional focus important. This paper investigates the ecological footprintone measure of environmental sustainabilityover time with focus on West Africa. Expectations from environmental impact and structural human ecology approaches are incorporated into an investigation of key factors driving national-level environmental sustainability in five countries. Results reveal that demographic attributes are key factors that affect ecological footprints in these countries. Findings are discussed with attention to policy implications regarding the West African context and in relation to opportunities for exploration in further academic study.
24706916|We have conquered the Earth, but now face the threat of global disaster. This seems to suggest that there is a fundamental contradiction between human freedom and environmental sustainability. This notion is mistaken, however, derived from an erroneous understanding of freedom or self-determination. Real freedom is not equal to arbitrary free will, but means the realization of maximum human potential within bounds. To avoid destruction of this planet and thus of ourselves, we have to observe the existence of necessities. We can do this by establishing a respectful living relationship to the natural environment, to other human beings, and to ourselves. The basic obstacle to overcome for a move in this direction is the largely anonymous economic system with its tremendous self-dynamics. This system forces us to live unecologically in the broadest sense of the term and, consequently, contrary to what the economists keep telling us, does not increase our personal freedom. We have to break up its force, but how? It is suggested that we need a strong basis of comprehensible and tangible structures within which necessities can be personally experienced. It is suggested that such structures, which relate to environmental, social and psychological aspects of self-determination, can be found in the currently discussed ideas about bioregionalism, libertarianism and self-realization.
24707631|An understanding among societal actors of how socialecological systems interact across multiple levels and scales contributes to better governance of those systems. This paper introduces a tool, Scale Perspectives, developed to help societal actors share their perspectives on issues of socialecological systems governance in a multilevel framework. A first version showed that participants in a local and European case study associated a diverse range of levels and time frames with the same issues, but the version was not able to capture cross-level dynamics. A second version of the tool did allow for the visualization of cross-level dynamics, and was tested in live workshops where more opportunities for individual and group reflection were offered. The tool proved useful for sharing perspectives and strategic dialogue among the participants. The results show the potential of such tools to help societal actors tackle challenges related to scale dynamics in socialecological systems governance.
24707718|While many voluntary environmental initiatives have focused on interactions between firms and regulators, voluntary product-labeling programs are designed to alter the relationship between firms and their customers. By providing information that prices alone cannot, product labeling has the potential to enable customers to respond to the "green" attributes of a product, allowing the preferences of customers and other stakeholders to influence company decisions concerning energy efficiency or other environmentally desirable objectives. Despite the potential for both producers and consumers to gain from better information, voluntary product labeling schemes addressing energy efficiency have not emerged in the absence of government intervention. Voluntary public policies to label products have shown significant potential to influence producer and consumer decisions. However, the mechanics of these programs and the industry dynamics they produce remain largely unexplored. This paper describes two voluntary labeling programs in order to illustrate two different mechanisms that have become common archetypes in voluntary initiatives. Converging mechanisms lead all targeted firms to adopt a similar, desired behavior. Separating mechanisms drive firms to segregate into different types based on their environmental performance, allowing external audiences to reward each type differently. The government sponsors of programs choose policy instruments such as product labels, government procurement preferences, and in some instances negotiations to help determine which type of mechanism will develop. The paper illustrates the differences between these two archetypes by describing the Energy STAR programs for office products and washing machines, and suggests circumstances in which each type of mechanism may be more feasible and more desirable to create.
24707698|This study of the anthrax attacks of 2001 treats risk communication as a series of events that can be analyzed to discern the strengths and weaknesses of organizations charged with responding to emergencies. To investigate how organizational practices shape risk communication, we use a method developed primarily for comparative-historical case studies called event-structure analysis. We analyze events leading to false media reports of anthrax infections in one New Jersey town soon after an infection by a potentially lethal strain of anthrax was confirmed in a nearby postal facility. This analytic method highlights the failures of organizations to institutionalize public health practices, which allowed contingent events to determine risk messages and responses.
24707554|A mail survey of managers of businesses that produce and sell food found that most respondents think that food safety regulations are neither too lenient nor too strict. By far the largest predictor of attitude towards regulation is the respondent's own belief about the safety of food  those who are more convinced that food is safe are more opposed to regulation. Other smaller effects are, 1) the more the firm's workers are perceived to be trained in safety; and 2) the more the respondent perceives customers to be concerned about safety, the less opposed they are to regulations. Moreover, 3) Producers and processors were more opposed to regulation than were those who sell the final product; 4) Those who responded after September 11, 2001 were less opposed to regulation than those who responded beforehand.
24707736|There has been a growth in international organizations concerned with environmental matters. These organizations include international non-governmental organizations (INGOs), inter-governmental organizations (IGOs), and environmental treaties. This article presents cross-national models examining the effects of these organizations on organic water pollution per capita. In doing so, we use lagged dependent variable panel regression models for a sample of 56 developing nations. We find substantial support for world polity hypotheses that these organizations reduce organic water pollution in developing nations. We also find support for unequal ecological exchange theory that exports from poor nations to wealthy nations increase water pollution. We conclude with a brief discussion of the findings and directions for future research.
24707531|This paper compares Greek and American social experience of wildfire management. Regional comparison of the two countries' experience with wildfire reveals a common thread of experience and management regimes. Efforts to control the risk of fire damage over time have created an equal level of crisis and management tools. A comparison of environmental histories, wildland events, and management goals indicate that the two countries, while seemingly un-comparable, have much in common. Both countries share similar forest ecosystems within Mediterranean climate zones and at specific mountain elevations. An analysis of preferences and methods of selective ecosystem management and risk management at the national and local level overcomes the differences of absolute geography to create an equal area of investigation between the two countries. These commonalities are linked to social patterns, cultural beliefs, diffusion of science and forestry methods, and changes in political administration. National policies to prevent wildland fire, processes of environmental history, modes of public administration and risk management, and ecosystem management goals are compared. The global loss of traditional fire practices and the increasing efforts to manage fire are establishing new social boundaries of catastrophic wildland fire.
24707583|The idea that humans are innately competitive and cruel is a dominant theme throughout Western thought. These notions that legitimate human cruelty to each other and other animals have their origins in biological sciences and have greatly influenced the social sciences. Sociologists, particularly Marxist sociologists, however, have often contested this view of human nature. This notion has also come under fire by evolutionary biologists. In line with these critical analyses, this paper will continue to challenge this theory of human nature principally through examination of human relations to nonhuman animals, and secondarily in reference to nature as a whole. Approaching this from a dialectical materialist perspective, we employ an interdisciplinary approach and reject reductionist, idealist and teleological explanations. We attempt to uncover the underlying structures that promote the competitive and cruel (exploitative) nature of humanity, illustrating this in terms of agribusiness and biomedical research.
24706957|In an era in which natural resources are under unprecedented pressure, it is vital to ask how the human relationships with the natural world might be improved. One avenue of inquiry is to explore whether there is a relationship between caring for a non-human animal, for a species, and for an ecosystem and whether this relationship may be a key to encouraging resource conservation and environmental protection. In most occidental industrialized societies, interest in domestic and wild animals is intense. Despite a wealth of research on human-wildlife interactions and human-pet interactions there is a dearth of work on the connection between these relationships and interest in environmental protection. In this article, I will address three topics that I believe are crucial to the understanding of the relationship between humans and other animals: the split between humans and the natural world, the development of caring, empathy, and emotional relationships to non-human animals, and finally the magic, or deep and abiding attraction to other species. These topics are especially relevant to current efforts by zoos and aquariums as they try to document the impact they have on the lives of their visitors.
24707192|This paper draws on the ethical theory of Emmanuel Levinas (and to a lesser degree Martin Buber) for insight into the identification and preservation of authentic relations in human ecology and human communities. Borrowing from Levinas it develops the idea that an authentic relation between people and place  one that transcends a common but false dualism between ethical preservation and instrumental use  follows a pattern most readily experienced in the interhuman erotic. Borrowing from Buber the paper suggests that authentic human communities have at their foundation individuals with a mutual relation with place (or "living Center") discernible in the pattern of the erotic above. The paper connects these thinkers and justifies their application to these issues by demonstrating their presence in the fiction and poetry of agriculture written by Wendell Berry. Finally the paper suggests application of these ideas to real communities caught at decision points in their development.
24707614|The growth in industrial nations of total primary energy supply (TPES) and electricity consumption, over the period 1960 to 2008, is decomposed into components due to population growth and nonpopulation factors. Yearly fluctuations in TPES and electricity due to nonpopulation factors are greater than those due to population growth. However, after 1970, nonpopulation increments in TPES were often negative, thus subtracting from cumulative consumption. Population components were always positive, continually adding to consumption. In some nations (the U.S., Canada, the UK and Australia), the cumulative effect of population came to equal or exceed the influence of nonpopulation causes on TPES. The situation is different for electricity consumption, which rose so quickly in all nations that population growth made little difference. These findings imply that policies to limit electricity consumption in industrial nations, and to reduce the need for new electrical generators and transmission lines, should focus on reducing per capita demand. In contrast, policies to conserve TPES need to attend more closely to population growth.
24707643|The Corumbau Marine Extractive Reserve was created in a region of rich biodiversity, located in the South of Bahia State, Brazil, to meet the revindications of artisanal fishermen in a context of increasing predatory industrial fisheries. The aim of the Marine Extractive Reserve is to improve the sustainability of fisheries stocks and the economy of artisanal fishermen's families, protecting the local biodiversity for the locals' collective use. However, at Corumbau the natives are facing social problems that have increased due to tourism growth. The present research contributes to the Management Plan in sectors that are crucial to assess the aspirations and subjective aspects related to the natives' daily life at individual, familiar and communitary levels. The Participatory Appraisal with a Gender Equity Perspective (PAGP) was applied to five communities at RESEX Corumbau, showing, by gender, the greatest problems artisanal fisheries' families are facing. Tourism is growing in the area, reflecting the residents different and contradictory interests. It can develop commerce and jobs, but also intensify some social and environmental problems in this area.
24707514|Achieving community sustainability requires understanding connected economic, social, and environmental consequences of actions that support informed choices allowing people to lead healthy, productive, and enjoyable lives, now and in the future. Designing successful sustainable development strategies reveals a tight connection between resilience, diversity, and long-lasting stability of social-ecological systems. Dauphin Island (AL) wanted to secure a resilient and sustainable future after experiencing destruction from two hurricanes. During 10 months of a transparent, all-inclusive public consultation process, culminating in a community initiated, driven, and concluded strategic plan, stakeholders designed a program of consensus-building and policy-making toward a more sustainable community with a resilient future. Facilitated stakeholder groups used the Community Capitals Framework to evaluate how various issues historically played important roles in community development. A "spiraling capital assets" model was employed to define points of decline and potential strategic improvement milestones. Resulting plans included shifting the tax base from reliance on expensive rental home lodging and property taxes to growing a more diverse, small business community emphasizing cultural heritage. As an outcome of the planning processes stakeholders examined all community assets (environmental, cultural, historic, etc.) they possessed to determine leverage points for reversing rural economic leakage patterns and promoting new local forms of value-added economic development that protected environmental resources.
24706893|This study explored public perceptions of global warming and the diverse meanings that lay people attribute to the phenomenon. The data came from six weeks of observation of visitors to a special Smithsonian Institution exhibit on global warming. The focus of the fieldwork was to document the meanings that people gave to global warming and related concepts during their tour of the exhibit by recording the comments, questions, and other narrative accounts of the visitors. Six weeks of field research yielded approximately 150 individual observations of visitor's interpretations of global warming, energy consumption, the greenhouse effect, nonrenewable resources, pollution, and ozone depletion. Three patterns emerged from the data: a gradient of knowledge with the attentive public falling between the average citizen and those who have become engaged, a catastrophism that represents a reverse availability heuristic, and a belief in the robustness of the biosphere. While each of these have some relation to previous work, it would be useful to see if survey-based or experimental studies confirm these tentative conclusions.
24707655|Until recently the role of culture in mediating responses to global change has been little discussed. Since the failure of the Copenhagen Climate Summit (COP15) to agree to binding agreements on emission targets, however, the cultural dimensions, arguably, should increasingly become a focus of interest. On the assumption that, in the light of accelerating climate change, individuals have both ethical and prudential responsibilities, the limited advances in mitigation and adaptation of international institutions and national governments may pose significant obstacles for action. It is suggested that, for individuals to adequately address their responsibilities under these circumstances, requires taking note of the cultural frameworks of our societies. Two areas, in which cultural dimensions may play a particularly important role, are highlighted, namely the conceptual framing of environmental forces and the development of citizens-led governance.
24706892|This study explores the influence of racial identity and place of residence on environmental concern, as measured in terms of environmental values and ethics. A survey of representative samples of Massachusetts residents was conducted, and focused on the White Mountain National Forest. Objectives of the study were (1) to discover how environmental values and ethics vary across a diverse cross-section of New Englanders and (2) to explore the constructs of environmental values and environmental ethics as alternatives to environmental concern. Relatively few differences in environmental values and ethics were found between African American and white, and rural and urban subgroups. Environmental values and ethics were found to be potentially useful constructs that may measure a more fundamental relationship between people and the environment than environmental concern. Research and management implications of these findings are discussed.
24707715|Scientific discourses are rhetorical constructs for interpreting, articulating, and coordinating the bits of information and knowledge produced by science. Discourses also help scientific communities promote and advocate particular strategies for action. A review of the literature on ecological integrity has led us to identify four scientific discourses: (1) Wilderness-Normative, (2) Systemic-Normative, (3) Ecosystemic-Pluralistic, and (4) Transpersonal-Collaborative. Each of these discourses differs in the conceptual definition of ecological integrity, the role of science, and the assumptions regarding human-ecosystem relationships. The Transpersonal-Collaborative differs from the others in that it embraces the construction of personal and cultural meanings for ecological integrity. Each of the four discourses emphasizes different beliefs and worldviews, which, in turn, promote specific conservation practices. Acknowledging a diversity of discourses and recognizing personal commitments to particular discourses would increase the transparency of contextual decisions regarding the alternative conservation strategies suggested by different scientific communities.
24707740|Migration is quickly becoming a salient feature of the globalization of trade, investment, and production. One relatively unexplored way of examining the relationship between globalization and migration is to include the natural environment as a proximate explanation of migration within a global political-economic context. An analytical framework of the relationship between globalization, the environment, and migration is developed by synthesizing concepts derived from the literatures related to the population-environment and globalization-environment nexuses. This framework is then applied to a case study of mineral production in Ghana, which is used to demonstrate the utility of key components of the analytical framework.
24707624|This paper interrogates the activities, perspectives, and positions of scientists conducting research in Sierra de Huautla Biosphere Reserve, Mexico. Biosphere reserve conservation models are specifically designed for a sustainable integration of social and natural environments, a mandate that relies on both natural and social scientific research to improve conservation of nature and human well-being. Seen through the analytical lens of a social worlds/arenas framework, integrative scientific research in this particular case proves to be challenging in practice and fraught with paradoxes and contradictions. The findings suggest that academic and institutional factors (funding, publication avenues, and scholarly status) force, or at least strongly invite, scientists to pursue academic research agendas which, in fact, may conflict with or override the researchers' own commitments to meaningful conservation research work and interventions. This case highlights structural concerns over biosphere reservespecific governance issues in Mexico, and integrative humanenvironment scientific practice in conservation in general.
24706965|The growing recognition that the social sciences play a key role in conservation requires more efficient ways for working together toward a common mission. A new field of conservation psychology is proposed to create stronger connections between the natural and social sciences, between research and practice, and between psychology and the other social sciences. The purpose of such a network is to conduct psychological research that is directly oriented toward the goal of environmental sustainability. To better understand the promise of conservation psychology, it is compared to other fields, such as conservation biology and environmental psychology. Potential conservation psychology research topics are discussed in relation to two broad outcome areas: a) motivating people to act in more environmentally-friendly ways and b) encouraging people to care about the natural world and their role in it. Within these outcome areas, research can be focused at the individual or the group level. The type of research will range from more theoretical approaches to more applied, and examples are provided for such a continuum. The dynamic process by which social scientists and practitioners identify high-priority research questions is another important aspect of conservation psychology.
24707709|When threatened with disaster, communities are faced with chaotic and threatening situations for which existing understandings provide no good explanations and established routines seem inadequate. A process is described here by which human understandings of dangerous environments and the risks of occupying them are socially reconstructed in the minds of the community following disaster or the credible threat of disaster. Those reconstructions may alter routines, changing how the community relates to its environment and, perhaps, change how well the community is adapted to the environment. Hypotheses are proposed predicting which of several competing reconstructions the community will adopt. Examples are described of how disaster managers might influence the reconstructions and, therefore, community adaptation to its environment.
24707646|It is estimated that humanity now uses more than one third of all accessible freshwater within the global water cycle. The complexity of water related issues has led the Environmental Protection Agency  and many other organizations  to encourage adoption of watershed-based regional planning as one way to address the balance of development and environmental needs. College of the Atlantic, located on Mt. Desert Island on the coast of Maine, is in the gateway to Acadia Nstional Park. The area receives almost five million visitors a year and exemplifies the ecological and social infrastructure challenges faced by many communities. Within this regional context, the College has developed a collaborative watershed-based curriculum and educational partnership involving a multiplicity of community organizations and leaders. A significant part of this project has been the creation of a watershed coalition  The Union River Watershed Coalition (URWC)  that has successfully brought together a diverse cross-section of stakeholders, citizens and organizations throughout Downeast Maine. Digital mapping technologies  in the form of geographic information systems (GIS), publicly-accessible databases, and other partnership projects  have become critical features for integrating economic development, ecosystem viability and cultural values. Lessons from the current project have applicability for collaborative approaches by other educational institutions, watershed regions and communities elsewhere.
24707190|Drawing on the insights of evolutionary epistemology, I examine the persistence of essentialism in the context of the Marxian and Neo-Marxian debate over the Agrarian Question. Specifically, I argue that Marxian theorists' failure to provide a convincing explanation for the survival of the family farm derives from their inability to construct systematic theories of "obstacles" to account for "deviations" from predicted "natural" paths of change and not, as is sometimes asserted, because essentialism is inherently deterministic, a-historical or in some way non-scientific. The persistence of essentialism in light of the former difficulties is explained in terms of Wimsatt's concept of generative entrenchment as well as the need for scientific theories to adapt to both intellectual and social environments. Organizational ecology is put forward as an alternative, non-essentialist approach to theorizing the structural dynamics of agriculture.
24707641|A high level of environmental concern is likely to be an important prerequisite of long-lasting pro-environmental behavior, and thus long-lasting decrease in environmental impact. However, several barriers hinder its establishment. This review essay aims to systematically summarize the most important of these barriers. The 21 barriers can be divided into two groups: one is related to the obtainment of information on environmental problems (subgroups: (1) direct, sensory obtainment of information and (2) the obtainment of mediated information), and the other is related to the mental appraisal processes concerning environmental problems (subgroups: the appraisal of (1) the severity and probability of the threat, (2) responsibility and affectedness and (3) coping). The accurate identification of the barriers hindering the rise of environmental concern is essential to removing or reducing them.
24707187|Human ecology is concerned with how humans adapt to a changing environment. Environmental change is often manifested as conflicts over the meaning and use of natural resources. Successful resource management is becoming increasingly dependent upon knowledge about how conflicts are constructed, and this entails identifying attitudes and beliefs held by various interest groups. This paper describes results from a study of environmental beliefs and attitudes towards large carnivores among sheep farmers, wildlife managers, and research biologists in Norway. The New Ecological Paradigm scale was tested, and environmental beliefs were found to be relatively stable across the three groups comprising two distinct dimensions. For the overall sample, positive attitudes toward large carnivores generally correlated with pro-environmental beliefs, while negative attitudes towards carnivores correlated with the general belief that humans are exceptional in relation to nature. While there are smaller differences among the three groups of respondents, sheep farmers endorse pro-ecological beliefs less than wildlife managers and research biologists. Information about the enviornmental beliefs of different cultures involved in disputes over resources can help explain the nature of resource conflicts. Improved knowledge of the 'meaning' of resources can be salient in terms of understanding how different interest groups adapt to environmental change.
24707616|The concept of ecosystem services has invoked considerable interest since the publication of the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (2005). Even though growing interest is directed at urban areas, most of the assessments of ecosystem services focus on functions, goods and services related to semi-natural and natural areas. This essay suggests that a focus on urban indoor spaces provides a fruitful perspective which is required in order to make the concept of ecosystem services fully operational for environmental management in contemporary societies. Indoor spaces serve as venues for the consumption of ecosystem services and they have major potential for providing some of the services that are currently produced outdoors. Continuing urbanisation combined with technological development and lifestyle changes increase the importance of indoor spaces as the human living environment. Innovative and integrative research that is capable of bringing together insights from two largely separate research streams focusing on indoor and outdoor environments is clearly needed.
24707737|Drawing from prior research and sociological theorization, this study investigates (1) if the transnational organization of production in the context of foreign investment dependence contributes to overall levels of environmental degradation, and (2) if transnationally controlled manufacturing is relatively more or less ecoefficient. To do so, fixed effects panel regression analyses of 37 less-developed countries from 1975-2000 are conducted to assess the effects of secondary sector foreign investment on total carbon dioxide emissions and emissions per unit of production. Findings indicate that foreign investment in manufacturing is positively associated with both outcomes. Additional results suggest that total population, level of development, and export intensity are all positively associated with total emissions and emissions per unit of production. While supporting theorization about the environmental impacts of foreign investment, this study also underscores the importance of considering both human-ecological and political-economic factors when investigating human-caused environmental degradation.
24706845|We examine distinct components of selection: 1) competition among members of one's own species; 2) the degree to which an individual is adapted to his/her given environment; and 3) ways in which different types of resource utilization affect competitive behavior. While these components vary dramatically in human as well as non-human groups, the relative importance of these is quite different for humans when comparing them with non-human species. Given these considerations, we examine theoretical problems arising from the different ways in which the concepts of "individual" and "group" are used in the respective disciplines of biology and sociology. We suggest that the linkages between evolutionary ecology and sociology typically have been mis-specified, and we offer suggestions for more accurate re-specifications.
24707130|The intelligibility of certain environmentalist critiques and animal advocacy positions is underwritten by a realist ontology of animality (or 'zontology'). Various constructionist commentaries in human ecology and allied fields tend to undermine this foundation. The present article seeks to defend an intermediate stance ontologically and epistemologically, so as to preserve the significance of eco-critical theories while allowing concerns of contextuality due entry into such analyses. Particular attention is paid to the ontic and epistemic standing of animate entities.
24707628|This paper reports on ethnographic research aimed at understanding what resilience means to those living within fishery-dependent communities. We draw on semi-structured and oral history interviews, focus groups, and household and business interviews in four Maine fishing communities to examine the reflections of fishermen and other community members on the past, present, and future of their communities, including the threats they face and how they are able to respond to them. Based on our analysis, we identify broad qualitative indicators of resilience: survival, social identity, diversification, getting by, and optimism. The indicators of resilience that we identify are difficult to fully understand using secondary data and, therefore, we argue that understanding them also requires an ethnographic research approach that focuses on the practices of fishermen and the context in which those fishermen live.
24707033|While it is uncertain whether the mass media promote environmental apathy or action, it is clear that the media play an important role in the social construction of environmental concern. To better understand public perceptions of environmental problems it is important to study how individual attitudes are structured and the negotiation of meaning of environmental messages in the media. This paper reviews the literature on the interpretation of environmental messages in the media and proposes a research method to unravel the social construction of environmental concern.
24707471|This study attempted to examine the impact of migrant remittances on the welfare of arable crop farm households. Primary data were collected from a random sample of 120 respondents comprising 60 each of migrants' remittance receiving and non-remittance receiving households through the cost route method. Data were analyzed using frequency distribution, regression analysis and Chow's test statistic. Results of the analyses show that sex of household head, household size, household age composition, income and sector of employment were the significant factors influencing the welfare of the remittance receiving households while sex, years of education, composition of household work force and sector of employment were the significant factors influencing the welfare of the non-remittance receiving households. The Chow's test revealed that the remittance receiving households have higher welfare status than their non remittance receiving counterparts. Therefore, policies for enhancing migrant remittances and their optimum channeling and use were recommended.
24707510|The basis of environmental-resource conflicts is often attributable to heterogeneous values systems between user groups that share particular landscapes and accompanying resources. A strong case can be made for the construction of these values through a dialectic between the physical landscape and lived experiences within that landscape, i.e. environmental values as hybrids of social constructivism and real material environments. Using the benefits of an 'artefactual constructivism' epistemology we highlight the land use and value conflicts between two cultural groups with differing environmental values: state-corporate forest managers and Mtis Aboriginal groups in Saskatchewan province, Canada. This paper highlights the value struggle between these groups over the same landscape and examines the impact on Mtis traditional land uses, the resulting land management paradigm based on the dominant value system and the detrimental outcome that this power struggle to effect landscape change has had on traditional land users like the Mtis.
24707467|Resilience is closely related to notions of sustainability, but emphasizes unpredictable, dynamic environments. As conceptualized in engineering, hazards management, and ecology literature, part of resilience is adaptive capacity, the ability to react effectively to change over time in order to maintain a desirable system state. Agricultural policy has had the effect of undermining such adaptive capacity with its emphasis on stabilization. Using a resilience framework and Hurricane Katrina as an analogy, we suggest that the emphasis on stability and efficiency degrades agricultural system resilience in two ways: through reduced diversity in size and type of production, as well as reduced ability to change production regimes based on the primary operator's judgment of social, environmental, and economic conditions; and, through the reduction of adaptive capacity by artificially stabilizing the system and eliminating feedback mechanisms that make adaptation possible. The resulting stagnation or loss of economic and political power lowers the resilience of the system and thus its long-term sustainability.
24707553|Studies of local natural resource management institutions have contributed to many co-management agreements around the world and also have demonstrated how communities interact with their environment through their culture and social organization. Common Property Systems (CPS), which define duties and rights in the use of natural resources, are examples of these interactions. But as Ostrom (1990, 14) notes: "getting institutions right ... is a process that requires reliable information about time and place variables, as well as a broad repertoire of culturally acceptable rules." One of the potential benefits of co-management institutions is the inclusion of a variety of information systems and knowledge bases. For example, local users have intensive knowledge and understanding about day to day local uses and conditions, whereas national governments and international NGOs have more global knowledge and financial and administrative resources to tackle large-scale scientific research. In this paper, we examine the role of local ecological knowledge in the management of a common pool resource, the artisanal fishery at Buritizeiro in Minas Gerais, Brazil. The research was carried out between 1999 and 2001 with seven field trips of 15 days each. Open and structured interviews were conducted, complemented by direct observation of the fishing activity. During three field trips, the fishery yield was recorded for 175 fishery shifts. Approximately 30 fishermen share the rights to access and use of four principal fishing spots in the rapids. In addition to operational rules, decision-making rules related to management, and exclusion and alienation rights have been developed. Local ecological knowledge has helped the fishermen identify most productive fishing spots, has been instrumental in determining the limits of the CPS area, has maintained fishery yield (average: 7.29kg/fisherman/day), and has provided the basis for institutional rules regulating the spatial and temporal limitations for each user. As the number of resource users has increased over the years due to the lack of other job opportunities in the region, this CPS has demonstrated flexibility in the rights to access and use, avoiding conflicts among the users and ensuring its longevity. The success of this CPS can help in the development of appropriate policy for fishery co-management plans in this area.
24707512|There has been increasing interest by social scientists in the cross-national determinants of environmental problems. One area of inquiry that has received little attention is biodiversity loss. We seek to address this gap in the literature by conducting a cross-national study of threatened mammals and birds in 2005. In doing so, we use negative binomial regression models for a sample of 65 nations to evaluate hypotheses drawn from several theoretical perspectives. We find substantial support for dependency theory that higher levels of debt service, structural adjustment, and primary sector exports are associated with higher numbers of threatened mammals and birds. We also find support for world polity theory that higher levels of non-governmental organizations are associated with lower numbers of threatened mammals and birds. We conclude with a discussion of the findings, some policy implications, and possible directions for future research.
24707236|The issues of global environmental injustice and human rights violations are the central focus of this article. Existing cross-national empirical data and case studies are utilized to assess and establish the patterns of transnational toxic wastes dumping, natural resource exploitation, and human rights transgression. The bases of global environmental injustice are explored. Theoretically, dependency/world system, internal colonialism perspectives, economic contingency, and transnational environmental justice frameworks are used to analyze transnational toxic waste dumping, land appropriation and natural resource exploitation adversely affecting indigenous minorities in underdeveloped societies. With a particular focus on selected cases, available evidence suggests that the poor, powerless indigenous minorities and many environmental and civil rights activists face the danger of environmental injustice and human rights abuse, especially in less developed nations. Significant correlations were found between social inequality, poverty, total external debts, demographic measures, health and solid wastes in the analysis of a cross-national data-set for developing nations. To foster global environmental justice, this study suggests that stronger international norms to protect human rights to a safe and sound environment are imperative; and it is argued that environmental injustice needs to be included as a component of human rights instruments. Other policy implications of the analyses are also discussed.
24707590|The perceptions of "public" members of participation processes have been studied far more than those of agency personnel. To improve the practice of public participation, this study, using Q analysis, explores how personnel from one agency view their experience, expertise, and learning with regard to communication with the public, including but not limited to public participation. Without organizational learning, which is more than the aggregation of individual learning, inferences from history will be lost. We found two perspectives: the Enthused ("Tiggers"), who focus on the support they receive for communication activities, including learning, and the Constrained ("Eeyores"), who see the limitations of their program and their own learning. The differences in the perspectives were not associated with agency unit, level of hierarchy, communication training, or tenure in the agency. We suggest ways to promote interchange among these participants through double-loop learning, which has similarities to the interactive, recursive processes that can integrate analysis and deliberation.
24707486|Although environmental problems continue to worsen, the mainstream environmental movement seems to be losing strength. Part of this declination rests on the movement's historical roots in and elevation of conservation, preservation, and wilderness protection as the headlining goals of environmentalism. These goals were promoted at the expense of other, perhaps more popular, motivators such as health ecology and environmental justice. In addition, such goals have not taken seriously the deleterious effects of environmental contamination on women, the poor, people of color, and residents of urban areas. Despite a somewhat diverse history, the mainstream environmental movement chose to most vigorously promote the protection of wild species and places, utilized a very limited understanding of the term 'environment' and has not promulgated a way of dealing with environmental destruction's concomitant shame. Taken together, these failings could be part of the movement's waning social significance. Beginning with an historical investigation of health ecology and environmental justice, this paper argues that the mainstream movement could be reinvigorated by contemporaneous attention to health ecology, environmental justice, and ecological restoration, all of which remain on the borders of the movement, and all of which have ample precedent within the sidelined history of American environmentalism.
24707705|Communities across the U.S. have been taking action to adapt to the wildfire risk they face. In a series of case studies conducted in 15 communities, researchers identified and described four elements that form the foundation for community wildfire preparedness: landscape, government, citizens, and community.
24875147|Taking serious consideration of the engagement of non-animals in human-society often transforms our understanding of human society. Here we offer insights that come from considering the role of non-human animals in the production of human well-being. Drawing on Braverman's critique of the deskilling of labor, we examine the effects of the drive for efficiency in capitalist production on both humans and non-human animals. Non-human animals provide well-being through their role in ecosystem services, as companions, as objects used as both raw materials and as processors of raw materials, and as labor. The drive for efficiency impacts all four of these roles, especially by reducing the agency of non-human animals. Our analysis suggests several lines for future research, and re-enforces the idea that taking non-human animals seriously can substantially hone thinking in human ecology.
24707479|The perceived separation between humans and nature may have implications for subsequent environmental values, attitudes, and behavior. This research examines people's perceptions of their connection to nature as well as their ideas about what constitutes natural and unnatural environments. We asked participants from three separate studies if they thought of themselves as part of or separate from nature. We also asked participants to list words that came to mind when thinking of natural and unnatural environments. The results show that even though the majority of the participants considered themselves part of nature (76.9%), natural environments were largely described as places absent from any human interference. Gaining an understanding of this apparent contradiction may lead to a better awareness of the importance of people's perceptions of themselves in nature and how that perception relates to general human-environment interactions as well as management and policy.
24707525|In this paper I consider the western, male-centred practice of deliberative democracy and its suitability for addressing cross-border environmental problems that intersect with the issue of women's protection, featuring the use of threat or force (hereafter referred to as environmental-women's protection problems). Central to this paper is the consideration of the extent to which the problem-solving practice of deliberative democracy is relevant for processing such problems. It is contended that although deliberative democracy as a political methodology in the form of inclusive participatory designs is relevant for processing environmental-women's protection problems, it needs to take on board feminist environmental insights from the broad area of feminist ecology. These would include: a focus on activism contesting structural injustices, relationships, ecological embeddedness, security, women's agency, gender training and culturally-sensitive community development processes. Ultimately, such considerations would make deliberative democracy more meaningful in a problem-ameliorating sense for such problems.
24875146|While its processes have been unfolding for centuries, some aspects of human interaction with the natural environment are unprecedented. In recent centuries, the world has experienced unparalleled technological change, wealth accumulation and population growth and concentration; these have led to extraordinary levels of other problems, particularly environmental degradation. Focusing on mismatches between the adaptive cycle and the organization of the world economy, we examine material and cultural changes that lead to social and ecological devastation. We apply our theoretical framework to one of the largest ecological and social catastrophes since the Industrial Revolutionthe Irish Potato Famine of the 1840s. There are a number of lessons, particularly in terms of the relations of production and humankind's connection with the natural environment. It is now as important as ever to learn from past mistakes and modify current modes of theory and analysis as history moves into the Third Millennium.
24707511|Numbers of animal species are commercialized by herbalists in markets throughout Brazil. Nevertheless, there is a general lack of information about this type of trade in the country. This study aimed to obtain information on the trade of animals for medicinal purposes in the city of Campina Grande, Paraba State. Data were obtained through semistructured questionnaires applied to traders of medicinal animals. The trade of medicinal animals includes 32 species, which are extracted for zootherapeutic products recommended for the treatment of 25 illnesses. Interviewees described the existence of a multi-state trade network of medicinal animals. Some of the traded animals are listed in the Brazilian list of threatened species, and this shows the urgent need to consider zootherapy in the context of biodiversity conservation in Brazil. Our results reveal the importance of zootherapy as a therapeutic alternative and demonstrate the need for further studies on the subject.
24706963|Prior research has explored the relationship between values, attitudes about environmental issues, and pro-environmental behavior. These studies have shown a consistent pattern of results  individuals who value self-transcendent life goals tend to care more about environmental problems, favor environmental protection over economic growth, and engage in more proenvironmental behavior. In contrast, individuals who value self-enhancing life goals tend to hold more egoistic concerns about environmental issues, tend to favor economic growth over environmental protection, and tend to engage in fewer environmental behaviors. Research on American values suggests that overall, people in the U.S. tend to hold strong self-enhancing values. These self-enhancing values have largely been considered incongruous with the values that lead to environmental concern and to environmental behavior. In this paper, we synthesize the past research on the relationship between values and environmental behavior. Lessons from the Biodiversity Project are used to illustrate efforts to create effective value-based environmental messages.
24707234|Economic and social dislocations in Northwest timber-dependent communities during the last fifteen years resulted from industrial restructuring pushed by global competition, stock manipulations, technological modernization and environmental regulations. Timber community instability and resultant social conflict are linked to cultural issues nestled in differences in community resiliency, internal diversity in production relationships, industrial profitability rationales and the management of scientific information. Previous studies used terms such as "traditional," "community stability," "timber dependency," and "moral persuasion" outside of defined community contexts and unrelated to local environmental conditions, which led to unwarranted generalizations about combatants within post-1985 industrial restructuring in the Northwest. This study of a northwest Montana timber county examines connections between structural issues and exclusionary cultural mobilization, suggesting that hyper-contextualization may provide a deeper research avenue than previous universalized studies.
24707057|There are many symbolic values in a landscape, symbols that vary greatly between people who live in, and those who visit that landscape. These are the semiotic resources of the landscape. They change over time, and change in the mind of a person during his/her lifetime. This paper deals with these changes: how "inner landscapes" are lost and gained over time. Landscapes are reflections of cultural identities, rather than of the natural environment. The physical environment is transformed into landscapes, and cultural groups transform it through the use of different symbols, symbols that bestow different meanings on the same physical objects. Finally, this paper discusses the loss of landscapes  by "fading out" or being "battled down."
24875150|The authors investigate the relationship between U.S. state-level residential carbon emissions and income inequality for the 19902012 period. Results of the analysis indicate a positive association between emissions and income inequalitymeasured as the Theil indexand these findings hold across a variety of model estimation techniques and net of the effects of other established human drivers of emissions. The authors conclude by underscoring the need for more research on the effects of income inequality on carbon emissions and other related environmental outcomes.
24707584|The theoretical underpinnings of various analyses of the social dimensions of ecosystem management are closely related to our mental models of human-nature relations. This article presents examples of eco- and anthropocentric, interdisciplinary and complex system mind maps of human-nature relations. It shows that the interpretation of the social dimension in ecosystem management in each mind map advances the study of human-nature relations in a particular way. However, the dysfunctional reductionism of eco-and anthropocentric mind maps and the weak capacity of interdisciplinary mind maps to analyse intersystem and cross-scale linkages is only overcome by complex system approaches. Different types of complex systems mind maps are found capable of comprehensively operationalising the social dimension of ecosystem management for monitoring purposes and also of linking a variety of knowledge types in integrative analyses to support resilience-oriented management. The participation of system stakeholders in transformative and adaptive transdisciplinary work is central in these endeavours.
24707647|This essay is an historical exploration of the nexus between animals, agency, and class. More significantly, it seeks to place the agency of horses, cows, sheep, pigs, etc. into the process of historical writing. This essay is divided into three sections. The first is a critique of the current state of the historiography of animal-studies. The second, 'A Product of an Unspoken Negotiation,' considers how animals themselves have shaped their own lives and labors. The third, 'The Evolution of Vegetarianism and Animal-Rights,' explores how a class relationship developed between humans and other animals. Moreover, this section demonstrates how this solidarity then led to the creation of social change.
24707249|This paper examines the changing constitution of Chinese landscapes of death in post-war Singapore through a close reading of the process of conflict and negotiation between the nation-state and the Chinese community. Using the spatial politics surrounding Chinese burial grounds as a lens, we clarify state strategies of control over land use and explain how they shifted from colonial to the postcolonial era. We also examine how the strategies of resistance and negotiation on the part of the Chinese community to continue to lay claim to their burial spaces. We then explore state rationale behind, and the community's response to, the shift from burial to cremation. In general, the birth of a new nation-state put in place stronger urban planning mechanisms for disciplining the landscape, and at the same time, narrowing the degrees of freedom within which the Chinese community was able to manoeuvre.
24707253|Like a number of western countries, Norway is experiencing severe conflicts over predator control and loss of livestock. Conflict resolution is at least partly dependent upon understanding the underlying values and attitudes of the key actors. This study examines fundamental values and attitudes toward predators among sheep farmers, wildlife biologists, and research biologists in Norway. Attitudes toward the large carnivores are relatively negative among sheep farmers, and more positive among other groups involved in the livestock vs. carnivore conflict, like wildlife managers and biologists. We evaluated the assertion that the contrasting attitudes are related to differences in values between sheep farmers and the other two groups. Generally, the value structure showed large similarities across the three groups; six identical factors appeared in each of the groups. One separate and coherent factor, "Nature" (consisting of the five ecocentric value items), appeared in each group. "Nature" was the most important value dimension among wildlife managers and biologists, while a "Security" dimension was most important for sheep farmers. Negative attitudes toward carnivores were positively associated with items related to "Security" and "Tradition." Positive attitudes toward carnivores were positively correlated with "Openness to change" and "Nature" dimensions.
24707018|Every culture has a system of beliefs that guides their interaction with nature. The literature suggests that indigenous communities rely heavily on the pursuance of an ideal of natural justice, which leads them to have a balanced relationship with nature. In this paper we seek to deepen the understanding of indigenous people's concept of natural justice and morality systems guiding their interaction with nature. An exploratory case study was conducted in which we gathered qualitative data through in-depth interviews and participant observation in a Letuama village from the Colombian Amazon. We conducted a grounded analysis of the data in search for subjective moral norms guiding environmental behavior. The six basic principles that emerged recurrently were: Economy, Reciprocity, Antagonism, Cleverness, Parallelism, and Tradition, with Reciprocity being common across all other categories. We found enough evidence to suggest that among the Letuama, Reciprocity is a culturally rooted moral principle acquired through the socialization process that strongly drives their human-nature as well as their social relationships. Some implications for future research and current theories are discussed.
24707250|This paper reconstructs the paleoepidemiology of schistosomiasis in Egypt in the context of the parasite, host snail, and human ecology. The fossil snail fauna of the Sahara suggests that after its origin in East Africa, schistosomiasis existed in North Africa in prehistoric times. The oldest human cases were dated to Pharaonic Egypt. The development of irrigation in Egypt provided conditions favorable for schistosomiasis, especially Schistosoma haematobium infection, and infection rates apparently increased until recent years. Recent countrywide epidemiological studies tend to confirm these findings. Implications of the paleoepidemiology of schistosomiasis for its control in modern Egypt are examined in relation to socioeconomic, demographic, and public health developments. Studies using new diagnostic tools that permit the screening of large numbers of mummies and naturally preserved bodies and correlation of their infection status with local environmental conditions may further elucidate the evolution of the schistosomiasis disease complex.
24706844|This paper reviews the actual status of human ecology in Western Europe. The issue is introduced with a description of the Master's Program in Human Ecology at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel. The relationship of this program to the European Certificate in Human Ecology is described. This European Certificate is a network of nine European universities which all run postgraduate courses in human ecology. This network was expanded with the founding of the European Association for Human Ecology (EAHE) in 1990. The EAHE provides a forum for discussion for all members of European institutes, departments, other associations and programs which are active in human ecology. The paper also reviews the current status of the Norwegian, the Danish, the German and the Italian Societies for Human Ecology.
24707482|Framing is a process of highlighting certain facets of reality to make specific issues more prominent, consequential, and memorable. Framing is important in policy debates because it affects what counts as knowledge, which actors are empowered or disenfranchised, and the forum for decision-making. This paper presents a discourse analysis of framing processes in Pacific Northwest salmon recovery policy. Analysis of testimony from more than 100 witnesses to six U.S. Congressional committees identified two prominent frames: one based on scientific discourse and another based on local control discourse. Actors used these frames to define the problem, outline solutions, support their positions, and undermine the positions of others. Results reveal distinctions between stakeholder groups in the frames that they do and do not use in policy debate, and the discussion addresses reasons for these differences. The results imply that the policy community has limited potential for creative decision-making to address salmon decline.
24707129|At first glance, present literary theory (poststructuralism) and ecology seem to be going in opposite directions. Roland Barthes, for example, used the words "to naturalize" to describe the falsification of historically motivated conventional truth. For Barthes, culture is always a semiological system. Forget nature. Ecology, on the other hand advocates a return to nature. The looming catastrophe that awaits us is due to anthropocentrism. Our relation to nature is bogus; we must get back to a more genuine relationship with nature by paying attention to nature's requirements. Each position opposed in their use of nature seeks emancipation from the bondage of a misperception. However, it does not take long for a postmodern literary theorist to feel comfortable in the "natural" abode of the ecologist. Both seek emancipation from an inadequate cultural habitation inherited from the past. Both agree that a naive "objectivity" or absolute is not available. But the literary theorist has to solve the problem of proliferating points of view and trivialization of standpoints. Ecology has to solve the essentializing of the new holistic paradigm as promoted by the deep ecologists. Using the lessons learned from feminist literary theory  a progress from essentialism (C. Spretnak and C. Wolf) to deconstruction (J. Butler) to dialogism (L. Alcoff and T. Lauretis)  ecology can also embrace dialogism as illustrated by William Cronon, Michael Pollan, and Carolyn Merchant. That ecology could also replace worn out patriarchal religions is a needed and hoped for prospect though still only speculation. F. Capra's The Web of Life (1996) embodies that prospect in an appealing non-idolatrous way.
24707674|The Stone Age constitutes a substantially and symbolically decisive era of human development. Substantially, since it informs us of the ways our archaic ancestors perceived and treated the natural environment. Symbolically, since primordialism is considered by many to be the stage of human purity and uncorrupted expression of human psyche. An investigation of the Upper Palaeolithic period leads us to question the "ecocentric" thesis, that is, the alleged stage of harmony between primitive homo sapiens sapiens and nature. Instead, by distinguishing between natureas-resources and nature-as-symbolism, and by stressing the open-ended nature of human bio-psychology, we arrive at the tentative conclusions that palaeolithic egalitarianism facilitated a "prosopocentric" (person-centred) Cosmic Order characterized by the conflation of subject and object. It was not ecologically sensitive and thus it did not prevent economic exploitation and environmental damage. During the Neo-lithic period the band became socially, economically, and politically caged. Symbolically, it meant the shift from pro-sopocentrism to theocentrism (god-centred cosmic order). Though the passage to hoe and agriculture shifted attention from fauna to flora appropriation, the economic attitude itself remained opportunistic and exploitative. We conclude that while social structures were at the heart of Stone Age worldviews, opportunistic appropriation of scarce resources depended on both knowledge of the local environment and social competition.
24707570|We review the academic literature (n=113) that addresses effects on human health and well-being that occur when people interact with open spaces and nature in urban settings. We identify key design elements and research principles as well as commonly used research methodologies and outcome variables. We identify and discuss a critical balance between reductionism in design and research and a holistic and integrative approach. That balance is as critical to successful designs of open spaces intended to improve human health and well-being as it is to successful research to document those effects. We also address gaps in the existing evidence base and recommend directions that researchers and practitioners should adopt in order to further advance the ability to design and research open spaces in urban areas to improve human health and well-being. Overall, we call for efforts to build a stronger evidence base to better inform policy-makers and practitioners in the future.
24707661|This contribution links global and local issues, using case studies from Indonesia as a focus for a discussion of national policy and governance approaches, and to illustrate how these relate to livelihoods and to coastal and marine resource management. Climate change is a major aspect of global, including environmental, change. Both are linked to the economic, social and cultural dimension. Observations in Indonesia show that globalization and climate change produce repercussions on local coastal developments and livelihoods. Although the Indonesian government has set the stage for linking ocean developments and coastal threats to climate change, it remains to be seen whether or not their efforts will be adequate to address the real needs of the populations most affected. It also seems that the contemporary "climate divide" represents a new version of the old conflict between the developed and the developing world on environmental issues, globally as well as locally. Multi-level, interdisciplinary social-ecological research is advocated in order to explore feedbacks between global change and local livelihood dynamics.
24707235|A number of observers have pointed out that environmental movements have, at best, met with mixed success. Our paper develops a theoretical framework for why this has been the case. The work draws on a number of intellectual traditions, including theories of rational choice, human ecology, rhetoric, resource mobilization, social movements, criticism and conflict. We examine ways in which environmental issues are framed and prioritized in the collective decision process, both within environmental movements, and for the overall polity. Environmental issues often are used to energize a constituency to support a given political regime; yet unless the environment is one of the regime's top priorities, it is typically abandoned in favor of other issues. In a related vein, we consider how other social movements can effectively co-opt environmental concerns, thereby diverting significant amounts of collective energy to other ends. The theory adduced is fractal, or recursive, applying on a number of levels of analysis. The paper concludes by suggesting ways in which environmental movements can become more effective.
