24875086|When there is a rich guild of nest predators that use different modalities and techniques to locate hidden nests, we hypothesized that no habitat patch characteristic will consistently predict nest success, because if such a characteristic existed then predators would develop a search image based on it and use that characteristic to increase their hunting efficiency for nests. We tested this prediction in the Prairie Pothole region of North Dakota by characterizing the features of 16 habitat patches that contained >1,800 dabbling duck nests. Nest success was monitored during both the early and late nesting season over 2 years. Nest success was generally low and highly variable among habitat patches and across seasons and years. We found that nest success was rarely correlated with patch size, nest density, predator abundance and richness, abundance of alternative prey for predators, and visual and physical obstruction provided by the vegetation. Those few habitat patch characteristics that were correlated with nest success during a particular single year or season were not correlated during other seasons or years. Hence, our results supported the hypothesis that no habitat patch characteristic can consistently predict nest success.
24875107|Before immunocontraceptives can be considered safe to use on wildlife species, potential health risks should be assessed. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) immunocontraceptive has successfully reduced fertility of white-tailed deer (
24875711|Tree swallows (
24875087|Growing populations of resident Canada geese (
24875694|Humanwildlife conflicts associated with suburban white-tailed deer (
24875105|White-tailed deer (
24875075|Feral hogs (
24875708|Management of problem wildlife within the airfield environment is a difficult job. Todays BirdAnimal Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) program managers require as much information as possible to accomplish their tasks. Bird censuses and actual bird-strike events in and around the air operations area are used to make airfield management decisions and to assess the risk of bird hazards to aircraft. Both types of information are sampled rather sparsely. Avian radar is now being used as a new tool to provide continuous sampling of bird activity that significantly supplements visual censuses. The measure of risk used today is commonly expressed as the ratio of the number of bird strikes per 100,000 flying hours. While important, this measure of risk is relatively insensitive to improvements in safety measures that do not result in dramatically fewer bird strikes. Stated differently, a reduction in safety or an increase in risk (which reflects an increased likelihood of bird strikes occurring) is not anticipated, but, rather, it is calculated after the fact when increases in bird strikes have been experienced. As a result, BASH managers are at a disadvantage because they can respond only after bird strikes occur. To address this deficiency, we introduce a new method for assessing risk that is based on near-miss events that complements risk calculations based on reported bird strikes. Recent advances in commercially available, digital avian tracking radars enabled biologists to automatically monitor and assess near-miss events. Near-miss events occur much more frequently than bird strikes. A combined dataset of bird strikes and near-misses provides BASH managers with a more responsive metric to evaluate the success of their program over time than by using only the bird-strike dataset.
24875053|Exurban development (non-metropolitan, residential development) poses unique challenges for wildlife managers through increases in humanwildlife interactions. However, little is known about hunting activity and human attitudes toward white-tailed deer (
24875060|This paper explores the role of public opinion in a landmark shift in the federal predator control program. In 1963, the Leopold Committee recommended extensive reform in the federal predator control program, predicting that growing public support for the environmental movement would force such a move if the government did not initiate a change. In the years following the publication of the Leopold Report, the U.S. Division of Wildlife Services reformed its predator control program and tried to improve its public image. Meanwhile, both environmentalists and ranchers fought to control public opinion about the issue. The 1972 ban on predacides (poisons for predators) in federal predator control programs resulted as much from the environmentalists ability to control public opinion as from the changing scientific understanding of predators.
24875673|In response to increasing populations, damage complaints, and a desire to understand population and spatial dynamics, we studied population size, survival rates, home ranges, movements, and site fidelity of female resident Canada geese (
24875715|We captured giant Canada geese (
24875684|Brushtail possums (
24875076|During the last decade, surface lignite mines in eastern Texas have experienced damage by feral hogs (
24875050|When establishing new populations of endangered red-cockaded woodpeckers (RCW;
24875693|Interactions between humans and white-tailed deer (
24875088|Fruit consumption by large flocks of juvenile European starlings (
24875665|We conducted telephone surveys of wildlife professionals who work with large carnivores to ask their opinions about how people should respond to avoid being injured when confronted by a black bear (
24875051|We describe a new method (drive-by netting) for capturing grebes (
24875077|Hunter harvest data suggest that feral hog (
24875716|Historically, Rocky Mountain National Park (RMNP) has supported a small black bear (
24875663|Complaints associated with nuisance activity by Louisiana black bears (
24875113|Although good data are lacking, published estimates suggest that >1.5 million deervehicle collisions (DVCs) occur annually in the United States. The estimated losses exceed 1 billion dollars. In some states, DVCs are a major cause of reportable accidents. Federal, state, and private partners have cooperated in monitoring trends in DVCs and implementing mitigation measures. Most of this information about such measures is readily available via the Internet. The purpose of this paper is to provide the reader with a broad overview of and a guide to the information currently available online to mitigate DVCs.
24875685|Invasive alien species (IAS) threaten global biodiversity; they are the major cause of species extinction on offshore islands. Management of IAS requires data on the ecology of species in their new environment, how these species respond to management, and how these processes interact. Often, however, there is a paucity of information on key biological parameters that are critical to making management decisions. We sent a questionnaire to professionals and organizations managing invasive species and asked the respondents to prioritize a list of information they required to carry out eradication of invasive species. We analysed responses to assess the level of agreement among experts. Then, we compared them to a survey ranking available information in the peer-reviewed literature. We did this for 8 globally-important mammal species to identify gaps in available knowledge. We suggest that many of the shortfalls in knowledge can be best addressed through adaptive resource management (i.e., collecting data during the process of carrying out eradication itself, analyzing and processing these data, and using the information to make objective decisions that can be fed back into field operations). We recommend a modelling approach to enable the forecasting and testing of different scenarios when manipulative experimentation is impossible. As this process evolves, it should assist successful eradication of IAS on larger islands.
24875102|Collisions between large vertebrates and vehicles along roadways are an increasing concern, not only because of ecological consequences, but also because of associated economic and social costs. We used a large-scale, long-term data set comprising several databases from Utah to summarize and analyze these costs. The overall cost for 13,020 collisions from 1996 to 2001 in Utah was approximately $45,175,454, resulting in an estimated average per year cost of about $7,529,242 and a mean collision cost of $3,470. These figures include human fatality costs of $24 million (53% of total costs); vehicle damage costs of $18 million (39%); loss of deer, valued at $2.7 million (6%); and human injury costs of $1 million (2%). Cost-benefit analyses have shown that mitigation efforts, which are prioritized based on road-kill data, can produce positive net economic gains and also increase driver safety.
24875682|Wildlife management has been defined as the art and science of applying scientific knowledge and ecological principles to manage wildlife populations for human objectives. Historically, wildlife managers have sought to maintain or increase desirable wildlife species (e.g., game fish, birds, and mammals) to meet human food and recreational needs by directly manipulating their habitats or the populations themselves. However, many contemporary rural and urban environments are inhabited by much larger populations of wildlife than were present a century ago. As local wildlife populations increase, so can the damage caused by them. Additionally, because many rare species inhabit private lands, the potential exists for increased land-use regulatory conflicts. Thus, public concerns regarding negative experiences associated with overabundant and nuisance species of wildlife are increasing. If wildlife management is to grow as a profession, managers may need to change their traditional emphasis from that of managing to sustain or increase populations to one of mitigating conflicts. Increased agency emphasis on managing humanwildlife conflicts may afford wildlife management professionals a new forum to engage the widest range of stakeholders in conservation. To make this transition, wildlife managers will need better information about how and why humanwildlife conflicts occur, the magnitude and type of damage occurring, the techniques to manage challenges posed by locally overabundant or rare wildlife populations, and the communication strategies that can be implemented to more effectively involve the capacity of local governance in seeking viable solutions.
24875110|Immunocontraceptive vaccines based on gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) have been tested in adult white-tailed deer (
24875672|Rapid development and urbanization of the lower Florida Keys in the last 30 years has fragmented the habitat of the Lower Keys marsh rabbit (
24875054|Black-tailed prairie dog (
24875705|On March 4, 2008, a Cessna Citation 1 (Model 500) crashed in a wooded area near Wiley Post Airport, Oklahoma, killing all 5 people on board. This paper describes the detailed forensic methods and expertise used by the Smithsonian Institutions Feather Identification Lab to identify the bird that caused this bird-strike incident. We used standard methods of whole-feather analysis, microscopic examination, and DNA barcoding in this case to identify American white pelican (
24875085|Over the last 20 years, Hawaiis agriculture has shifted from a focus on sugar cane (
24875704|The National Wildlife Strike Database for Civil Aviation in the United States became operational in 1995 with the initiation of data entry of all strike reports beginning in 1990. The database contained 82,057 reported strikes from 1990 to 2007. About 9,800 of these strike reports noted damage to the aircraft, of which 2,700 indicated the damage was substantial. The database has proven to be a useful source of objective information on the extent and nature of wildlife strikes for personnel at individual airports and for researchers and regulatory agencies at the national level. With the impending requirement for airports in the United States to manage safety risks through a formal safety management system (SMS) approach, we propose that the database can be a key element for prioritizing wildlife risks and providing objective benchmarks of the effectiveness of wildlife hazard management plans (WHMP). We propose that airports use the number of damaging strikes ranked by causative species over the most recent 5-year interval in combination with species-specific wildlife count data prioritized by likelihood of damage. This would guide species-specific management actions to minimize future risk. We further propose that a benchmark or threshold rate of 0.96 damaging strikes per 100,000 aircraft movements per year be established. Any airport exceeding this damaging strike rate in a given year should reevaluate its WHMP, with a focus on those species posing the greatest risk. To enhance the utility of the database in an SMS, improvements are needed in the level and quality of reporting. In particular, all strikes and the wildlife species involved in them should be reported. During the past 13 years, the National Wildlife Strike Database has provided a scientific foundation for the various efforts underway to reduce the problem of wildlife strikes with aircraft. Improvements in reporting, as outlined above, will make the database even more useful as part of an SMS to enhance safety at airports nationwide.
24875082|Management programs aimed at reducing wildlife damage to row crops rely on information concerning the spatial nature of wildlife damage at local and landscape scales. In this study we explored spatial patterns of wildlife damage within individual corn and soybean fields by describing relationships between specific locations where wildlife damage was recorded and distances from such locations to various habitat types that presumably influenced animal abundance and movements in our study area. Using stratified random sampling, we conducted depredation surveys of 100 corn fields and 60 soybean fields from May through October both in 2003 and 2004 and recorded the specific global positioning satellite (GPS) coordinates of wildlife damage to individual corn and soybean plants. We then generated random point locations in the same fields using a geographic information system (GIS) and evaluated whether damage point locations and random point locations differed with respect to distances to the nearest patches of forest, developed area, or grassland and shrubland habitats. For both crop types, damage point locations were significantly closer to forest patches than were random point locations, but farther from developed areas than random point locations. Logistic regression analyses further indicated that distance to forest influenced the probability of wildlife damage within fields, although pseudo r values of the best models were low (0.15). Our results clearly indicated that field portions that were nearest to forested habitats were more likely to suffer wildlife damage than field portions farther from forested habitats. We suggest that targeted removals of depredating species, concentrated along crop-forest interfaces, may be an effective, cost-effective means of reducing corn and soybean damage in areas where wildlife damage is especially problematic.
24875692|We evaluated 6 different porcine zona pellucida (PZP) preparations used as a single-shot vaccine for multiyear contraception of captive white-tailed deer (
24875712|Canada geese (
24875052|In the United States, monk parakeets (
24875047|Box traps and foot-hold snares are common methods to live-capture study animals. However, these methods are frequently ineffective due to factors such as weather constraints, food availability, and target animal behavior. During a study of red fox (
24875049|We compared 2 sampling strategies designed to estimate abundance of double-crested cormorants (
24875717|Interactions between humans and cougars (
24875048|Nest predation often is cited as a primary cause for low recruitment and subsequent population decline of many ground-nesting bird species. In response, managers and researchers have developed a myriad of techniques to reduce rates of predation on ground nests. Fences to exclude predators from nesting areas have reportedly been a successful, albeit expensive, strategy to reduce predation rates. Although many studies have evaluated the use of exclusionary fences as a management tool, nearly all of these studies have evaluated the impact of fences in terms of nest success rather than by actual fence penetration by predators. Many authors, for example, assumed that particular fence designs would repel meso-predators like red fox. During a study to assess fences as a management tool to manage predation on duck nests, we documented that red foxes routinely penetrated fences that were designed based on recommendations in the literature. Our observations call into question many fence design recommendations, particularly in areas with red fox populations. More research is needed to assess the ability of various fence designs to repel specific predators.
24875695|Woodpecker (
24875080|Texas harbors the largest population of feral hogs (
24875713|Edwards Air Force Base (AFB) scheduled the construction of a runway in the spring of 2007. The runway would be in an area that contained migratory birds and their habitat. The construction project would be near Edwards AFB main runway and had the potential not only to impact species protected under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA), including the burrowing owl (
24875046|Through the early twentieth century, people in rural areas of North America either dealt with problems caused by wildlife by killing the problem species, eliminating its habitat, changing crops or husbandry practices, tolerating the damage, or moving to a new area devoid of such problem animals. However, many of these solutions are impractical today with the increase in human populations, the increased expansion of development into previously rural landscapes, the increased fragmentation of land ownership, and the increasing movement of people into metropolitan areas. Because of current local, state, and federal ordinances and regulations, along with the impacts of animal rights and activist groups on public sensitivities, there are more rigid constraints on the tools, techniques, and capabilities that an individual or community in urban or rural areas can utilize to address a wildlife damage problem. The great majority of individuals today care about the humane treatment of animals and are sensitive to some of the claims, whether correct or not, made by animal activists, but they are much more likely to expect someone else to handle their problems as a community service or for a fee. This paper provides highlights of a historical perspective on the evolution of wildlife damage management in the United States, insight about the development of the Berryman Institute, and some future challenges for the profession
24875058|Vegetation-height management is a potential method to reduce bird numbers at airports. Based on studies in Europe, researchers recommended vegetation heights around 25 cm; however, preliminary studies in the United States produced conflicting results regarding the effect of tall (18 to >25 cm) vegetation on bird numbers at airports. From 1999 to 2002, we compared birds and other wildlife use of 4 short-vegetation plots (mean maximum height of 15.6 cm  5.1 SE and visual obstruction reading of 4.6  3.0 cm) and 4 tall-vegetation plots (mean maximum height of 26.9  8.4 cm and visual obstruction reading of 10.0  5.0 cm) in Ohio. We surveyed bird use of the plots 2 to 3 times/week and observed 6,191 birds in short-vegetation plots and 5,962 birds in tall-vegetation plots. We detected no difference between short-vegetation and tall-vegetation plots in the probability of avian use of the plots when evaluated as a binary response of presence and absence. Small mammal capture rates in 100 adjusted trap nights were 0.0 in short-vegetation plots and 0.3 in tall-vegetation plots. We found no difference in the number of deer observed in the plots during sunset and spotlighting counts. There was slightly greater insect biomass in tall-than in short-vegetation plots. Mowing negatively affected small mammal use. The generalization that tall vegetation (18 to >25 cm) alone would reduce bird use of an airport is not supported by the results of this study. Further research on vegetation density, composition, palatability, and nutritional value is necessary to accommodate airfield requirements for habitat that is pleasing to the public and repellent to wildlife
24875671|Wildlife damage to crops is a widespread concern among agricultural producers and wildlife professionals. In the United States, raccoon (
24875669|Comprehensive information on crop damage by wildlife species is critical if effective strategies for controlling wildlife damage are to be formulated. Discriminating how landscape composition and configuration attributes influence crop damage is important for implementing landscape management techniques to resolve humanwildlife conflicts. We analyzed crop damage data from 100 corn fields and 60 soybean fields located in the Upper Wabash River Basin of northern Indiana during 2003 and 2004. We used negative binomial regression to model the rate of damage to corn and soybean crops in response to local and landscape variables. Rate of crop damage was best predicted by a combination of local and landscape variables for both corn and soybeans. Models with landscape configuration variables were better able to explain patterns of corn damage, and models with landscape composition variables (specifically, amount of wooded areas) were better able to explain patterns of soybean damage. In general, rate of crop damage was negatively related to size of the crop field and positively related to proportion of a fields perimeter that was adjacent to wooded areas, amount of wooded areas, amount of forest edge, and mean size of forest patches. Specific associations between local and landscape variables and rates of crop damage may serve as a guide to planting strategies and landscape management to minimize wildlife damage to crops.
24875664|Bears (
24875059|Wildlife managers, researchers, and nuisance-control operators often require a nonlethal means of capturing beavers (
24875667|Expansion of black-tailed prairie dog (
24875686|This paper provides an overview of the predatory activities of the house cat (
24875670|Fences are used at many airports and small airfields to exclude wildlife from entering critical areas. However, not all fences exclude hazardous mammals reliably, and effective fences can be too expensive for small airports to purchase and maintain. In this study, we evaluated fencing at 10 small airports in Indiana and documented the presence and relative abundance of wildlife within airport boundaries using remote cameras and spotlight surveys. Only 4 airports were completely fenced, and four were <50% fenced. All airports had openings in their fence lines that would allow hazardous wildlife access to the airfields. We encountered either white-tailed deer (
24875696|White-tailed deer (
24875083|Overabundant populations of Canada geese (
24875108|Every year in the United States approximately 1.5 million deervehicle collisions (DVCs) occur resulting in >29,000 human injuries, >200 human fatalities, 1.3 million deer fatalities, and >1 billion dollars worth of property damage. Despite the magnitude of this problem, there are relatively few well-designed studies that have evaluated techniques that can be used to reduce DVCs. Techniques to reduce DVCs fall into 4 categories: reducing the number of deer (
24875081|We conducted a survey of the impact of feral hog (
24875079|No attempts have been made to document the distribution of feral hogs (
24875688|During the last 150 years, nine-banded armadillos (
24875691|Cliff swallows (
24875111|Vehicular collisions with white-tailed deer (
24875687|Feral hogs (
24875112|Consensus is lacking regarding the influence of vehicle speed and traffic volume on deervehicle collision (DVC) rates. Yet, annual average daily traffic flow (AADT) and posted speed limit (PSL) typically are used to measure these variables. To resolve this conflict, we studied the effects of traffic volume and vehicle speed on DVCs in Utah. Our results showed no relationship between AADT or PSL and DVC occurrence. There are at least 3 explanations for our results: (1) no causal relationship exists; (2) AADT and PSL, as measured, actually explain little of the variation; and (3) data quality problems exist. We discuss the likelihood for each explanation. We argue that even though traffic speed and volume have been used to predict DVC occurrence and may be useful explanatory variables, the metrics AADT and PSL are poor surrogate variables. Thus, uses of these variables to predict risk will likely provide unreliable results.
24875662|As urban landscapes expand across the globe, it becomes imperative to understand how these landscapes affect large carnivore populations. We examined the effects of human-altered landscapes on age-specific fecundity and life history parameters for female black bears (
24875103|Too many deervehicle collisions (DVCs) are one of the primary reasons local governments implement lethal deer management programs. However, there are limited data to demonstrate that a reduction in deer (
24875056|The Utah prairie dog (
24875109|Burgeoning deer populations in urban and suburban areas, along with the inherent problems stemming from this increase, are becoming increasingly widespread. To address these problems, wildlife biologists need quality baseline data of herd composition for harvest and treatment forecasts for management and fertility control research programs. In this study, we provide white-tailed deer (
24875078|Feral hogs (
24875689|Conflicts between elk (
24875084|Human-altered landscapes have provided resource subsidies for common ravens (
24875104|Deervehicle collisions (DVCs) are steadily increasing across North America. The increase is particularly pronounced in urban green spaces where deer (
24875707|From 1997 through 2007, 821 bat strikes were reported to the U.S. Air Force (USAF) Safety Center by aircraft personnel or ground crew and sent to the National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, for identification. Many samples were identified by macroscopic and or microscopic comparisons with bat specimens housed in the museum and augmented during the last 2 years by DNA analysis. Bat remains from USAF strikes during this period were received at the museum from 40 states in the United States and from 20 countries. We confirmed that 46% of the strikes were caused by bats, but we did not identify them further; we identified 5% only to the family or genus level, and 49% to the species level. Fifty-five of the 101 bat-strike samples submitted for DNA analysis have been identified to the species level. Twenty-five bat species have been recorded striking USAF planes worldwide. The Brazilian free-tailed bat (
24875690|We designed a timing device that records the calendar date and time of a depredation event on an artificial nest. The clock was simple to construct and successful in field trials, with only 6% failure (3 of 48 clocks). The average difference between actual and estimated depredation time was 4.6 minutes. Use of this clock improves daily survival estimates, provides insight into predator activity patterns, and allows the evaluation of investigator-induced depredation.
24875055|Cattle are the main reservoir for human infection by pathogenic
24875106|Observations of extended estrus seasons in female white-tailed deer (
24875057|With the rise in deervehicle collisions across the United States, the associated costs also have risen. Increasingly, however, researchers are learning that these collisions are not a random phenomena but follow a systematic pattern. Building on this insight, we explored the role of county characteristics in influencing the pattern and incidence of white-tailed deer- (
24875709|This paper details liability issues inherent in birdaircraft collisions (bird-strike) incidents at airports and discusses how airport managers and operators must strive to conduct accurate assessments and develop and implement an effective wildlife management plan. Such efforts are mandated by Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations, and failure to follow them may result in loss of human life and property, as well as large financial penalties for managers and operators and adverse media attention and public criticism for the airport authority.
24875668|We evaluated the efficacy of an oral rabies vaccination (ORV) program conducted in Erie County, New York, from July through September, 20022005. Ingress of the raccoon (
24875706|Mineral extraction sites that are restored to open water can increase bird-strike risk if they are planned near airports. This can generate conflict between the minerals industry and safeguarding authorities. To help resolve this potential conflict, it would be useful to predict how new restorations affect local water-bird populations so that mineral deposits can be exploited and restored in safeguarded zones without compromising flight safety. Bird abundances and movements at new restorations can be estimated with statistical models that use the environmental characteristics of restoration schemes as predictor variables. These models can improve guidance in safeguarding, provided that they comprise parameters that can be quantified or conceived at the planning stage. In this paper, we present suitable models based on bird counts conducted during 20042006 at 256 open-water restoration sites. We used the morphology of the restorations, their geo-spatial relationships, ecological characteristics and usage as explanatory variables in regression models that describe water-bird abundances, the likely presence of geese and gulls, and the frequency of bird movements in the nonbreeding and breeding seasons. The models that can best be used as predictive tools were selected using multi-modal inference techniques. We demonstrated how their application can provide objective data on the likely impact a restoration design will have on bird-strike risk.
24875710|Birdaircraft collisions (i.e., bird strikes) are a major problem at airports worldwide, often because birds are attracted to airfields to feed on seeds, insects, or rodents that abound in the grassy areas near runways and taxiways. We compared an alternative ground cover, wedelia (
