3080038|In morphological terms, cleistogamy is the most extreme form of autogamy. Among other characteristics, cleistogamy generally entails a reduction in flower size, one that particularly affects the corolla and androecium. In this study, we compare, from a structural point of view, the changes observed in cleistogamous (CL) flower heads of the annual herb
3691569|Seed surface sculpturing was examined comparatively from 46 species of
10.1086/667613|Delphinieae (Ranunculaceae) comprise 650 species of temperate herbs in Eurasia, North America, and Africa. Their zygomorphic flowers have been the object of numerous studies in morphology, ecology, and developmental genetics, and new phylogenetic insights make it timely to synthesize knowledge about their evolution. Key features of Delphinieae flowers are unusual nectaries consisting of paired organs of the inner perianth whorl that are completely enclosed by a single dorsal organ of the outer whorl. We investigated the floral development of five annual, unicarpellate species of
3691774|For studies of the evolution of development in angiosperms, earlydiverging eudicot taxa are of particular interest for comparisons with established core eudicot model plants, such as
2474992| Transient occurrence of oleosomes (lipid bodies) was observed during early stages of nodule differentiation in Sesbania rostrata. In stem nodules the first appearance of oleosomes in the infected cells was noted 8 d after inoculation of root primordia of the stem. These nodules were at the early stages of differentiation, white and <1 mm in diameter. At this stage the oleosomes were found in spherical/ovoid infected cells showing a single bacteroid in the symbiosomes. The elongated and larger infected cells revealed no or very rare presence of oleosomes; the symbiosomes were enlarged containing seven to eight bacteroids. In mature pink nodules as many as 17 bacteroids were counted within the symbiosomes. One of the unique features of the stem nodule oleosome is its large size, which could measure up to 8-10 m in diameter. The increased size is thought to result from an oversupply of photosynthate from the chlorophyllous nodule parenchyma and the other chlorophyllous aerial tissues. These oleosomes are possibly formed as a short-term storage of triacylglycerides, to be readily used for growth and differentiation of membranes during early presymbiotic stages of the nodule. 
10.1086/677678|
               
3080007|A new species provisionally assigned to the extant genus
2475153| Improved cultivars of perennial grasses developed for natural resource conservation and forage production on semiarid rangelands of western North America must persist under extreme environmental stress and make efficient use of limited water resources. A close negative relationship has been documented between carbon isotope discrimination () and water use efficiency (WUE) in temperate ( C
3080264|Genotypes within a population may respond differently to finescale environmental variation leading to the occurrence of genotype by environment interaction (GEI). We used 12 genotypes of an annual wildflower,
3874660|The green alga
2995559|During the in vitro lag period of Magnolia x soulangeana pollen germination, a conspicuous intimate association is established between the inner plasma membrane of the vegetative cell (VC) and the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) existing in the VC cytoplasm around the generative cell (GC). The cisternae run parallel and are tightly appressed to the inner plasma membrane of the VC without space between them. The same single cisterna often parallels the convoluted outline of the GC surface over an extensive length, almost completely covering it with RER. Possibly, the attachment of RER cisternae to the inner plasma membrane of the VC, apart from providing local synthesis, may have a role in (1) canalizing products from elsewhere in the VC cytoplasm toward the GC or (2) shielding the GC from events occurring in the VC cytoplasm. During this period the GC and the vegetative cell nucleus (VN) are always closely associated with each other, forming the male germ unit. Examination of thin sections indicates that they are probably interlocked with one another, the distance between the inner plasma membrane of the VC and the nuclear envelope of the VN being 50-70 nm in some regions. Although components that could link both the structures of the GC and VN are not detected, it is noteworthy that cisternae covering the inner plasma membrane of the VC do not normally exist in the regions where the GC is more closely associated with the VN. The possibility that this lack of cisternae is connected with the relationship between the GC and VN is discussed.
2475007|Analysis of serial sections of procambial traces in spike primordia of Triticum reveals the early development of the vascular system of the rachis. Alternating pairs of traces form in isolation in the rachis in relation to the lower ridge leaf of each double ridge. Vertical merger of these procambial strands creates the lateral trace system consisting of two vertical traces in the rachis. The central trace system differentiates between but on both sides of the lateral traces, forming an ellipse in transection. Like the lateral traces, the central traces form in isolated pairs in the rachis in relation to their lower ridge leaves. Vertical mergers of the central trace procambia create the vertical lateral trace system along both sides of the rachis. As the lateral and central traces are differentiating and merging, isolated traces differentiating basipetally from the glume insertions begin to link the spikelet with the rachis. Glume traces tend to merge with the earliest available traces in the rachis. This pattern of merger frequently causes the distal spikelets to become linked to the lateral trace system and the proximal spikelets to become linked to the central trace system. In Triticum and other pooid grasses, the lower ridge leaves initiate the vascular system for the rachis as do the vegetative leaves for the culm. The vascular system of the inflorescences of panicoid grasses may have different sites promoting procambial differentiation than do the inflorescences of pooid grasses.
2475157|Schizaea pusilla is a leptosporangiate fern that occurs in bogs in two disparate geographic locations (i.e., New Jersey and Nova Scotia). In this study, we examined the effects of culture time, storage temperature, storage time, and light quality on germination of spores from populations of this fern from New Jersey and Nova Scotia. For all populations, maximal germination was achieved 42-60 d in culture at 22
3691679|This study reports on the heterogeneity and dynamics of green fluorescent protein (GFP)tagged mitochondria in transgenic tobacco (
2995674|Improvement of agronomic and quality factors in Arachis hypogaea L. through interspecific hybridization with wild Arachis species is restricted because of reproductive barriers including genetic incompatibility. A description of embryogenesis and embryo abortion in reciprocal crosses between wild and cultivated Arachis species should clarify some of these reproductive barriers. This study documents embryogenesis in the diploids A. duranensis (K 7988) and A. stenosperma (HLK 410) in reciprocal crosses with A. hypogaea cv NC 6. A significant parental effect was observed among crosses. When NC 6 was used as the female parent in crosses with both diploid species, embryos developed at a near normal rate, while embryos in the reciprocal crosses showed retarded rates. Differences in embryo developmental morphology were not observed between the two wild species. When A. duranensis was used as a female parent, however, embryos aborted at a higher frequency. In contrast, A. stenosperma had delayed fertilization, but initial embryo development was much faster and by day 5 had attained the same level of development as A. duranensis. These observations illustrate that as attempts are made to utilize the genetic resources of Arachis, different approaches will be needed to overcome the multiplicity of reproductive barriers that restrict introgression of potentially desirable traits to cultivated peanuts.
10.1086/654846|
               
2475042|Pollen movement inside ovulate cones was examined in Pseudotsuga and Cedrus. In Pseudotsuga pollen lands on large obliquely inserted bracts and passes downward to the small axillary ovuliferous scales. Pollen then moves toward the cone axis either on the ovuliferous scales or on the bracts near the margin of the ovuliferous scales. Bract bases are curved, which funnels pollen to the apices of the inverted ovules. Pollen that passes down the adaxial surface of an ovuliferous scale also may reach ovules of more distal ovuliferous scales. Pollen does not enter the area between a bract and an ovuliferous scale. In Cedrus pollen lands on ovuliferous scales that completely cover the small subtending bracts. Pollen passes on the ovuliferous scales toward their lateral bases. The apices of inverted ovules are extended into the area between the ovuliferous scales and the cone axis. Microdrops appear on the distal surface of the ovules, and pollen adheres to these drops. In Cedrus rain water carries pollen adhering to the outside of the ovules to the inside. Hydration of pollen by this water has little effect on germination. A pollination drop is produced in Cedrus
2475358|In order to test the positive net
40072484|Drought is a major environmental constraint affecting the growth and production of tef (
30130543|Nutrient resorption from senescing leaves enables plants to conserve nutrients. Low foliarnitrogen (N) resorption levels have been estimated in past studies for some Nfixing woody plant taxa. To determine whether this trait is characteristic of Nfixing temperate species, Nresorption proficiency estimates were derived for several species during two seasons in central Illinois, United States. Nutrientresorption proficiencies were measured for 24 species of temperatedeciduous woody plants. Thirteen actinorhizal species and three nonNfixing species in families with actinorhizal species were sampled. One Nfixing woody legume, four nonNfixing legumes, and two species lacking Nfixing capabilities and unrelated to these groups were also sampled. Nitrogen resorption, based on resorption proficiency values, was less in Nfixing species (1.78% N retained in abscised leaves) than in nonNfixing species (1.01% N). Phosphorus (P) resorption, however, was greater in Nfixing species (0.06% P retained in abscised leaves) than in nonNfixing species (0.26% P). Resorption of Pmay have been low in a group supporting ectomycorrhizal symbionts. Results indicate a consistent pattern in which Nfixing species are less proficient at N resorption than other temperatedeciduous woody species.
4619761|Two distinct generations, the sporophyte and the gametophyte, alternate to complete the life cycle of all land plants. The sporophyte generation undergoes meiosis to form spores, from which gametophytes develop. The gametophyte generation produces gametes, which undergo fertilization to produce the zygote, the first cell of the sporophyte, thus completing the life cycle. As a variation of this life cycle, some fern species can undergo apogamy and apospory, bypassing fertilization or meiosis, respectively, alternating from one generation to the other without changing chromosome number. Both apospory and apogamy occur in nature and can be induced in the laboratory. The apogamy process is particularly amenable to analysis at the molecular level because the sporophytes are generated directly from a singlelayered, freeliving gametophyte whose growing conditions can be easily manipulated and growth synchronized. Here, we report the successful induction of apogamy in the model fern
IJPS40932|The fossil fruiting structure
3080054|We evaluated speciesenvironment relationships within pionjuniper woodlands in northern New Mexico (United States) using canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). The first CCA axis was associated primarily with elevation. Our results showed separation between pion and juniper along the elevation gradient, as expected: pion is relatively more dominant at higher sites, whereas juniper is relatively more dominant at lower sites. To examine how this pattern of dominance might emerge with time, we plotted the position of centroids for three pion and juniper size classes along the first CCA axis. We found that small pions and junipers were distributed relatively uniformly across the gradient, whereas large pions and junipers were strongly segregated along the gradient, with intermediatesized pions and junipers intermediate on the CCA axis between small and large. This produced a pattern of increased divergence between the two species that increased with size. We suggest that this pattern emerges as a result of differential mortality between the species rather than as a result of differences in seedling establishment along the gradient. These differences between the species could result from differences in resource use (i.e., physiology) and resource acquisition (i.e., rooting patterns relative to plant available water). We present a conceptual model of how differences between the species in resource acquisition increase with size (age). We suggest that differences in resource acquisition between species, which increase as individuals mature, may play a greater role in determining species dominance along resource gradients than has been previously appreciated.
3691886|We describe the leaf architecture (venation and cuticle) of the eight extant species of Argentinean Proteaceae and discuss the diagnostic value of the characters. Proteaceae leaves are characterized by several architectural features. The leaves are ovate to oblonglanceolate or elliptic, with coriaceous texture, and have normalmarginal petiole; the apexes vary between acute and obtuse, while the bases are acute to decurrent. They have pinnate simple firstcategory venation, lack agrophic veins, have welldeveloped areoles, and have twoormorebranched freely ending ultimate veins. Furthermore, all species have brachyparacytic stomata restricted to the abaxial surface of the leaves and multicellular trichomes. Cuticle features that differ among the species are the presence or absence of glands and papillae, and stomata size in relation to epidermal cell size. Architectural and cuticular features are also useful for differentiating tribes, subtribes, genera, and species within the subfamily Grevilleoideae. A key for the identification of Argentinean Proteaceae based only on leaf and cuticle characters is presented.
3691890|The interaction between phototropism and gravitropism is important in early plant development, and these two tropisms are important for the continued survival of the plant. Of these tropisms, root phototropism has been largely unstudied for decades but has received increased attention with the availability of molecular tools associated with using
2995683|Field observations during the 1987 and 1988 growing seasons indicated that high mortality was occurring in natural populations of Spergularia marina (L.) Griseb. Plants grown in the laboratory at densities of 1, 10, 25, 50, and 75 per 7 cm diameter pot showed a significant density-dependent effect on survival. Leaf number and dry mass production were significantly negatively affected by increases in plant density. Both the percentage of plants flowering and the number of flowers produced per plant were also negatively affected by increases in plant density. These results indicated that intraspecific competition could play a significant role in determining the growth parameters, flower production, and survival of individuals in natural populations of this species.
40072510|To set the stage for studies on gene regulation in the cocoa plant, a detailed analysis of the sequence of floral development in
10.1086/660105|Floral trait expression in wild populations varies in relation to environmental gradients. Variation can be observed among and within plant populations. We investigated the changes in floral phenotype within populations and the probability of plant pollinator visits in relation to small-scale variation in soil moisture and plant cover in a semiarid ecosystem. We measured the variability of floral phenotypes of three wild populations of
10.1086/669925|
               
10.1086/680231|
               
3691592|Polyploidy has been described both as an evolutionary dead end and as a major engine of diversification for angiosperms. Two recent studies have found that genera with higher proportions of polyploid species are more species rich. Here, we investigate patterns of diversification and polyploidy by performing traditional and phylogenetically corrected analyses within the Rosaceae. We find that polyploidy is associated with increased species richness and then differentiate between three alternative hypotheses for this pattern: (1) that polyploidy is associated with herbaceous growth habit, a trait that is in turn associated with increased species richness; (2) that polyploid clades are more evolutionarily successful (i.e., experience increased speciation and/or fewer extinction events) than diploid clades, perhaps because of the increase in genomic content or the increase in plant/flower size that often accompanies polyploidization; and (3) that the polyploidization events themselves, along with the reproductive isolation from the parental clade(s) that follows polyploidization, are responsible for the increased species richness observed in clades with a high proportion of polyploids. There is no evidence that polyploidy and herbaceous growth habit were correlated or that polyploid clades are more species rich than their diploid sister groups. We posit that the third hypothesis has the greatest potential for explaining the pattern of higher species richness of polyploid clades.
3691731|A comparison of floral development in
10.1086/668248|Phylogenetic knowledge of the large plant family Acanthaceae has been greatly advanced over the last 2 decades. Studies have demonstrated the existence of several major lineages, most of which have been the focus of subsequent investigation. Missing among these is comprehensive study of the 48 genera currently classified in tribe Ruellieae, a pantropical lineage that includes several species-rich genera. We compared the number of validly published names to current estimates of species richness per genus in Ruellieae and found more than 2600 names available for 1200 species. Using molecular data from two nuclear (ITS+
3080114|Segregation for asexual seed production was evaluated for 130 experimental F
3080261|Female fertility in flowering plants is commonly observed to be submaximal. The fraction of ovules in a flower that produce seeds is commonly less than 1.00, particularly in outcrossing species. Here we investigate through controlled pollinations factors that may contribute toward low seed:ovule ratios in
10.1086/673303|
               
IJPS40967|Scanning electron microscopy of thick hand sections of the giant thick-stemmed grasses
10.1086/674316|
               
2475062|This study was initiated to determine net photosynthesis, respiration, and stomatal conductance for early-flowering (EF) and late-flowering (LF) strains of Thlaspi arvense L., and to determine the relative impact of temperature on these processes in the two strains. The strains have been shown to differ by a single gene. Vernalized EF and LF plants were grown under controlled environments at day temperatures of 15
3874612|New specimens of
10.1086/675572|
               
2995781|Transpiration is closely linked to plant nitrogen (N) content, indicating that global or other changes that alter plant N accumulation or the relative requirements of plants for water and N will affect transpiration. We studied effects of N availability and atmospheric CO
4122589|Flowers with highly specialized pollination systems sometimes have the ability to selfpollinate, contradicting our notion that pollination specialization reflects selective pressures to ensure high maternal outcrossing rates. We survey the literature (80 species representing 38 families) for the simultaneous study of pollination and breeding systems. We demonstrate that pollination specialization is often associated with a variety of floral traits that facilitate delayed autonomous selfing at the end of the flowers life span. While the potential autonomous selfing rate can be high, the actual autonomous selfing rate is often much lower, indicating that species in our survey are facultative selfers. Autonomous selfing was more commonly associated with protandry than with protogyny and was found in both herkogamous and nonherkogamous species. We conclude that pollination specialization can evolve independently of the ability to autonomously selfpollinate and that the presence of floral traits that promote pollination specialization and autonomous selfing in the same flower is not paradoxical. Pollination specialization can be reconciled with autonomous selfpollination when selective forces other than high maternal outcrossing rates are considered.
3080024|A study was conducted using molecularbased population genetic data to interpret biogeographic relationships and survey genetic similarity within and among populations of
2475064|Glycine-rich proteins (GRPs) are characterized by having the glycine residues arranged in characteristic repetitive structural motifs, but with distinct primary sequence. Although identified in various plant species, little is known about their contribution to the morphology and development of the organism. In this study we have isolated the atgrp-5 gene encoding a glycine-rich protein from Arabidopsis thaliana. The promoter region of atgrp-5 was fused to the gus gene and the tissue expression pattern was analyzed in tobacco and A. thaliana transgenic plants. The chimeric gene displayed similar expression patterns in both species, showing preferential expression in protoderm-derived cells. Activity was also detected in the cortical parenchyma of A. thaliana inflorescence axis and in the stem phloem of tobacco.
10.1086/676973|We describe the conifer genus
4619758|Rhizomes with tubers of
10.1086/666663|A common assumption in ecology and evolutionary biology is that genetic diversity declines and differentiation increases toward the edge of a species geographic range, where populations tend to be smaller and more isolated. We tested these predictions in a characteristic Eurasian steppe plant,
2474952|Schizaea pusilla is a fern that maintains a completely filamentous gametophyte throughout its development. In this study, we characterize young gametophytes by using light and electron microscopy. In order to gain more reliable structural information, the cryofixation techniques of high pressure freezing and propane jet freezing were used. Apical protonemal cells of young S. pusilla gametophytes are unlike apical cells of other ferns studied to date. The apical protonema was divided into four regions with zone 1 at the apex and zone 4 at the base. Zone 1 has apical vacuoles, numerous Golgi stacks, ER, and a high density of apical vesicles. Zone 2 consists of chloroplasts with large starch grains, small vacuoles, uncharacterized electron-dense inclusions, mitochondria, lipid bodies, Golgi stacks, and ER. The nucleus is located in zone 3, and zone 4 consists of a large vacuole with traversing cytoplasmic strands, which contain chloroplasts, mitochondria, Golgi stacks, and ER. The cytoskeleton and endomembrane system were particularly well-preserved in cryofixed protonemata. Novel structures observed in cryofixed cells include microfilament bundles, multivesicular bodies, and apical vesicles, which appeared to be fusing with the plasma membrane. This study is the first report to use cryofixation/freeze substitution to characterize fern gametophytes and demonstrates that these techniques can be useful in ultrastructural studies of fern development.
2995816|The ultrastructure of the ovule of the
2995856|This article traces research on floral symmetry back to its beginnings. It brings together recent advances from different fields that converge in floral symmetry and new unpublished material on diversity and development of floral symmetry. During floral development, symmetry may change: monosymmetric flowers may have a polysymmetric early phase; polysymmetric flowers may have a monosymmetric or even asymmetric early phase; more than one symmetry change is also possible. In Lamiales s.l. (comprising the model plant
3080004|
               
40072494|This study deals specifically with floral organogenesis and the development of the inflorescence of
10.1086/660884|Previous research suggests that while sexual reproduction generally increases with environmental stress it may decrease with extreme stress, at the edge of eukaryotic life. In this study, we explored the limits to sexual reproduction in an extremophile, bryophyte system to ultimately understand the processes that limit sexual reproduction. We used field data from geothermal sites at Lassen Volcanic National Park, California, to demonstrate that sexual reproduction, as measured by the number of sporophytes per shoot, decreases with increasing environmental stress. We found that the number of sporophytes per shoot is positively correlated with distance from geothermal features. When
2475074|The vascular pattern in the fruits of two Cape (South Africa) endemic genera of Fumarioideae (Papaveraceae), Trigonocapnos and Discocapnos, is depicted. Although the two genera differ much in fruit morphology, they uniquely share a marginal wing, pairwise fusion of the side branches of the dorsal and ventral bundles, and a funicular supply from the side branches. Trigonocapnos shows the further specialized conditions of termination of the dorsal and ventral bundles and of the formation of a pseudolocule by the folded wings. The results support a hypothesis of the monophyly of subtribe Discocapninae composed of these two genera.
2995822|The aminopeptidase activities from grapes,
40072553|Inferences on the origin of the angiosperm flower require consideration of other seed plants, especially fossils. Molecular data favor a relationship of Gnetales to conifers rather than to angiosperms, and both alternatives are equally parsimonious in terms of the morphological data set presented here. However, if molecular relationships among extant taxa are accepted, morphology still associates glossopterids,
2475181|Under experimental conditions, mature living conifer needles on isolated stem segments induce cells at the junction of the needle trace and the cambium to differentiate into tracheary elements (TEs). The response is an all-or-none event in terms of secondary-wall deposition, but the extent of deposition varies between cells, and hence may serve as a model for developmental plasticity at the cellular level. Attempts to reproduce needle-induced TE differentiation using plant growth regulators such as auxin and cytokinin with or without carbohydrates have been unsuccessful but nevertheless have provided evidence for interactions between the needle-produced tracheid-differentiation factor (tdf) and phytohormones in the regulation of cellular differentiation. Treatment of needle-pair stumps with D-myoinositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, the second messenger from bovine brain, has induced the tdf response at the needle tracecambium junction; however, unequivocal characterization of the endogenous tdf remains to be achieved. Induction of TE differentiation using pine needle pairs is an attractive experimental approach to understanding regulation of cellular differentiation for a number of reasons: (1) A tissue that normally never differentiates, the vascular cambium, can be induced to differentiate into TEs. (2) The location of differentiation can be accurately predicted, and the response can be compared with that of adjoining, nondifferentiating cells. (3) In vitro research is possible using stem segments in test tubes in the absence of complex media, and interactions between the tdf and other regulatory molecules, or other chemical or physical factors, can readily be investigated. (4) The differentiating tissue is heterotrophic; hence, interpretations about regulation are not confounded by autotrophic considerations. (5) Differentiation occurs in "dormant" cells in the absence of preceding vacuolation, cell division, or cell expansion; therefore, TE differentiation per se can be investigated independently of those processes normally accompanying but not essential for differentiation. (6) Polyribosomes, endoplasmic reticulum, dictyosomes, exocytotic blebs, and other organelles clearly fulfill roles related to TE differentiation and appear worthy of further investigation. (7) The system is well suited for performance of in situ hybridization or immunolocalization research.
10.1086/674103|Effective plant conservation includes addressing basic needs such as information about species distribution and rarity; research, management, education, and training capacity to mitigate threats facing threatened species; policy and funding to support continued capacity and conservation; and, ultimately, a public that understands and supports the importance of plants and the need for their conservation. Coordination of plant conservation efforts is also needed to ensure that resources and expertise are used in a strategic, efficient, and effective manner. We argue that no country is currently getting plant conservation right; plants are becoming increasingly rare around the world. Plants are often not fully protected by policy, their conservation is underfunded, and their importance is underappreciated. However, some countries have progressed further than others. Here we outline areas where the United States is strong and highlight components that need work to meet the countrys plant conservation needs.
4619832|
               
3080208|Scanning electron microscope (SEM) examination of vessels from radial sections of
10.1086/666099|A hypothesized advantage of the building block of the angiosperm vascular network, the vessel, is often cited as a critical innovation that elevated the competitive abilities of early angiosperms above nonangiosperms during the Cretaceous. Here we synthesize recent discoveries on the hydraulic functions of living basal angiosperm lineages with evidence from the fossil record to trace the early evolutionary significance of vessels in the early ecophysiological radiation of angiosperms. Evidence from extant comparative biology and the Early Cretaceous fossil record of leaves and wood do not support the hypotheses that vessels improved drought tolerance of angiosperms, increased angiosperms photosynthetic abilities, or provided an immediate leap in hydraulic capacity. Instead, later tuning of vessel structure for increased flow efficiencyin particular, by the evolution of simple perforation platesenabled major increases in xylem hydraulic efficiency.
2995746|The species complex
3691589|
               
2995613|We hypothesize that predominance of Gutierrezia sarothrae in the rangeland plant community depends on its ability to take up water more effectively from soil depths below 30 cm. Gutierrezia seedlings grown in 30-cm-deep pots were allowed to develop deep lateral roots out of pots into subsoil. The deep laterals were then excised and photosynthesis and stomatal conductance of the test plants measured before and after root pruning. Photosynthesis (A) and stomatal conductance (g) were at least 49% greater (P < .05) before than after root pruning. Photosynthesis and g were more affected by the removal of four deep roots 30 cm below the surface than by the removal of four shallow roots in the top 30 cm of soil. The soil water extraction patterns in Gutierrezia plants grown in 60-cm soil columns were determined for the upper 30 cm and 30 to 60 cm of soil. Water extraction was significantly greater (P < .05) from the wetter, lower section of the soil column than from the drier, upper column. Higher photosynthesis (138%, P < .05), transpiration (154%, P < .01), stomatal conductance (223%, P < .01), and canopy development (340%, P < .05) were observed in plants with deep roots growing beyond the pots than well-watered, pot-grown plants without deep roots. This was related to higher hydraulic conductance, which in turn appeared enhanced by the greater ratio of deep root length to total root length. Stomatal conductance, photosynthesis, and canopy development in Gutierrezia may be regulated by hydraulic capacity, which is determined largely by deep root development.
10.1086/678089|
               
2474874|We have successfully utilized Ceratopteris richardii as a pedagogical tool in introductory and upper-division investigative exercises and in independent research projects. Undoubtedly, this is one of the simplest and easiest to implement biological systems in educational applications. Plants, especially gametophytes, are readily maintained in culture and can be used as a means to explore a wide array of biological phenomena, research tools, and techniques. This fern affords the advantage of rapid growth, especially for studies of growth regulation, development, and genetics. It enables experimentation on single cells and subsequent manipulation of differentiation into multicellular organisms. Hundreds of individuals may be maintained in a single petri dish, thus facilitating observation of population dynamics and genetics.
10.1086/681606|
               
3080043|The first permineralized Devonian plant fossil is reported here from the Middle or lowermost Upper Devonian of western Venezuela. Two orders of branching plus dichotomous ultimate appendages are known from compressions. A branch of the first order contains a mesarch actinostele with six primary xylem ribs, each with a protoxylem strand near the rib tip (peripheral edge). Compressions of firstorder branches demonstrate three equally spaced lateral organs (higherorder branches and dichotomous ultimate appendages) attached in whorls, with every other whorl displaying laterals placed in identical orientations and intermediate whorls with laterals offset exactly halfway between. The permineralized specimen partly confirms the presence of whorls and indicates that vascular traces are derived from every other primary xylem rib in each whorl, with intervening ribs producing traces in whorls above and below. Secondorder branches have only ultimate appendages that are attached in a nonwhorled, threedimensional, or alternate arrangement. Sterile ultimate appendages dichotomize up to six times and terminate in recurved tips. Fertile ultimate appendages have paired sporangia distally; these sporangia are often upright but are otherwise similar to sterile examples. The stelar anatomy demonstrates an iridopteridalean affinity for these plants, resembling
2475284|Scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies of xylem of roots and rhizomes of one species each of Phlebodium and Polystichum revealed the presence of vessels in both. Vessels in both, like those in Pteridium, have lateral perforation plates and end-wall perforation plates. Perforation plates on lateral walls feature smaller porosities than do the perforations on end walls. In Phlebodium, end-wall perforation plates retain pit membranes with porosities; end walls in Polystichum lack pit membrane remnants in most perforations. End-wall perforation plates are not uniform in either genus but vary with respect to differentiation from lateral-wall pitting, narrowness of bars, and presence of pit membrane remnants. Wide perforations alternating with narrow perforations characterize our material of Phlebodium. Rhizome transections show that tracheary elements in both genera tend to occur in large groupings in which each tracheary element tends to contact two to four other tracheary elements; this may correlate with perforations on lateral walls in addition to those on end walls. No tracheids were observed with certainty. Vessel presence in these two genera may be related to marked fluctuation in climatic regimes.
10.1086/669913|Middle Devonian Pseudosporochnales (Cladoxylopsida) are among the earliest tree-sized plants in the fossil record. We describe here new and spectacular complete specimens of
3691716|The ability of plants to sense their environment gives them the capacity to respond to it plastically. Plastic responses, in turn, frequently alter the environment that plants experience. Plants can modify the environment they experience through many mechanismssome approximate but others quite precise. The ability of plants to modify the environment they experience can strongly influence the evolution of characters expressed subsequently. A review of some theoretical models of habitat selection and of the coevolution of characters and their environments highlights the importance of habitat selection in plants. Novel evolutionary trajectories and outcomes result when organisms are capable of modifying the environment they experience. Specifically, characters can evolve even if they have no genetic variation, and plasticity in environmentdetermining characters may promote specialization in others. Divergence and reproductive isolation may even be augmented by habitatselecting behavior in plants. An understanding of basic character evolution and the evolution of plasticity in plants requires an appreciation of the ability of plants to modify the environment they experience.
2475149|Vessel elements in the putatively primitive leptosporangiate fern families Osmundaceae and Schizaeaceae have scalariform secondary-wall framework alike on end wall and lateral wall. Only by means of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) can presence or absence of pit membranes be demonstrated, and thus vessels have not hitherto been claimed for these two families. Criteria for designating perforations include pits transitional between lateral wall pits and conventional perforations in which porosities of various sizes occur in pit membranes, indicating partial lysis of the primary wall. Vessels occur in both roots and rhizomes of the examined species. In Schizaeaceae, wide perforations alternating with narrow pits occur in perforation plates of some vessels. Although vessels with specialized end walls occur in a few ferns of ecological sites with strongly marked fluctuations in water availability, less specialized vessels occur in a range of ferns of mesic habitats, as shown by Todea (Osmundaceae), Anemia (Schizaeceae), and Lygodium (Schizaeaceae). The vessel elements of these species of Osmundaceae and Schizaeaceae are compatible with the near-basal position among leptosporangiate ferns commonly accorded these families.
40072535|The identification of
IJPS41135|Early angiosperms are hypothesized as constrained to wet environments where many of their defining characteristics evolved. A functional capability potentially enforcing the wet habitation of early angiosperms was possession of xylem with low hydraulic capability and drought intolerance. Recent studies indicate that a structural hallmark of these performances is long, steeply angled scalariform perforation plates in extant basal angiosperms. However,
3080305|A new whole plant species of cordaitalean coniferophyte is reconstructed from a single Early Permian coalball assemblage in northern China and is named
3691889|Previous work has shown that (14)Dendoxylanasemediated hydrolysis of wheat bran leads to solubilization of 50% of arabinoxylans. However, xylanase efficiency on the individual bran tissues is unequal because of histological and chemical heterogeneity. We describe here the results of an immunocytochemical study that is aimed at an understanding of
40072528|Litter accumulation after fire influences the magnitude of seed predation and seed germination. How litter accumulation and patchiness influence postfire seedling recruitment is poorly known. Species with persistent seed banks have seeds available for germination in the immediate postfire period. In contrast, plants with transient seed banks must flower after fire to place seeds in the postfire habitat. In southeastern Australian sclerophyll forests, most seedling recruitment occurs within 3 yr after fire. We found that less litter had accumulated in sites <6 mo postfire than in those 23 yr postfire. Seedlings of species with persistent seed banks therefore encounter postfire environments with large areas covered by little or no litter. Among these species there is great variation in seed mass, including some species with very light seeds. In contrast, the seed mass of transient seed bank species is less variable, with the lightest species more than 70 times heavier than the lightest persistent seed bank species. These seeds arrive 13 yr postfire and encounter habitats with more litter and fewer bare patches. This pattern suggests that litter accumulation after fire has influenced the evolution of seed mass either directly, by affecting germination and seedling survival, or indirectly, by affecting seed predators.
2475264|We have analyzed seedling and cotyledon cell development in Arabidopsis thaliana during reserve mobilization qualitatively and quantitatively and related development to the time scale "hours after imbibition" (HAI). Cell division and elongation occur simultaneously and are observable 18 HAI just behind the radicle apex where a zone of cell elongation is formed prior to radicle emergence. Structurally and biochemically, the transition from a storage to a photosynthetic tissue occurs 48-60 HAI, evidenced by major changes in organelle sizes and numbers; symplast and apoplast volume increases throughout germination, and plastid number and size increase substantially, with a simultaneous decrease in lipid. Vacuome organization changes drastically as it is converted from a protein store to a central, sap-filled vacuolar system; protein bodies initially swell and then fuse during hydrolysis forming a single large structure. The constant cell number in the developing cotyledons demonstrates the relative independence of the organelles in a population of nondividing cells. Mobilization of reserves occurs in a short and well-defined period during seedling emergence 36-60 HAI and occurs first in the endosperm adjacent to the radicle apex. In the seedling, changes begin near the radicle apex and proceed acropetally through the cotyledons 42-84 HAI. Reserves are hydrolyzed preferentially from all the epidermal cells, but mobilization is not associated with vascular strands; protein is mobilized internally from the vacuole. Our data on increasing size, relatively constant microbody numbers and shape, and absence of observable microbody destruction during the presumptive glyoxysome-peroxisome transition period support the "interconversion model" of microbody ontogeny.
2995867|Developmental instability is often assessed using deviations from perfect bilateral symmetry. Here, we review the literature describing previous studies, suggest mechanisms that may account for both the generation and disruption of bilateral symmetry, and examine the influence of electromagnetic fields on the asymmetry of soybean leaves. Leaves from plants under highvoltage power lines generating pulsed magnetic fields of <3 to >50 mG were more asymmetrical for two parameters (the terminal leaflet widths and lateral rachilla lengths) than leaves of plants even 50 or 100 m away from power lines. This asymmetry could not be attributed to either size scaling or measurement error.
2995740|Serial transections of young tassels of (
3080283|We investigated the sensitivity of developmental instability measurements (leaf fluctuating asymmetry, floral radial asymmetry, and shoot translational asymmetry) to a longstanding natural stress (grazing) in a palatable tanninproducing shrub (
2475037|Development of leaves of Begonia johnstonii and three forms of Begonia dregei was compared using morphometric methods. Lobes and teeth were considered to be homologous based on similarity of shape and structure, including venation, and the presence of equivalent hydathodes and emergences at the tips. Lobes and teeth of the same leaf form represent "repeated elements" because of their similarities in structure and their similarities in growth rates, as indicated by comparison of regression slopes. Differences in mature size of lobes and teeth resulted primarily from initial differences in size at formation. Among forms of B. dregei, there were differences in growth rates and structure of repeated elements so that shapes of mature leaves differed. Also, growth rates of measured areas in B. johnstonii differed significantly from the homologous areas of the three B dregei forms. Simple leaves may be formed by repetition of developmental programs at different size scales or times during development. This presents both a constraint on the shapes that may occur and a simple mechanism for the evolutionary diversification of leaf shape.
4122600|We adopted a comparative approach to evaluate whether pollination (floral) syndromes serve to partition the pollinator fauna among four coflowering species of morning glories (
4122605|A combined phylogenetic analysis of the Aristolochioideae was conducted based on 72 morphological characters and molecular data sets (
3080215|We investigated the level of withinalga integration, the consequent ability to compensate for simulated herbivory, and the effect of nutrient availability on the ability to compensate in
IJPS40851|Virus-resistant transgenic squash are grown throughout the United States, where they are interfertile with co-occurring wild taxa of
3874624|Several fertile pinnules with abaxially borne sporangia have been discovered in calcareous marine nodules from the Middle or Late Eocene Appian Way locality on the east coast of Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. Fertile pinnules are attached in groups of two or three. They are deeply lobed, with each lobe rolled toward the abaxial surface and the entire pinnule rolled toward the abaxial surface to form an irregularly globose structure. Sporangia occur abaxially and form two rows over the entire surface of each pinnule lobe. The midrib of each pinnule lobe is thickened, forming a receptacle from which broadly attached sporangia and numerous paraphyses diverge. As is characteristic of many schizaeaceous ferns, sporangia of the fossil are flask shaped with a short stalk and have a uniseriate, transverse annulus at the apex. Spores are tetrahedral and trilete, like those of the type species for the extinct genus
10.1086/667611|We investigated the shifts in plant carbon (C) and water dynamics by measuring rates of photosynthesis, transpiration, and instantaneous water use efficiency (WUE) in three common species of old-field plantstwo C
2995831|Inaperturate pollen is widespread in the monocotyledons, includes a diverse range of forms, and has arisen independently numerous times. Evidence for this comes from the phylogenetic distribution of inaperturate pollen and also from developmental and structural differences. There is no correlation between the production of inaperturate grains and either microsporogenesis type or tapetum type. Inaperturate pollen has phylogenetic significance within some groups, e.g., in Zingiberales, Liliales, and some Asparagales. Character states for inaperturate pollen are presented. It can broadly be divided into two types, omniaperturate and functionally monoaperturate, based on the thickening of the intine. The characters of omniaperturate pollen are adaptations that potentially increase the germination efficiency of the pollen. Both types sometimes occur in environments where pollen is not subject to desiccation and, thus, may remain viable with reduced exines.
30139308|Using phylogenies to make sound inferences about character evolution depends on a variety of factors, including tree uncertainty, taxon sampling, and the degree of evolutionary lability in the character of interest. We explore the effect of these and other sources of ambiguity for maximum likelihood (ML)based inferences of sexualsystem evolution in
3691784|The outcomes of past research concerning the role of floral symmetry in plantpollinator interactions are mixed. Field manipulations of plants, as well as experiments using artificial arrays, have found evidence for and against a direct relationship between the degree of floral symmetry and subsequent reproductive success. In this study, we test the hypothesis that deviations from perfect floral symmetry in
3691681|Previous studies revealed that the primary leaves of barley (
3691629|
               
4619816|We investigated how seed size and timing of emergence interact with environmental conditions to determine seedling performance in one population of the longlived perennial shrub
2475015|Thlaspi montanum var. siskiyouense occurs as an endemic on serpentine soils in southwestern Oregon, U.S.A. The leaves accumulate nickel at levels up to 3% dry mass. To determine if nickel was localized in particular cells or tissues, leaves were prepared for scanning electron microscopy and energy-dispersive X-ray microanalysis by first soaking the leaves in dimethylglyoxime to precipitate nickel. Leaves were then fixed in glutaraldehyde, dehydrated, and criticalpoint dried. Spectra of leaves of T. montanum var. siskiyouense showed accumulation of nickel, calcium, potassium, and phosphorus. On X-ray maps of the upper and lower epidermis, nickel was localized in the subsidiary cells that surround guard cells but not in guard cells or in other more elongate epidermal cells.
3080181|Vegetative cells of the freshwater green alga
3691780|The potential for nighttime CO
10.1086/652012|Plant invasions represent natural experiments that allow us to both explore the dynamics of natural selection in the wild and examine the evolution of an invader on contemporary timescales. We conducted a study of 10 natural populations of two invasive species (
3080123|
               
30130563|The Hernandiaceae, a small family comprising five genera that are closely related to the Lauraceae and Monimiaceae, exhibit highly diverse morphological characters. Here, we present the first embryological study of
3691542|A comparative study of leaf morphology and venation patterns of extant Araceae has been undertaken in order to define groups matching aroid fossil leaves from the Eocene of Central Europe. As a result, four morphogenera have been recognized:
10.1086/674451|An exceptionally preserved noncalcified thallophytic alga,
10.1086/668219|Distinctive and diagnostic leaf glands occur in diverse forms and positions in
3691700|Several characteristics of vessel populations were studied using two assumptions: that conductive capacity is proportional to the fourth power of the radius,
20533047|Permineralized
3691648|
               
4619806|The perispore structure of
10.1086/662071|In terms of color, fern spores have traditionally been classified as either green or nongreen. This study reports a new kind of spore, here termed cryptochlorophyllous. Such spores contain chlorophyll but do not appear green when examined with either the naked eye or a light microscope. Epifluorescence microscopy was used to detect chlorophyll in cryptochlorophyllous spores. To test one aspect of the reliability of this method, we examined whether chlorophyll degradation over time would give false negative results. We found that in two species with green spores (
2475110|Intracellular ice formation and possibly cavitation have been shown to be sources of freezing injury in ray parenchyma cells of supercooled wood tissue of flowering dogwood (Cornus florida L.). In this study we examined (1) whether the response of ray parenchyma cells to freezing stress observed in wood tissue of flowering dogwood also occurs in wood tissues of other supercooling species, and (2) whether the response of xylem ray parenchyma cells of flowering dogwood under laboratory freeze-stress conditions also occurs under field conditions. We use freeze substitution and transmission electron microscopy to study (1) the response of ray parenchyma cells of supercooled wood tissues of apple (Malus domestica Borkh) and peach (Prunus persica [L.] Batsch) to a controlled freezing stress, and (2) the response of ray parenchyma cells of wood tissue of flowering dogwood to field freezing stress. Apple and peach wood tissues were collected in winter and cooled from 0
10.1086/665819|Fires have been burning plants since the early Devonian and were common in the Mesozoic, before angiosperms became prominent. Fires were common in the Cretaceous, when angiosperms first spread to cover significant areas of the world. We suggest that this spread was facilitated by intrinsic angiosperm properties that altered fire regimes in two fundamental ways. The first was to promote more frequent fires than the slower-growing gymnosperms that they replaced. The high productivity of angiosperms would have fueled more frequent fires, while reproductive innovations allowed for more rapid recovery, particularly in upland areas too dry for ferns. The evolution of flammable grasses is the latest expression of angiosperm innovation, generating even more frequent fires capable of carving into forests, particularly after the spread of C
3691715|Mechanisms for concentrating carbon around the Rubisco enzyme, which drives the carbonreducing steps in photosynthesis, are widespread in plants; in vascular plants they are known as crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) and C
2475137|Populations, species, and a species-pair were analyzed for emergence, the inability of lower hierarchical levels to specify the properties of higher levels. It was detected in three of four populations, both species and the species-pair. The almost ubiquitous nature of emergence implies it is a property of organized systems. As such, emergence cannot be used to argue for a special ontological individual-like status for species. The degree of emergence, the difference between lower and higher hierarchical levels, was greatest for the species-pair followed, in sequence, by the individuals (the results from a previous study), the single species, and the populations. This sequence can also be viewed as one of decreasing complexity and, if individual plants are excluded, evolutionary diversification. The degree of emergence in individual plants likely results from variation in a highly constrained system, one more constrained than a population or species because of the physical boundary (collective cell membranes) of a plant. Constraint in groups of individual plants is the result of a unique history. A possible cause and effect relationship linking ontogeny and phylogeny is variation and constraint, the cause, and irreversible change, the effect. Variation and constraint may, in turn, be the effect of an entropic informational increase and self-organization.
3691760|Floral nectaries of annual cultivated
4619805|
               
2995759|There is reason to believe that some glandular or sticky plants should be protocarnivorous, that is, be capable of digesting arthropods or other organic items trapped on the surface and absorbing the N breakdown products for use in the plant. This possibility was investigated extensively in two sticky species,
10.1086/661633|Malpighiales are one of the least resolved of the major angiosperm orders; more comparative data are needed to elucidate deep relationships and character evolution within the order. This article reevaluates pollen and tapetal characters, with a focus on one major subclade, the parietal clade. Pollen structure and, where possible, development are examined in representatives of the parietal clade from Passifloraceae (
3080147|Understanding the role of plant density in natural populations necessitates evaluation of density effects on both mating system and reproduction. I estimated parameters of the mixed mating system of
2475150| Net CO
3691838|We report on newly recovered fossil reproductive structures from two Late Cretaceous (Cenomanian) localities in the Czech Republic, Central Europe. The fossils comprise slightly compressed, lignified, or charcoalified inflorescence axes, flowers, and isolated stamens and are associated with abundant charcoalified angiosperm wood and leaf compressions. The new material includes eight distinct taxa, most of which appear to have affinity to the magnoliids and to the Lauraceae, Chloranthaceae, and Annonaceae in particular. All flowers preserved attached to inflorescences are small and borne in the axil of a welldeveloped bract; the most complete specimens have massive stamens, frequently with a large amount of sterile tissue. Fruiting specimens have unilocular fruits arranged in spicate infructescences.
3080242|The range of gynoecial structure in monocotyledons is examined in the context of current understanding of phylogenetic relationships, with particular reference to lilioid monocots, especially Asparagales. Major variations in gynoecial structure in lilioids include degree of syncarpy, occurrence and position of septal nectaries, and hypogyny versus epigyny. Structural evidence from septal nectaries, combined with recent molecular phylogenetic studies, indicates multiple origins of epigyny within monocots in general and Asparagales in particular, including possible separate
10.1086/665262|Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) proteins form one of the largest families of transcription factors, and their individual contributions in a particular regulatory network remain difficult to assess. Here, we identified and functionally characterized the
3080120|Floral display (the size, number, and arrangement of open flowers) influences pollinator visitation to animalpollinated plants and should be an important determinant of reproductive success. We examined variation in the size and number of open flowers in wild daffodils (
2474872|Photomorphogenetic research on fern gametophytes has provided important insights about pigment localization, ionic currents, and signal transduction. The first part of this article characterizes how light affects various aspects of gametophyte growth, such as spore germination, filamentous growth, and prothallial growth, in the three principal fern species used for photomorphogenetic research, namely, Adiantum capillus-veneris, Ceratopteris richardii, and Onoclea sensibilis. Although each species offers particular advantages for investigating certain photoresponses, we conclude that the process of spore germination in Ceratopteris is especially conducive to the selection of photomorphogenetic mutants. The second part describes the available Ceratopteris mutants isolated from three different selection schemes. Dark-germinating 1 (dkg1) exhibits the unique phenotype of reversed photoregulation of spore germination. Four other mutants, which are provisionally assigned the names of germ 1-4, are characterized in terms of germination percentages and prothallial growth in darkness, red light, and blue light. Germ 1 and 2 are impaired in their ability to respond to blue light, with the mutated genes apparently encoding signal transduction proteins that act close to the blue light photoreceptor. Germ 3 and 4 exhibit a de-etiolated phenotype in which the gametophytes grown in complete darkness resemble broader prothalli exposed to continuous light. Thus, the Ceratopteris mutants isolated to date complement, and perhaps extend, the range of comparable mutants in Arabidopsis seedling growth.
3080033|Recent phylogenetic analyses have placed the root of flowering plants near
4122603|The Australian orchid genus
4619751|A floral developmental series was determined for
3691660|New anatomically preserved specimens of
3080018|Photosynthesis, photosynthate partitioning, and translocation are reportedly affected by ozone (O
20533029|Sensitivity cycling to physical dormancy (PY) break in seeds is known to occur in some Fabaceae and Convolvulaceae species. PY in seeds of species of Convolvulaceae and of some other angiosperm plant families can be broken by storing them dry. However, the mechanism of opening the water gap in the seed coat (dormancy break) during dry storage has not been investigated. In research reported here, we determined whether sensitivity cycling occurs in seeds of
2995871|Stages of normal sexual reproduction between pollen tube penetration of the archegonium and early embryo formation are described for interior spruce. These pre and postzygotic stages were studied by light and electron microscopy in more detail than was possible in previous studies, and new observations have been made. The pollen tube tip penetrates between the neck cells toward the deteriorating ventral canal cell, and sperm (male gametes) and accompanying cytoplasm are released into the egg. A carbohydrate plug forms around the remnant cell walls of the pollen tube and ventral canal cell and appears to seal the archegonium against penetration by later arriving pollen tubes or from release of egg cytoplasm. One sperm fuses with the centrally located egg nucleus, and the other remains in the peripheral cytoplasm of the egg. Modified plastids of the egg deteriorate, and mitochondria of the egg accumulate around the zygote nucleus. Male plastids and mitochondria cluster near the zygote nucleus. Successive mitoses result in a fournucleate proembryo. The nuclei and surrounding neocytoplasm migrate to form a single chalazal tier of proembryo nuclei. All plastids in the proembryo appear paternal in origin, and all mitochondria appear maternal. Cell divisions and cell wall formations result in a fourtiered proembryo. Elongation of the suspensor tier forces the early embryo into the megagametophyte.
3691584|Immunocytolocalization experiments indicate that nuclear levels of the pea leaf cytosolic aldolase (EC 4.1.2.13) isozyme are higher in leaves located near the base of the plant and lower in leaves at the apex. In contrast, nuclear levels of the chloroplastic isozyme are highest in the apical leaf. Analysis of doubleimmunolabeling experiments indicates that both isozymes are distributed nonrandomly with respect to DNA in the nucleus, and therefore are colocalized with DNA, and that the isozyme in the chloroplast is distributed nonrandomly with respect to DNA, and therefore is colocalized with plastid DNA. It seems possible that the chloroplast and cytosolic aldolase isozymes in the nucleus might function as sensors that link sugar metabolism in the cytoplasm to gene expression.
3080244|The liana
10.1086/662655|During wheat-rye allopolyploidization, the characteristics of the sequences in the bands that appear in both parents and progeny are still unclear. In this study, two different combinations of wheat (
3691847|Heterodichogamy is reported for the first time in the family Hernandiaceae (Laurales); furthermore, this heterodichogamy is of a novel type hitherto not reported in angiosperms. In
3080079|It is often supposed that increased heterozygosity of autopolyploids provides a greater stability of phenotypic expression compared with related diploids and, hence, a greater ability to survive in marginal diploid environments or the ability to colonize new environments. The aim of this study was to compare the phenotypic plasticity of fitnessrelated characters in diploid and derivative autotetraploid
3080074|The plant family Portulacaceae is a relatively small family (19 genera and 425 species) with a widespread distribution. Species of the Portulacaceae range in size from small herbaceous plants to shrubs that measure up to 4 m in height. Most members of the family have leaves that range from fleshy to fully succulent and live in very diverse habitats ranging from shady understory plants to plants exposed to full sunlight. The Portulacaceae have members that utilize different photosynthetic pathways ranging from C
2475106|Chara corallina is a freshwater alga with a complex morphology having rhizoids and shoots. Shoots are comprised of multicellular nodal complexes separated by long internodal cells. Different nodal cell types can give rise to secondary development of either shoots or rhizoids. We describe here the morphology and development of rhizoids developed from nodes placed in a normal upright position and in an inverted position. We observed a change in cell type differentiation of the rhizoid when the parent node is inverted. A rhizoid-to-shoot "conversion" occurred in which some rhizoids later develop shootlike properties. Since this conversion was more likely in the inverted nodes, although it also occurred in some normal nodes, we designate this phenomenon gravimorphogenesis. If orientation was reversed after 7 d, the subsequent development of rhizoids was like the final, not the initial, orientation, implying that the morphogenetic process was reversible before that time. If orientation was reversed after 11 d, nodes that had been normal but were now inverted showed development characteristic of inverted nodes, while nodes that were returned to normal from an inverted orientation continued to develop as though inverted. Thus the initiation of the conversion process could occur at different times, but, once initiated, the process tended not to revert. We also describe the effect of culture conditions on statolith formation. Rhizoids that formed in aqueous culture had fewer statoliths than those cultured on agar, and their gravitropic responses were slower.
2475347|We examined the apical meristem of Salvinia molesta, an aquatic floating fern, using epi-illumination light microscopy, resin sectioning, scanning electron microscopy, and laser scanning confocal microscopy. This is the first time the latter has been applied to the study of whole shoot apices. Laser scanning confocal microscopy provides a superior method of analysis of three dimensional aspects of apical meristem development. Four structures form at a node: two floating leaves, one submerged leaf, and a lateral bud. The first primordium initiated at a node is the distal floating leaf, followed by the lateral bud, then the proximal floating leaf, and finally the submerged leaf. The primordia develop, respectively, in the order of their inception (not the reverse as previously believed). The first primordium to develop is the distal floating leaf, followed by the proximal floating leaf, then the lateral bud, and finally the submerged leaf. Floating leaves develop via an abaxial and an adaxial marginal meristem. The adaxial marginal meristem becomes displaced into an abaxial position during development. The marginal meristems are thought to be homologous to typical fern marginal leaf meristems (not unique structures as previously believed). The lamina of floating leaves develop folded and rotated 90
2475069|The effects of NaCl salinity on the development of primary tissues of cotton seedling roots (Gossypium hirsutum L. cv Acala SJ-2) were studied. Control and salinity treatments were imposed on 4-9-d-old plants grown in hydroponics in the light, with a photoperiod of 16 h. Observations were made on thin longitudinal and transverse sections from plastic embedded root samples taken at increasing distances from the root tip. Salinity induced a reduction of root growth rate and induced cells and tissues to initiate and complete maturation closer to the tip, except for the late metaxylem in the center of the stele. These responses were more pronounced with rising NaCl level in the growth medium. Roots exposed to salinity showed increased cellular vacuolation in all tissues but most strikingly in cortex and metaxylem cells. Other changes induced by salinity were the premature differentiation of protophloem sieve tube members, the dense staining of endodermal and some xylem parenchyma cells, the positional compression of the maturation of proto- and early metaxylem tracheary elements, and the induction of lateral root initiations much closer to the root tip. Possible adaptive values of some of these responses to salinity are suggested.
10.1086/657678|Mixed mating (producing a mix of selfed and outcrossed seed) is common in flowering plants and is ecologically important because it potentially offers reproductive assurance against pollination failure. However, selfed seed offers no reproductive assurance unless it overcomes inbreeding depression. In trees and other long-lived plants, genetic evidence suggests that selfed seed seldom matures to adulthood, presumably because of severe inbreeding depression. We measured inbreeding depression over 11 yr in two populations each of two New Zealand trees,
2995596| Well-preserved and abundant carbonized fruits from the Upper Cenozoic Pi de Vaca Formation, Puebla, Mexico, reveal the presence of the genus Eucommia in southern latitudes of North America during the Neogene. The fruits are samaras composed of an elongate, narrow triangular, tapering stipe and an elliptic to oval, winged, asymmetrical fruit body that contains a seed. Structurally the fruits are formed by two unequally developed carpels fused longitudinally by their margins. The carpels are distally free and form a laterally displaced notch near the apex of the fruit with stigmatic surfaces on its walls. Preserved tissues in the fossil fruit are the epidermis with specialized mounds that apparently bore a stoma on their apex and a layer of the endocarp composed of cubic cells with thickened walls, each containing a cubic crystal. Abundant laticifers are associated with the dorsal and marginal carpelary strands and form a net that overlies the endocarp, around the seed. Fruits of extant Eucommia ulmoides are compared to the fossil fruits, and tissues and laticifers equivalent to those preserved in the fossil fruits are identified. Comparison between the fruits of Pi de Vaca and other fossil fruits revealed similarity with Eucommia montana from Oligocene strata of northwestern North America. However, differences in size and shape support the recognition of a new species, Eucommia constans Magalln-Puebla et Cevallos-Ferriz for the fruits from Pi de Vaca. These fruits are currently the youngest report in America and the southernmost report worldwide for the genus. The occurrence of Eucommia in Upper Cenozoic strata of Mexico modifies previously established notions regarding the distribution in space and time of the genus. 
10.1086/647925|A previous study of the Late Devonian cladoxylopsid
3691689|The pattern and amount of effective pollen movement determine the regeneration process and the genetic structure of plant populations and are important for conservation measures. We inferred the pattern of effective pollen movement of the temperate canopy tree species
3080225|A number of singlegene, recessive mutations have been described in
2475297|Trichophaea (Otideaceae) is a group of small, setose, operculate discomycetes that produce smooth or ornamented guttulate spores and have apothecia without carotinoid pigments. Their relationship to species of Humaria and Tricharina has not always been clear. Recent ultrastructural studies seem to support the inclusion of the spherical-spored Sphaerosporella in Trichophaea, a traditionally ellipsoid-spored genus. In an ultrastructure study of spore development in Trichophaea abundans and Trichophaea paludosa, two patterns of spore development were found, one in T. abundans in which there is no secondary wall in mature spores and another in T. paludosa in which there is a highly ornamented secondary wall. The types of spore development in these species are compared and contrasted with those of other Otideaceae. A reexamination of the limits of Trichophaea is indicated.
IJPS41058|
               
3874610|The taxonomic history of
2475043|In Cedrus pollen adheres by microdrops to the apical portion of the integument. The microdrops originate from dictyosome vesicles in cells of the integument apex. Electron-dense substances are present in these dictyosome vesicles and accumulate between the surface cell walls and plasma membrane. The substances traverse the walls and form microdrops. The cuticle layer on the surface cell walls is less developed and does not serve as an obstacle to the passage. During pollination drop secretion, nucellar cells show characteristics such as undulation of the plasma membrane, numerous dictyosomes, and a prominent amount of endoplasmic reticulum. The cuticle layer is absent from the nucellar apex. After the secretion, cell walls of the nucellus and chalaza become transparent. We describe ultrastructural changes associated with the winter dormancy of the ovule.
2475350|Quantitative and qualitative changes in the storage proteins of loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) seeds were followed during germination and early-seedling growth and were correlated with light-microscopic observations. In both the megagametophyte and the embryo, the cells of tissues from fully stratified seeds appeared very similar to the cells of tissues from mature desiccated seeds. A change in the appearance of protein vacuoles, resulting from the hydrolysis of storage proteins, occurred in the seedling prior to the completion of germination (denoted by radicle emergence from the seed coat) and continued during early-seedling growth. Within the seedling, storage proteins were mobilized more rapidly in the root pole, including the hypocotyl and radicle, than in the shoot pole, including the cotyledonary whorl, and shoot apex or epicotyl. In both parts of the seedling, protein hydrolysis was first observed in the procambial and epidermal tissue. In contrast to the seedling, changes in the appearance of protein vacuoles were not evident in the megagametophyte until after germination was completed. Changes in protein vacuoles in the megagametophyte occurred in two directional waves, relative to corrosion cavity proximity.
10.1086/651948|The seed cone
3080094|We investigated the histology and developmental morphology of flowers of wildrice (
3080308|Pollen of eight species of
2995825|Plants with labile sex expression often regulate the production of pistillate and staminate flowers on the basis of developmental and environmental conditions. In many monoecious plant species, developing fruits inhibit pistillate flower production and promote staminate flower production. Because the phytohormone ethylene promotes pistillate flower production in a variety of wild and cultivated plant species, we examined the influence of fruit development on internal ethylene production and their combined effects on sex expression in fieldgrown
2474979|Melaleuca quinquenervia produces and maintains extensive seed reservoirs in the forest canopy. We collected capsules from different infructescences (clusters; Cluster I is the youngest, located at the most distal position, and Cluster VII is the oldest, located at the most proximal position) on branches from dry, seasonally flooded, and permanently flooded habitats. Extracted seeds were soaked for 10 d in sterile deionized water and/or 2,3,5,-triphenol tetrazolium chloride (TTC) stain to assess viability. Microscopic inspections revealed that only 15% of the seeds were embryonic (filled), 50% of embryonic seeds were viable (stained red with TTC), and 73% of viable seeds were germinable after 10 d. The remaining 27% of viable seeds may have been dormant or, possibly, required special conditions for germination. A higher percentage of seeds were embryonic on trees at permanently flooded habitats (18%) when compared to dry (14%) or seasonally flooded (14%) habitats. Overall seed viabilities and germinabilities were comparable among the three habitat types. Proportions of filled seeds were constant among infructescence positions within each habitat. Both viability and germinability of seeds varied with infructescence age, both being highest in Clusters II-V and lowest in Cluster VII.
3691616|In plants, the internal transcribed spacers (ITS; ca. 450 base pairs) of nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) are the only wellcharacterized nuclear sequences that are both easily amplified and appropriately variable for addressing relationships at lower taxonomic levels. In this study, we assess the utility of rDNA noncoding fragments from the external transcribed spacer 1 (ETS 1f) and from the 5 end of the intergenic spacer (
3080035|The development of the shoot of
3874602|A flexible mating system may enable selfcompatible plants to prevent selffertilization under certain circumstances.
3080099|The cell surface reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) oxidase activity of soybean stems and of pea and cucumber tendrils responded to touch with a severalfold increase in activity. The increase in NADH oxidase persisted for 20 min or longer, and further touch stimulation during this period did not alter activity. With soybean sections, the specific activities in response to touch approximated those achieved maximally by auxin. Where the NADH oxidase was fully stimulated by 2,4
3691797|The floral units of Triuridaceae, commonly regarded as flowers, may equally plausibly be interpreted as pseudanthia, i.e., modified and highly reduced partial inflorescences. This hypothesis is new for Triuridaceae, but earlier authors have noted strong similarities between the inflorescences of Cyclanthaceae and Pandanaceae (Pandanales) and the putatively pseudanthial floral units of some Alismatales (e.g.,
2995622| Undisturbed tallgrass prairie, dominated by the C<sub>4</sub> grass Andropogon gerardii, was exposed to ambient and elevated (double ambient) levels of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> in large open-top chambers throughout the 1991 and 1992 growing seasons. Responses in leaf xylem pressure potential (), net photosynthesis (A), and stomatal conductance (g) were measured in both years for A. gerardii grown within chambers and from adjacent field plots. In 1992, maximum photosynthetic capacity (A<sub> max</sub>), apparent quantum requirement (Q<sub>r</sub>), the photosynthetic light compensation point (LCP), and dark respiration (<tex-math>$R_{d}$</tex-math>) were also measured. Midday  was significantly higher in plants grown at elevated CO<sub>2</sub> in both years, and seasonally averaged  was 0.48-0.70 MPa lower in 1991 (a dry year) than 1992 (a wet year). In 1991, A and g were significantly higher (regardless of measurement CO<sub>2</sub> level) in plants grown at elevated vs. ambient CO<sub>2</sub>. These increases were measured in well-watered plants insuring that these plants differed only in CO<sub>2</sub> growth conditions and previous exposure to low . Increased A at elevated CO<sub>2</sub> occurred (as much as <tex-math>$7.1\ \mu {\rm mol}\ {\rm m}^{-2}\ {\rm s}^{-1}$</tex-math>) over a broad range of temperatures (17-35 C), but the temperature optimum for A was similar at both 350 and <tex-math>$700\ \mu {\rm L}\ {\rm L}^{-1}\ {\rm CO}_{2}$</tex-math>. In 1992, no differences in A, A<sub> max</sub>, Q<sub>r</sub>, LCP, or <tex-math>$R_{d}$</tex-math> were detected when ambient and elevated CO<sub>2</sub> plants were compared. In plants collected from field plots, <tex-math>$R_{d}$</tex-math>, LCP, and leaf N were significantly higher than in plants within the chambers indicating that a chamber effect exists for these parameters. In both years, g was significantly reduced (21%-51%) when measured at 700 vs. <tex-math>$350\ \mu {\rm L}\ {\rm L}^{-1}\ {\rm CO}_{2}$</tex-math>. Peak aboveground biomass was increased at elevated CO<sub>2</sub> in 1991 but not in 1992. These data indicate that for C<sub>4</sub> grasses, effects of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> may only be detectable in years with significant water stress, a common occurrence in the central North American tallgrass prairies. 
2475085|I examined the effect of fungal pollinator-transmitted Microbotryum violaceum (Ustilago violacea) teliospores on pollen germination in Silene acaulis. The deposition of fungal spores on floral styles may affect pollen performance in two ways: (1) by physically reducing the amount of stigmatic surface area available for pollen germination and/or (2) by chemically inhibiting pollen germination, tube growth, or stigmatic receptivity. To distinguish between the physical effect of spores competing for germination space and the chemical effect of spores inhibiting pollen germination, I performed an experiment in which I added either pollen from a co-occurring species, Mertensia viridis, or fungal spores. Similar amounts of S. acaulis pollen were added in each treatment. No differences were found in the number of pollen grains germinating between the pure pollen treatment and the heterospecific pollen treatment. In contrast, spore deposition did significantly affect pollen germination. In female flowers significantly fewer pollen grains germinated when either spores were applied in a 1:1 or 1:3 ratio of pollen to spores. In hermaphroditic flowers the number of germinating pollen grains decreased significantly only when spores were applied in a 1:3 ratio of pollen to spores. These results indicate that M. violaceum spores can interfere with pollen germination in healthy flowers of S. acaulis. The lack of an effect of M. viridis pollen indicates that the inhibition of pollen germination by M. violaceum is chemically mediated rather than a result of physically reducing stigmatic surface area. Furthermore, the spore loads used in both the 1:1 and 1:3 pollen/spore treatments were comparable to spore loads observed in open-pollinated flowers, thus opening the possibility that fungal spores may exert selective pressures on microgametophytes in natural systems.
2475193| Gravitropic response of Kalancho stems was analyzed in terms of instantaneous curvature along the stem, relative elemental growth rates, and epidermal cell dimensions. A bimodal pattern of instantaneous curvature along the stem axis was detected at the end of the gravitropic response. Results of the study revealed hitherto unreported complex spatial and temporal patterns of growth rate oscillations in both gravistimulated and unstimulated control stems. Spatial and temporal growth oscillations, thought to be associated with circumnutation, appear to be overridden by local changes in growth rates in gravistimulated stems. Overall, rate of growth is initially depressed and then stimulated in response to reorientation in the gravitational field. There is a basipetal migration in amplified growth rate on the lower side and a return to oscillatory growth rate on the upper side of gravistimulated stems. Analysis of epidermal cell dimensions reveals that, in general, there is a redistribution of cell elongation potential to the lower side of the gravistimulated stem but no evidence for overall enhancement of cell expansion in response to gravity. 
2995773|
               
3080091|Trifoliolate leaves of
2475263|Studies of reproductive structures are important in understanding developmental processes and taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships of species In spite of the data available in the literature on Butomus umbellatus, many important characters have not been extensively studied and properly used in the evaluation of its relationships. This study has clarified several conflicting reports on the female reproductive structures in B. umbellatus, including (1) ability of the archesporial cells to produce parietal cells, (2) crassinucellate type of ovule, (3) timing of ovule curvature, (4) caryophyllad type of embryogenesis different from the Sagittaria variation, (5) cellularized antipodals, (6) presence of wall ingrowths in the synergids, and (7) nature of the horizontal partition of the helobial endosperm. Many of these features provide further support to the acceptance of the unspecialized condition and monogeneric status of the Butomaceae. Therefore, B. umbellatus may be the least specialized among the Alismatales. Although this study provides clearer factual bases for morphological, systematic, and phylogenetic inferences, a thorough reexamination of reproductive structures in other members of the Alismatales should be done before any attempt on phylogenetic analysis can be made.
10.1086/648993|Understanding the relationships within the Caryophyllaceae has been difficult, in part because of arbitrarily and poorly defined genera and difficulty in determining phylogenetically useful morphological characters. This study represents the most complete phylogenetic analysis of the family to date, with particular focus on the genera and relationships within the large subfamily Alsinoideae, using molecular characters to examine the monophyly of taxa and the validity of the current taxonomy as well as to resolve the obscure origins of divergent taxa such as the endemic Hawaiian
2995735|
               
10.1086/679471|
               
10.1086/681990|
               
4619837|
               
3080106|A histological, cytochemical, and ultrastructural investigation of seeds of control (nonshedding) and shedding fruits of
3691580|The flora of the Hawaiian Islands is widely recognized for its spectacular adaptive radiations, yet factors maintaining or reinforcing the evolutionary divergence associated with radiation have been little studied. In the Hawaiian Islands,
2995846|Lignotuber anatomy and patterns of accessory bud development were studied in the cotyledonary nodes of
2995579|Seeds of Thaspium pinnatifidum (Buckl.) Gray (Apiaceae) were dormant at maturity in early autumn. Embryos in fresh seeds were 0.7 mm long, but by the time germination began in early February they had grown to 3.6 mm. Seventy-six percent of the seeds sown in autumn in a nonheated greenhouse germinated the following late winter and early spring, with the peak occurring between February 4 and 11, when mean daily maximum and minimum air temperatures were 13.3 and 8.7 C, respectively. An additional 15% germinated the second season. Seeds cold stratified at 5 C for 12 wk germinated to 69% and 64% in light and darkness, respectively, at 5 C. After 4 wk at 5 or 15/6 C, embryos in seeds were 1.5 mm and 2.3 mm in length, respectively. Seeds transferred from 5 to 15/6 C germinated to 61% after 4 wk, whereas those kept at 15/6 C for 8 wk germinated to only 2%. Thus, cold stratification was required to break physiological dormancy and stimulate growth of the underdeveloped embryos. Since gibberellic acid did not substitute for cold stratification and dry, room-temperature laboratory storage did not reduce the length of the cold stratification period required to break dormancy, seeds have deep complex morphophysiological dormancy.
2474908|We have described variation in allocation to male and female floral function in relation to plant size in an attempt to detect expected life history trade-offs in pearl millet (Pennisetum typhoides, Poaceae). Traits quantifying allocation to male and female functions (mean number of pollen grains per anther, number of ovules, number of seeds, and mass of seeds per spike) were measured among tillers within plants and among plants. Trait values varied significantly both among plants and among tillers. Variation in male and female reproductive allocation did not result from differences in flowering phenology among tillers. Positive correlations between allocation to male function (expressed as mean pollen grain number per anther) and female function (expressed as mass or size of seeds) were recorded at tiller and plant level. Since in pearl millet male and female allocation are strongly positively correlated with the size of the plant, new estimates of allocation to sexual functions were used that were independent of possible size variation observed among plants. If allocation to sexual function were expressed per g dry mass, there were significant positive correlations between allocation to the two sexual functions when female function was expressed in terms of number of ovules or number of seeds per unit of biomass. On the contrary, there were significant negative correlations between sexual functions when female function was expressed in terms of mass of seeds produced per unit of biomass. Because ovule abortion rate was negligible in the plants studied and because of strong developmental constraints on the floral structure of pearl millet (a spikelet is constituted of a male flower with three stamens and a hermaphroditic flower with one ovule and three stamens), positive correlations between number of seeds (or ovules) produced per unit of dry mass and male function were unavoidable. However, plants that produced many pollen grains per unit of aboveground dry mass also produced significantly lower mass of seeds (per unit of aboveground dry mass) than plants that invested less into male function. Allocation of large amounts of resources into male function may impair the amount of resources available later for allocation to female function, i.e., mass of seeds.
2474938|The aposporous apomictic mode of reproduction has been transferred from Pennisetum squamulatum into pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) through a trispecific double-cross hybrid that was subsequently backcrossed (BC) to tetraploid (4x) pearl millet. A partially male-fertile, obligately apomictic plant, 169-46, was selected in the BC
10.1086/674448|
               
2995736|A glasshouse experiment was conducted with plants of
10.1086/667607|The flower development of a number of taxa with either unclear or only recently clarified phylogenetic positions in the order Ericales has remained uninvestigated for a long time because of the unavailability of material. Two genera, traditionally placed in the Primulaceae but often described as aberrant, are
3691836|The phylogenetic relationships of
2995850|The canopies of woody plants in semiarid ecosystems modify the microclimate beneath and around them, with canopy patches usually having lower soil temperatures than intercanopy patches. However, lacking are studies that have evaluated how heterogeneity in soil temperature, induced by woody plant canopies, influences soil evaporation rates and the consequent effects on plantavailable water. Soil temperatures were measured and soil evaporation rates were estimated for canopy and intercanopy patches in a semiarid pionjuniper woodland (
2995747|We report the construction and use of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers for detection of
40344028|Amaranth (
3874599|Ascorbic acid (ASC) has been shown to improve the postembryonic growth of white spruce somatic embryos. In order to comprehend the effects of ASC applications on shoot apical meristem reactivation, structural studies were conducted. In control embryos, postembryonic growth was dependent on the quality of the shoot apical meristems since only wellorganized meristems were able to resume mitotic activity at germination and undergo successful conversion. Resumption of cell division, in fact, was seldom observed in those embryos with poorly organized shoot meristems. ASC was found to rescue these structurally disorganized meristems by stimulating cell division in the apical pole. The newly divided cells were able to develop further and to generate a functional shoot primordium through the process of organogenesis. Mitotic divisions were also observed at the base of the cotyledons; this often resulted in the formation of an additional shoot apical meristem, especially if the main apex failed to develop.
20533037|Sixty trigonal fagaceous fruits have been identified in the calcareous nodules from the Eocene Appian Way locality of Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. The anatomically preserved fruits are known at various developmental stages. In transverse section, fruits are triangular, with lateral ridges that vary in shape from rounded to sharply angled. In longitudinal section, the nuts show a broad base and a tapered apex. The ovary is partitioned into three locules at the apex, and placentation is axile, with two ovules per locule. Locules merge near the base, giving the appearance of a threelobed ovarian cavity. This area is occupied by a single seed at maturity. The inner wall of the endocarp is tomentose. Major vascular bundles in the mesocarp occur midway between and at the lateral ridges of the nut. The nut is wingless and has an exocarp of dense sclerenchyma interrupted at the ridges by dehiscence lines that traverse the entire fruit wall. The nut surface is glabrous, except near the distal end, where trichomes emerge in proximity to three styles and surrounding perianth remnants. These nuts are assigned to the genus
10.1086/655028|Exceptionally preserved lycopsid remains from an ex situ chertcarbonate cobble found on the Yorkshire coast, United Kingdom, are here reconstructed as
IJPS40952|Micromorphology of the seed envelope of
3874628|
               
10.1086/663162|Heme oxygenase1 (HO1) is a stress protein induced by a variety of oxidative challenges. In this study, an
3874662|A new species of poplar is recognized based on abundant specimens from the early Middle Eocene Parachute Creek Member of the Green River Formation in eastern Utah and western Colorado and compared with two other contemporary species. A rare twig bearing both leaves and fruits serves as a Rosetta stone, linking the vegetative and reproductive structures that formerly were only known from dispersed organs. Fruit and foliage characters distinguish
10.1086/679460|
               
2474898|Cupressus sempervirens L. bears both serotinous and nonserotinous cones. Serotinous cones are alive and can live for at least 20 yr. The sealing of cones is regulated by the water status of the scales, and cones open when they lose water, unlike those of pines, which open following the melting of resin. Serotinous cones even open at 0
2995840|In
3080040|Evidence from numerous sources indicates that atmospheric CO
2474930| Fruit anatomy and ultrastructure associated with cuticle cracking (CC) were compared for five cultigens (genotypes) of tomato. Cultigens resistant to CC had combined epidermal and cuticle (epicarp) layers significantly thicker (10.38-11.37 m) than susceptible cultigens (6.45-7.76 m). Thickness of the epicarp was negatively correlated (r = -0.43) with light reflectance and can be indirectly estimated by measuring light reflectance of the fruit. Plants producing globe-shaped fruit or jointless pedicels tended to have higher incidences of CC (more fruit affected) than did plants producing flat-round fruit or jointed pedicels, respectively, but this trend was significant for only one of four segregating populations for each trait. As fruit size increased, incidence of CC significantly increased, accounting for 16%-33% of the variance in incidence of CC over two harvests. Yield and number of fruit harvested accounted for <10% of the variance in incidence. Severity of CC (surface area of fruit showing CC) was less affected by fruit size, number of fruit harvested, and yield than was incidence of CC. 
3080037|A plastochron index (PI) based on a 3mm leaf reference length was established for the Columbia1 (Col1) ecotype and the
3691699|Vessel size classes within several cactus species were studied to determine if theoretically advantageous patterns of vessel widths are produced in plants cultivated in dry conditions. Clones of five cacti (
2995881|
               
3691626|Measures of developmental stability (DS) have been proposed as sensitive monitors of stress in plants. Here we consider a number of DS measures for potential use as indicators of salt stress in wheat. We use two wheat cultivars,
30117484|The winterflowering
2474945|We studied soils of the big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) hybrid zone at two locations in Utah. The elemental composition, depth, and pH of soil in the basin and mountain big sagebrush habitats differed significantly from each other and from the hybrid zone soil. The hybrid zone soil is not just a simple blend of the two parental habitat soils. Rather, it possesses novel characteristics found in neither parental habitat and is more variable than the parental habitat soils. Correspondence analyses show that the sites occupied by each parental taxon are chemically distinct. Moreover, the principal axes from the two study locations are highly correlated with each other, indicating consistent edaphic differences across both hybrid zones.
2475217|Longitudinal growth strains develop in woody tissues during cell-wall formation. This study compares stems, which have a mechanical role and experience longitudinal stresses, and nonstructural roots, which have little mechanical role and experience few or no longitudinal stresses, to test the hypothesis that growth strains are produced in stems of straight trees as an adaptive feature for mechanical loads. I measured growth strains in one stem (at breast height) and one nonstructural root (beyond the zone of rapid taper and/or beyond a major change in root direction) for 13-15 individuals of each of four tree species, Pseudotsuga menziesii, Thuja heterophylla, Acer macrophyllum, and Alnus rubra. Forty-seven of the 54 individuals had higher strains in their stems than in their roots (4.3  0.3 x 10
10.1086/677650|
               
2475194|The floral structures of members of the Zosteraceae are unusual and difficult to interpret. Developmental sequences were reconstructed for both male and female inflorescences of two species of the dioecious genus Phyllospadix (P. scouleri and P. torreyi). Reproductive structures initiate in two rows along a flat tonguelike spadix. The retinacules (perianthlike structures) initiate first followed by anthers consisting of two bisporangiate thecae, which initiate joined by a connective as a single primordium in P. scouleri, but as two separate primordia in P. torreyi The gynoecia consisting of a unilocular ovary initiate last. Although the anthers initiate, they do not develop to maturity but remain on the spadix as small residual structures while the gynoecia mature. The developmental sequence is similar to that of the genus Zostera. and it is best to interpret the individual floral units as part of a complex inflorescence. Based on the specialized habitat and the presence of large well-developed retinacules and residual stamens on female inflorescences, Phyllospadix appears to be more derived than Zostera.
3691625|
               
IJPS40885|It is beginning to be possible to test for the action of natural selection in nonmodel species, including in natural populations of plants, using DNA sequence diversity within species and divergence between related species. We suggest some questions of interest in plants in the genus
30139304|We review and analyze the available literature on the frequency and distribution of selfincompatibility (SI) among angiosperms and find that SI is reported in more than 100 families and occurs in an estimated 39% of species. SI frequently has been lost but rarely has been gained during angiosperm diversification, and there is no evidence that any particular system of SI, once lost, has been regained. Irreversible loss of SI systems is thought to occur because transitions to selfcompatibility (SC) are accompanied by collapse of variation at the
3691684|To identify proteins responsible for selfincompatibility and/or other dimorphisms in distylous species of
2475295|Developing embryos of Hormosira banksii provide a very consistent, predictable, and flexible bioassay system. Fertile specimens can be collected throughout the year, and gamete release, high rates of fertilization and successful development of the early life stages of this alga are all easily obtained under laboratory conditions. As the early stages of embryo development are largely synchronous, this bioassay is based on the quantitative assessment of key morphogenetic characteristics at certain time intervals during the first 14 d. The characteristics measured are: fertilization (%) at 1 h, cell wall formation (day 1); rhizoid germination (day 2); cell division (day 3); more than four cell divisions (day 7); and evidence of meristematic activity (day 14). There are few inherent sources of variation in this bioassay system, the most notable being natural mortality rates and retarded development in some apparently healthy individuals. These are easily accounted for in properly designed experiments.
3874652|To understand the developmental basis of a novel anatomical feature, we present a comparative developmental study of an ecologically significant novelty in fruit morphology. Most members of the tribe Brassiceae have heteroarthrocarpic fruits, in contrast to the unsegmented fruits of many Brassicaceae. Heteroarthrocarpy is characterized by a joint that bisects fruits into heteromorphic segments and by partial or complete indehiscence. In order to better understand the development of heteroarthrocarpic characteristics and their relationships to typical siliques, we studied carpel and fruit development in two closely related species of the Brassiceae,
40072561|Reaction wood formation, in particular compression wood in conifers, has often been used to date geomorphic events such as debris flows or snow avalanches. However, very little is known yet about the variations of tension wood formation and particularly crosssectional vessel characteristics in response to different mechanicalimpacts. To test whether different intensities and characteristic forms of tension wood formation induce the formation of vessels with changing sizes, growth experiments with different treatments were conducted with alder and beech followed by wood anatomical analysis of the vessels. The experiments comprised bending treatments of varying severities in combination with cambium wounding and other alterations. The treatments were successful in inducing different intensities in tension wood expressed by variations of vessel lumen area (VLA). An increasing bending stress resulted in the formation of lower VLA values. When the apex or the root system was damaged or the apex remained vertical, VLA values decreased less and the tension wood formation was regarded as less intense. Our research shows that VLA is affected by mechanical impacts and that the application of wood anatomical techniques can potentially provide supplementary information about type and intensities of past mechanical impacts in angiosperm tree growth.
40344023|The third of three wholeplant cordaitaleans we reconstructed from a single Early Permian locality in northern China is
3874645|Section
10.1086/668685|The evolutionary history of lignophyte roots is poorly known, and direct evidence of root systems in early members of this clade is scant. Whereas Middle Devonian aneurophytalean progymnosperms possessed rhizomatous stems bearing small, shallow roots, the root system of archaeopteridalean trees is expected to have been much more extended and complex. Current evidence, however, has not provided sufficient information for substantiating these expectations. Five root specimens with a
40072485|Because of the low availability of insects other than thrips as potential pollinators in arctic environments, early botanists of the twentieth century proposed that thrips pollination would be important in many plants, especially those of the Ericaceae family. However, this was an object of controversy that continues today. In this article, we combined experimental evidence and a broad regional survey to analyze the role of thrips in flower pollination of the Ericaceae
10.1086/668686|We present a whole-plant concept for a genus of voltzialean conifers on the basis of compression/impression and permineralized material from the Triassic of Antarctica. The reconstruction of the individual organs is based on a combination of organic connections, structural correspondences, similarities in cuticles and epidermal morphologies, co-occurrence data, and ex situ palynology. The affiliated genera of organs include trunks, branches, and roots (
2474912|A reliable culture and regeneration protocol has been established for asparagus (Asparagus officinalis L.) protoplasts isolated from shoots of in vitro plants. Studies focused on factors to maximize plating efficiency, colony formation, and plant regeneration. The optimized protocol involved the culture of asparagus protoplasts embedded in agarose beads through a series of defined media. Etiolated shoot cultures were a superior source for protoplasts than green shoot cultures, and growing feeder cells were critical for high plating efficiency and colony formation. In the presence of growing asparagus feeder cells, asparagus protoplasts initiated cell divisions within 2 d of plating in agarose with plating efficiencies up to 20%. About 80% of the protoplasts initiating cell divisions developed into colonies of at least 25-30 cells, of which 25% initiated somatic embryos. Complete plants were regenerated from the embryos at a frequency over 20%. Overall, ca. 0.8% of the initially isolated protoplasts regenerated into complete plants with this protocol. Plants regenerated from protoplasts have been transferred to soil and maintained phenotypically normal morphology for over 2 yr. Chromosome counts confirmed the diploid status (2n=20) of plants regenerated by somatic embryogenesis.
3080159|The angiosperm family Fagaceae is a central element of several distinct community types throughout the Northern Hemisphere and a prime candidate for modern biogeographic analysis. The rich fossil record for the family provides an unparalleled source to compare with modern distributions and evaluate hypotheses of origin, migration, and vicariance. We conducted separate phylogenetic analyses on genera with intercontinentally disjunct distributions using various noncoding regions of chloroplast and nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences. Analyses generally supported the (North
3080016|Ascosporogenesis in
2475282|In the coastal prairies of Texas, C
2995600|Recent data have revealed the frequent occurrence of helicoidal and cholesteric-like structures in various primary and secondary walls. The present article deals with the texture specificity and the texture changes in the primary wall during the rapidly growing phase. First we define the characteristics of the cholesteric pattern and the mesophases and discuss two possible sources of misinterpretations: one technical, the fragility of constructions, and one biological, the gradients, differentiation, and short-lived organization. Both features explain why the liquid crystal concept has emerged recently for the growing wall. Two examples of cells showing highly oriented surface growth are considered and compared. (a) Mung bean seedlings are often used for the study of expansion. In this model the external and growth-limiting tissues have primary walls with early and transient planar twisted assemblies. The latter are progressively sheared and dispersed, and growth stops when the helicoidal pattern is completely randomized. (b) In the differentiated cell wall of collenchyma the bundles of supporting cells assemble walls in which similar planar twists are found. The helicoids are likewise randomized during the surface growth. The difference is that they are vigorously renewed and the last arced layers are no longer involved in the elongation process and persist without apparent modification of their cholesteric arrangement. Finally, we discuss the question of the intermolecular interrelations and degree of freedom of the wall components through the helicoids.
3079981|Flowering time and
10.1086/671449|Development of the model plant
3691608|Several factors attract pollinators to individual plants. Among them, plant height is one of the least studied. Previous studies have demonstrated that taller plants often receive larger pollen loads, indicating that they may experience higher rates of outcrossing and have more diverse pollen donor arrays. In this study we sampled three populations consisting of at least 50 flowering individuals to estimate the mating system of the biennial weed
3080136|The flowers of
4619782|By increasing floral apparency to promote fertilization, plants risk attracting herbivores with the same signals that they use to lure pollinators. We hypothesized that fragrance is emitted in patterns that correspond to pollinators, with high emissions during periods of pollinator activity and low emissions otherwise, especially during periods of peak floral herbivore activity. Using a combination of analytical chemistry and field observations, we examined both the diel and ontogenetic patterns of fragrance in two
2995742|The pollination of
2995608|Low temperature scanning electron microscopy was used to evaluate changes in cell and tissue morphology in response to a dehydrative stress. Bark cortical cells of both Cornus florida L. (flowering dogwood) and Cornus sericea L. (red osier dogwood) were collapsed at low tissue moisture. Bark cortical cell volume was reduced, and cell walls appeared buckled and distorted. In contrast, the shape and volume of xylem ray parenchyma cells did not appear to change in response to the dehydrative stress treatment. There was no evidence of cell wall buckling, distortion, or separation in either of the two species. Instead the xylem ray parenchyma cells within stressed tissue appeared the same as controls. These observations were similar to those reported regarding the response of woody tissues during freezing. The results do not support the hypothesis that rigid cell walls are a characteristic of plants that exhibit deep supercooling and that differences in cell wall rigidity distinguish species that supercool from species that do not.
10.1086/647922|This study contributes to the knowledge of the traffic of substances between tapetum cells and microspores through the localization of pollen proteins during microsporogenesis, by using immunocytochemical techniques with TEM. Because the Oleaceae genera, including
10.1086/673304|
               
2475355|Hydrolysis of wheat stems and delignified wheat stems with a purified 20.7 kDa xylanase (EC 3.2.1.8) isolated from a Bacillus sp. yielded 18% and 70% of xylans, respectively. In order to evaluate the accessibility of the xylans and the extent of diffusion of the xylanase in wheat stems, antixylan and antixylanase polyclonal antibodies in conjunction with immunogold labeling and microscopic studies were used on stem fragments degraded by the xylanase. After 30 min of hydrolysis, the labeling of the xylanase was abundant for both lignified and delignified stems and occurred within all cell walls, demonstrating a fast penetration of xylanase in stem fragments. However, the distribution of immunolabel differed between the two types of straw. Xylanase was unevenly distributed in nondelignified straw, especially around the lumen side of cell walls and often grouped in clusters but homogeneous within delignified straw. Localization of xylans in both stem fragments showed that xylans were distributed homogeneously within the entire cell walls. These results indicated that xylans were accessible to the xylanase. The presence of lignins did not prevent, but modulated, the diffusion of the xylanase into stem fragments.
2475097|Much of the remarkable diversity of angiosperm flowers is thought to have evolved in response to selection by animal pollinators. Selection during pollination can readily be documented, but the extent to which it leads to evolutionary change depends on the genetic basis of floral traits. Here we combine estimates of genetic variance and covariance for several traits of flowers and inflorescences in a wild plant species, with estimates of natural selection by hummingbird pollinators. Analysis of phenotypic selection through two components of pollination success indicates direct selection of plants toward larger size and toward bearing shorter flowers that produce more nectar. Predictions of selection response that account for genetic correlations among traits generally exceed the simple predictions based on apparent selection and heritabilities of single traits. This underscores the importance of genetic correlations and demonstrates that univariate, strictly phenotypic, analyses of natural selection can be misleading. A sample of fruits from one of the two years of our study also indicates that total selection at the end of the reproductive cycle is weaker than selection during pollination. Thus a second caution is in order, against relying too strongly on differential pollination success as an estimate of overall selection.
2995745|A crossing study and an analysis of pollen tube growth were conducted in diploid and autotetraploid
10.1086/673241|
               
3080209|Two fungi that parasitize western hemlock dwarf mistletoe (
10.1086/654847|
               
2475172|Plant biologists have largely ignored the role of developmental homeostasis in the evolution of floral traits. In this brief review, we discuss the relationship between floral form and developmental homeostasis, emphasizing that developmental homeostasis, as any other character, may respond to natural selection. We discuss the implications of developmental homeostasis being a selectively labile trait for the evolution of floral characters. A trait's ability to respond to selection is in part determined by its genetic basis. Therefore, we also discuss evidence for the genetic basis of developmental homeostasis and how it influences the evolution of developmental homeostasis and ultimately floral diversity. We conclude with a series of suggestions for future research, calling for a synthetic approach utilizing ecological, morphological, quantitative genetic, and molecular methodologies.
10.1086/669927|The genus
2475008|Shoot microcuttings of Malus domestica cv. Jork 9, Malus domestica cv. Cepiland, Mandevilla (Dipladenia) sanderi, and Daphne odora cv. variegata were induced to root by the addition of 0.1-1 mM dithiothreitol following an auxin (indole-3-acetic acid) treatment to initiate root formation. The most difficult to root, Malus domestica cv. Cepiland, required higher dithiothreitol concentrations to achieve optimum rooting than did the less difficult to root, Malus domestica cv. Jork 9, Mandevilla sanderi, or Daphne odora variegata. The roots induced by the combination of dithiothreitol and auxin treatment were approximately twofold longer and more robust than those induced with auxin treatment alone. The combination treatment of auxin and dithiothreitol has the potential to be of practical importance in root initiation in difficult-to-root cuttings of both woody and herbaceous horticultural varieties.
2475248| Isolates of the basidiomycete phytopathogen, Microbotryum violaceum (Pers.: Pers.) Deml & Oberw. (Ustilago violacea [Pers.] Roussel), are restricted in their host range to one or a few species of Caryophyllaceae (Pinks). Thus, the 200-plus species that serve as hosts for M. violaceum define pathovars or formae speciales of the fungus. For both a
10.1086/670370|To search for variation patterns and diagnostic features between Asian wild rice species, several numerical methods were applied to phenotypic data obtained from 116 accessions representing sympatric populations of
3691771|Coryloid reproductive remains (Betulaceae, subfamily Coryloideae) are documented from the middle Eocene Republic flora of northeastern Washington State and the Princeton flora of southern British Columbia. The oldest confirmed examples of two modern genera,
2995535| Botanical trees display some of the most complex structural patterns in plants. The concept of tree architectural model by Hall, Oldeman, and Tomlinson has catalyzed a variety of approaches to the problem of form, reviewed here. Computer simulations of three-dimensional structure have become increasingly important but vary in their ability to test hypotheses about optimization and to predict mature tree form. The longevity of trees and the significant role of phenotypic plasticity limit the predictability of present simulations. Future promising directions in tree architecture research will make use of better empirical models for branching pattern and leaf placement, correlation of architectural parameters with ecological factors, and more quantitative descriptions of recent holistic concepts of architecture: metamorphosis and patterns of organization. 
10.1086/662652|Two new compression-impression species of the Osmundaceae described from reproductive and vegetative remains are erected for the first time from the Early Jurassic of Argentina.
2995794|Topophysis (the influence of the position of axillary buds along the shoot on bud and shoot growth, fresh biomass accumulation, and flower development) were studied in
3691655|
               
3080196|In patchy environments of arid Patagonia, males of the dioecious grass
3691756|The new genus
3691639|Phylogenetic relationships among the species of
10.1086/662128|Reproductive output and reproductive allocation are important factors in the life history of any organism. In clonal plants, however, reproductive can refer to both sexual and asexual (clonal) replication. When investigating reproductive allocation, it is essential that the size of the plants studied be taken into account and that the direct analysis of ratios (e.g., fruit mass/vegetative mass) be avoided. Using methods that allow the testing of both a minimum size of reproduction and nonlinearity in the reproduction-size relationship, I investigated allocation of resources to both sexual (fruit mass) and clonal (stolon mass, ramet mass, and ramet number) reproduction in
10.1086/681991|
               
3874638|Ecological conditions may amplify or diminish effects of herbivory. We use replicated prairie plantings established in 1997 to test for the effects of two components of ecological conditions, planting density (high or low density at a 10fold difference) and planting season (spring or fall), on meadow vole (
10.1086/671805|
               
3691861|Several new broadleaved monocots were identified in gray siltstones and finegrained sandstones from the Upper Cretaceous (CampanianMaastrichtian) St. Mary River Formation near Cardston, Alberta, Canada. Specimens are compression/impressions of longpetiolate aquatic plants that were probably buried
4619828|Distinct leaf laminar growth dynamics have been found previously in some filicalean ferns and angiosperm seed plants: a discrete zone of marginal growth versus diffuse intercalary growth throughout the leaf without aconspicuous marginal growth zone. The fern pinnules for which marginal growth is known are also morphologically distinct from dicots: one or two orders of dichotomizing veins ending only along the margin versus many orders that include internally directed veins and endings dispersed throughout the leaf. Both of those morphological alternatives have evolved many times among extant and fossil plants, but whether similar developmental processes underlie each recurrence of a particular laminar morphology has not been investigated. Here, marginal growth is demonstrated in two independent examples of fernlike open venation patterns among living seed plants, frond leaflets of the cycad
3080330|Allozyme analyses were conducted on the two species of the Pyreneanendemic genus
3691636|
               
3080135|Floral development was compared in two species of
2475292| In vitro regeneration of plants was achieved in four cultivars of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.). The explants were 10-mm hypocotyl sections, excised from 2-wk-old seedlings grown on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with or without 6-benzyladenine (BA). The hypocotyl explants were subcultured on MS medium without growth regulators or on MS media supplemented with 5, 10, 20, or 40 M BA. Regeneration through somatic embryogenesis and shoot organogenesis occurred in explants of all treatments, even on hypocotyls from seedlings grown on basal medium and subcultured to medium without growth regulators. Explants from seedlings grown on BA-supplemented medium produced the highest frequency of regenerants when subcultured to media containing BA. In contrast, BA had an inhibitory effect on explants obtained from seedlings grown on media lacking BA. Light microscopic observations confirmed that regeneration occurred via both somatic embryogenesis and shoot organogenesis from the subepidermal cortical tissue. Developing somatic embryos were encased in a distinct protoderm, had a suspensor-like structure, and were loosely attached to the hypocotyl tissue. Somatic embryos and shoots developed into complete plants on a medium lacking growth regulators. 
40344017|Selffertilization can provide reproductive assurance during periods of low or unreliable pollinator visitation. Therefore, periods of low pollen receipt may favor evolutionary shifts from crossfertilization to selffertilization. Although reproductive assurance is hypothesized to be important in mating system evolution, it has been quantified in relatively few species.
2475290|We investigated the distribution of the P- and H-proteins of the glycine decarboxylase complex (EC 2.1.2.10) in developing pea (Pisum sativum L.) leaflets using immunogold techniques. Antibodies to these two proteins did not bind to young, nonphotosynthetic cells. Once the leaflet turned green, the labeling density in the mitochondria of the mesophyll cells increased substantially. Few particles were found in the mitochondria of the paraveinal mesophyll and guard cells. None were found either in the epidermis or in the parenchyma of the vascular tissue. Thus leaflets not yet exposed to light, and nonphotosynthetic cells, do not express these two proteins needed for photorespiration. The process of photorespiration seems to be correlated with the photosynthetic state of the cell and of the organ. It was also found to be positively linked with the integrity of the chloroplast since the highest label density obtained in the mitochondria was found just before the onset of ultrastructural senescence in the chloroplasts of the mesophyll. A cell-specific distribution was noticed in the mitochondria of the mesophyll: there were more gold particles in the spongy cells than in those of the palisade layer. This indicates that the two types of mesophyll cells have different amounts of glycine decarboxylase and possibly possess different rates of photorespiration.
30130560|In this study, we investigated the effect of drought stress on ethanol production and accumulation in tissues from seedlings of three conifers (Douglasfir, lodgepole pine, and ponderosa pine) with increasing degrees of tolerance to drought stress, respectively. Significant ethanol accumulation was only observed in their aerial tissues when severely stressed (water
2995841|Cuticle micromorphology of leaves from seven species and three varieties of the conifer genus
2995830|A comparative study of the floral ontogeny and anatomy of
3691887|Prolamins and glutelins, synthesized in the ER, are compartmentalized into individual protein bodies (PB), the ERderived PBI and the vacuolar PBII in wildtype rice, respectively. Six 57H mutants with high amounts of 57 kD glutelin precursor were isolated by screening 3000 NmethylNnitrosoureainduced mutants of the rice cultivar TC65. SDSPAGE and immunoblot analyses of storage proteins showed that some of the mutants contained not only the high amount of glutelin precursor and the corresponding low amounts of mature glutelin subunits but also the low amounts of the b species of 13 kD prolamins in comparison with the TC65 cultivar. The protein alterations in each mutant were found to result from a recessive mutation of a single gene in each. One mutation among them was identified to be a novel gene,
3080277|In xeric environments, wateruse efficiency (WUE) is likely to be a target of natural selection. Higher WUE is expected to confer a fitness advantage in drought conditions, but this prediction has rarely been tested. To examine the relationships between WUE and fitness, two common garden experiments were conducted. Inbred lines of
3691733|Floral morphology and observations on insect and avian visitors to species of the southern African and largely Western Cape genus
2475099|Cathaya argyrophylla is an endangered conifer restricted to subtropical mountains of China, with total number of individuals less than 4,000. To assess levels and patterns of genetic diversity of C. argyrophylla, eight populations representing four widely separated regions were analyzed for allozyme variation, using 13 enzymes. In comparison with other coniferous species, C. argyrophylla possesses a low amount of variation, particularly at the population level (A = 1.38; P = 30.4; H
2995629|Ovules of broad beans (Vicia faba) have been studied to analyze ultrastructural features for nutrient transport to the embryo sac at various ontogenetic stages up to 10 d after pollination. In unpollinated flowers a notable homogeneous or fibrillar material is deposited in the endostome, between the two integuments and on the nucellus. Osmiophilic globules accumulate at the plasmalemma and in the walls at the micropylar end of the inner integument. These globules increase in number after fertilization and appear also in other cells near the embryo sac. The central cell, which has some wall ingrowths typical for transfer cells, shows intrusive growth between cells of the nucellar cap. After fertilization wall thickenings occur in cells close to the embryo sac. At 10 d after pollination the inner integument has degenerated entirely. Also the nucellus, including the nucellar cap, is digested. In the endosperm free-nuclear divisions start and the cytoplasm increases in amount. Wall ingrowths are formed along the whole embryo sac boundary. The suspensor consists of two pairs of multinucleate cells: the pair adjacent to the embryo proper have rounded cells; the other pair have elongated ones. The suspensor cells that are attached to the embryo sac boundary become transfer cells. Their plastids have prolamellar bodies, and these structures are not seen anywhere else in the ovule. Our study confirms that transfer cells are common at junctions between the different generations in the ovules, that the transport to the embryo sac is apoplastic, and that symplastic transport is possible between endosperm and embryo and further between suspensor and embryo proper.
4619754|Variation in salt tolerance during early seedling growth has been reported in seeds of
40072527|
               
3691545|Genetic and molecular analyses of shoot development in model organisms, maize, and
3079971|A comparative study on gynoecium structure in basal angiosperms revealed new features relevant to systematics. In addition, based on the new phylogenetic framework on basal angiosperms gained by molecular systematics, an evolutionary evaluation of gynoecial character states has become possible. Angiospermy patterns are diverse and are here tentatively grouped into four types according to the mode of carpel closure: (1) by secretion, without postgenital fusion; (2) with a continuous secretory canal but partial postgenital fusion at the periphery; (3) with an incomplete secretory canal and complete postgenital fusion at the periphery; (4) by complete postgenital fusion. In most basal angiosperms the carpels are free, and the inner space of each carpel is occluded from the outside by secretion and not by postgenital fusion (angiospermy type 1). Correlated with this feature is a pronounced ascidiate shape of the carpels. The carpels tend to be shortly stipitate. In relatively many basal clades with pluricarpellate gynoecia an extragynoecial compitum is present. Stigmas are secretory and tend to have pluricellular papillae. Ethereal oil cells at the surface of the carpels (probably intrusive) are present in Illiciales (including Trimeniaceae), Chloranthaceae, Piperales s.l. (including Aristolochiales), and Acoraceae. Ovule structure is diverse. Ovules are predominantly anatropous. Although Amborellaceae, the phylogenetically earliest branching extant angiosperm, has orthotropous ovules, it is argued that the anatropous condition is basal in angiosperms. Crassinucellar ovules are predominant in basal angiosperms. However, there are apomorphic tendencies toward ovule reduction: weakly crassinucellar (Nymphaeales, some Alismatales), pseudocrassinucellar (Acorales, some Alismatales, some Ranunculales), and tenuinucellar (some Piperales s.l., including Aristolochiales, Rafflesiales, some Alismatales). Lobation of the inner integument and semiannular shape of the outer integument are variously present or absent. They appear to be due to architectural constraints in ovule development and not to constitute archaic features. In contrast to anatropous ovules, orthotropous ovules often have an outer integument that is thinner than the inner one. This may be due to a function of the outer integument in ovule curvature as indicated by molecular developmental genetics. On the other hand, the presence of an outer integument that is thinner than the inner one characterizes the majority of the Piperales s.l. (including Aristolochiales), irrespective of presence or absence of ovule curvature.
10.1086/673244|
               
10.1086/648989|The mycoheterotroph
2475334|Water relations of transplanted and naturally occurring blue-oak seedlings (Quercus douglasii Hook. & Arn.) were studied to examine the effects of site differences with regard to the rates of progressing drought on the current lack of blue-oak establishment in California oak savannas. Seedling water relations were compared from May to September 1987 at four sites, differing in terms of canopy structure, grazing history, and grass density. During the dry season, water status of transplanted seedlings was more favorable at a grazed open site where grass density was minimal but soil and atmospheric drought were most pronounced. In contrast, transplanted seedlings experienced the highest rates of water deficit and senesced earliest at a grazed canopy site that had the highest density of grasses. Naturally occurring seedlings were present only in the grazed canopy and ungrazed canopy sites, and their water relations were similar at both sites. Naturally occurring seedlings were 3-4 yr old, and thus their roots might have already extended to deeper soil layers where competition from grass roots was low. We conclude that blue-oak seedlings resist drought by osmotic adjustment, particularly when seedling water stress progresses slowly because of lack of severe belowground competition from grasses. The process of osmotic adjustment was perhaps more critical for seedling survival than for seedling growth. Seedling stomatal conductances responded primarily to seedling water status rather than to soil or atmospheric drought. It seemed that the density of grasses was more important in explaining patterns of seedling water stress than was either microclimate or the change in dominance from perennial to annual grasses during the past century.
2995593|Using a multiple de Wit replacement series, we tested the hypothesis that the middle Tennessee cedar glade endemic, Echinacea tennesseensis, is a poor competitor compared with its geographically widespread close relatives, Echinacea angustifolia var. angustifolia and Echinacea pallida. In the competition experiment, all pairwise combinations of the three Echinacea taxa were grown under greenhouse conditions at several densities and proportions for 175 d. Classical and functional growth analyses were performed on the three taxa to quantify physiological and morphological characteristics that influence competitive ability. The hierarchy of competitive ability (based on relative yield and aggressivity), plant dry mass, and leaf area was E. pallida > E. tennesseensis > E. angustifolia. However, neither relative growth rate, net assimilation rate, leaf area ratio, nor specific leaf weight differed significantly among the three species (protected least significant difference [PLSD], P > .05). We conclude that lack of competitive ability per se cannot account for the narrow endemism of E. tennesseensis.
4619786|In
4619812|Several investigations have focused on mature pollen of
3080125|Abundant nitrogen improves seedling growth and establishment. Vigorous growth brings about changes in rates and patterns of plant development and changes in the relationship between primary and secondary metabolism, which may make seedlings more susceptible to herbivores and pathogens than are slowgrowing seedlings. We studied how nitrogen fertilization and manual defoliation of source leaves affect growth, carbon allocation, and developmental instability in cloned seedlings of white birch (
2474935|The developmental morphology of laterals and flowers was studied in shallot. Growth analyses and microscopic observations revealed strong similarities in organ development between shallots and bulb onions. However, some significant differences were observed, mainly with regard to the minimum physiological age for both laterals and floral differentiation and to the development of the inflorescence. When grown from seed, the initiation of laterals and the first signs of floral differentiation become evident already after the third and sixth true leaves, respectively, as compared to the bulb onion, which first produces 13 or 10-14 leaves, respectively. The shallot inflorescence can be described as an umbel-like flower arrangement, where branches (flower clusters) arise from a common meristem. Leaf formation continues at the axillary meristems in shallots simultaneously with floral development of the original apex. In blooming onion, however, the lateral meristem develops into an adventitious dormant bud. A detailed description of shallot florogenesis and the similarities and differences between blooming shallot and bulb onion are discussed.
40072497|
               
3080102|Allozyme investigation of the five
40072524|The recent availability of
4619801|Most cacti in subfamily Cactoideae have tiny foliage leaves (most less than 1.5 mm long) hidden by enlarged axillary buds (the spine clusters). Leaf development similar to that of
2474954|The inflorescence of Orchidantha maxillarioides is similar to a richly branched, polytelic truncate synflorescence. It consists of two to three paracladia borne in the axils of the uppermost phyllomes of the shoot. Each paracladium consists of six bracts. The lowermost bract is the sterile prophyll. The second and third bracts subtend paracladia of the next higher order. The fourth bract subtends a single flower. The fifth and sixth bracts are initiated but do not complete development. Initiation of the paracladia in the axils of bracts 2 and 3 is acropetal, but their differentiation is basipetal. The flowers are trimerous, with a perianth differentiated into sepals and petals. One petal is enlarged to form a labellum. There are five stamens, one inserted opposite each perianth member except the labellum. The ovary is inferior and is closed by a prolongation many times the length of the locular region of the ovary. Floral organ initiation begins with the posterior sepals. The anterior sepal is formed slightly later, at the same time as the initiation of the corolla. The anterior petals arise from primordia that produce only these organs, while the posterior petal (the labellum) arises from a common petal/stamen primordium. The petal/stamen primordium separates into the labellum and the two posterior outer stamens. The anterior outer stamen is initiated slightly later, in the region between the anterior petals. Throughout these stages a floral cup forms below the floral parts. The two inner stamens are initiated simultaneously on the inner surface of this cup, near the insertion of the anterior petals. Three gynoecial primordia are initiated at the top of the floral cup in the region that will form the prolongation. The primordia extend proximally to form the ovary proper and distally to form the style and stigma. The prolongation is formed through intercalary growth. Based on structural and functional similarities in the prolongation and inflorescence, we support placement of the Lowiaceae as the sister group of the Strelitziaceae.
2475060| In vitro studies were performed to quantify the putative allelopathic effect of pollen from Phleum pratense (Aveneae: Poaceae). Extract from ground pollen was partitioned, using ion-exchange chromatography. Acidic, basic, and neutral fractions were isolated. These fractions, along with extract from intact pollen, were applied in increasing concentrations of the equivalent of 0 (control), 0.1, 1, 3, 5, 10, and 25 pollen grains of P. pratense/L. Pollen from five sympatric, wind-pollinated species of Poaceae and P. pratense was germinated on agar medium that contained different extract concentrations. In response to increasing extract concentrations, from intact pollen or from acidic fractions, mean percentage of germination of pollen of Agropyron repens, Bromus inermis, Danthonia compressa, and Poa compressa decreased in a nonlinear manner. Basic, neutral, and solvent fractions did not show any allelopathic activity; hence, the allelochemicals may be acidic in nature. An extract concentration equivalent to 0.1 grains/L was sufficient to inhibit pollen germination in these four species. Hence pollen allelopathy requires fewer pollen grains than may exist on foreign stigma in situ. Pollen from P. pratense was not autotoxic. This, together with the lack of a pollen-allelopathic effect on the contribal Agrostis stolonifera, indicates that members of the Aveneae may be able to detoxify the pollen allelochemicals. Similar experiments, using extracts from intact pollen from 11 populations of Phleum across eastern Canada revealed that the pollen-allelopathic effect on sympatric populations of Agropyron repens was consistent, save for the lone population of Phleum arenarium. Allelopathic pollen may occur in most populations of P. pratense in eastern Canada but not in P. arenarium. 
2475151|This study examined how leaf position in the canopy affected photosynthetic and stomatal responses to short-term, minutes-long shade periods during a drought cycle in soybean (Glycine max [L.] Merr.). All soybean leaves had similar basic responses to short-term shade, including rapidly decreased photosynthetic rates (A
3691588|According to the most recent monograph of the genus
3874655|Floral characters in angiosperms may be involved in different relationships in order to ensure and maximize pollination. To assess these relationships, which may provide insight to understand floral evolution, we analyzed 14 floral characters in 23 species of
3080122|In annual plants, including amphicarpic annuals, variation in light availability can evoke phenotypic plasticity in multiple traits. We examined plasticity to light availability of vegetative and reproductive performance traits in
2475038| Environmentally induced heterophylly provides a useful model system for studying the developmental basis of differing leaf shapes. The semiaquatic Ranunculus flabellaris exhibits typical heterophyllous shape variation with change in water level: aerial leaves have short lobes, while lobes of leaves produced underwater are elongate. Submergence in a 25 M abscisic acid solution (ABA) produces an aerial-like leaf shape. In this morphometric study, x and y coordinates of nine landmarks of leaf outlines were captured from video images, and linear dimensions between the landmarks were used in multigroup principal components analysis as a method to quantify the timing of developmental divergence in leaf shape of plants grown underwater, in air, or in ABA. Shape differences between aerial and water leaves were detected 16 d after leaf emergence, while size differences were not apparent until after 18 d. This developmental pattern represents a very late structural divergence of leaf forms and additionally indicates that leaf shape determination may not be complete until leaves reach maturity. The multigroup principal components analysis indicated that size and shape of developing and mature ABA-treated leaves are most similar to aerial leaves, which is consistent with the hypothesis that endogenous levels of ABA regulate leaf shape change in this heterophyllous species. 
3080174|Because of the importance of herbivory in many herbaceous plantdominated ecosystems, it will be important to determine whether interactions exist between herbivory and CO
3691739|This is the first documentation of scaled chrysophytes of Tertiary age. Siliceous scales belonging to four genera (
2995646|Stellaria media is a creeping herb with isophyllous leaves that are irregularly placed, approaching decussate but more often pseudobijugate. A single lateral shoot occurs most frequently at a node, two less frequently, and nodes without buds only rarely. Shoot placement tends to show spiral anisoclady, but the spirals are frequently reversed or otherwise disturbed. Axillary shoots are generally initiated in the axils of p3 primordia. Their development, which is preceded by the differentiation of an oblique procambial strand to the subtending leaf, occurs in cells that are undergoing vacuolation. These shoots are not initially connected to the parent shoot axis and undergo considerable development before procambial connection occurs.
2995668|Ustilago striiformis, which causes stripe smut disease of grasses, was investigated on the host Poa pratensis with light and electron microscopy. Fungal hyphae were present immediately below apical meristems and in leaf primordia and maturing leaves. Hyphal growth in leaves was both intracellular and intercellular. In the case of intracellular hyphae, an encasement consisting of two distinct layers was observed between the host plasma membrane and the fungal wall. Host cells initially did not appear to be adversely affected by the presence of hyphae, and invaded cells were capable of division. Hyphal compartments appeared to be binucleate, and structures suggestive of clamp connections were present at septa. Hyphal aggregations became extensive in developing leaves, and they coalesced into stripes that often extended nearly the entire length of a leaf blade. Sporulation occurred in leaf parenchyma cells when hyphal aggregations were converted into spores. Sporulation involved gelatinization of hyphal walls and subsequent deposition of ornamented teliospore walls. Leaf cells were replaced by the teliospores, and eventually masses of spores were released through ruptures in the leaf epidermis.
2474925|Phylogenetic analyses show Hydrangeaceae to be a monophyletic group in the Cornales, and this article uses parsimony analysis of morphological data to identify evolutionary relationships in the family. All of the most parsimonious cladograms show that (1) Jamesia, Fendlera, Fendlerella, and Whipplea form a monophyletic group that is the sister group of the rest of the family; (2) Philadelphus is monophyletic and is the sister group of Carpenteria; (3) Deutzia is monophyletic; (4) Cardiandra and Deinanthe form a monophyletic group; (5) all species of Hydrangea, as well as Broussaisia, Dichroa, Decumaria, Pileostegia, and Schizophragma, form a monophyletic group (the "hydrangea" clade); (6) three monophyletic groups-the "anomala" clade, the "heteromalla" clade, and the "macrophylla" clade-make up the "hydrangea" clade; and (7) Platycrater is the sister group of the "hydrangea" clade. The results indicate that Hutchinson's tribe Carpenterieae is paraphyletic and includes some of the most basal clades in the family. Earlier hypotheses that Deutzia was derived from Philadelphus are not consistent with the results. The paraphyly of Hydrangea is consistent with the results of an earlier phylogenetic analysis based on sequences of the chloroplast gene rbcL. In the "hydrangea" clade, Broussaisia and Dichroa, two tropical genera with fleshy fruits, are sister taxa in a clade that includes Hydrangea hirta, H. scandens, and H. macrophylla. Hydrangea heteromalla and H. paniculata are most closely related to the climbing "genera" Schizophragma, Pileostegia, and Decumaria. Most species of Hydrangea form part of the "anomala" clade, which includes species circumscribed as section Cornidia as well as H. involucrata, H. aspera, H. quercifolia, H. sikokiana, H. arborescens, and H. anomala. These results, together with those from a phylogenetic analysis of the family based on rbcL gene sequences, indicate that classifications of Hydrangeaceae require extensive revision to provide greater utility and reasonable insights on evolutionary relationships.
40072481|On the basis of new ontogenetic data and a modern phylogenetic context, we reevaluate the nature of the highly unusual branched stamen of
IJPS40889|Selection on floral traits in hermaphrodite plants can operate through either male or female sex function. However, selection is typically measured for the female component only, and when selection through male function is measured, it is usually done only in terms of pollen removal from flowers. We tested whether selection on floral spur length might differ between genders in the orchid
10.1086/675935|
               
2995658| Increment cores and stem disks were collected from Thuja occidentalis L. (eastern white cedar) and divided into young (<30 yr) and old (>300 yr) age classes. A further subdivision of the material based on growth rate (annual rings <0.5 mm versus annual rings 0.5 mm) was made. This allowed for analysis of the effect of tree aging independent of growth rate. Number of tracheids per annual ring, tracheid radial diameter, and ratio of latewood to earlywood did not vary with tree age. In contrast, the annual rings of both young and old slow-growing trees had fewer tracheids, decreased mean tracheid diameter (both earlywood and, to a lesser extent, latewood) and an increased proportion of smaller latewood tracheids. In fast-growing trees regardless of age, tracheid radial diameter was larger in earlywood and remained relatively constant (plateau phase) for most of the width of the annual ring. Radial diameter then declined sharply, before the initiation of latewood. In slow-growing trees, initial earlywood tracheid radial diameter was smaller and the plateau phase short or absent, and the decline in tracheid radial diameter for both fast- and slow-growing trees was not coupled with latewood production. It is proposed that plasticity of tracheid radial diameter is a safety feature that reduces the risk of embolisms for trees growing on xeric sites. 
3874654|Heterosporous water ferns (Marsileaceae and Salviniaceae) are the only extant group of plants to have evolved heterospory since the Paleozoic. These ferns possess unusual reproductive structures traditionally termed sporocarps. Using an evolutionary framework, we critically examine the complex homology issues pertaining to these structures. Comparative morphological study reveals that all heterosporous ferns bear indusiate sori on a branched, nonlaminate structure that we refer to as the sorophore; this expanded definition highlights homology previously obscured by the use of different terms. By using a homologybased concept, we aim to discontinue the use of historically and functionally based morphological terminology. We recognize the sorophore envelope as a structure that surrounds the sorophore and sori. The sorophore envelope is present in Marsileaceae as a sclerenchymatous sporocarp wall and in
3080115|A variant clone (EMB2) derived by
2474880|Expanding leaves of Moricandia arvensis undergoing the sink-to-source transition were sampled for transmission electron microscopy to follow minor vein differentiation and plasmodesmal development at companion cell-contignous cell interfaces. A morphological classification of minor veins into different orders proved inadequate as an indicator of minor vein anatomy, yet neither total vein cell number nor number of sieve element-companion cell complexes (SE-CCCs) proved accurate as vein order predictors. Therefore, minor veins were divided into three classes (IV, V, and VI) according to the total number of cells within the bundle sheath, class VI having the smallest number A basipetal trend in maturation was observed for all classes, with larger minor veins maturing before smaller ones. Most minor veins were not structurally mature before the cessation of assimilate import; nevertheless, an association was seen between phloem maturation and the transition from importing to nonimporting status, as all class IV and V minor veins had some mature SEs in nonimporting tissue. A cell-specific ultrastructural specialization of plasmodesmata was observed on the companion cell side of the interface with contiguous cells. The timing of plasmodesmal development was the same for all minor vein classes and was associated with SE-CCC differentiation. Specialized plasmodesmata began to differentiate when SE-CCCs were still undifferentiated. These plasmodesmata were structurally mature by the time companion cells appeared fully differentiated, although their associated SEs were still immature Sucrose, fructose, and glucose were detected by HPLC analysis in mature leaves and stems, while neither raffinose nor stachyose was detected, establishing M. arvensis as a sucrose-translocating species. Development of specialized plasmodesmata is discussed in relation to the apoplastic phloem-loading function of companion cells.
2475332|During reproductive development, seeds become a dominant sink for both carbon and nitrogen. To determine how nitrogen uptake and partitioning by nonnodulated soybean (Glycine max [L.] Merrill) are affected by a reduced pod load, all pods, ca. half of all pods, and no pods were removed at the beginning of seed fill from plants growing in flowing solution culture containing 1.0 mM NO
2475119|Three species of Stenomyelon identified from anatomically preserved stems with attached petiole bases from the Lower Carboniferous of Scotland were reinvestigated. Stenomyelon tuedianum and Stenomyelon heterangioides are conspecific and form the basis for a new concept of S. tuedianum, including a unique pattern of petiolar bundle development and possession of adventitious roots. Changes from a "heterangioides"-type of anatomy with medullated protostele and mesarch protoxylem strands to a "tuedianum"-type characterized by solid protostele and exarch protoxylem are postulated to correspond to apoxogenetic phases of growth. Contrary to lycopsids, sphenopsids, and progymnosperms studied so far, steles of S. tuedianum axes do not show any changes in the number of protoxylem strands related to ontogeny. Stenomyelon primaevum differs from S. tuedianum by a stele with slender ribs, protoxylem strands occurring deeper in the stele, and a simpler pattern of formation of petiolar bundles. Stelar architectures of S tuedianum and S. primaevum are discussed according to the sympodial view of seed plants proposed by Beek and the alternative foliar interpretation developed by Stein. Hormone models using positions of protoxylem strands to mark regions of high hormone concentration predict with a good degree of accuracy the shape of the steles and occurrence of parenchyma between primary and secondary xylem in both species as well as number and position of radiate bands of parenchyma in S. tuedianum
4619788|A new genus and species of fossil fungus,
2475296|Fruits of Pistacia vera and Pistacia atlantica were sampled up to fruit maturity following intra- and interspecific pollination. Embryo and shell structure were investigated in relation to shell indehiscence and premature splitting of P. vera. The ponticulus of P. atlantica was formed from the funicle only, in contrast to that of P. vera, which developed from both the funicle and the ovary wall. This may be one of the causes of reduced interspecific as compared with intraspecific fertility. Shell indehiscence and premature splitting were more common following interspecific pollination of P. vera. Ovary wall and shell thickness at the suture were lower in P. atlantica than in P. vera, while the suture angle was greater. Following interspecific pollination of P. vera, both ovary wall and shell thickness at the suture were lower and the suture angle was greater than following intraspecific pollination. In the shells of some fruits, more than one groove was observed in areas other than the usual split zone. We concluded that reduced shell splitting of P. vera following interspecific pollination with P. atlantica may result from the thinner shell thickness at the suture and the wider suture angle imparted by pollination with this indehiscent species. Premature splitting of P. vera was related to the development of more than one groove in the shell in areas other than the usual split zone.
2995615|Relationships between three species of Lathyrus, including L. cassius, L. hirsutus, and L. odoratus, were studied with hybridization, cytogenetic analyses, and DNA dot blots. Broadly similar results were obtained with these methods, showing that L. cassius, L. hirsutus, and L. odoratus are all closely related, with L. odoratus more closely related to L. hirsutus than L. cassius. Hybrids were formed between the three species, but only those between L. odoratus and L. hirsutus show high levels of fertility and more or less regular chromosome pairing at meiosis. Despite having similar karyotypes, L. cassius had large centromeric C-bands that are absent from L. hirsutus and L. odoratus. DNA dot blots showed that the three genomes were equally different from each other. Reciprocal differences in flower morphology and metaphase I chromosome pairing were seen in hybrids between L. cassius and L. hirsutus. A modification of the most recent systematic placement of the species is suggested so that L. hirsutus is allied with L. cassius and L. odoratus with L. chloranthus.
2475144|Membranes prepared from Vicia faba L. and Zea mays L. were analyzed by western immunoblot with an antibody raised against a mammalian inositoltrisphosphate (InsP
2995883|We studied the effects of population density and population size on stigma pollen load and fruit set in
2474917|In the fungal plant pathogen Microbotryum violaceum, infection is achieved by the dikaryotic conjugation product between two haploid sporidia differing in mating type. Each diploid teliospore, the transmission unit, is heterozygous for the mating-type locus; therefore, germination and meiosis should produce haploid sporidia of both mating types. We investigated the mating-type ratios generated by growing sporidial colonies from single teliospores collected from six populations in two regions of northern Switzerland. One-third of the teliospores produced strongly or totally biased mating-type ratios. Usually, teliospores from a single fungal collection showed bias in both directions; however, in one population a consistent bias in one direction was found. Either more rapid replication of one mating type, perhaps on account of deficiency mutations, or a head start in replication can lead to the loss of one of the mating types after several cell cycles on laboratory medium. An experiment on replication rates of sporidia with the two different mating types confirmed that differential replication could lead to mating-type bias, although the observed difference in replication rates did not correlate with mating-type biases recorded from the teliospore from which these sporidial colonies originated. Teliospore collections from which we obtained only totally biased teliospore colonies in our survey formed conjugation hyphae when suspended on leaf tissue. Therefore, we suggest that, early after germination, meiotic products of both mating types must be present, and early self-conjugation is possible. A comparison of mating-type bias from colonies isolated 4 and 24 d after teliospore germination showed a significant change in the degree of bias, indicating that bias develops over time. Mating-type bias may influence the breeding system and the probability of self compared with outcross conjugations. However, infection initiation must take place quickly, before the flowers where spores arrive fall off the plant. Therefore, processes occurring early after spore deposition may be far more important for disease production than those that develop over several cycles of replication of the haploid sporidia.
2995866|The comparison between complexity in the sense of space occupancy (boxcounting fractal dimension
3691577|Chromosome numbers and sexual reproduction were evaluated in the
3080124|Plant invasion by Neotropical Melastomataceae is prominent in Hawaii. To understand life history traits of four successful invasive Melastomataceae, two shadeintolerant herbs (
2475302|Interspecific hybridization of Banksia hookeriana and Banksia prionotes was investigated via pollen tube growth, seed set, morphological measurements, and analysis of RAPD polymorphisms. Pollen tube growth to the ovary was observed following selfing and crossing pollination of each species and following interspecific hybridization to B. hookeriana as the female parent, but not in the reciprocal cross. All crosses resulted in seed set, except for self-pollination of B. prionotes and interspecific pollination to B. prionotes as the female parent. Mortality of hybrid seedlings was high. RAPD analysis of hybrid seedlings from two families showed paternal B. prionotes bands in all 11 tested seedlings. Leaf length or width of nine hybrid seedlings that survived to the 10-leaf stage was intermediate between that of intraspecific seedlings of both parents at the same age. A mature natural interspecific hybrid was fertile following controlled selfing and backcrossing to each parental species, as well as following open pollination, but seed set was lower, than for the parental species. It was concluded that hybridization between B. hookeriana and B. prionotes is unilateral, with interspecific seed set of B. hookeriana comparable to that following intraspecific pollination.
4619833|Cashew nuts have been identified among compression fossils from the early Middle Eocene lake sediments of Messel, Germany. These fossil fruits confirm that the cashew genus,
2475224|Hepatophytes form an important component of the Lower Cretaceous (late Albian) flora of Alexander Island, Antarctica. The liverworts Marchantites rosulatus sp. nov., Thallites bicostatus sp. nov., and Thallites sp. colonized freshly deposited river sands and muds, forming distinct carpets that probably served to bind the sediment and allow the succession of other plant groups. Within established plant communities, M. pinnatus sp. nov. and M. taenioides sp. nov. formed a ground layer beneath an overstory of the ferns Alamatus bifarius and Aculea acicularis. Swampy communities with an overstory of the conifers Podozamites and Elatocladus contained a variety of thalloid (M. undulatus sp. nov., Hepaticites minutus sp. nov.) and leafy liverworts (Hepaticites spp.). The distribution of in situ liverworts, and a clear association of taxa with a variety of foliage types, indicated that the hepatophytes occupied a wide range of ecological niches during the Cretaceous. The high within-flora diversity and relative abundance of individual hepatics appeared to be a special feature of high-latitude vegetation during the Cretaceous.
3080297|Meristematic activity associated with the acropetal differentiation of the young primordia of leaflets is detectable at the tips of the primordia of some pinnately compound leaves. However, this activity vanishes upon differentiation of the terminal leaflet. The indeterminate compound leaves of members of the genus
3080127|Among the higher plants that accumulate crystalline calcium oxalate, many taxa characteristically produce raphides, or needleshaped crystals. Substantial evidence has accumulated indicating that raphides function in plant defenses against herbivory and that their acicular shape is a critical component in proposed mechanisms for these defenses. Previous observations have shown that raphides in members of the Vitaceae are twinned crystals. In this study, the fine structure of raphides in
3080206|The plastid DNA sequences of
2474918|An experimental crossing program was carried out to investigate the presumed hybrid origin of Armeria salmantica, a local endemic species from a single mountain range in western Spain. Fruit set and pollen stainability data in artificial hybrids between the two putative parents, A. transmontana and A. bigerrensis, demonstrate that internal interspecific barriers are weak. The F
2995582|Abundant gymnospermous remains occur in association with Elkinsia polymorpha in Upper Devonian deposits near Elkins, West Virginia, and these provide an opportunity to characterize and further refine our concepts of the most ancient seed ferns. The sporophyte of E. polymorpha has helically arranged dimorphic fronds, with large numbers of either preovulate cupules or synangiate prepollen organs borne terminally on the fertile fronds. Vegetative fronds are planar, with rachides that fork up to four times, and pinnate laterals that terminate in sphenopterid pinnules. Fertile fronds branch dichotomously throughout and are three-dimensional in the distal regions. Stems display a centrarch, three-ribbed protostele with prominent sclerenchyma of the sparganum type in the outer cortex. The frond rachis is vascularized by two C-shaped bundles. The hydrasperman preovulate cupules are as characterized in earlier studies. Prepollen organs consist of six to eight radially arranged sporangia that are fused at the base and free distally. Elkinsia polymorpha is the first seed fern to be reconstructed from Devonian sediments and the first preovulate seed fern to be characterized as a plant. As such, it represents an important evolutionary unit for ongoing phylogenetic studies of the origin of seed plants.
2475285| Reinvestigation of the morphology of the cladoxylopsid Pseudosporochnus nodosus Leclercq et Banks 1962 from the Middle Devonian (upper Eifelian) of Go, Belgium, has established the following novel results: (1) lateral branching systems ("fronds" of Leclercq and Banks) have diverse morphologies, ranging from being composed of a distally dichotomous central axis bearing four to eight pairs of subopposite to alternate three-dimensionally dichotomous ultimate branching units, to simple three-dimensional dichotomous trusses; (2) these lateral branching systems are arranged three-dimensionally and irregularly on their parent branches; (3) prominent paired dichotomous lateral branching systems (perhaps aphlebia) may occur below the dichotomy of some distal branches. Our investigations therefore emphasize the primitive and variable nature of branching in this plant. An emended diagnosis for the species is proposed. Comparison with the permineralized Pseudosporochnus hueberi Stein et Hueber 1989 suggests a close yet not exclusive match between the morphology of P. nodosus and the morphology predicted from the anatomical model of P. hueberi. The well-known reconstruction of P. nodosus by Leclercq and Banks is reconsidered. 
3080280|Internal leaf anatomy of 56 species in 21 families from alpine, forest, and desert habitats was examined for relationships between anatomical characteristics that might be linked functionally to photosynthesis. Leaf mesophyll architecture, particularly the amount of cell surface area exposed to intercellular spaces (
10.1086/665821|A striking feature of early angiosperm lineages is the variety of life forms and growth forms, which ranges from herbs, aquatic herbs, climbers, and epiphytes to woody shrubs and trees. This morphological and anatomical diversity is arguably one of the factors explaining how angiosperms dominate many ecosystems worldwide. However, just how such a wide spectrum of growth forms has evolved in angiosperms remains unclear. In this review, we investigate patterns of growth form diversification in Piperales, an early-diverging lineage (with stem age estimated at 201128 Myr ago) and the most morphologically diverse clade among magnoliids. We outline patterns of growth form diversity and architecture as well as the biomechanical significance of developmental characters, such the organization, loss, and gain of woodiness. Asaroideae and Saururaceae are terrestrial as well as semiaquatic to aquatic herbaceous perennials bearing rhizomes. The Aristolochioideae and Piperaceae show higher levels of growth form diversity and biomechanical organization, with complex patterns of increasing or decreasing woodiness and architectural organization. The climbing habit has probably evolved independently in the Aristolochiaceae and Piperaceae, while mechanically unstable shrubs and, less frequently, treelets have evolved several times within these two most species-rich clades. A key developmental character underlying diversity in most Piperaleswith the exception of the herbaceous
2475348|The suspensor of the Nun orchid (Phaius tankervilliae) consists of a single cell, which originates as follows: after fertilization, the zygote divides once, unequally, giving rise to a smaller terminal cell and a larger basal cell. At the two-celled stage, a prominent cortical array of microtubules is present in the basal cell. The actin filaments are more centrally located within the cell having a perinuclear arrangement, and some actin material is also present at the micropylar end of the basal cell. After the basal cell divides one more time, the cell near the micropyle enlarges and differentiates into the suspensor cell. The enlargement of the suspensor results primarily from vacuolation. Characteristic organization of the cytoskeletal elements can be found at the time of cell enlargement. The actin filaments are localized in the cortical region of the cell, while the microtubules become internalized, forming a perinuclear array with extensions toward the poles of the cell. The final structural event in the development of the suspensor is the extension of the suspensor cell through the inner integument into the outer integument. At this stage, a cortical array of microtubules once again reappears. The cortical microtubules of the suspensor near the embryo proper are arranged transversely while those near the tip portion of the suspensor are aligned parallel to the long axis of the cell. The actin filaments remain unchanged and appear as a netlike framework located in the cell cortex. As the embryo matures, the cytoskeletal elements become disorganized and defined structures cannot be discerned.
2995539|Cytological studies, because of the spatial and temporal information they provide, are of great importance in understanding plant-fungal interactions. With fungal plant parasites, some structural changes at the plant-fungal interface result from the direct action of fungal enzymes or toxins. Others are the result of plant responses to the presence of the fungus. Some of the latter, such as compositional modifications of cell walls, appear to be part of the repertoire of responses to stress that a plant possesses. Others, such as the cellular changes accompanying intracellular haustorium formation by biotrophic parasites, seem to be induced by the fungus to provide an environment favorable for successful infection. In general, the most informative studies involve the use of cytochemical stains and procedures to investigate compositional and functional changes in cell walls and cell membranes. More difficult to interpret are descriptive investigations of fungal-induced changes in internal cell ultrastructure. Further progress will require integration of cytological studies with other methods of investigation. In such future multidisciplinary investigations, cytological studies could play at least three major roles: (1) to provide spatial and temporal descriptive information of the specific plant-fungal interaction, (2) to locate specific molecules in time and space, and (3) to facilitate rapid and multicomponent bioassays of experimental treatments
2995618|Cuticle micromorphology from all 21 species of the Southern Hemisphere conifer genus Agathis Salisbury was studied with scanning electron microscopy. External and internal features of abaxial and adaxial cuticles are characterized for the three recognized sections of the genus. External cuticle surfaces of all species are undulating and exhibit Florin rings and stomatal plugs, with most species being hypostomatic. Sunken stomata of various orientations occur in discontinuous rows and have three to nine subsidiary cells, four being the common number, and bilobed polar extensions. Epidermal cells are usually rectangular, but vary considerably even on one leaf. The cuticle on guard and subsidiary cell surfaces is smooth to striated and pitted and can be useful in identifying taxa. Distinguishing characters useful at the levels of genus, section, and species are outlined. Micromorphological features distinguishing Agathis from Araucaria include the undulating epidermal cell surfaces, the presence of Florin rings, stomatal orientations, and bilobed polar extensions. Subsidiary cell number, shape, and morphology and stomatal orientations are the best characters to use when distinguishing fossil araucarian cuticles from those of broad-leaved podocarps.
3691848|We conducted a greenhouse study on
10.1086/662653|Populations of the moss
10.1086/679619|
               
2995673|We have investigated the contribution of specific parents and genotypes to morphological integration in needles of Douglas fir seedlings by diallel analysis. Integration was assessed by statistics that describe the strength and similarity of correlations within individual seedlings. These two statistics, assumed to assess order and organization, respectively, were the variables used in the diallel analysis. The greatest amount of variation was in the residual term of the analysis; neither general nor specific combining abilities were significant. This result seems not to reflect repeatability error but may be due to designimposed restrictions on the number of individuals, crosses, and genotypes. The high residual variation can be explained as the result of seedlings following different developmental trajectories due to diverse relationships among genotype-related growth rates. Diverging developmental trajectories could be the result of the accumulation of somatic mutations or changing gene expression in the face of continuously changing external and internal environments.
3691893|Pollen limitation of seed set in flowering plants has important ramifications for the population dynamics, evolution, and conservation of plant populations. I conducted a pollen addition and exclusion experiment demonstrating that style persistence signifies pollen limitation in the narrowleaved purple coneflower
2475195|Anatomical and ultrastructural aspects of soybean embryo, endosperm, and ovule development are described for the zygote to late heart-shaped embryo stages (0-35 d postfertilization). Nucellar cells subtending the degenerative synergid break down, allowing for pollen tube passage to this synergid. In 15 of 17 ovules studied, the degenerative synergid occupies a position abfunicular to the zygote. The inner integument differentiates into the endothelium and exterior layers of thick-walled cells at the globular embryo stage. The endothelium has a cuticle on its inner surface that begins to fragment at the onset of endosperm cellularization. Cellularization of the free-nuclear endosperm is initiated at the globular embryo stage by the formation of anticlinal ingrowths of the central cell wall. These walls fuse to form cylinders open to the central cell. Uninucleate cells are formed within the bases of the cylinders as periclinal walls are laid down. These latter walls are formed in the presence or absence of phragmoplasts. At the onset of cellularization, the endosperm forms a cellular sheath over the apex of the embryo, which partitions it from the central cell. The late globular embryo forms a cuticle on its surface but not on the suspensor. The endosperm cells of the chalazal process are suspended in a mucilage because of the loss of the central cell wall in this region. Endosperm degeneration occurs by two different processes: one involves wall thinning coincident with accumulation of mucilage exterior to the plasmalemma and within the cytoplasm; the other involves the fusion of vesicles to the plasmalemma and the concomitant release of cell-wall fibrils. The embryo becomes reoriented 90
3691878|The present study explores the maintenance of a segregation distortion in the phytopathogenic fungus
3080300|Phylogenetic relationships of leafless Neotropical Angraecinae (
10.1086/675571|
               
10.1086/675573|
               
2995536|The key to understanding how tree productivity is controlled, and how it may change in response to changes in environment, lies in understanding how morphology and physiology interact. Plant morphology determines both patterns of resource acquisition and the condition of the internal environment of the tree. Empirical evidence in support of these claims is presented and a theory is specified for the morphological control of physiological processes in crown and canopy growth. Three important postulates of this theory are that (1) multiple structural characters influence resource acquisition, (2) characters are not constant during tree growth but change over time, and (3) both the external and internal environment of the tree change over time. Two models are presented that are based on the principle that morphology determines patterns of resource acquisition and subsequent growth. One model, WHORL, simulates competition and, particularly, the effects of tree plasticity on the competition outcome. The other model, BRANCH, illustrates how different degrees of modular autonomy, when given to the component shoots of a branch, may markedly alter the patterns of foliage weight supported and estimates of export of photosynthate from the branch to the rest of the tree.
2474990|Schizaea pusilla is a rare and threatened fern restricted in North America to acidic bogs of Nova Scotia, Newfoundland, and New Jersey. The gametophyte lives in close association with two endophytic fungi. To characterize the nature of this fern's relationship with these fungi, we introduced axenic gametophytes to bog soil for colonization. Following colonization, the endophytic fungi were isolated and reintroduced to axenic gametophytes. The gametophytes introduced to bog soil were colonized by an aseptate fungus that formed vesicles and arbuscules within the gametophyte. However, culture of colonized gametophytes produced two fungal isolates: an aseptate fungus (fungus B) and a septate fungus (fungus A). Upon reintroduction of fungal isolates to axenically grown gametophytes, the aseptate fungus demonstrated a positive growth response to the presence of the gametophytes and colonized the gametophytes without harm to the host. The septate fungus did not exhibit any specific recognition but contacted the gametophytes randomly, leaving a large percentage of the host nonviable. We propose that the relationship of the septate fungus to the gametophyte of S. pusilla is nonmycorrhizal while the relationship of the aseptate fungus to the gametophyte is mycorrhizal. Furthermore, based on lack of nutrient availability in local soils, formation of specialized structures in the gametophyte for harboring fungi, and dependence of the fern on fungal presence for completion of its life cycle, we propose that S. pusilla maintains an obligatory relationship with the aseptate mycorrhizal fungus.
3080128|A new method for the isolation of wax crystals from plant surfaces is presented. The waxcovered plant surface, e.g., a piece of a leaf or fruit, is brought into contact with a preparation liquid, e.g., glycerol or triethylene glycol, and cooled to ca. 100C. When the plant specimen is removed, the epicuticular wax remains embedded in the frozen liquid. After it warms up, the wax layer can be captured on appropriate carriers for further studies. This isolation method causes very little stress on the wax crystals; thus the shape and crystal structure are well preserved. In many cases it is possible, by choosing a preparation liquid with appropriate wettability, to isolate either the entire epicuticular wax layer or only discrete wax crystals without the underlying wax film. These crystals are well suited for electron diffraction studies by transmission electron microscopy and high resolution imaging by atomic force microscopy. The absence of intracuticular components and other impurities and the feasibility of the selective isolation of wax crystals enable improved chemical analysis and a more detailed study of their properties.
3691737|The effects of upright and plagiotropic stem orientation, temperature, and season on the regeneration of
2995709|Agave deserti is a monocarpic perennial common in the western Sonoran Desert that propagates by ramets and also reproduces sexually. Based on data from a 12-yr period, large year-to-year oscillations in the percentage of rosettes that flowered were observed; e.g., flowering averaged 3.5% for three peak years but only 0.44% for each subsequent year. The average annual flowering percentage indicated that the mean lifetime of A. deserti is 53 yr. Seedling establishment was extremely infrequent, occurring almost exclusively in 1967 and 1982 during a 29-yr period. Of the 17 such seedlings observed in a region containing 2,900 rosettes, 14 may reach sexual maturity, suggesting that only about 0.9% of the reproduction plus propagation of A. deserti is sexual. Ramets tend to be produced every year. Using the relative growth rate of 126 ramets monitored from 1985 to 1987 together with ambient temperature, photosynthetic photon flux density, and soil water status to interpret environmental effects on growth, the number of ramets produced annually on 45 rosettes of A. deserti was predicted to vary 14-fold over a 15-yr period. Direct observation of annual ramet production on 60 mature plants over a 7-yr period indicated a 17-fold variation. The year of ramet emergence was highly correlated with an annual Environmental Productivity Index, which represents the fraction of maximal net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake by the leaves. Thus, A. deserti apparently propagates over 99% vegetatively by ramets produced in proportion to net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake by the mother rosette and infrequently by successful seedling establishment, which is limited primarily by drought during the first year.
3691888|Seed reserve lipid utilization in
30130545|Many flowering plants reduce sexual interference between male and female functions through herkogamy, the spatial separation of anthers and stigmas. Many species are monomorphic and present stigmas either above or below the anthers, approach or reverse herkogamy, respectively. Although numerous studies have examined species that are polymorphic for approach and reverse herkogamy, species with continuous variation in sex organ position have received little attention. We examined continuous variation in anther position, style length, herkogamy, and flower shape in the selfsterile perennial herb
2475071|Phenotypic variation in seed traits was investigated in cloned genotypes of the perennial grass Amphibromus scabrivalvis to explore the degree to which individuals alter reproductive traits in response to enhanced soil resources. The seeds of this species matured in cleistogamous spikelets on panicles enclosed within leaf sheaths along each tiller. Ten clones, each a genotype from one seed, were separated into 48 ramets and planted in the greenhouse. One-half of all ramets received 20%-20%-20% (N-P-K) fertilizer every 2 wk, while the other half were not fertilized. For each clone, 24 ramets were harvested after 20 and 26 wk. Seed number and dry mass were recorded; seed allocation was expressed as a percentage of total dry mass. To visualize the relation of genotype to phenotype, reaction norms were plotted. Plasticity was expressed as an index that measured the percentage change in a trait from the fertilized to the unfertilized environment. There were significant differences among clones in seed number and total seed mass at both 20 and 26 wk, and in seed allocation at 20 wk. Most seed traits were increased by nutrient addition. Crossing of reaction norms and some significant treatment by clone interactions revealed that clones varied in the extent to which they responded to elevated nutrients. For both harvests, seed number and total seed mass were significantly more plastic than seed allocation and mean seed mass; however, variation in plasticity among clones was significantly greater for the latter two traits. This species mostly changes seed number in response to enhanced soil resources rather than mean seed mass or seed allocation. The marked genotypic variation in the plasticity of mean seed mass and allocation indicates that selection could alter the relative abundance of genotypes if the phenotypic responses of these traits to the availability of soil resources enhances reproductive fitness.
30113532|We aimed to test the effect of soil drought conditions projected by general circulation models and ecophysiological models for the next few decades on emission rates of isoprenoids by Mediterranean shrublands. We conducted a field experiment in which we generated soil drought (ca. 12%20% decreased soil moisture) using automatically sliding curtains, and we measured foliar isoprenoid emissions in the three dominant species of the studied shrubland (
30139311|After a transition from sexuality to asexuality, the evolutionary dynamics in apomictic lineages will largely depend on the frequency of recombination. We evaluated the presence and extent of asexuality and recombination within populations of the Easter daisy,
20533030|Multicellular glandular trichomes form on gynoecia of wild annual
40072478|Linusitinlike protein (LIN1) is a new osmotinlike protein isolated from flax radicles. The
3691566|Seeds from three pairs of outcrossingselfing sister taxa from the genus
10.1086/655857|The effects of two cytokininlike substances, 3CP2PU and 3CP4MPU (100 mol L
3080189|Heteroblastic variation among leaves arising from the shoot system is a wellknown phenomenon, but relatively little effort has been directed at assessing whether comparable variation occurs among shootborne roots in homorhizic plants. A morphological and anatomical study of shootborne root formation in the homosporous fern
3874604|Organ pipe cactus (
IJPS41429|The anther-smut fungus,
40072501|Middle Devonian (Givetian) plant
2995748|The phylogenetic placements of leaf fossils of
40344041|Previous studies have suggested that stripbark growth in ancient
2475068|Cellular tolerances to subzero temperatures, as judged by the accumulation of a vital stain, were compared between Opuntia ficus-indica, a widely cultivated but low-temperature-sensitive cactus, and the widely ranging, winter-hardy Opuntia humifusa. Lowering the day/night temperatures from 30
30113530|Environmental stress can disrupt developmental processes on biological, physiological, and chemical levels and thereby affect the symmetry of a trait. For this reason, fluctuating asymmetry is often proposed as a measure of stress encountered by an individual. One problem is that asymmetry may have multiple causes, including developmental noise and genetic background, and genetic differences may interact with any physiological stress imposed by the environment. The main objective of this research was to determine whether developmental noise and genetic stress can be separated from environmental effects on leaf asymmetry. The experiments were conducted on two wetland plants,
3080284|Allozyme and randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analyses were used to characterize the genetic relationships of
10.1086/683275|
               
3691712|Two key characteristics of the neoDarwinian synthesis in evolutionary biology have been its emphasis on the importance of mutations of small effect (micromutationism) and the view that studies of individual gene function shed relatively little light on evolutionary processes. Recent advances in molecular biology, however, have broken down many of the barriers between functional and evolutionary inquiry, opening the door to detailed studies of the genetic basis of functional trait evolution in plants. In this article, we review the insights into plant evolution that have been provided by molecular methods and address future research needs. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping in crop and model plants has shown that individual loci often have large effects on trait variation, at variance with the micromutationist perspective. Evidence so far indicates that QTLs with large effects are also important in wild populations, underlying interspecific differences as well as intraspecific variation. Isolation of some of these QTLs, in particular for flowering time variation, has revealed a prominent role for regulatory genes known to function in regulation of flowering and exposed the complexity of regulatory processes. Preliminary evidence indicates that plant growth variation may be directly regulated rather than primarily the indirect result of selection on constituent processes. Future research should expand the number of traits that are intensively studied and make greater use of QTL mapping in wild plant taxa, especially those undergoing adaptive radiations, while continuing to draw on insights from model plants. Promising techniques include testing of candidate genetrait associations in wild populations, genetic mapping in hybrid zones, and microarray analyses of gene expression.
2474864| The anatomy of the vascular cylinders of 150-mm-long pea primary roots (Pisum sativum cv Alaska) grown at 10 and 25C was examined by light and electron microscopy. Root and vascular cylinder diameters were greater at 10C. At maturity vascular cylinder cells were longer at 10C than at 25C, but did not differ in mean diameter (11-16 m). This effect was most pronounced in the xylem sectors (626 vs. 429 m). Observation of cell ultrastructure showed cellular degeneration in some central xylem cells at both temperatures in the region 20-24 mm from the root tip, but degeneration was more extensive at 25C. The ultrastructure of degenerating cells was similar to that of senescing cells. At 25C, within the region 25-29 mm from the tip, expanding metaxylem tracheary elements (MTEs) appeared to cause pressure on surrounding cells. This stress appeared to disrupt walls of degenerating cells, leading to the formation of small lacunae in the region 30-34 mm from the root tip. The lacunae expanded by similar lysis of adjacent cells, usually causing a series of lens-shaped cavities to form in the center of the vascular cylinder. The cavities further enlarged and connected to form a large, continuous cavity along the center of the root axis. Many cell divisions occurred among xylem cells between the onset of cell degeneration and cavity initiation. Within the comparable region (25-29 mm from the tip) cell divisions in xylem tissue was much less frequent in roots grown at 10C, and these roots did not form cavities. We conclude that at 25C rapid development of MTEs, concurrent with accelerated central xylem cell autolysis, permits mechanical stress in the vascular cylinder to break weakened cell walls and consequently induce cavity formation. 
IJPS41113|The monophyly of
3874647|Wellpreserved legume fruits and associated leaflets are described from the middle Miocene Shanwang Formation of Shandong Province, eastern China. They are assigned to the extant temperate genus
40344033|Few studies have addressed the evolutionary relationships within Polygonaceae from a global perspective. The convoluted taxonomic history of Polygonaceae is a major barrier to understanding evolution in this group, and only portions of it have been included in systematic treatments. Phylogenetic studies have been limited in both taxon sampling and amount of data. Our objective is to identify clades within Polygonaceae and to provide a global estimate of phylogenetic relationships in this morphologically diverse and geographically widespread group. We include a total of 75 species representing approximately 40 of the 55 named genera in the family. We use three chloroplast regions (
2474871|The homosporous fern Ceratopteris richardii is a model system for studying the genetic and epigenetic factors that are involved in sex-determining processes in plants. The sex of the Ceratopteris gametophyte is determined by antheridiogen, a gibberellin-like pheromone that is secreted by the hermaphroditic gametophyte and promotes male development of sexually immature gametophytes. Abscisic acid blocks the antheridiogen response in Ceratopteris. Several mutations that affect sex expression have been isolated and characterized; these mutations define at least some of the major regulatory genes that are involved in determining the sex of the Ceratopteris gametophyte. By studying the epistatic interactions among these mutants, it is possible to determine how these genes interact with one another to form a regulatory genetic hierarchy that controls sex determination and expression in Ceratopteris. While a genetic approach is useful in identifying genes that are involved in sex determination, other molecular approaches have been successfully employed in isolating sex-specific genes in Ceratopteris as well as genes involved in other aspects of its reproductive development.
10.1086/675575|
               
3079973|
               
10.1086/667231|The maintenance of floral polymorphisms depends on rates and efficiency of cross-pollination within and among mating types in relation to their relative frequency. Here, we examine whether stigma-anther reciprocity in style-dimorphic
3080278|Photosynthetic responses to simulated sunflecks (lightflecks) were measured in four understory herbs with a continuum of phenologies (spring green:
3080212|This study explores how variations in pollen load composition and deposition patterns affect pollen performance in growth chamber pollinations of
3080200|A new plant fossil is reported from the earliest Carboniferous of Jiangsu, China. One main axis and two orders of branching with sterile and fertile appendages are known from compressions. The firstorder branches are arranged helically on the main axis. The secondorder branches are also arranged helically and consist of axes divided dichotomously up to four times, with some terminated by paired, erect sporangia. The sterile appendages are alternately inserted on the secondorder branches and dichotomized up to five times with a sharp, outwardcurved tip. A dense terminal branching system is attached on all branches, is composed of the closely arranged small branches, and represents the growing apex. Based on comparison with and differences from established taxa, we name the plant
3080186|This study focuses on three phylogenetic problems related to
3080257|Although the potential for increased temperature is the primary and beststudied aspect of anthropogenic climate change, altered rainfall patterns, increased storm intensity, and more severe droughts are also predicted in most climatechange scenarios. We altered experimentally the rainfall regime in a native tallgrass prairie in northeastern Kansas and assessed leaflevel physiological activity and plant growth responses for C
IJPS40950|Coronanthereae is a tribe of 20 species with a suite of unique morphological characters and a disjunct geographic distribution in the Southern Hemisphere. Three species are found in southern South America and the remainder in the southwest Pacific. It has been suggested, because of this distribution and disjunction, that Coronanthereae represents a relictual Gondwanan group from which the two major lineages in the family, the Old World Cyrtandroideae and the New World Gesnerioideae, originated. We tested this hypothesis by using phylogenetic analyses of nuclear and chloroplast DNA sequences, ancestral-area reconstruction, and molecular dating. The tribe is placed within the mostly Neotropical subfamily Gesnerioideae and comprises three lineages, treated here as subtribes. Two events of dispersal from South America explain the presence of the tribe in the South Pacific. Negriinae, newly recognized here, comprises arborescent genera: Australian
IJPS40989|An indirect consequence of plant invasions is the disruption of native plant-pollinator interactions. We examined effects of invasive babys breath (
3691834|A phylogenetic analysis of Chenopodiaceae and Amaranthaceae was carried out using sequence variation of the chloroplast gene
3691551|We examined the impact of the timing of leaf damage on male function using
3080084|Nectar volume and sugar composition of male and female flowers of
IJPS40972|Specimens, including the largest known axes, of an iridopteridalean plant of late Middle Devonian age are described from northern Xinjiang, China. The plant consists of three orders branching and dichotomous appendages. The first-order axis probably represents the stem. Lateral organs (lower-order branches and appendages) are attached along the primary axis in up to 10 ranks. The insertion pattern can be broken down into cycles in which one lateral is inserted in each rank, and each cycle is divided into two loose whorls; in one loose whorl, laterals occur in about half of the ranks, some adjacent, and in the other loose whorl, laterals occur in the other ranks. These ranks are believed to map the position of xylem ribs of the vascular system, which has not been preserved. The appendages are isodichotomously divided up to five times. Pairs of recurved sporangia terminate the fertile appendages. A collection of small axes (second and third order) of this plant from the same locality, lacking the distinctive branching patterns displayed in our first order axes, was recently given the name
10.1086/680230|
               
3691533|We asked whether the ability of individual plants to adjust leaf traits during ontogeny reflected immediate morphological means of responding to current light availability or was consistent with a developmental strategy to meet predictable future light conditions. We determined leaf mass per unit area (specific leaf mass, SLM), leaf area, toughness, and water content of seedlings, juveniles, and adults of eight nonpioneer tropical tree species of different maximum mature heights ranging from 8 to 40 m. For SLM and leaf area, immediate responses to environmental conditions, reported as the ratio of leaf traits in sun and shade environments (leaf plasticity), were similar for seedlings, juveniles, and adults of all species irrespective of maximum mature height. For toughness and water content, leaf plasticity at different ontogenetic stages depended on species identity. To facilitate comparisons across species, developmental changes were reported as the correlations between the ratio in leaf traits for three ontogenetic stages (developmental leaf change) and maximum mature height. Tall species showed greater change in SLM and leaf area from seedling to adult stages than short species, as might be expected of taxa that experience more heterogeneous light environments during their lives. Leaf traits changed in response to current light levels during ontogeny, but the magnitude of the response is related to the adult habitat of a species.
4619771|The BlenheimGilboa locality in New York contains
3080320|Recent molecular analyses show considerable variation in family interrelationships of Ericales
2995661|Soil sheaths incorporating aggregated soil particles surround young roots of many species, but the effects of such sheaths on water movement between roots and the soil are largely unknown. The quantity and location of root exudates associated with soil sheath formation and root water loss were therefore examined for Opuntia ficus-indica, which has prominent soil sheaths along the entire length of its young roots, except within 1.4 cm of the tip. The soil sheaths, which averaged 0.7 mm in thickness, were composed of soil particles and root hairs, both of which were covered with exuded mucilaginous material. As determined with a <sup>14</sup>C pulse-labeling technique, 2% of newly fixed <sup>14</sup>C-photosynthate was translocated into the roots at 3 d, 6% at 9 d, and 8% at 15 d after labeling. The fraction of insoluble <sup>14</sup>C in the roots increased twofold from 3 d to 15 d. Over the same time period, 6%-9% of the <sup>14</sup>C translocated to the roots was exuded into the soil. The soluble <sup>14</sup>C compounds exuded into the soil were greater in the 3-cm segment at the root tip than elsewhere along the root, whereas mucilage was exuded relatively uniformly along roots 15 cm in length. The volumetric efflux of water increased for both sheathed and unsheathed roots as the soil water potential decreased from -0.1 MPa to -1.0 MPa. The efflux rate was greater for unsheathed roots than for sheathed roots, which were more turgid and had a higher water potential, especially at lower soil water potentials. During drying, soil particles in the sheaths aggregate more tightly, making the sheaths less permeable to water and possibly creating air gaps. The soil sheaths of O. ficus-indica thus reduce water loss from the roots to a drying soil.
40072507|The floral morphology and organogenesis of
30139300|Little is known about how ecological context influences the probability of transitions in the extent ofpollinator specialization. One unexplored hypothesis suggests that transitions to environments with different light conditions should be accompanied by transitions in pollinator guild because of the combined effects of exposure to a new pollinator community and the different relative costs associated with pollinator attraction in the understory and the canopy. Using data from literature surveys, we compiled a data set of habitat lightavailability (e.g., canopy vs. understory), pollinator identity, and guild size for 481 angiosperm species representing four broad regions (India, Neotropics, paleotropics, and Canada). Phylogenetic independent contrasts were used to assess the degree to which transitions in canopy position are associated with transitions in the usage of particular pollinators and pollinator guild size. We further examined the degree to which each of these traits tends to be evolutionarily labile versus evolutionarily conserved. Our analysis demonstrates that species that tend to occupy the same position in the canopy are more closely related than expected by chance, as are species that follow traditional pollinator syndromes (e.g., bee or bird), but species that have exceptionally wide pollinator guilds (e.g., are visited by bees, flies, and moths) are widely scattered across the angiospermphylogeny. Transitions to generalist pollination appeared to be strongly associated with beetle and fly pollination and with position in the canopy above the forest floor.
3874611|Sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS and chloroplast
4619800|The monotypic genus
3080029|The fruit wall anatomy and surface sculpturing of 17 taxa of
3080238|We investigated the systematic position of Gnetales and other seed plant groups using molecular data from 119 land plant species. More than 100 new sequences of
2474967|The organogenesis of floral development in the dioecious clonal tree species Rhus hirta (Anacardiaceae) offers an excellent model system to study gender expression in dioecious plants. Pistillate and staminate flowers from developing inflorescences were collected from Grover Island, located off the northern shore of Prince Edward Island, Canada. The developmental morphology of both floral types was studied using scanning electron microscopy. The early stages of floral development of R. hirta are essentially the same in the two sexes. Both the stamen and carpel primordia are initiated in male and female flowers. Furthermore, the primordial sex organs on both flower types show striking similarities in size and symmetry as well as sequence of initiation in the early stages of development. During the later stages of development, the stamens in the female flowers and the gynoecium in the male flowers abort, resulting in very different morphologies at maturity. Statistical analyses revealed that the height of the mature gynoecium and stamens as well as the length of the petals differed significantly between sexes. This species may be reflecting its relationship to hermaphroditic ancestors during the early stages of development.
10.1086/677239|
               
3874663|Oligocene (2827 Ma) leaf fragments displaying morphological affinities with the fern
2475146|Histological and chemical features in seeds of Myrsine laetevirens are described. Seed is endospermous and the endosperm consists of several layers of thick cell walls that store mainly xyloglucans. Next to the embryo, the endosperm cell walls are rich in pectins. In the endosperm, proteins are stored in typical protein bodies. In the embryo, vacuoles with small deposits of protein inside were distinguished. Globoids, found in the protein bodies of the endosperm, are absent in the embryo tissues. Energy-dispersive x-ray analysis of globoid revealed P, Mg, K, and Ca as the main nutrient minerals. Lipid vesicles are present in embryo and endosperm; in the embryo they are found mainly along the periphery of the plasmalemma. Determination of neutral sugars was performed after acid hydrolysis. Sugars were identified by high-performance anion exchange chromatography (Dionex). Arabinose, xylose, glucose, and galactose are the main monosaccharides, but the ratio differs in endosperm and embryo tissues. Uronic acids were determined by a colorimetric reaction. Analysis of fatty acids by capillary gas-liquid chromatography revealed the presence of C16:0, C18:0, C18:1, and C:18:2 fatty acids in embryo and endosperm. In the latter, traces of C12:0 also were detected. Soluble proteins were analyzed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, which showed a different profile in both tissues. Few bands are glycosylated. This investigation was undertaken in order to initiate studies of the seed in the genus Myrsine. Similar studies in other genera of Myrsinaceae have not been reported, precluding a taxonomical comparison.
30113537|
               
10.1086/673301|Cryopreservation of nonseed plant tissues can provide a method for preserving plant genetic diversity ex situ when seeds or spores cannot be adapted to traditional methods of preservation. Shoot tips, somatic embryos, and gametophytes can be used as propagules for long-term storage in liquid nitrogen. Tissue cryopreservation is particularly important in dealing with exceptional species, i.e., species that have unbankable seeds or that are producing few or no seeds. In vitro methods can be applied to collecting tissues and establishing cultures as a source of tissue for cryopreservation. The applicability of vitrification/dehydration cryoprocedures has been demonstrated for a wide range of species and types of tissues, and the choice and modifications of methods can be informed by the natural adaptations of the species. While tissues in culture are clonally propagated, preserving tissues from multiple genotypes can provide genetic diversity to a cryopreserved collection. Such collections will ultimately serve to provide materials for restoration if wild populations are lost or severely threatened. There is great potential for the use of in vitro methods and cryopreservation in plant conservation strategies, but there are also both scientific and practical challenges to their application. Whereas in vitro propagation and preservation methods are well established, these methods remain highly empirical in their application to new species. This can be a challenge for conservation, which deals with rare and often unstudied species, which may also have unusual natural adaptations. Because of the labor involved, tissue cryopreservation is also more costly than more traditional ex situ conservation methods, which can limit its use in traditionally underfunded work with endangered plants. However, it is suggested that collaborative efforts can help meet these challenges, bringing together expertise and infrastructure from several sources to facilitate the application of tissue cryopreservation to the ex situ conservation of endangered exceptional species.
2475022|In Pterostylis concinna individual pollen grains all possess an outer exine wall, pollinia are mealy, and they fall apart easily. In contrast, Dendrobium spp. have hard pollinia in which only pollen grains on the outer surface have an exine, inner pollinium pollen grains being enveloped only by intine. Different types of tapetally derived pollen-coat material bind each kind of pollinium together. Pollen-coat material covers only the outer surface in Dendrobium, is released after microspore mitosis, and polymerizes following anthesis. In Pterostylis, pollen coat is released before microspore mitosis and covers every pollen grain. At microspore mitosis the cytoplasmic channels between adjacent microspores in each tetrad close and extensive sheets of ER replace strands of tubular ER. The generative cell has no apparent callose wall and is surrounded by its own plasma membrane and that of the inner vegetative cell.
IJPS41023|Inflorescences are usually designed as closed or open, referring to the presence or absence of a terminal flower (TF), respectively. Until now, it was unknown how much developmental constraints in the inflorescence meristem (IM) determined the production of the TF. To face this question, we carried out a quantitative study of inflorescence development including 19 species from four families of the eudicots (Berberidaceae, Papaveraceae-Fumarioideae, Rosaceae, and Campanulaceae). Our study shows that TFs appear on IMs that possess a certain relative surface, phyllotaxis, and convexity. IMs of open inflorescences show a significantly smaller relative surface (<50%), illustrating a morphological unsuitability for producing a TF. This smaller surface either is existent during the whole ontogeny (open I) or results from a drastic meristematic reduction after flower initiation (open II). We conclude that the TF arises as a consequence of a suitable bulge formation of the IM after a suitable dynamic of the ontogeny. The existence of two kinds of ontogenies of open inflorescences suggests two natures of open IMs and, therefore, two ways in which the loss or gain of the TF could have occurred in the course of evolution.
2475242|We examined and compared floral and inflorescence ontogenies among taxa in Proteaceae, primarily of the subfamily Grevilleoideae, to define the developmental events responsible for diverse orientations of the single carpel. Among the 29 genera and 39 species investigated, six orientations of the carpel are observed that can be divided into two larger groups of three: the tepal-bisecting group, in which the median sagittal plane of the carpel bisects a tepal, is defined on the basis of the tepal they bisect relative to the floral axis (adaxial, abaxial, and lateri-axial); the diagonal group, in which the median sagittal plane of the carpel bisects the point of intersection between two of the four valvate tepals, is defined by the two tepals that the ventral side of the carpel plane would bisect. There is an apparent conservation of specific carpel orientations and developmental processes that result in some of the carpel orientations among some of the taxa. The carpel orientations in Macadamia and Floydia are variable between the lateri-axial and the adaxial/lateral diagonal condition. Developmentally, the orientation of the carpel is usually associated with the amount of meristematic space available after stamen initiation: in most cases, the cleft of the carpel develops in a plane perpendicular to the longer diameter of the remaining floral apex. Two major developmental differences among the taxa included the lateral and terminal inception of the carpel primordium, an apical residuum being apparent in flowers of the former. In taxa of Banksiinae, Lambertiinae, Cardwelliinae, and Gevuininae, the floral meristem, after stamen initiation, shows differential growth before the differentiation of a carpel that is specific to each subtribe. These results clarify homologous conditions of carpel orientation and floral symmetry in Proteaceae that will prove useful in delimiting natural groups within the family as well as provide the starting point for a developmental analysis of morphological transformation and symmetries in proteaceous flowers.
2995761|It is expected that global climatic changes could lead to shifts in the genotypic composition of species that exhibit genetic variation in the response of fitnessrelated traits to an increase of atmospheric CO
3080025|Plant responses to shortterm stress are usually extrapolated to longterm effects, neglecting examination of the capacity of plants to compensate for stress. We examined the capacity of
2995534|Although apospory and apogamy are commonly regarded as aberrations, it is conceivable that they were frequent phenomena in ancient floras. In living plants apospory and apogamy offer the opportunity to investigate the factors causing change of reproductive phase in situations uncomplicated bysporogenesis or by gametogenesis and fertilization. Work with homosporous plants indicates that stress, either in the form of nutritional deprivation or conversely enhancement, particularly in the form of respirable substrate, is effective in switching gene activation from sporophytic to gametophytic and vice versa. In the bryophytes, notably the mosses, both phases can often be made unstable equally readily in appropriate experimental conditions. In vascular homosporous plants the change from sporophyte to gametophyte is usually more easily induced than the converse. The same conceptual approach can be applied to the heterosporous plants, but here the sporophytic condition seems more stable than the gametophytic. In the flowering plants, although sporophytic growth can sometimes be induced from the female gamete by nutritional means, microspores can be switched into sporophytic growth by a variety of "shock" treatments. I suggest that, both here and in other instances of stress-induced phase change, molecular chaperones may play a mediating role. In normal cycles the isolation of the spore mother cells and the structures enclosing the differentiating female gametes by barriers which occlude symplastic connections can be credibly envisioned as leading to conditions within the sequestered cells which resemble those effective in inducing phase change in vitro. Natural apomictic cycles can probably be resolved in similar causal terms. In ferns the spores of obligate apomicts have volumes up to eight times those of sexual relatives, attributable largely to the greater amount of cytoplasm. This imbalance may lead on germination to precocious activation of the sporophytic genes. Aposporous apomixis in angiosperms, characterized by an uncoupling of meiosis and embryo sac formation, results in an unreduced egg cell in an embryo sac lacking a callosed boundary. This may allow an inflow of nutrients stimulating the parthenogenetic development of the egg.
3691680|
               
3691719|Land plants need water to replace the evaporation that occurs while atmospheric CO
2474978|Catananche lutea is a heterocarpic species with a complex fruit polymorphism in terms of shape, size, mass, dispersal, and germination. This species produces two types of subterranean achenes (amphic-1 and amphic-2) and three types of aerial achenes (peripheral, intermediate, and central). Both types of subterranean achenes are larger than aerial achenes and do not disperse; their germination produces plants in dense clusters, which results in competition among them. Aerial achenes are smaller, can disperse, and produce plants that, under normal conditions, do not compete. We examined the effect of plant density on growth and biomass allocation and studied competition at variable densities in C. lutea plants produced by amphic-1, peripheral aerial and central aerial achenes. Plants from the different types of achenes were grown at different densities (two, four, and eight plants/pot) in pure and mixed stand in a greenhouse. In pure stands, the effect of competition was similar for the plants produced by amphic-1 and peripheral aerial achenes at the densities studied. Density stress was found to affect vegetative biomass markedly, the number of subterranean capitula and, especially, that of aerial capitula. The plants produced by these two types of achenes are initially more vigorous and flower earlier than those produced by central aerial achenes, in which an increased plant density affects moreover other variables (achene biomass). These plants respond differently to density stress from those produced by amphic-1 and peripheral achenes. Competition has different effects on the production of subterranean and aerial achenes. The negative influence of density stress on the number of aerial capitula and achenes is much more marked relative to subterranean capitula and achenes. When the environment remains stable, plants from subterranean achenes gather in dense clusters, and competition among them favors the production of subterranean (nondispersing) fruits over aerial (dispersing) fruits. The tests conducted on mixed cultures revealed that the plants from subterranean achenes exhibited a higher relative competitive ability; by contrast, plants from central aerial achenes were the least competitive.
4124881|Vascular land plants share a common body plan comprising an underground portion, the root system, and an aboveground shoot portion that consists of the stem, leaves, and flowers. Extensive research in model organisms has uncovered numerous genes that play a role in shoot morphogenesis. However, the level of functional conservation of these genes during evolution required to generate the plant body is not known. In addition to variation in gene expression, the regulatory sequences, or noncoding regions of a gene, can also act as significant factors driving morphological traits. A comparative approach that uses analysis of natural variation (e.g., within families and among species) presents several challenges. Progress has been made in utilizing these approaches, but there are limitations to these studies, such as the inability to do forward genetics due to both the lack of mutants and the long generation time of many species. We also emphasize the urgent need to develop genetic and transformation tools in nonmodel species to allow a greater comprehension of the processes regulating species diversification.
3691781|Phenotypic plasticity, whereby the phenotype expressed by a genotype depends on the environment in which it is raised, may represent two distinct phenomena. First, plastic responses to the environment may be the adaptive outcome of natural selection having favored genotypes that increase their individual fitness by altering their phenotype in response to one or more environmental cues. Second, phenotypic plasticity may simply represent a genotypes inability to maintain a highfitness phenotype under certain environmental conditions (e.g., abiotic stress or limited resources). To determine which of these phenomena characterize the annual plant
3080329|To evaluate the effect of flowering tree density on genetic variation in a dominant tree species, genetic diversities and outcrossing rates of
3691873|
               
2995886|There is a high level of genetic isolation between
30130568|
               
10.1086/668811|
               
IJPS40955|The morphology and composition of seeds of desi and kabuli chickpea (
3080097|Populationspecific differences in the freezing resistance of
30139302|The evolution of different forms of pollen aggregation (tetrads, polyads, pollen threads, pollinia) from individual monads is a recurring transition in angiosperm history, having occurred independently at least 39 times. Aggregation should evolve only under special circumstances, because diminishing returns associated with pollen removal and receipt instead favor monads that act largely independently. All forms of aggregation result in sibling pollen grains acting together, but they seem to evolve to ease different limitations on siring success: tetrads may evolve most commonly when pollinators visit infrequently, pollen threads may be most beneficial when ovules become available synchronously, and pollinia greatly increase the probability that a pollen grain removed by a pollinator reaches a conspecific stigma. Once pollen aggregation evolves, its implications for gametophytic competition and the relatedness of seeds within fruits probably influence further reproductive evolution, especially the frequency with which pollen from a single donor sires all seeds in a fruit. This latter effect, rather than improvements in pollination efficiency, probably accounts for the common association of pollen aggregation with low pollen:ovule ratios. The ability of orchid pollinia to reduce diminishing returns during pollination may explain both the floral diversity and the widespread occurrence of deceit pollination in this clade.
3080030|A single species of taxodioid conifers is among the dominant floristic elements at two stratigraphically contemporaneous Paleocene fossil localities in central Alberta, Canada. More than 10,000 compression specimens, including oppositely branched stems, vegetative shoots with decussately arranged leaves, pollen cones, pollen, ovulate cones, seeds, and seedlings, provide data for reconstructing a new species of
2995684|Plant and soil resource spatial patterns were measured in pinyon-juniper communities in northern New Mexico over an elevational gradient that also served as a water-availability gradient to examine the role of resource competition and resource availability in determining plant spatial patterns. Total canopy coverage increased with increasing elevation. Percent coverage of juniper declined with elevation and, with the exception of one site, that of pinyon increased. Water appeared to be a strong factor in the maintenance of stand structure and plant distribution in this pinyon-juniper ecosystem. Plant water stress was greater during the dry season at the low-elevation, low-density sites than at the upper-elevation, higher-density sites. At the upper-elevation sites, plant distributions were significantly more clumped than at the drier sites; only at these low-elevation sites was there a significantly negative relationship between plant size and distance to nearest neighbor and a trend toward regular spacing. Juveniles were significantly clumped with respect to adults at all sites, with this trend most significant in seedlings, but seedlings did not show an affinity for the canopy of conspecific adults. Nitrogen availability was greater in canopy soils than in intercanopy soils, although a significant water-availability gradient was not seen across a canopy-intercanopy transect. Thus seedling establishment patterns could result from nutrient-availability differences, shade protection, or seed-dispersal and germination patterns, but probably not from microsite water differences.
3691652|The timing of selfcompatibility was found to vary within and among populations of
3691720|The early ecophysiological trajectories of angiosperm evolution remain uncertain. This hinders resolution of the possible ecological and physiological catalysts that set the stage for the emergence of our modern flora. One approach for generating hypotheses on the early ecology of angiosperms is to consider the distribution of functional traits among lineages that diverge near the root of the extant angiosperm phylogenetic tree. Using recent phylogenetic results to choose lineages for comparative work, we review and expand on previous studies that examine the ecology and physiology of basal angiosperm lineages. Phylogenetic mapping of functional traits reveals that the basal lineages,
40072480|In monocots, the ability to form compound leaves is restricted to a few families. In the palm family Arecaceae, compound leaves develop through leaflet separation by an abscissionlike process. The purpose of this study was to compare this process in
3080233|We examined the anatomy of expanding, mature, and senescing leaves of tropical plants for the presence of red pigments: anthocyanins and betacyanins. We studied 463 species in total, 370 genera, belonging to 94 families. This included 21 species from five families in the Caryophyllales, where betacyanins are the basis for red color. We also included 14 species of ferns and gymnosperms in seven families and 29 species with undersurface coloration at maturity. We analyzed 399 angiosperm species (74 families) for factors (especially developmental and evolutionary) influencing anthocyanin production during expansion and senescence. During expansion, 44.9% produced anthocyanins and only 13.5% during senescence. At both stages, relatively few patterns of tissue distributions developed, primarily in the mesophyll, and very few taxa produced anthocyanins in dermal and ground tissue simultaneously. Of the 35 species producing anthocyanins both in development and senescence, most had similar cellular distributions. Anthocyanin distributions were identical in different developing leaves of three heteroblastic taxa. Phylogeny has influenced the distribution of anthocyanins in the epidermis and mesophyll of expanding leaves and the palisade parenchyma during senescence, although these influences are not strong. Betacyanins appear to have similar distributions in leaves of taxa within the Caryophyllales and, perhaps, similar functions. The presence of anthocyanins in the mesophyll of so many species is inconsistent with the hypothesis of protection against UV damage or fungal pathogens, and the differing tissue distributions indicate that the pigments may function in different ways, as in photoprotection and freeradical scavenging.
2995763|
               
3080210|The rare orchid
10.1086/675574|
               
3874656|Treering proxy data from subtropical to tropical Australasia are valuable though rare sources for climate reconstructions.
3080275|Following all of the procambial strands through the successive transections of the first three disks of insertion comprising two shoot tips of the bamboo
2474956|The sequences of developmental events and of reserve deposition stages have been examined in developing seeds of Cercis siliquastrum. Ripe seeds have a massive persistent endosperm with living cells. Both endosperm and embryo store lipids and proteins; in the endosperm, polysaccharides are also deposited in the cell walls and between the cells. Starch is not stored during seed maturation. Oil and protein accumulation occurs synchronously and with the same pattern in endosperm and embryo. Gel electrophoresis shows roughly a similar composition of storage proteins in both.
3080003|Extracellular calcium sulfate (CaSO
2475096|Growth and biomass partitioning across a natural light gradient were examined in saplings (0.3-2.6 m in height) of relatively shade-tolerant Acer platanoides L. and relatively intolerant Quercus robur L. for dependence on relative irradiance, calculated from hemispherical photographs (RI), and on total tree height (H). H and RI were independent. All allometric relationships between H and the parameters of plant biomass and dimensions were positively affected by RI, signifying that at a common H, saplings increased horizontal growth relative to vertical growth in environments with greater irradiance. Root mass ratio (coarse plus fine roots per total plant biomass) increased with increasing irradiance in both species and was not different between the species. However, Q. robur had a larger stem mass ratio, while A. platanoides had a greater leaf mass ratio (LMR). At a common irradiance, leaf mass per area (LMA) was lower in A. platanoides. As a result of these interspecific differences in fractional allocation of sapling biomass in foliage and biomass requirement for construction of foliar surface area, leaf area ratio (LAR = LMR/LMA) was larger in A. platanoides. Relative growth rate of standing biomass (RGR) was significantly correlated with RI in both species and was not different between the species. In contrast, net assimilation rate per unit leaf area (NAR) was larger in Q. robur. Thus, in these species a similar RGR (NAR x LAR) was achieved in a completely different way: A platanoides increased the intercepting foliar area, while Q. robur increased the productivity per unit area. Growth analysis repeated on a nitrogen basis demonstrated that nitrogen use efficiency (biomass increment per unit nitrogen) was similar between the species, and that the species differences in NAR resulted from different foliar N concentrations; fractional nitrogen investment in foliage was independent of species, but lower nitrogen cost of leaves allowed A. platanoides to construct a more extensive foliar display with the same nitrogen investment in foliage. Biomass allocation between different compartments was also dependent on sapling size. With increasing H, A. platanoides maintained a constant proportion of biomass in foliage, but the relative amount of foliage decreased in Q. robur. Therefore, due to a decreasing investment of resources in foliage construction with advancing sapling ontogeny, saplings of similar height require more light to survive in Q. robur than in A. platanoides. Greater investment of biomass in leaves vs. standing biomass may result in lower volume gain and reduced competitive ability in more open habitats in A. platanoides. These results indicate that interspecific differences in allometry and nitrogen allocation patterns significantly alter species competitive relations during sapling development across the gap-understory continuum.
2475018|Distribution of tracheids and vessel members in terrestrial orchids in tribe Cranichideae, subfamily Spiranthoideae, and from tribes of subfamily Epidendroideae were compared with those in epiphytic orchids in tribes of subfamily Epidendroideae to determine the evolutionary status of these groups. The perforation plate values of vessel members were assessed and the dimensions of tracheids and vessel members were considered to indicate the phylogenetic position of these taxa. Vessel elements in the roots of epiphytic orchids all possessed scalariform perforation plates. Narrow tracheids in epiphytic epidendroids living under stressful conditions of seasonal drought compared with wider tracheids in terrestrial spiranthoids that exist in mesic conditions are potentially attributable to conditions of safety. Vessel members are distributed throughout the plant, i.e., in roots, stems, and leaves, in epiphytic and terrestrial epidendroids, but they occur only in the roots of spiranthoids. Because vessels evolved first in the roots of monocotyledons and subsequently appeared in stems, leaves, and inflorescence axes, we conclude that terrestrial spiranthoids represent the ancestral condition.
2995754|Embryo development is examined in
40072503|During the Mesozoic era,
2475262| A plastochron index was established for Moricandia arvensis to describe the course of the sink-to-source transition in leaves 7 and 8. Use of the plastochron index required the verification of three assumptions: (1) young leaves grew exponentially, (2) leaf elongation rates were similar, and (3) equal intervals of time occurred between initiation of successive leaves. These three criteria were evaluated for expanding leaves of 40 growth chamber-grown M. arvensis plants in semilogarithmic plots of leaf length versus time and by linear regression analysis of ln-transformed leaf lengths. Quantitative analysis indicated that leaves 4-11 grow exponentially (r
3080065|
               
3691621|The floral initiation of two detarioid legumes,
40344019|Climate change will test the evolutionary potential of many narrowly distributed plants, especially in alpine environments. We test for adaptation to elevation of an alpine forb,
2475188|The frequency of red mangrove trees, Rhizophora mangle L., that were monohybrid heterozygotes for chlorophyll-deficient alleles was determined for populations along the southwest coast of Puerto Rico. Segregation ratios for the offspring of these trees were also calculated. Although nuclear, the different mutant homozygous genotypes had profound effects on chloroplast ultrastructure. In comparison to Florida and San Salvador Island R. mangle populations, Puerto Rican mangroves were more outcrossed (28.8% vs. 4.8%) and had lower per generation per genome mutation rates for chlorophyll-deficient mutations (2.1 x 10
2475170|Floral form and function commonly vary quantitatively and qualitatively within inflorescences. Overall floral size, the sizes of individual floral organs, and the frequency of successful fruit and/or seed maturation may decline distally within inflorescences. These frequently observed patterns of variation have been attributed to competition for limited resources among developing flowers and fruits. The variation, however, can also be due to architecture, that is, to sources of variation inherent in plant axes. Floral morphology may change with position on an inflorescence axis, even in the absence of resource competition. Experimental analyses of Solanum hirtum and Arabidopsis thaliana identify the separate effects of architectural and resource limitation on floral development and morphology. The effects of architecture may mimic, mask, or lead to misinterpretation of the effects of resource competition on floral form. Floral morphology and function may be characterized as ontogenetically contingent: the morphology and fate of a developing flower depend on the events that have preceded it during the ontogeny of the organism and on where it occurs within the architecture of the individual. Careful consideration of the role of ontogenetic contingency in diverse taxa will be required to fully understand patterns of variation in floral morphology and function within individuals and may ultimately enhance our understanding of morphological diversification among taxa.
3080023|To understand the breeding system and seed dispersal in
2475081|The anther-smut fungus Ustilago violacea normally produces haploid sporidia of two mating types, and conjugation between them is thought to be a prerequisite for infection of the host plant Silene alba. However, some natural populations contain high frequencies of individuals with mating-type bias, from which sporidia of only one mating type, usually A1, can be isolated. Such populations show no reduction in fungal transmission rate. The bias is most readily interpreted as caused by the presence of deleterious recessive alleles, "haplo-lethals," that are linked to mating type. Haplo-lethals may persist in a heterozygous state if, during teliospore germination, there is premature conjugation among the immediate products of meiosis, i.e., intratetrad selfing, whereby the free-living haploid stage is bypassed We develop a theoretical model that shows how such alleles may spread if they provide a compensatory advantage in the diploid or dikaryotic phase, for example, through increased disease transmission. There is a limited range of conditions under which such haplo-lethal alleles may be maintained in a stable polymorphism, but if intratetrad selfing is high and/or they have substantial advantage in the dikaryotic phase, haplo-lethal alleles linked to mating type can spread to fixation. The occurrence of populations with a high degree of mating-type bias is therefore readily explained. Haplo-lethal alleles unlinked to mating type are much less likely to spread. In U violacea, mating type shows first-division segregation; under such situations, haplo-lethal alleles may also readily spread if they are linked to another centromere.
2475267|Crepis sancta is an annual composite that colonizes abandoned agricultural land and shows achene dimorphism. The achenes on the periphery of the capitulum are heavy (0.27 mg) and are without a pappus, whereas those in the center are light (0.10 mg), more numerous, and bear a pappus. Several studies of other species of Asteraceae have shown that these morphological differentiations are accompanied by biological differences, but few studies have tested whether these differences are constant between populations. We compared the germination, growth, phenology, and reproductive effort of plants derived from these two types of achenes from three populations that had been established for 3, 13, and 36 yr. The peripheral achenes from the young population germinated fastest and gave rise to the most vigorous individuals. The differences in the two other populations were slight or nonexistent. By comparing the morphs between populations, pregermination dormancy and plant vigor were found to be different among populations for the central achenes, whereas the characteristics of the peripheral achenes remained almost unchanged. It is often hypothesized that achene dimorphism is due to developmental constraints. Our results indicate that these constraints may be regulated by environmental conditions.
IJPS41112|Within palms, recent phylogenetic evidence suggests that the free-carpellate (apocarpous) condition that occurs in mature gynoecia of some species represents a derived condition, in contrast to traditional views. This article examines the comparative morphology and ontogeny of several palm genera representing a broad phylogenetic range within the diverse subfamily Coryphoideae (Arecaceae/Palmae). The resulting data are optimized onto a recent supertree phylogeny to clarify the evolutionary history of gynoecial characters within Coryphoideae. The investigation shows that coryphoid palms possess unusually diverse gynoecium morphology, especially with respect to carpel fusion, nectary presence, and nectary location. Our observations indicate three evolutionary transitions within Coryphoideae to a free-carpellate condition (apocarpy): in Cryosophileae, Phoeniceae, and subtribe Rhapidinae of Trachycarpeae. All three groups of apocarpous coryphoids appear to lack gynoecial nectaries, even at the ovary base. The monocarpellate condition that is present in one group of genera within the tribe Cryosophileae has apparently evolved from the free-carpellate condition. Some coryphoids possess a gynoecial condition that is apparently unique to Trachycarpeae among monocots, in which three carpels become postgenitally fused only at their styles. Based on our optimization, the relatively unusual conditions of apocarpy, a monocarpellate gynoecium, and partial congenital syncarpy are all derived from the plesiomorphic condition of postgenital syncarpy, which occurs in the syncarpous clade of Coryphoideae. Taking into account the genus
2474940|The renaturation of scrambled (oxidized and inactive) RNase A is catalyzed by plasma membrane vesicles isolated from spinach leaves. The activity was assayed using a spectrophotometric assay with cCMP as the RNase substrate. The protein disulfide-thiol interchange activity required for RNase renaturation was stimulated 1.5- to two-fold by 1 M auxin (2,4-D) and up to 1.5-fold by addition of NADH. The activity also was elevated ca. 1.8-fold in plasma membrane vesicles isolated from leaves of plants treated with 1 kg/hectare 2,4-D (13 x 10
10.1086/659458|Transitions between breeding systems offer an opportunity to understand the selective forces underlying these changes. In the evolutionary transition from tristyly to distyly, changes in tristylous self-incompatibility (SI) may be associated with modifications of female function, male function, or both. To test the hypothesis that modifications of pollen incompatibility reactions are associated with these changes, we used reciprocal factorial crosses in two
2995785|It is widely thought that many apomictic angiosperms exhibit variation in sexual versus apomictic seed production, yet there has been little investigation of the extent to which apomixis varies among or within natural populations. In dioecious
2995678|Procedures are described for partitioning the selfing rate into contributions resulting from the different modes of chasmogamous selfing-geitonogamous, facilitated, prior, competing, and delayed-and for examining several functional aspects of self-fertilization associated with the different modes-reproductive assurance, degree of seed and pollen discounting, and relative abilities of cross- and self-pollen to fertilize ovules. The procedures involve floral manipulations-e.g., exclusion of pollinators, emasculation, and covering of stigmas-and typically require joint estimation of the mating system parameters in manipulated and unmanipulated plants. Two methods of mating system estimation are discussed, the first in which manipulations and selfing rate estimates are made using random parent plants that are resident in the population, and the second using plants with unique genotypes introduced from a separate population. The asymptotic variances of estimators for the different modes of selfing are compared for each method, and advantages and disadvantages of each method are presented. The method of partitioning selfing into modes is illustrated using data from a natural population of the annual plant Impatiens pallida. Selfing in the chasmogamous flowers of this species is shown to result primarily from geitonogamy.
10.1086/677652|
               
2995848|Pitcher plants of the genus
3691637|The diverse and speciesrich order Ericales has found considerable interest among systematists in recent years. Molecular phylogenetic studies not only have convincingly demonstrated the monophyly of the order, comprising 23 families formerly placed in three different subclasses (Asteridae, Dilleniidae, and Rosidae), but have also resolved Ericales as sister to euasterids. Most ericalean families are well circumscribed and have been or are currently subject to intrafamilial phylogenetic studies. In spite of all the attention that Ericales have received recently, there remains a major challenge, the still largely unresolved deeper nodes in the ericalean phylogeny. This study aims to improve our current knowledge of the interfamilial relationships by expanding on gene and taxon sampling and to evaluate the evolution of important floral characters in light of the resulting phylogeny. We add a nuclear region (26s rDNA) to already published data sets (nuclear: 18s rDNA; mitochondrial:
3080259|Floral longevity is an important determinant of reproductive success in
2995614|Females of dioecious species often have higher reproductive effort than males because of their production of fruits. We postulated that females of Silene latifolia would reduce growth or reproductive effort to a greater extent than males when grown under conditions of low resource availability. To test this hypothesis, plants were grown in pots divided into 11 treatments: high levels of resources (controls) and medium or low levels of light, water, nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. There were more females than males in all of the treatments but there was no variation in sex ratios among treatments. Females produced larger, but fewer, flowers than males. The number of flowers in both sexes was correlated with the values of many sexually dimorphic traits, including plant height, length of inflorescence branches, total biomass, reproductive biomass, and percent allocation to leaves, branches, and reproduction. Females had higher reproductive effort than males in all treatments and invested more biomass per length in their main stem. Females also invested more biomass per length in their inflorescence branches, probably as a consequence of branch architecture. Phenotypic correlations, plant morphology, and growth varied in response to the different environmental treatments, but males and females did not respond differently to low resource availability. Two hypotheses are presented to explain these results, which are contrary to the expectation that females of dioecious species are more adversely affected than males when resources are limiting.
3691677|
               
3080248|Developmental instability and fluctuating asymmetry (FA) have become important topics in evolutionary biology. For example, it has been suggested that FA could be a useful tool for identification of genetic and environmental stress factors. This study used plants from each of six populations of
3874622|Anatomically preserved foliage of a dipteridaceous fern has been identified in both calcareous nodules and finegrained, carbonatecemented sandstone from the early Cretaceous (HauterivianBarremian) Apple Bay locality from Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. Fronds with attached sporangia containing spores are preserved as both compression/impressions and as permineralizations. Fanshaped laminar segments display paired teeth along the margin. Major veins dichotomize to the lamina edge, and finer veins reticulate, forming square to polygonal areoles, with freely ending veinlets. Veins are enclosed by sclerenchymatous sheaths, and the abaxial epidermis is recessed, producing concave areas between veins. Adaxial cuticle is thick, and the epidermis contains rectangular cells with undulating walls. Anomocytic scattered stomata occur on the abaxial surface. Sporangia and trichomes are scattered across the abaxial epidermis in the areolar concavities. Sporangial stalks are short, two to three cells long and four to six cells wide throughout their length. Sporangia have a vertical annulus that is interrupted by the stalk, and they contain trilete spores that correspond to
3080010|New data on the interrelationships of Factin and microtubules during endosperm development reveal distinct domains in the micropylar chamber (MC) containing the embryo, the large curved central chamber (CC), and the small chalazal chamber (ChC). Reported for the first time in any endosperm are the following: (1) data on the interrelationships between microtubules and Factin during development in all three chambers, and (2) an early stage of syncytial endosperm characterized by unusual fusiform to multangular nuclei sheathed by parallel arrays of microtubules. As is characteristic of nuclear endosperm development, the common cytoplasm is organized into nuclear cytoplasmic domains (NCDs) defined by radial microtubule systems, which determine placement of walls at the cellularization stage. Both microtubules and Factin are reorganized in preparation of the syncytium for simultaneous cytokinesis. Cellularization directly follows formation of adventitious phragmoplasts in the MC but is delayed in the CC as polarized NCDs elongate and anticlinal walls grow centripetally, thus forming a layer of openended alveoli overtopped by the advancing front of syncytial cytoplasm containing the adventitious phragmoplasts. Periclinal divisions in the alveoli cut off the first layer of true cells and displace the alveoli inward. Repeated cycles of alveolation and periclinal division complete initial cellularization of endosperm in the CC. The ChC becomes occupied early on by a multinucleate cyst of cytoplasm that fails to organize NCDs and that never cellularizes or that cellularizes irregularly very late in seed development but remains distinct from the remainder of the endosperm. Comparison of
4619830|A new heterosporous and ligulate lycopsid,
2475132|Morphology and mortality of sporophytes resulting from intergametophytic and intragametophytic mating were studied in the fern Athyrium filix-femina. In a long-term experiment, we determined the relevance of heterosis and/or genetic load in this homosporous fern species. Progeny from intergametophytic crossing, probably consisting of heterozygous individuals, exhibited most vigorous growth, small morphological variation, and low mortality. Progeny resulting from intergametophytic selfing, likely to include individuals with various levels of homozygosity, showed larger morphological variation, higher mortality, and smaller mean leaf length. Progeny from intragametophytic selfing (completely homozygous) had the smallest mean leaf length, highest mortality, and considerable morphological variation. These results for a homosporous fern species agree with theoretical and empirical studies on heterosis and genetic load in flowering plants.
2475061| We studied the effect of pollen extracts from Phleum pratense L. (Poaceae) on seed set in sympatric species to test whether pollen-allelopathic effects exist in situ. Stigmas of six species of Poaceae (Agropyron repens, Agrostis stolonifera, Bromus inermis, Danthonia compressa, Poa compressa, and Poa pratensis) were examined in a field study. The stigmas of A. repens, D. compressa, and B inermis received means of 9.35, 7.20, and 7.10 pollen grains of P pratense, respectively. Based on data from previous in vitro experiments, the quantities of pollen of P. pratense found on these stigmas were sufficient to cause allelopathic reduction in sexual reproductive success. We applied acidic extracts of the equivalents of 0.1, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7.5, 10, 15, 20, and 25 pollen grains of P. pratense/L to stigmas of each of A. repens and D. compressa. In A repens, extract concentrations as low as five grains/L caused approximately a 65% reduction in mean seed set. The decreases in mean seed set were nonlinear and similar to previous studies of the effect in vitro. In D. compressa the results were similar; however, the decreases in mean seed set were limited by the seed set by cleistogamous flowers. We suggest that this indicates that allelopathic pollen of P. pratense limits seed set in A. repens and D. compressa in oldfield communities. 
40072563|Both the number and the density of flowering plants in a population can be important determinants of pollinator abundance and behavior. We report the joint effects of population size and density on pollinator visitation and pollination success for
20533043|Evolutionary shifts from insect to wind pollination involve a host of modifications to floral structure and phenology, but little is known about how floral modifications that facilitate pollination might affect the fertilization process. Within the water lily family Cabombaceae, there is evidence that wind pollination arose recently in
3080028|Pollen of
3080310|Gynodioecy is a stable dimorphism of female and hermaphrodite individuals. Females often exhibit a higher seed or fruit set. This difference in reproductive investment is hypothesized in models of sex allocation theory to result in compensatory sex differences in vegetative traits, such as leaf physiological function, and in microhabitat. To investigate this possibility in gynodioecious
2474888|Seed bank and aboveground species composition of four salt marsh plant communities on the Gower Peninsula, South Wales, were compared. Puccinellia maritima was the dominant or codominant species in the vegetation on all of the marshes investigated. Two of the marshes were ungrazed (Oxwich, Three Cliffs Bay), one lightly grazed by horses (Cwm Ivy), and one heavily grazed by sheep (Landimore). Two annual species, Salicornia europaea and Suaeda maritima, accounted for less than 15% of the plant cover in the four salt marshes, but their seeds accounted for over 60% of the seed bank in the Cwm Ivy, Oxwich, and Landimore marshes. The two annuals comprised 100% of the seed bank of the heavily grazed marsh, but only 13 6% of the total plant cover. Ungrazed and lightly grazed marshes had percentage similarities between seed bank and plant cover ranging from 1.7% to 12 3%, while the grazed marsh had a value of 13.7%. An unweighted pair group mean cluster analysis indicated that three of the four plant communities formed a cluster at 55% for vegetation and 65.3% for seed banks. However, because the dominant perennial grass species P. maritima did not produce a persistent seed bank, none of the plant communities formed clusters with their seed banks.
4619762|The large genus
2475365|Plant competition for available resources is important for most crops, but it is particularly critical for grasses growing in water-limited rangelands of the western United States and similar environments. A wagon-wheel design was used to study the responses of 30 crested wheatgrass (Agropyron desertorum [Fisch ex Link] Schultes) clonal lines to eight intraspecific competition levels. Plots were established at two locations, D (irrigated) and E (nonirrigated). Differences among clonal lines and competition levels were significant (P < 0.01) for dry matter yield when expressed as g plant
2995826|In plants, environmental effects causing variation in seed mass typically represent the strongest kind of maternalenvironmental effect. The influence of fruit removal on subsequent progeny lifehistory traits was evaluated in zucchini, in terms of the amount of time available for seed development and the timing of fruit production. Earlyproduced and lateproduced fruits remained on treated plants for only 12 d, whereas on untreated controls, both early and late fruits remained on maternal plants until full ripening (3540 d and 2025 d, respectively). Progeny arising from the four kinds of fruit were compared. Seeds from each type of fruit were weighed individually and categorized into three size classes, then germinated and raised to maturity, including a regular harvesting of all fruits 3d postpollination. Seedsize effects were evident for both vegetative and reproductive traits and carried over to later stages, whereas maternal effects disappeared by day 30 for leaf variables and day 60 for maleflower production. Results are interpreted in terms of postulated levels of growthpromoting hormones.
3079979|Three welldefined genes affect the morphological and anatomical features of the pea (
3080078|Traits associated with carbon acquisition in plants may exhibit plastic responses as part of the phytochromemediated, stemelongation response. In this study, stem elongation and the responses in gas exchange traits were examined in plants grown in high and low water availabilities under low red to farred ratio (R:FR) and neutral shade at low density and under high R:FR and neutral shade at high density. Although we were not able to explicitly test for the effects of density because the plants did not elongate in response to high density, the differences between light qualitydensity treatments in stem elongation and the responses in gas exchange traits did allow for examination of the role of R:FR. Gas exchange responded to changes in R:FR in
2995563|We studied seed germination and seedling growth in eight maternal families of Sagittaria latifolia (Alismataceae), a freshwater perennial, in response to salinity (four levels) and temperature effects (two levels) in the greenhouse. Salinity decreased germination, delayed emergence, and decreased survival and growth rates. The negative effects of salinity on germination were greater at the high-temperature regime, but the effects on growth were greater at the low-temperature regime. Some seeds were capable of germinating and surviving (with minimal growth) even in 0.8% NaCl solution. Families also differed in their response to salinity but not to temperature. In particular, high salinities had little effect on the germination of some families. Growth rate always decreased with increasing salinity, but again the magnitude of the effect differed among maternal families. Our data show that S. latifolia can germinate but cannot grow well under low-salinity conditions; thus, S. latifolia might be minimally affected by short-term salt intrusions. In order to understand how plant populations respond to disturbances, such as increased salinity or increased temperature, we need to consider the source, either environmental or genetic, of maternal effects.
2475349|After cell compartmentation, the young embryo sac of Arundo formosana consists of seven cells: the egg, two synergids, the central cell with two polar nuclei, and three antipodal cells. All three cells of the newly formed egg apparatus surrounded by incomplete cell walls initially have similar cellular contents. However, as the egg apparatus develops, the egg and the synergids gradually differentiate in cellular contents prior to the initiation of the filiform apparatus. The egg develops many starch-containing plastids. The synergids become rich in rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and dictyosomes. These differences are retained throughout maturation. The micropylar common wall of the two synergids produces many cell-wall ingrowths, which consitute the filiform apparatus. Endoplasmic reticulum and dictyosomes are involved in filiform-apparatus formation. During maturation, the egg shows some changes: the nucleus migrates toward the cell center; the degree of vacuolation and the number of starch grains and oil bodies increase; the amount of ER and dictyosomes decrease. During synergid maturation, the organelles gradually show a polarized distribution: the plastids are present only at the chalazal pole, and most of mitochondria and dictyosomes are distributed at the micropylar pole. After pollination, vacuolation usually occurs at the chalazal pole of the persistent synergid, and the degenerated synergid becomes filled with electron-dense materials. During egg-apparatus expansion, cell-wall materials are deposited and condense at the chalazal pole, forming electron-dense particles at maturity. Plasmodesmata are always present in the micropylar gametophytic cell walls of the egg apparatus.
10.1086/680725|
               
2475139|The plant epidermis is only rarely involved in fusion events. These events often occur when the epidermis has been wounded or removed. The adherentl (adl) mutation in maize shows fusions between cells and organs in the presence of an intact epidermis. Fusions are not limited to a particular stage of organ development. The first fusion events occur very early in development and adherent leaves can be seen in ungerminated embryos. In the vegetative parts of the plant the coleoptile can fuse to the first leaf and juvenile leaves can fuse to each other. At the onset of reproduction, tassel branches can adhere to each other, the flag leaf can fuse to the tassel, and the glumes can fuse to the anthers. While fused regions appear to have an intact cuticle, cell surfaces are perturbed in the mutation. Time-lapse replicas reveal that trichome fusion on organ surfaces is postgenital. The extracellular matrix can exert control over organs and tissues in plants; the Adl gene may represent a product that determines the composition or function of this extracellular matrix.
3691778|
               
3691766|
               
2995810|Variation in branching pattern and leaf morphology in
10.1086/655866|New interpretation of leaf fossils from the Neogene of Europe belonging to the family Malvaceae s.l. is given. Morphogenera
2995817|Seedlings of
IJPS41085|Pollination patterns within
10.1086/667609|
               
2474980|Stamen morphology is shown to vary considerably in Nothofagus. All species in subgenus Brassospora have heteromorphic, striated epidermal papillae on their anthers. The absence of similar epidermal papillae in other subgenera in Nothofagus or in the putative sister taxa Fagaceae or Betulaceae would suggest that heteromorphic papillae is a derived feature in Brassospora. The anthers of the New Guinean taxa are heteromorphic in size, degree of connation, surface ornamentation, and in the variable position of papillae. This variation permits recognition of a number of informal subgroups in the New Guinean species of Brassospora. The anthers of all the New Caledonian species are large to very large in size and have a similar ornamentation, which differs from that in the New Guinean species. All Brassospora species also have connate stamen filaments, which is a possible synapomorphy for the subgenus, which does not occur in the other three subgenera, or in the Fagaceae and Betulaceae. Rounded isomorphic papillae occur on the epidermal cells of the stamens in three species of subgenus Lophozonia; N. nervosa and N obliqua from South America, and N. moorei from Australia. The absence of this type of papillae from other species in Lophozonia and other subgenera in Nothofagus and putative outgroups would suggest that single papilla is a derived feature in this subgenus. The similar anther ornamentation in N. obliqua and N. nervosa, i.e, solitary papillae with basal striations, suggests that they are sister taxa. Nothofagus moorei also has solitary papillae but lacks the basal striations seen in the South American taxa. This taxon is either sister to the South American species, or, alternatively, single papillae have arisen independently in these two groups in Lophozonia. The variation in stamen morphology in Nothofagus allows for the recognition of a number of anther and filament characters that appear to be of phylogenetic significance.
2474897|The reproductive biology of the dioecious Viscum cruciatum, one of the few viscaceous mistletoes occurring in Europe, was investigated. The male flower is 7.2 mm long and lemon-scented, produces ca. 58,000 pollen grains, and has a dry mass of 14 mg, and thus a low relative staminate effort (RSE) value of 4,059. Female flowers, ca. 3 mm long, 2.7 mg dry mass, secrete small amounts of nectar (0.05 mg sugar/d). A stigma is not apparent. Flowers inside nylon bags (i.e., insect-free) set significantly less fruit than control branches open to natural pollination. Pollination is performed by insects. Flowers bagged against insects but not wind set some fruit. Flowers bagged with dense cloth excluding wind and insect pollination did not set any fruit. Agamospermous embryo production does not take place in this species and cannot be the cause of the shift in sex-ratio toward females. Fruits can contain one (45%), two (43.6%), three (11%), or four (0.3%) embryos, which may not be true polyembryony but may result from the partial or complete fusion of the chlorophyllous endosperm. Fruit size is not correlated with the number of embryos per "seed" but probably with other ecological or maternal factors. Although a dormancy period was not observed, flowering and fruiting are restricted mainly to winter. Nevertheless, the pattern of flowering differed significantly between the two years studied, being longer and less overlapping during 1991 (only in the females). The fruit set was also lower in 1991.
3691745|Floral scent plays important roles in basal angiosperms such as the pantropical woody family Annonaceae. The North American genus
10.1086/648994|A new genus is described based on fossilized winged fruits from former lake deposits of Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, Oregon, and British Columbia, ranging in age from latest Paleocene to early Middle Eocene.
2474873|Genetic and physiological complexities associated with salt tolerance in plants have limited progress in the analysis of specific factors responsible for the salt-tolerant phenotype. We have used the homosporous fern Ceratopteris richardii as a model plant to investigate the physiological basis of salinity tolerance by selecting single gene mutants that confer tolerance in the gametophyte generation. The unique genetic system of homosporous ferns permits the generation of mutants in a genetic background nearly isogenic to the wildtype, such that comparative studies with the wildtype can identify specific physiological responses associated with salt tolerance. One of these mutations, stl2, confers a high level of tolerance to
3874646|
               
40344048|Some Carboniferous seed ferns undergo extensive secondary growth, with secondary vascular tissues occupying increased space within the axis. Mechanisms of accommodating secondary growth in the stem cortex vary significantly between different seed ferns and depend on the degree of secondary growth and position of secondary tissues relative to the cortex. Cortical tissue adjacent to the secondary vascular cylinder is often highly deformed, whereas primary cortex tissue farther away from the secondary growth may be less strained. Developmental patterns of primary and secondary tissues are observed in two species of
2474948|Morphological details of Wollemia nobilis (Wollemi pine) are described and illustrated, and compared with the extant genera Agathis and Araucaria and with selected araucarian fossils from the Cretaceous of Australia. Adult and juvenile shoots of Wollemia differ in leaf arrangement, leaf shape, and cuticular features; in these features they are most similar to Araucaria. The cone scales have a long, distal spine reminiscent of Araucaria section Eutacta, but the winged seeds that are ontogenetically free from, and shed independently from, the cone scale are similar to Agathis. Shoots with variable leaf types, Araucaria-like cone scales, and Agathis-like winged seeds are found in several plant fossil assemblages from the Cretaceous of Australia; these fossil conifers, which had been recognized as araucarian, can now be favorably compared with Wollemia. Pollen of Wollemia is indistinguishable from the fossil pollen form-genus Dilwynites, which has a fossil record extending back to the Late Cretaceous in Australia and New Zealand. Reexamination of Mesozoic and Tertiary paleofloras will most probably reveal an important contribution of Wollemia to the fossil record of Araucariaceae.
2474921| Undisturbed tallgrass prairie was exposed to ambient and elevated (twice-ambient) levels of atmospheric CO
10.1086/678088|
               
3691750|Selective pressures underlying the distance of seed dispersal in
10.1086/674317|
               
2995577|Fifteen species from nine monocotyledonous families were inoculated with strains of Agrobacterium tumefaciens, A. rhizogenes, and A. rubi. Tumor production was observed in seven of these species: Arthropodium cirratum (New Zealand rock lily), Cordyline australis (New Zealand cabbage tree), Dioscorea bulbifera (yam), Monstera deliciosa (fruit salad plant), Nerine bowdenii, Polygonatum x hybridum (Solomon's seal), and Zantedeschia aethiopica (arum lily). The use of appropriate controls for Agrobacterium inoculations and the detection of opines in extracts from most of these tumors confirmed that they had resulted from Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer. Chlorophyll retention around tumors during senescence in some of the plant species was attributed to the expression of the T-DNA isopentyl-transferase gene. We conclude that more monocotyledons are hosts for Agrobacterium transformation than previously thought. Important factors for the induction of tumors included the choice of Agrobacterium strain, the growth phase of the plant, and the organ being inoculated.
4619783|The distribution of infectious diseases within populations can be characterized in terms of variation in the susceptibility and exposure of individual hosts. In general, selfing has been associated with an increase in susceptibility to pathogens, though selfing effects on plant quality may further affect pathogen exposure due to foraging insects. We observed lower incidence of a beetlevectored bacterium,
10.1086/673247|
               
10.1086/651224|
               
3691804|The circumscription of genera in Swertiinae (GentianaceaeGentianeae) was traditionally based on the presence of ovary or petal nectaries, variation of corolla tube length, level of stamen insertion, and presence and position of fimbriate appendages. Using a molecular phylogenetic framework, we found high homoplasy of these characters among and within the 14 genera of Swertiinae, and three of them (
3079967|Early Cretaceous angiosperm remains from the Gondwana Continent were hitherto very rare. The Aptian or Albian Crato Formation (Brazil) contains various angiosperm fossils, mainly detached leaves, but there are also impression fossils with organically connected parts. These include stems with attached leaves and sometimes reproductive structures, several follicular structures that occur both isolated and attached to their axes, and a few complete plants, probably mostly aquatics, with adhering roots, stems, leaves, and reproductive structures. This presentation is intended to give the first overview of the angiosperm diversity in structural and organizational terms of these angiosperms from northern Gondwana during the late Early Cretaceous; detailed descriptions and analyses of these taxa will be given later. Diversity is reasonably high, with close to 20 taxa. Most of these taxa might belong to the magnoliid clade, and basal eudicots might have occurred at this locality as well.
2475353|The Rate of Cell Production (RCP) method to measure the duration of the cell division cycle in the root apical meristem is proposed. The method is based on a model of the steady state growing root and implies that the number of cells produced in the meristem per unit time has to be equal to the number of cells shifting to the elongation zone and, in turn, equal to the number of cells completing elongation. The model is based on the following assumptions: (i) the cycle time for all meristematic cells is the same; (ii) all meristematic cells proliferate; (iii) the number of cells in a meristem (or in a cell file within the meristem), N
2995676|Many functional-ecological, morphological, and physiological-factors affect the occurrence of selffertilization. Six modes of self-pollination are distinguished. These differ in whether they utilize specialized flowers, whether they involve the transfer of pollen within or between flowers, whether they are autonomous or mediated by vectors, and their timing relative to opportunities for outcrossing. The various modes of selfing are subject to different structural constraints. Prepotency, the preferential success of cross-pollen in achieving fertilizations when it competes with self-pollen, influences the frequency of selffertilization in some species. The amount of self-fertilization may depend on environmental conditions and the vector species visiting each flower and may vary among the flowers of one plant. To gain information on the prevalence of autonomous self-pollination, 66 species for which the degrees of selfcompatibility and autofertility (seed set in isolation) have been published were surveyed. Partially selfincompatible species (in which the seed set is lower after self-pollination than after separate outcrosses) have on average lower autofertility than self-compatible species (in which self- and cross-pollinations succeed equally well), but some partially self-incompatible species have considerable autofertility and some self-compatible species have none. A number of features of floral morphology and phenology are associated with high Autofertility Indices.
10.1086/660879|Microspore wall morphogenesis of
3080318|
               
2475286|The Platanaceae are one of the basal-most branches of the main evolutionary line of the eudicot clade, and one of the earliest eudicot lineages to be recognized in the macrofossil record. Because of its phylogenetic position, and the documentation of intralineage temporal morphological change provided by an extensive fossil record, the Platanaceae provide crucial information for understanding phylogenetic relationships at the base of the eudicots. Staminate and pistillate inflorescences and flowers from Coniacian-Santonian strata of Georgia, U.S.A., are an important addition to the known fossil record of Platanaceae. Staminate inflorescences are sessile heads, 0.9-2.5 mm in diameter, formed by ca. 40 closely spaced flowers. Staminate flowers have a whorled, tetramerous, unicyclic perianth, and a tetramerous androecium. Each stamen is opposite a perianth member, and all stamens are inserted on a short androecial ring. Anthers are elongate, the connective is abaxially displaced and is expanded at the apex into a protruding, wedge-shaped extension. Four short androecial appendages are placed on the androecial ring and alternate with the stamen bases. Pistillate inflorescences are sessile heads, 1.1-2.4 mm in diameter, formed by ca. 40 flowers. Pistillate flowers have two weakly differentiated perianth cycles: the outer cycle is connate into a tube, and the inner cycle is also connate, but with four free apical lobes. The apocarpous gynoecium has eight carpels, with two carpels opposite each of the free apical lobes of the inner perianth. Carpels are conduplicate, wedge-shaped, and lack a style. Like other Cretaceous platanaceous taxa, the flowers described from the Coniacian-Santonian of Georgia have a well-developed perianth and a fixed floral merosity, but their tetramerous floral plan differs from the pentamerous pattern of previously described Cretaceous and early Tertiary platanaceous flowers.
2995789|We present the first description of the epidermal anatomy of the late Stephanian (Carboniferous) pteridosperm
3691785|Herbarium phenology data were evaluated and then applied in a phylogenetically independent contrast study in which flowering times were compared between fleshy and nonfleshyfruited plants growing in the northtemperate provinces of Uppland and Sdermanland, southeastern Sweden (5960N). To evaluate herbarium phenology data, floweringtime information taken from herbarium specimens in the Swedish Natural History Museum (S) was compared with two independent field phenology data sets. Herbarium collections and the field studies were restricted to the province of Uppland. Flowering times derived from herbarium specimens correlated equally well with each of the two fieldphenology data sets as the field phenology data sets did to each other. Differences between flowering times derived from field and herbarium collections were not affected by the number of herbarium specimens used. However, these differences in flowering times were affected by flowering season such that herbariumderived flowering times were later for early springflowering species and earlier for late summerflowering species when compared with flowering times derived from field data. In the phylogenetically independent contrast study of mean flowering times infleshy compared with nonfleshyfruited plants, herbarium data were compiled for 77 species in 17 phylogenetically independent contrasts. Flowering time was found to be earlier for fleshyfruited taxa, illustrating the evolutionary interdependence between flowering and fruiting phases and the constraining effects of a northtemperate climate on phenology evolution. This study shows that herbaria are reliable and timesaving data sources for comparative phenology studies and allow for studies at large phylogenetic and geographic scales that would otherwise be impossible.
2995880|To examine potential costs of mechanical hardening in plants, dosedependent effects of mechanical perturbation on the growth and development of
3080265|We used random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers to assess the levels and structuring of genetic variation in the Canarian laurel forest endangered endemics
2995884|Substantial phenotypic variation in
3080026|The stomatal complex of eastern white pine (
2995677|I present a phenotypic model of the selection of self-fertilization that applies to any mode of selfpollination. A novel factor, seed discounting-the loss of outcrossing maternal fitness accompanying an increase in self-fertilization-is introduced, and pollen discounting is reformulated. The model incorporates the effects of five principal factors-the cost of meiosis, inbreeding depression, reproductive assurance, and seed and pollen discounting. The model indicates that either complete cross- or selffertilization is selected, depending on the values of the parameters, but a number of additional factors can lead to intermediate frequencies of self-fertilization. Specific conditions for the selection of each mode of chasmogamous self-pollination and the effects of some special circumstances are derived by substituting the appropriate values of seed and pollen discounting in the general model. Geitonogamy and facilitated selfing are primarily nonadaptive by-products of mechanisms for outcrossing. Delayed selfing is most advantageous, but competing and prior selfing may be selected when structural constraints prevent delayed selfing or the prepotency of outcrossed pollen reduces seed discounting. The model predicts environmental modification of the frequency of self-fertilization and can explain the observed associations between frequent self-fertilization and both the annual habit and poor conditions for cross-pollination.
2475336|Interspecific pollen tube growth within the Banksia genus was investigated using controlled hand pollinations of B. prionotes and B. menziesii and a putative natural interspecific hybrid between B. prionotes and B. hookeriana, registered in 1991 as the cultivar Waite Orange, was studied using morphological and biochemical characters. Success of pollen tube growth in the pistil following interspecific pollination to B. prionotes and B. menziesii was largely related to taxonomic distance between the species, and the results indicated close affinity between the series Banksia and Crocinae. Control of pollen tube growth in the pistil was imposed in the pollen presenter, a specialized area of the distal style, and in the upper style. Hybrid status cv Waite Orange was confirmed using morphological characters, and isozyme and arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction (AP-PCR) analysis confirmed that the two parent species were sister taxa.
4619752|Calycanthaceae are sister to the remainder of Laurales (magnoliid clade), an order seemingly showing high variability in floral phyllotaxis. Previous studies of floral phyllotaxis in this family focused on one species,
10.1086/678772|
               
40072491|The induction of phenylpropanoid essential oil metabolism by elicitors was investigated in basil (
4619764|Resistance to systemic diseases is often difficult to measure quantitatively because individuals can be scored only as either diseased or healthy. A technique is described for cloning individuals of
2475112|Floral morphology of Artemisia annua L. was described using light and scanning electron microscopy. Floral trichomes include nonglandular T-shaped filamentous trichomes, which occur on the basal bracts and pedicel of the capitulum, and 10-celled biseriate glandular trichomes on receptacle and bracts of capitula and corolla of florets. The heart-shaped biseriate glandular trichomes, composed of two columns of five cells each, are similar to those described for the leaf. During floral development, the cuticle surrounding the apical cells of biseriate glands detaches and forms a saclike reservoir for fluids excreted by the apical cells. The cuticle ruptures at anthesis, discharging its contents on the inflorescence. Artemisinin was detected by HPLC-EC from flowering branches dipped for 60 s in petroleum ether or acetonitrile, providing corroborating evidence that biseriate glandular trichomes were the likely site of artemisinin sequestration.
3080166|A rapid and efficient culture system for
3079945|The genetic structure of five populations of the tetraploid fern
10.1086/682166|
               
10.1086/677946|
               
2475080|Recombination in the anther smut Microbotryum violaceum (Ustilago violacea) can occur in a variety of ways, from conventional meiosis in diploid strains, to meiosis in polyploids, to several methods of parasexual recombination involving diploid, haploid, and aneuploid segregants. This article summarizes the analyses of the nonmeiotic methods of recombination that have been carried out by the author and by Dr. E. D. Garber and discusses the advantages and uses of each technique. These studies have provided a detailed "classical" map of this fungus and have pointed to features of the genetic organization of this species that make it different from genetically well-characterized Ascomycetes such as Aspergillus, Neurospora, and Saccharomyces.
2475359|We investigated
IJPS40904|Natural selection shapes patterns of genetic variation among individuals, populations, and species, and it does so differentially across genomes. The field of population genomics provides a comprehensive genome-scale view of the action of selection, even beyond traditional model organisms. However, even with nearly complete genomic sequence information, our ability to detect the signature of selection on specific genomic regions depends on choosing experimental and analytical tools appropriate to the biological situation. For example, processes that occur at different timescales, such as sorting of standing genetic variation, mutation-selection balance, or fixed interspecific divergence, have different consequences for genomic patterns of variation. Inappropriate experimental or analytical approaches may fail to detect even strong selection or falsely identify a signature of selection. Here we outline the conceptual framework of population genomics, relate genomic patterns of variation to evolutionary processes, and identify major biological factors to be considered in studies of selection. As data-gathering technology continues to advance, our ability to understand selection in natural populations will be limited more by conceptual and analytical weaknesses than by the amount of molecular data. Our aim is to bring critical biological considerations to the fore in population genomics research and to spur the development and application of analytical tools appropriate to diverse biological systems.
3691631|
               
2475340|Six ovulate, permineralized cones, four cone-scale complexes, and one isolated seed are described from the Upper Cretaceous Upper Yezo and Miho Groups from Hokkaido, Japan, and Saghalien, Russia. Cones are spherical, 3.5-6.0 cm in diameter, with prominent thick bracts. Thick ovuliferous scales are almost completely united with the bracts and are not readily distinguishable on all scales. Cone-scale tissues consist of prominent abaxial and adaxial sclerenchyma bands with a central zone of thin-walled cells filled with dark contents that are often missing in abraded cones. Cone-scale vasculature is located in the thin-walled cells of this central zone. There is one large ovule per cone-scale complex with a thick sclerotesta showing a zigzag sclereid pattern. The nucellus is free from the integument except at the chalaza and shows a prominent wavy apex. Megagametophytes and embryos with two cotyledons are poorly preserved but are present in a few seeds. The presence of pollen tubes in the nucellar tissues of a fossil araucarian is demonstrated for the first time in these cones. Cones can be distinguished from those of Araucaria nihongii by a larger overall size at maturity, the structure of the cone-scale and its tissue composition, the lack of a bract abscission layer, and a thicker ovuliferous scale without a prominent "ligular sulcus." These cones show similarities to the South American section Araucaria (= Columbea) species and are known to have shed their scales at maturity.
10.1086/651225|Fluorescence microscopy is used to compare frequencies of pollen tube penetration in in situ populations of
3691714|The evolution of C
3080240|In the search for taxonomic characters to infer the phylogeny of
2995611|The vascular system in the male and perfect florets of Phragmites of the grass subfamily Arundinoideae was reconstructed from serial cross sections. Components of the vascular system in both florets are nearly alike but for differences related to the presence of the gynoecium. The two collateral traces from the styles merge with the collateral placental bundle to form an amphicribral bundle, the pistil prong, in the ovary below the ovule. The prong descends into the upper plexus, an amphicribral bundle formed by the merging stamen traces in the rachilla. A xylem discontinuity occurs in the placental bundle and in the distal upper plexus. The collateral lodicule traces enter the rachilla and unite with the proximal portion of the upper plexus as the palea traces merge into them. But after contacting the upper plexus, the lodicule traces are again discrete in their continued descent of the rachilla. The two lodicule traces, the three lemma traces, and the three traces from the rachilla extension distal to the floret are all discrete bundles in the rachilla of the floret base. Using Phragmites to represent the Arundinoideae in a comparison of floret vascular systems of subfamilies indicates a close relationship between Arundinoideae and Chloridoideae. The combination of features from the floret vascular systems of these subfamilies bridges the Pooideae and the Panicoideae.
40072531|The
10.1086/660194|Adaptive processes in invasive plant populations may explain exotic range expansions and ecotypic shifts between native and invasive populations of the same species. Sufficient genetic variation in invasive populations occurring within the new range is a precondition for selection. While genetic diversity can be considerably reduced during invasions following founder effects and genetic drift, it can also be maintained via mechanisms of effective gene flow.
3080047|The effects of local mechanical stimulation on local root growth was investigated in maize (
2475299|Several features of the phenology and reproductive biology of members of the genus Banksia indicate that these plants either have a high level of mate choice or are obligate outcrossers, with many flowers being functionally male or sterile. These species produce many inflorescences with vast numbers of flowers, yet seed-set is typically very low. Most species studied appear to have at least limited self-compatibility and outcrossing rates close to one. Despite this, pollinators normally deposit a large amount of self-pollen on stigmas. In this study, we used experimental pollinations to test for evidence of preferential outcrossing within populations of Banksia spinulosa and Banksia ericifolia. Our allozyme analysis of progeny arrays indicates that the studied populations of both B. spinulosa from a prior study and B. ericifolia as determined for 27 plants in this study are highly outcrossed. Results from pollinations using applications of self- and cross-pollen and mixtures of the two indicated that, at the early prezygotic stage, all treatments had an equal potential to produce seed. This contrasts with the observation of almost no pollen tube growth from the autogamy treatment conducted on B. spinulosa. Seed-set from experimental treatments was low for both species, and only one inflorescence from each species produced seed after self-pollination. This indicated that self-pollen may be inhibited at some later stage, but self-fertilization is possible. However, small sample sizes meant that there were no significant differences in seed-set between treatments. When mixtures of self- and cross-pollen were applied to stigmas, the genetic composition of resulting seeds showed that most progeny were derived from outcrossing events. This preferential outcrossing may occur via a recessive lethal system. Moreover, the results provide an explanation for the observed discrepancy between the high outcrossing rates obtained for both species and observations that pollinators are likely to transfer large amounts of self-pollen.
10.1086/677648|
               
3691535|Investigations of floral ontogeny and allometry were used to determine the developmental origins of morphological variation among population samples of
3691823|In pollen terminology, an operculum is an area of exine covering a pollen aperture like a lid. Monosulcateoperculate, pontoperculate, disulculate, disulcate, zonasulculate, and zonasulcate aperture types are often confused in the monocot pollen literature. Various factors contribute to this confusion, including the existence of intermediate forms. Other factors include the presence of artifacts (such as the collapse of thinwalled pollen examined using SEM) and insufficient data, either on mature pollen (including absence of ultrastructural data using TEM) or on developmental stages, especially the critical tetrad stage. In this article, we review records of monosulcateoperculate pollen in monocots in relation to recent phylogenetic concepts, using data both from the literature and our own observations, including new records of operculate pollen in
3080288|The relationships between
IJPS41454|Xylem safety and efficiency were analyzed for stems of evergreen shrubs that inhabit fynbos communities in the Mediterranean-type climate region of South Africa. We hypothesized that species with different life history types would differ in xylem function on account of their different regeneration niches. Comparisons were made among postfire nonsprouters, facultative sprouters, obligate sprouters, and opportunists. Measurements included xylem resistance to water stressinduced cavitation (xylem safety) and xylem-specific hydraulic conductivity (xylem efficiency) at a dry site and at a wetter site. Life history types differed in hydraulic traits: xylem safety was greater in life history types with disturbance-dependent recruitment. By contrast, water stress resistance was lowest in postfire obligate resprouters that recruit seedlings during fire-free intervals in the litter layer of shady microsites. Among life history types, greater xylem safety came at the cost of reduced hydraulic efficiency. This pattern was also observed between field sites, with most taxa from the drier site having greater levels of cavitation resistance and lower levels of xylem-specific hydraulic conductivity than taxa from the wetter site. We conclude that xylem traits are linked to differences in life history types in fynbos species.
40344022|Fossil fruits document the former presence of
3691609|An isolated 180ha stand of
3079955|The cupressaceous genus
2475317|Spiny-bracted fruits of Palaeocarpinus Crane, a genus of Betulaceae previously known only from Europe and North America, have been discovered in the Paleocene of Altai, northwestern China. The fruits are found in association with abundant Corylus-like foliage and staminate catkins containing Corylus-like pollen. Because of problems distinguishing leaves of Corylus from those of extinct betulaceous genera, we place these leaves in the genus Corylites Gardner ex Seward & Holttum. The fruits, staminate catkins, pollen, and leaves from Altai were probably all produced by a single species. Palaeocarpinus orientalis is nearly identical in its morphology to Palaeocarpinus joffrensis from the Paleocene of North America except in the more rounded primary bracts of the associated staminate catkins. The species is less similar to Palaeocarpinus laciniata from the Paleocene of southern England.
2995710|Floral sex expression along branches of the monoecious species Apodanthera undulata follows a typical cucurbit pattern: staminate buds are common at early nodes and become less frequent as branches elongate, while pistillate buds are more common at the more distal nodes of a branch. However, this developmental sequence is not sufficiently canalized to explain the male-phase plants in this species. Male-phase plants have shorter internodes than monoecious-phase plants and also produce and mature fewer flower buds. These data indicate that male plants probably experience less favorable growing conditions than monoecious plants. Finally, the distributions of staminate and pistillate buds along branches and the length of their associated internodes indicate that floral bud production is affected by the same factors that determine branch growth. Consequently, seasonal changes in growth conditions are hypothesized to affect both flower bud production and sex expression.
4122595|Dodders are obligate parasites, requiring both water and carbohydrate to be supplied by the host plant. To achieve the successful flow of both carbohydrate and water, the searching hyphae of the dodder must penetrate the host and transform into xylic or phloic hyphae, depending on the cell type that the hyphae encounter. The phloic hyphae develop a massive handlike appendage that surrounds the host phloem, whereas the xylic hyphae are directly connected to the host. In this study, changes in wall composition and structure are monitored via structural, cytochemical, and immunocytochemical techniques that allow one to discriminate changes in the hyphae as they make the transition into functional xylem and phloem. Although the terminal structure of the phloic hyphae has been termed a transfer cell, it bears little resemblance to those cell types; few if any wall ingrowths are noted. Rather, an extensive array of smooth endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is aligned at right angles and adjacent to the host phloem cells; the wall of the phloic hyphae becomes reduced in cellulose and xyloglucans and enriched in pectins. This loosening of its own wall (by loss of cellulosexyloglucan and increased pectin) and the presence of abundant smooth ER facilitates the transfer of saccharides apoplastically into the parasite. In contrast to the phloic hyphae, xylic hyphae achieve a direct connection between the host and parasite, so that a flow of water is maintained between the host and the parasite. Xylic hyphae do not form secondary walls as do normal xylem elements. Rather, areas of the xylic hyphae have areas where the secondary wall is produced evenly along their length as well as in less regular true tracheidtype secondary walls. Similarly, the xylans that are characteristic of secondary walls are found both in the secondary thickenings and along extensive stretches of the mature xylic hyphae. In some xylic hyphae, both continuous and sporadic thickenings are observed. The host xylem and the xylem of the haustoria have xylans limited to secondary thickenings only, however. These data indicate that although the xylic and phloic hyphae mimic xylem and phloem elements, they retain some unique qualities to facilitate their parasitic function.
2995859|This study is concerned with the honeybee's spatial vision in light of the spatial signals that natural flowers display. A large amount of behavioral data shows that bees are perfectly adept at learning and exploiting a variety of spatial cues in the task of recognizing and discriminating between visual stimuli. These cues include spatial frequency, distribution of contrasting areas, orientation of contours, size and distance, different types of edges, and symmetry (or, in a broader sense, geometry). Symmetry constitutes a global feature that is only one of the cues that the target offers. Symmetrical stimuli always contain several further spatial cues that become relevant as the bee comes nearer to the stimuli. The results reviewed here show that the spatial signals used by the bee depend on whether the stimuli are presented on a horizontal or a vertical plane, on whether bees make their choices at a lesser or a greater distance, and on whether the target's image is stationary at the level of the eye, as opposed to moving. Further, it is shown that pattern recognition in the bee does not always require a learning process (i.e., several types of response to visual stimuli are based on hardwired, innate behavioral programs). Finally, the results show that although it is not a prerequisite for spatial vision, color vision participates in spatial vision, whereas spatial cues extracted from image motion are processed by a colorblind system.
2474985|In diploid parthenogenesis of Norway spruce, specific nuclei were ontogenetically eliminated in cells programmed for cell death or apoptosis. Nuclear elimination was defined morphologically and biochemically for the degenerating ventral canal nucleus of egg-equivalents, and in differentiating suspensors of the axial tier of early embryos. Nuclei became pycnotic and disintegrated with the release of nucleoli and nuclear fragments into the cytoplasm. Enucleation in tubular cells of the axial tier was preceded by a reduction in the number of interphase nucleoli. Apoptosis was biochemically characterized by the activation of endonuclease activity that contributed to massive morphological changes in nuclei and ultimately to cell death. Endonuclease activity in individual nuclei was determined by a terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT). This enzyme labeled the 3'OH ends of DNA, generated by DNA nicking with biotin-conjugated dUTP, for visualization with a secondary detection system using a colorimetric substrate for peroxidase. The TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay stained apoptotic nuclei red for the expression of endogenous endonucleases. The salvage of nuclear degradation products was postulated to enhance embryo survival, growth, and multiplication by cleavage polyembryony. By contrast, the egg-equivalent nucleus, proembryos, and the large and rounded nonapoptotic nuclei of the embryonal group fluoresced strongly with DAPI (4'-6-diamidino-2-phenylindole dihydrochloride). Nuclei also reacted blue with Giemsa in cells probed by the TUNEL assay.
3080131|A new genus is recognized on the basis of winddispersed fruits from the Eocene of western North America and Miocene of eastern Asia. The fruits consist of an accrescent hypogynous calyx of five obovate sepals and one or more globose fruit bodies. Although the fossils were formerly placed in the extant genera
4619790|Nucleotide sequences of seven chloroplast (
2995711|Cliffs of the Niagara Escarpment, Ontario, Canada have recently been shown to support an ancient forest dominated by Thuja occidentalis. Most of the trees are stunted and deformed, but the processes responsible for this have not been investigated. To deal with this problem, cores, cross sections, and intact trees of Thuja occidentalis up to 1,032 yr old were examined at sites along the escarpment. Radial growth rates as low as 0.05 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> were found, but greater rates were found in the very oldest stems, which were also characterized by extensive cambial dieback and strip-bark growth. Less than 2% of the potential cambial surface was present in some trees. Few specimens over 100 yr old were free of cambial disruption, and most had lost half of their cambium between the ages of 130 and 280 yr. Loss of cambium and morphological distortion appear to be the result of the accumulation of point sources of damage over time; exfoliation of rock from beneath trees is suspected to be the principal stimulus. These growth, developmental, and ecological properties are similar to those described for Pinus longaeva. Both species show constrained growth, cambial mortality, and gross modifications to morphology. In addition, both species show great age only when cambial mortality is extensive. Despite the gross distortions of morphology, a 344-yr chronology was constructed from 28 cross-dated tree-ring series. Given the success to date in locating older individuals at many sites, the prospects are good for a millennia-long chronology for southern Ontario that can be used for climatic reconstruction.
20533033|Many epacrids (Ericales: Ericaceae: Styphelioideae) possess the highly unusual character of variable sterility of some members of the pollen tetrad, producing tetrads, triads, dyads, and monads. In
30130544|Little is known about how the effects of mechanical perturbation (MP) on clonal semishrubs vary with soil water in inland dune ecosystems. To investigate this, a greenhouse experiment was conducted in which the seedlings of the clonal semishrub
3691726|Flower symmetry is of special interest in understanding the evolution and ecology of angiosperms. Evidence from the Antirrhineae (within the lamiid clade of Asteridae) indicates that several TCP gene family transcription factors, especially
3691578|We investigated the sexual system, floral biology, sporogenesis, and gametogenesis of
2995849|Studies of anatomical changes in longleaf pine (
2474893| The influence of age on conidial ultrastructure was investigated in Colletotrichum graminicola. The cytoplasmic volume of young conidia-those harvested from 5-7-d-old cultures-was dominated by lipid bodies. These conidia also were characterized by numerous small vacuoles with electron-dense contents. Other structures present included mitochondria, microbodies, ribosomes, elements of tubular ER, short strands of rough ER, multivesicular bodies, simple cisternal elements, Woronin bodies, microtubules, and large amounts of what appeared to be glycogen. Older conidia harvested from 30-35-d-old cultures exhibited a significantly different ultrastructure. They contained fewer lipid bodies, lacked the large glycogen deposits, were very highly vacuolate, and contained sheetlike strands of ER and extensive aggregations of tubular ER. Structures thought to be autophagic vacuoles also were present. The conidial wall appeared similar in conidia of both ages and consisted of a thicker inner electron-transparent layer and a very thin outer layer composed of fine electron-dense fibers. The inner layer stained moderately for polysaccharides and could be labeled with wheat germ agglutinin-gold complexes indicating the presence of chitin. The outer layer stained intensely for polysaccharides but did not label with wheat germ agglutinin. The outer surface of the conidium could be labeled with -amylase-gold complexes specific for -1,4 glucans. The observed changes in ultrastructure may serve as indicators of physiological changes that affect the ability of the fungus to survive. 
3080137|
               
10.1086/667798|Twenty-first-century agriculture faces the challenges of providing sufficient calories and nutrients to feed a growing human population despite climate change, increasing competition for freshwater from human and industrial use, and limited arable land. This review summarizes current knowledge concerning quantitative trait loci (QTL) and natural allelic variants in
2474862|The stages of pollination, ovule and megagametophyte development, and pollen tube penetration of the nucellus are described for Kauri (Agathis australis [Lambert] Steud.) growing in New Zealand. Kauri has a 2-yr reproductive cycle with pollination and ovule initiation occurring in October and fertilization about 1 yr later, and seeds mature about March of the second year. Pollen germinates on the bract in December or January and forms a 5-6-mm pollen tube that grows to the micropyle. During ovule development the nucellus grows out of the micropyle. Pollen tubes grow over the exposed nucellar surface, then in March penetrate the nucellus and grow around the megagametophyte. Megaspore meiosis occurs in December, and a free nuclear megagametophyte develops by March. This is followed by a 4-5-mo period when little development occurs. The megagametophyte develops rapidly in September and is mature in October when fertilization occurs. Archegonial development and ultrastructure are described and discussed in relation to other conifer families.
3080267|Sequences of the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions and morphology were employed to construct the phylogeny for
3080286|
               
4619791|Plant mitochondrial DNA is generally characterized by slow sequence drift but frequent genomic recombination. Accordingly, gene sequences in plant mitochondria are informative for old cladogenic events, whereas intergenic regions have so far not been considered for phylogenetic reconstruction because high recombinational activity rearranges mitochondrial gene orders too frequently. Here we report that an ancient gene continuity, the
3080253|The three terminal cladode junction regions along branches of four arborescent platyopuntias
3080041|Sequences of nuclear internal transcribed spacers (ITS) and plastid
2995560|Cladodes (stem segments) of platyopuntias generally lose water as ambient temperatures decrease, even when the plants are in wet soil. Two weeks after shifting plants from day/night air temperatures of 30<sup></sup>C/20<sup></sup>C to 10<sup></sup>C/1<sup></sup>C, cladode thickness decreased 15% for Opuntia ficus-indica and 25% for Opuntia polyacantha. During this period, daily transpirational water loss gradually decreased, but root water uptake from the soil immediately decreased about 90%. As the temperature was decreased from 30<sup></sup>C to 0<sup></sup>C, the root hydraulic conductivity (L<sub>p</sub>) for excised root segments also decreased about 90%, with larger fractional decreases occurring at lower temperatures. The large decrease in L<sub>p</sub> at the lower temperatures was chiefly responsible for the accompanying cladode desiccation. Such net loss of cladode water is apparently essential for certain cacti to survive seasonally cold periods in the field.
10.1086/678466|
               
4122599|
               
10.1086/668223|The genus
2995796|Morphology, chemical composition, and photosynthetic capacity of leaf laminas were investigated in
2474971|Small pieces of sterile dialysis membrane were touched to sporulating colonies of the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei and either cryofixed within 5 s or incubated for 30 min or 2 h before cryofixation. Following freeze substitution and processing for study with transmission electron microscopy, thin sections of conidia on dialysis membrane were examined ultrastructurally. Each conidium was surrounded by a copious deposit of an extracellular matrix (ECM) material. ECM deposits developed as soon as conidia contacted membranes and persisted for the duration of the 2-h time period of this study. While only a thin layer of ECM was present between the central portion of the underside of each conidium and the underlying membrane, ECM filled the space between the curved conidium surface and the membrane and extended halfway or more up the surface of the conidium. The ECM spread out away from the conidium onto the membrane for a distance of up to 30 m. Strands of ECM also extended up over some conidia. Most conidia were not in direct contact with their respective ECM deposits, and some were displaced totally from their deposits, which adhered closely to membranes. The Thiery stain for polysaccharides gave little if any staining of the ECM. Gold labeling for mannose residues in the matrix using Conconavilin A was negative.
10.1086/653133|
               
3079976|The last decade of the twentieth century has witnessed a period of renewed interest, redefinition of questions, and some dramatic advances toward resolving some of the longstanding issues related to the developmental regulation of leaf morphogenesis. New interest has been sparked by the application of developmental genetics, molecular biology, and mosaic analysis to the study of genetic model species. The integration of knowledge gained from these newer approaches with that derived from more than a century of comparative developmental morphology is crucial for advancing understanding of leaf morphogenesis. This link is particularly important for the interpretation of mutant phenotypes and gene expression patterns. In this brief review article, we provide a general framework for the study of leaf morphogenesis and identify areas where we believe that important issues remain unresolved.
2995671|Adventitious buds formed on the hypocotyl and roots of Virginia buttonweed (Diodia virginiana L.) approximately 2-4 wk after germination. Buds arose either singly or in clusters from within the phellogen in the outer starch storage parenchyma. Many of the buds were spatially associated with lateral roots. Adventitious root primordia arose endogenously from caudexes and aerial shoots. Survival of adventitious roots required contact of the nodal region with soil or a moist surface. Shoot emergence and the number of shoots emerged per root segment increased with temperature and were greatest at 35 C, while time to shoot emergence decreased below 35 C. Maximum rooting of stem segments occurred at 30 C. No rooting from stem segments or shoot emergence from root segments occurred after 1 h or more exposure to - 10 C, and 100% regeneration occurred after 0 C at all exposure periods. Shoot emergence from root segments following 1 h exposure at -5 C was 95%, compared with 15% after 8 h. Root segments failed to produce shoot growth after drying for 4 h at 30 C. Shoot emergence from buried root segments increased as rootsegment length increased and planting depth decreased.
2475098|The annual dunegrass Triplasis purpurea exhibits a position-dependent seed heteromorphism. From the lower to the upper nodes along a tiller of an individual there is an increase in the number of seeds set on leaf sheath-enclosed axillary panicles and a decrease in seed mass. Between individuals, seed number and mass are most affected by microenvironmental conditions. The interactive effects of maturation position and maternal nutrient environment on seed heteromorphism, germination, and seedling growth were investigated. Field-collected seedlings from two populations on Staten Island, N.Y., were grown in the greenhouse and subjected to three maternal environments: (1) high nutrients (3 g/L fertilizer every 2 wk), (2) medium nutrients (1.5 g/L every 2 wk), and (3) low nutrients (tap water). The seed number at each tiller node was recorded and mature tillers with sheath-enclosed, intact seeds were separated into fragments by node and subjected to a germination trial. For one population, seeds were also removed from leaf sheaths. The effects of node position and maternal environment on seedling growth were also studied. High soil nutrients resulted in significant enhancement of germination. For one population, germination increased with increasing node position. Seeds from emergent, terminal panicles showed the greatest germination. Removal of the leaf sheath increased the speed of germination. Root and shoot dry mass was greatest for seedlings from seeds of maternal parents in the high-nutrient environment. Shoot dry mass was also greater for seedlings from heavier, lower-node seeds (relative to lighter, upper-node seeds). In the heterogeneous dune habitat, fitness for this annual species, expressed as seed mass and seed production by an individual, may be influenced by soil that is relatively higher in nutrients in a way that increases the likelihood of successful seedling establishment the following year.
30139307|Evolutionary transitions between hermaphroditism and dioecy have occurred numerous times in the land plants. We briefly review the factors thought to be responsible for these transitions, and we provide a synthesis of what has been learned from recent studies of the annual herb
10.1086/668225|Three aspects of palynology in which core questions remain unanswered are reviewed. These are (1) the function of the huge range of types of exine sculpture of iso- and microspores that they share with many of those seen in angiosperm pollen; (2) the selective value of multiple apertures in eudicot pollen; and (3) the worldwide spread of very similar striate bisaccate pollen, apparently derived from at least three separate and very different gymnosperm plant groups in the Permo-Trias, when the macrofloras of that time show such strong biogeographic segregation.
2474926|Permineralized sporangia from Late Permian sediments of the Amery Group in the Prince Charles Mountains, East Antarctica, are assigned to Arberiella sp. cf. A. africana Pant and Nautiyal. These sporangia contain between 2000 and 3000 taeniate, saccate pollen grains that are predominantly haploxylonoid bisaccate and referable to the palynotaxon Protohaploxypinus limpidus (Balme and Hennelly) Balme and Playford. However, the sporangia also contain greater than 4% of diploxylonoid bisaccate forms comparable to Striatopodocarpidites cancellatus (Balme and Hennelly) Hart 1963, together with sporadic monosaccate and trisaccate grains that, if found dispersed, would be assigned to several different pollen form genera. Morphometric analysis of in situ bisaccate pollen grains and taeniate bisaccate pollen in the dispersed palynoflora indicates that in situ grains occupy only the smaller end of the total size range. The tendency for in situ grains to cluster into two different size groups may reflect differential predispersal expansion of the corpus. The in situ pollen grains are variable in most qualitative and quantitative features used for taxonomic discrimination of dispersed taeniate bisaccate pollen, and this may lead to unreliable estimates of Late Permian floristic diversity if an overly restrictive species delimitation scheme is used.
10.1086/650160|Using scanning electron microscopy of hand sections of alcoholfixed material, microstructure of primary xylem of roots, stems, and rhizomes of
3874615|Anatomically preserved specimens of globose staminate and pistillate inflorescences belonging to Platanaceae have been found in concretions at the Eocene Appian Way fossil locality on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. The structure of inflorescences and individual flowers, vascular architecture, and pollen morphology were examined. Flowers occur on globose unisexual heads and are supplied at their bases by branching pentagonal vascular traces. Flowers of staminate inflorescences have a welldeveloped perianth with at least two whorls of tepals. Five stamens with elongate anthers surround a single whorl of five (rarely four) free, nonfunctional carpels that are ovate in longitudinal section and roughly triangular in transverse section.
2474913|Two isophosphatases were identified in senescing Marchantia polymorpha thalli. Ethylene elevated total phosphatase activity by 133%-155%. Spermine reduced total phosphatase activity by 135%-175%. Simultaneous treatment with ethylene and spermine led to a 120%-163% decrease in activity compared with ethylene treatment alone. The increase in phosphatase levels associated with ethylene treatment suggests that this enzyme is associated with senescence in Marchantia. An antisenescence function for spermine is also indicated.
4122584|Bayesian analyses of a threegene, 567taxon (560 angiosperms, seven outgroups) data set revealed the analytical challenges posed by such large data sets. Determining stationarity in Markov chains for such large data sets is difficult. In more than 30 analyses of up to 10 million generations each (with an average run time of 45 d), loglikelihood plots showed that runs can stabilize for several million generations before making jumps in likelihood scores. Simultaneous independent runs reached apparent stationarity as early as 2 million generations and as late as 9.7 million generations, suggesting that (
4619814|Maternal plant responses to different levels of pollination vary and are of importance for the total fitness of the plant. We studied how varying pollen load affects late flowering, reproduction, and growth of maternal plants.
10.1086/683339|
               
2475066|Electron microscopical examination of foliar appendages of Helichrysum aureonitens Sch. Bip. has revealed two types of trichomes. The nonsecreting type consisting of four cells form a dense mass of long, fibrous hairs, covering the entire surface of the shoot. The glandular secreting type are few in number, club shaped, and consist of several cells. Glandular trichomes consist of secretory cells with dense cytoplasm, free ribosomes, numerous cisternae of endoplasmic reticulum, and scattered mitochondria. Secretions accumulate in a cavity beneath a sheath derived from separation of the cuticularized outer wall surface of the top tier of secretory cells and are released to the outside when the cavity ruptures. Only the apical pair of cells participate in secretion. Cells of both types have plastids without thylakoids. We hypothesize that the active therapeutic compounds (probably flavonoids) secreted by H. aureonitens are produced by the endoplasmic reticulum in the glandular trichomes.
3079965|Molecular and morphological phylogenetic studies in the Laurales have found that Hernandiaceae, Lauraceae, and Monimiaceae
2995765|Flower morphology and development of nine species belonging to seven genera and two tribes of Passifloraceae and of
3691802|The legume subfamily Caesalpinioideae forms a basal grade in the family, within which the subfamilies Mimosoideae and Papilionoideae are nested. Monophyletic groups within Caesalpinioideae include the tribes Cercideae, which is grouped sister to all remaining legumes, and Detarieae s.l., which is monophyletic only if the monospecific genus
10.1086/666666|Genetic patterns in
3080322|The structure of enlarged roots was compared with that of ordinary (slender) roots in the same plant or in closely related species. Typically, enlarged roots differed from closely related ordinary roots. Six types of structural modifications, occurring in various combinations, contributed to enlargement. (1) Metaxylem and the innermost secondary xylem was dilatated by proliferation of parenchyma in all enlarged roots. (2)(4) Most enlarged roots had much more wood than did ordinary roots of similar age, but there were three types of wood: fibrous wood with abundant rays, nonfibrous wood with a parenchyma matrix, and nonfibrous wood with a wideband tracheid matrix. Within each type of wood, rays could be voluminous or not. (5) In a few enlarged roots, secondary phloem constituted between onehalf and twothirds of root volume. (6) In several roots, there was an outermost, thick layer of parenchyma, which may be proliferated pericycle. No roots had anomalous secondary growth, and none had a succulent cortex, which is the basis of succulence and enlargement of cactus shoots. Surprisingly, some ordinary roots also had these characters but had remained slender; a root may have these features without also having an increased production of secondary xylem.
3080110|Eleven new salicaceous taxa based on fossil leaves, seven
2995804|Genetic isolation among strains of the plant pathogenic fungus
3079998|Members of Loasaceae subfamily Gronovioideae have distinctive flowers compared to those of other members of the family. In contrast to all other Loasaceae, they have haplostemonous androecia and uniovulate gynoecia. The haplostemonous androecia are paedomorphic. The two major clades of gronovioids(1)
2475184|Pollen ultrastructure of the biovulate Euphorbiaceae, including the subfamilies Phyllanthoideae and Oldfieldioideae, was investigated with light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopy. Pollen of Phyllanthoideae, represented by 12 species in nine genera, was prolate to oblate, almost always 3-colporate, rarely 3-porate or pantoporate, and mostly with reticulate, rarely baculate, echinate, or scabrate, sculpturing. The ektexine showed little variation in ultrastructure; almost without exception it was tectate-columellate with a homogeneous foot layer, columellae continuous with both the tectum and the foot layer, and a perforate, homogeneous tectum. The only major exception was Amanoa guianensis, which was intectate and baculate as the result of the evolutionary loss of the tectum. Pollen of Oldfieldioideae, in which we studied 28 species from 25 genera, and obtained data from the literature for two of the three remaining genera in the subfamily, was globose to oblate, with four or more, rarely only three, apertures that were either equatorial and brevicolporate to porate or pantoporate, and with echinate, rarely scabrate, sculpturing. The ektexine showed considerable variation in ultrastructure. The most widespread structural type consisted of a foot layer that is either thin and irregular or absent, an interstitium composed of irregular to columellate exine deposits that are discontinuous from the foot layer, if present, and a tectum composed of laterally appressed baculate elements that delimit fine microperforations. A second common structural type differed in having a relatively thick, homogeneous foot layer and thin, granular to tabular, microperforate tectum. Isolated genera have a reduced interstitium and/or a homogeneous tectum or show a reversal to a tectate-columellate architecture. Variation in aperture morphology, sculpturing, and exine ultrastructure is phylogenetically significant in the Oldfieldioideae.
2474999|Seasonal changes in leaf specific mass, nitrogen, chlorophyll, and photosynthetic properties were measured for two groups of spatially intermixed Quercus douglasii trees with different drought histories and apparently different root architectures. One group, referred to as "
10.1086/683278|
               
3691708|In many clonal species, seedling establishment is restricted to early successional stages when recruitment is still possible. Then, one expects that adapted genotypes become dominant and genotypic and genetic diversity should decrease with time. We investigated genotypic and genetic diversity within recently founded and established populations of the common weed
3691892|The stability of the mutualism between figs and their pollinator wasps depends on the patterns of seed and wasp production. In
2475165|This comparative study of the monophyletic Stirlingia, Synaphea, and Conospermum (Proteaceae) aims to understand the morphology and function of the flowers as well as to determine the developmental processes responsible for extensive synorganization and floral architectural divergence. The diverse floral architectures among these taxa result from independent developmental processes, both morphogenetic and histogenic, as well as regional modularization of floral organs. Most of the structures and the underlying developmental processes associated with synorganization are present in all of the taxa, including fused tepal claws, coherent anthers, stamen adnation to the tepals, and style-filament and filament-filament support. In Synaphea and most Conospermum spp., the tepal limbs are fused, and there is support between the stamens and style involved with pollination syndromes. These are the products of changes in the timing of developmental events and/or relative shifts in the location of these events. Among Conospermum flowers, a novel support/enclosure feature between the adaxial and abaxial stamens and middle region of the style results from greater cellular differentiation. In Synaphea, the novel synorganization of staminode and stigma appears to be the product of differences in the timing (both accelerated and delayed) of expression of four different developmental processes. Divergence among the three genera appears related to a shift in symmetry from actinomorphy (Stirlingia) to zygomorphy (Conospermum and Synaphea). Synaphea and most species of Conospermum have a bilabiate perianth and a partially sterile androecium although the sterility is found in different halves of the flower (abaxial half of androecium is sterile in Conospermum, and the adaxial half is sterile in Synaphea). The hypothesis that zygomorphy and the bilabiate condition arose separately in each lineage is tentatively supported by developmental differences. Stigma diversity among the three genera results from different expressions of marginal meristematic growth (a novelty in the clade). Most developmental processes are shared among taxa and vary only in their timing and duration of expression. The variation results in both elaborations and altered spatial relationships among the structures.
10.1086/655771|Fossil fruits confirm that cornelian cherries (
30139312|The evolutionary transition from diploidy to polyploidy is prevalent in flowering plants and may result in correlated changes in mating system (outcrossing rate). Most theory predicts a shift toward selffertilization (decrease in outcrossing) in polyploids, but empirical evidence for this pattern and its underlying mechanisms is inconclusive or restricted to a few cases. In an analysis of variation in outcrossing rates among diploidpolyploid species pairs from the literature, polyploids had lower outcrossing rates (higher selfing;
2475171|I review my research on the evolution of floral morphology in wild radish, Raphanus raphanistrum. A comparative study of patterns of phenotypic correlations among floral traits in five species indicated that selection may have acted to increase the correlation between filament and corolla tube lengths in wild radish and two other species. This high correlation maintains a similar position of the anthers relative to the opening of the corolla tube, regardless of flower size, which may be important for effective pollination. Quantitative genetic analysis shows that the high phenotypic correlation between these two traits is caused by a high genetic correlation. Preliminary results from a long-term random mating study suggest that this genetic correlation is a result of pleiotropy, not linkage disequilibrium. Measurements of the effects of anther position on pollen removal by pollinators and estimates of natural selection on floral morphology failed to produce evidence for selection to increase the correlation between filament and corolla tube lengths. In fact, there was little selection on floral morphology overall, and the only strong selection on morphology that occurred was through differences in female fitness, not male fitness, contrary to theoretical expectations.
IJPS40998|Phylogenetic relationships of
2995595|Seasonal tissue water relations were measured in co-occurring saplings of Quercus velutina Lam., Quercus prinus L., Sassafras albidum (Nutt.) Nees, and Acer rubrum L. from adjacent open and understory sites in the central Pennsylvania barrens. Open-growing plants exhibited greater and earlier phenological shifts in osmotic potentials under moist conditions, whereas understory plants had greater osmotic adjustment during a mild, late-season drought. Sassafras albidum was an exception, exhibiting steadily declining osmotic potentials at full and zero turgor over the course of the season on both sites. Elastic modulus () steadily increased for all species on the open site, while A. rubrum showed a decrease and S. albidum and Q. velutina showed an increase in  in the understory. Relative water content at zero turgor (RWC<sub>0</sub>) was similar in the understory and open sites except during the drought period when understory plants had lower values. Quercus prinus generally exhibited the lowest RWC<sub>0</sub> values, although A. rubrum, a later successional species, had a seasonal decrease in RWC<sub>0</sub> at both sites. Thus, each species exhibited somewhat unique combinations of seasonal osmotic and elastic adjustment, which acted in concert to balance tissue water loss with turgor maintenance under changing environmental conditions. These results indicate that a variety of ecophysiological mechanisms operate to allow species of different successional rank to tolerate open and understory barrens environments.
2995580|Ovulate cones in most Podocarpaceae consist of one or more fertile units, each composed of a fertile bract subtending an axillary epimatium that supports a single adaxial inverted ovule. Cones may consist of numerous units, up to ca. 20 in Microcachrys, but show progressive reduction in different taxa to the ultimate condition in which there is only a single pseudoterminal ovular unit. In the development of the ovular complex the solitary ovule arises from the surface of the preexisting epimatium. The sequence of parts is acropetal, rather than basipetal as previously reported. The consistency of the developmental process supports the hypothesis that the function of the epimatium is to produce an inverted ovule, essential for pollen scavenging via an extended pollination drop. Cone structure and position in relation to shoot construction, phenology of cone development, and correlation between the timing of development in cones and parent shoots are all shown to be interrelated.
3691640|The genus
20533059|We investigated the population genetic structure of the invasive plant
3080082|Populations of distylous species contain two floral morphs that differ in the position of sexual organs and incompatibility relationships. In addition, secondary characteristics may distinguish flowers of the two morphs. Rarely, however, are color polymorphisms associated with the distylous syndrome.
2995780|The objective of this study was to determine whether increased temperature and CO
2475254|In dioecious species, reproductive allocation in females and males may differ as a result of the different reproductive functions and needs of the two sexes. In Silene latifolia (Caryophyllaceae), males invested a total of 11% more biomass in flowers than females. However, individual female flowers were 2.6 times heavier than individual male flowers (on a dry mass basis), had significantly heavier sepals and pedicels, but not petals, and exceeded male flowers for five linear measures. Individual female flowers also contained 2.7 times more N and 2.9 times more P than individual male flowers. In females, N (on a mg/mg basis) was concentrated in ovules, nectary, petals, and styles and P was concentrated in ovules, nectary, styles, and petals. In males, N and P were concentrated in anthers, anthophor, and petals. Within flowers, the three currencies did not always predict each other, as anthers in males and ovules and styles in females contained higher, while sepals in both sexes contained lower, proportions of both nutrients than of biomass. Flower number was highly influenced by gender, pollination, and architecture. Males produced 2.9 times more flowers than unpollinated females and 14.3 times more flowers than pollinated females. In females, pollination of flowers on one of the two main inflorescence branches significantly reduced the number of flowers produced on that branch, both in comparison to the other inflorescence branch on the same plant and in comparison to the corresponding branch on control plants. Flower number also differed between the two inflorescence branches on control plants, indicating the importance of plant architecture on flower production. It is clear that selection can lead to different reproductive allocation patterns in females and males and that these patterns may vary depending on currency and in response to pollination and architecture in females.
3080170|It has been postulated that the plasticity to shading of spacing organs in plants of different growth habit is more likely related to the analogy of organs than to their homology. Accordingly, vertical spacers (internodes in erect species, petioles in prostrate species) should be more plastic than horizontal spacers (petioles in erect species, internodes in prostrate species). This hypothesis was tested in the climbing plant
10.1086/673884|
               
10.1086/674452|
               
10.1086/665975|We surveyed the phylogenetic distribution of far-red high-irradiance responses (FR-HIRs), which are important for early development of seedlings in shaded habitats, in exemplar species across seed plants to test whether the responses are unique to angiosperms and may have helped early angiosperms colonize the understory of Mesozoic forests dominated by ferns and gymnosperms. We show that dark-grown seedlings in most seed plants adopt an etiolated morphology and that being green in the dark is a derived condition in some conifers and gnetophytes. We also show that FR-HIR-induced seedling de-etiolation, mediated by phytochrome, is widely distributed in seed plants. Together, these data show that despite the ability of gymnosperms to green in the dark, most of them do not do so but link seedling development to light signals, as do angiosperms. Our data refute an obvious link between the origin of FR-HIRs and the signal of positive selection at the
IJPS40892|Early Cretaceous platanoid species are presented, based on observations of isolated organs from the Braun Ranch locality, Kansas, and the Yankee Hill I locality, Nebraska. Approximately 500 leaf specimens and 238 infructescence specimens have been studied in detail. The reproductive axis may contain up to 37 sessile, globose infructescences. Fruits are small achenes and lack dispersal hairs. The leaves are typically three-lobed, with basal or suprabasal actinodromous or palinactinodromous venation. Secondary venation is dominantly craspedodromous. Typically, one secondary vein extends into each tooth and is accompanied by tertiary or higher-order veins, which form a series of ascending loops. Tertiary veins are percurrent, with those in the axils of primary-primary and primary-secondary veins forming a V-shaped pattern. Conically inflated petiole bases are hollow and enclose axillary buds. Stipules are triangular and small and are observed only on immature leaves. The repeated and common co-occurrence of leaves and reproductive structures and their close association at a small clay pit in Cloud County, Kansas, indicates that they are organs from one plant species. This report provides new information on the early diversity of the Platanaceae in the fossil record during the Early Cretaceous.
2475058|The reproductive cycle of Kauri (Agathis australis) lasts about 18 mo in New Zealand. Pollination occurs in October and seeds are mature in March. Prefertilization stages were described in a previous study. In October, about 1 yr after pollination, megagametophytes matured. Pollen tubes had penetrated and branched around the megagametophyte the previous March. The tube cell contained several prothallial cells, a tube nucleus, and a large body cell. The tube cell and body cell contained many lipid droplets. The egg lacked lipid droplets. The body cell divided, forming two large equal-size male gametes sharing a common combined body-cell and tube-cell cytoplasm. Male nuclei included some body-cell cytoplasm and organelles. In mid-October pollen tubes penetrated the megaspore wall and central neck cells, and then released their contents into the egg cytoplasm. One male gamete and a mass of paternal cytoplasm moved to the egg nucleus. As the male and egg nuclei fused, the mass of paternal cytoplasm, distinguished by the many lipid droplets, settled over and enshrouded the zygote nucleus. Egg perinuclear cytoplasm was pushed aside and the neocytoplasm was made up of paternal cytoplasm originating from some tube-cell cytoplasm but primarily body-cell cytoplasm and male and egg nucleoplasm. Plastids and mitochondria for the proembryo were thus of paternal origin. Gamete structure and development, fertilization, and the ultrastructural mechanism for cytoplasmic inheritance in Agathis are compared to that in other conifer families.
2474974|Poor winter survival often limits the successful persistence of perennial Pennisetum species to the warmest areas of the southern United States. To investigate winter survival in Pennisetum, conductance measurements were used to evaluate changes in electrolyte leakage as an indicator of freezing tolerance of selected species using field-grown plants, growth chamber-grown seedlings, and callus tissue. A buffelgrass (Pennisetum ciliare [L.] Link syn Cenchrus ciliaris L.) x birdwoodgrass (C. setigerus L.) hybrid (BxBW) with poor winter survival at College Station, Texas, a moderately winter-hardy buffelgrass genotype (PI 409704), and a winter-hardy species (P. orientale L. C. Rich. cv. Cowboy) were tested in the field in 1989-1990. Tiller bases were collected in December, January, March, and April, with the freezing tolerance estimated by the electrolyte leakage method. The freeze tolerance of PI 409704 in December was similar to Cowboy and significantly greater than BxBW, however, only Cowboy survived the 1989-1990 winter in the field. Seedlings of two winter-hardy species, Cowboy and P. flaccidum Griseb. cv. Carostan, two moderately winter-hardy species P. mezianum Leeke, PI 214061 and PI 409704, and a buffelgrass cultivar with poor winter hardiness (Common) were grown at either 20
4122607|A new species of permineralized ovule is reported from a previously undocumented diverse fossil plant assemblage preserved in volcaniclastic tuff from the Late Permian Xuanwei Formation at the Huopu coal mine in Guizhou Province, China. The ovule is large and platyspermic, with 180 rotational symmetry. It has a pronounced commissure that distally divides the integument into two valves. The integument comprises a twopart sarcotesta, a sclerotesta also divided into two parts, and an endotesta that is unusually thick in the central part of the ovule and at the apex. Fusion of the nucellus to the integument occurs only at the chalaza, and the nucellar apex is small, consisting of a proximal pollen chamber and a distally extending tubular projection. A single vascular bundle enters the base of the ovule and divides in the major plane at the boundary of the inner and outer sarcotesta to form two integumentary bundles, one to each side of the ovule, with the nucellar bundle continuing to the base of the nucellus, where it forms a small vascular cup. The gross morphology and the pattern of vascularization of the ovule fit the circumscription of the morphogenus
IJPS40984|This study marks a significant increase in the number of species and genetic loci used in reconstructing the phylogeny of
3691550|Previous studies have shown that the nectarfeeding bat,
3080013|This study deals specifically with floral organogenesis and the development of the inflorescence of
2475186|The primary endophyte of Ileostylus micranthus has a radial shaft that gives rise to lateral flanges in host cambia of successive years. Interfacial contacts normally involve abutments of endophytic parenchyma cells with host secondary xylem cells. Host xylem is never penetrated, and sinker-like processes are absent. Endophytic flanges consist of outermost contact cells, endophytic cortex, and innermost vascular core tissues. Endophytic contact cells have thickened walls, large nuclei, numerous mitochondria and plasmatubules, and densely staining cytoplasm. Contact cells appear metabolically active during endoplasmic reticulum-mediated synthesis of osmiophilic substances. The vascular core comprises discrete collateral bundles. Xylem is very parenchymatous; vessels and fibers are present. Endophytic phloem includes functional sieve elements with associated companion cells. Intrahaustorial collapsed zones develop in cortical and vascular tissues. The host-parasite interface is a zone of dense-staining, crushed cells that originate from host and parasite tissues. Large-scale enzymatic digestion of interfacial cells is not apparent. Suberin-like layers and "dense-plugging" substances develop in the walls of less than 1% of endophytic contact cells. Some host xylem vessels near the endophyte develop suberin-like layers, and vessel lumens become occluded with dense and reticulate substances. These sealing phenomena are highly local and do not significantly disrupt the apoplastic continuity of the host-parasite interface as a whole.
2475326|Actaea rubra is a member of the Ranunculaceae in which the number and positions of petals are variable. To understand the process by which this variation arises, we used epi-illumination microscopy to study floral development in the species. We found that four sepal primordia initiate in two pairs, one outer and one inner. Then four primordia form in alternation with the sepal primordia, followed by the initiation of six primordia in opposition to the sepal primordia (one primordium opposite each outer sepal primordium, and two opposite each inner sepal primordium). These first 10 small, rounded primordia can develop into either petals or stamens, but they cannot be discerned in early stages because the primordia are very similar in size and shape. Subsequently, numerous primordia that usually develop into stamens initiate in alternation with previously formed primordia, and the floral apex terminates in a crescent-shaped gynoecial primordium. Petal and stamen primordia can be distinguished in later stages when petal primordia are small and flattened in appearance, whereas stamen primordia have anther sacs. At maturity petals are small, white, and spatulate-shaped, and stamens have long, slender filaments and oval anthers. Examination of these later stages showed that the number and positions of petals are not constant. We therefore mapped petal and stamen positions in more mature floral buds and found that petals most frequently occupied the positions that alternate with the sepals. However, a comparison of the positions that petals and stamens occupy in different flowers showed that petals could form in what were usually stamen positions, and stamens could form in what were usually petal positions. We interpret this as an example of homeosis occurring within and among plants of A. rubra. When the floral morphology of Actaea is compared with that of related taxa, various phylogenetic interpretations of homeosis can be hypothesized, depending on the putative outgroup condition.
2475211|Male reproductive structures among extant Gnetales display a high level of morphological correspondence. The two primary architectural elements in the male reproductive structures are cones and flowers. Cones consist of an axis with bracts at each of the nodes and flowers that are positioned in the axils of the bracts or on an annular mound located above the bracts at each of the nodes. Flowers of the extant genera have both a perianth and androecium. The perianth of all three genera has bracts in anterior and posterior positions, but Welwitschia has an additional pair of lateral bracts. The androecium of all three extant genera appears to be structurally homologous with a pair of highly synorganized microsporophylls. Diversity is present among the extant genera at both the cone and flower levels of organization. Some aspects of diversification, such as the introduction of sterile ovules into male reproductive structures, have affected both the cone and flower levels of organization. Extant Gnetales appear to have radiated into most of the basic "morphological spaces" available to them for the placement of ovules. This may reflect enhancements for reproductive ecology, especially the attraction of insect pollinators, that are available when sterile ovules are present. Diversity among the extant Gnetales is strongly biased in two aspects of development: phyllotaxy and synorganization. All male reproductive structures appear to have the phyllotactic constraint of forming more than one appendage per node (or forming a concrescent unit derived from the unification of structures that were more or less separate in an ancestor), and those of most species have a decussate arrangement of appendages along the reproductive axes. Appendages at nearly all nodes of male reproductive structures are synorganized, but within this bias they display various degrees of connation. The complete unification of nodal appendages has created distinctive forms in Gnetum relative to Ephedra and Welwitschia. The arguments presented for recognizing structural homologies among the features of male reproductive structures of Gnetales should provide a stronger framework for coding characters and their states for phylogenetic analyses and for the discussion of morphological diversity among seed plants.
2995690|The morphology and histology of the ovary is investigated in four species representing the four genera of the family Costaceae. Only one species of Costus has been investigated prior to this study. The present study identifies new characters and confirms or corrects those previously reported for all four genera. Aspects of ovary structure studied include the general topography and histology of the ovary, paths of the stylar canals, the prolongation of the ovary above the locules, the presence of a vascular plexus at the top of the ovary, and the position and structure of the floral nectary. These characters contribute to a broader data base for phylogenetic analysis of the Zingiberales.
2475207|Despite substantial evolutionary interest in the order Gnetales as the extant group of seed plants most similar to the angiosperms, our knowledge of systematic relationships within the genera of the group remains quite limited. The most recent worldwide monograph of Ephedra is that of Stapf (1889), while the only worldwide systematic treatment of Gnetum is that of Markgraf (1930). This article summarizes our current knowledge of the relationships among the ca. 50 species of Ephedra and the ca 39 species of Gnetum and the relationships between these two genera and the monotypic Welwitschia. Preliminary phylogenetic analyses of rbcL gene sequences, including three species each of Ephedra and Gnetum, provide further support for the monophyly of the Gnetales relative to the other extant groups of seed plants and for the sister-group relationship of Ephedra and Gnetum.
2475363|We examined the effect of changes in soil water table on the water relations, leaf gas exchange, and aboveground biomass of three riparian graminoids native to the semiarid western United States: Carex lanuginosa, Juncus balticus, and Carex nebrascensis. All three species co-occur at the wettest microhabitats within riparian corridors, but J. balticus and C. nebrascensis extend into drier areas. Lowering the water table to 1 m had little effect on the leaf gas exchange characteristics of the three graminoids. In the greenhouse, experimental reductions of the water table when plants had three fully mature leaves did not affect gas exchange rates or water potential in any of the three species. Lowering the water table when plants had one fully mature leaf resulted in limited differences between plants grown under high and low water table in J. balticus and C. lanuginosa. Further, these differences were only apparent after long periods of depressed water table (19 wk). In the field, rates of leaf gas exchange did not differ between plants growing near the creek from those occurring distant from the creek. Three factors contribute to the ability of these riparian graminoids to maintain favorable gas exchange and water relations across a range of water table depths. Each species appears to adjust rooting depth to, or just above, the shallow saturated zone. In the field, C. nebrascensis and J. balticus exhibited reductions of aboveground live biomass at locations far from the creek compared to those near the creek. Small adjustments of osmotic potential and the bulk modulus of elasticity help cells of C. nebrascensis and J. balticus maintain turgor as water table drops during the season. The limited distribution of C. lanuginosa near the creek may result, in part, from a higher biomass allocation to leaves and a less efficient water transport from roots to leaves, particularly when depressions of the water table occur during early growth stages.
2474882|Seed development was investigated by light microscopy in early- and late-flowering bunches of the grapevine cv Chardonnay on days 4, 14, 28, and 42 after the first flowers opened and at berry maturity (98 d). Only ca. 20% of ovules were penetrated by pollen tubes and were fertilized, as evidenced by a zygote and free nuclear endosperm. Normally, the first division of the zygote occurred between days 14 and 28 and coincided with cell wall formation in the endosperm. Embryo development was slow from day 14 to 42 but accelerated thereafter. Ovules without an embryo sac did not develop and nucelli degenerated. Those with a normal but unfertilized embryo sac aborted after a small amount of testa and nucellus growth, evidenced by a degenerate nucellus. Abortion occurred also during later stages of seed development, with the testa developing normally but the nucellus and the endosperm degenerating, giving a hollow ("floater") seed. Some floaters were completely empty while others contained degenerating embryos, endosperms, or nucelli. The incidence of floaters was 31% in the bunches where flowering commenced early, and 9% in the bunches flowering 2 wk later, in both cases among more than 500 seeds. Empty seeds were mostly the consequence of embryo degeneration followed usually by endosperm degeneration. In cv. Chardonnay, three consecutive, possibly interconnected processes are seen as the causes of no or defective transition from ovule to seed: (a) aberrant embryo sac development before flowering, (b) lack of fertilization at flowering, and (c) incomplete development of zygote/embryo after flowering. All impair development of berries in which none of the four ovules develop into normal seeds. Preanthesis abortion of all ovules per flower leads to flower abscission. Berries containing only arrested ovules and/or seed traces remain small but nevertheless ripen ("chickens"). Berries with floater seeds but without normal ("sinker") seeds develop and ripen normally but remain somewhat smaller than berries containing sinker seeds.
2995839|Over the past decade it has become increasingly clear that the angiosperm subclass Hamamelidae is polyphyletic. To examine phylogenetic affinities of various lineages in the complex and to evaluate the positions of lower hamamelids in angiosperm phylogeny, we performed a parsimony analysis using nucleotide sequences of the plastid gene
2475241|We examined and compared floral and inflorescence ontogenies among taxa of the subfamily Grevilleoideae in Proteaceae to clarify the diverse orientations of flowers in the subfamily and to define the developmental basis of the flower pairs, i.e., the presence of two flowers in the axil of a common bract on an inflorescence axis. To accomplish this, we compared the earliest inflorescence and floral developmental stages of 50 species representing 32 genera and later developmental stages of an additional 18 species and 14 genera using morphological developmental techniques. There is a common and conserved developmental pathway involved in the initiation of the flower pairs among all of the taxa: first-order axillary meristems are initiated, each one in the axil of a common bract on a principal inflorescence axis; the axillary meristem enlarges and is termed a short-shoot meristem; two floral bracts develop, one on each side of the short-shoot meristem, in each of which a floral meristem will enlarge; and there is a persistent short-shoot residuum between the two floral meristems. The flower pairs are redefined as two-flowered short shoots. Hypotheses regarding the origin of the flower pairs are evaluated within a developmental context, and there is support for the hypotheses that the short shoots are derived from reduction of secondary inflorescence axes or from amplification of a first-order axillary meristem. There is some variation at all developmental levels of the flower pairs, including differential enlargement of the short-shoot meristem (most are disymmetrical, some become concave-arcuiform), the timing and position of initiation of floral bracts as well as their subsequent enlargement or suppression, the successive timing of initiation of the four tepals, and aestivation patterns (most exhibit sagittally incomplete valvate tepals). On the basis of this ontogenetic study, the orientation of the flowers of Grevilleoideae appears highly conserved; each flower of a pair is dorsiventrally aligned and subtended by a floral bract (in most taxa) and on a short-shoot axis. The high degree of conservation of floral orientation among Grevilleoideae will make possible explicit hypotheses of homology of floral characters among taxa both within and outside the subfamily, an essential precursor to a phylogenetic analysis.
2474977|Twenty enzyme systems from breaking buds of Sorbus aucuparia L. (rowan) were tested with horizontal starch gel electrophoresis. The zymograms of seven of these enzyme systems are detailed (AAT, ADH, IDH, MDH, PRX, 6PGD, and PGM). Eighteen putative loci were identified (three for AAT, ADH, IDH, 6PGD, and PGM; two for MDH; and one for PRX). Genetic analysis using single tree progenies from open pollination was used to elucidate the mode of inheritance of eight of these putative loci (Aat-1, Adh-1, Idh-1, Prx-1, 6Pgd-2, Pgm-1, Pgm-2, and Pgm-3). The results of this genetic analysis were in accordance with a single-locus, codominant mode of inheritance for all the loci examined except Pgm-2. For this locus, the inclusion of a null allele in the putative mode of inheritance appeared to be necessary. However, segregation distortion still occurred under this revised null allele hypothesis, probably because of reduced viability of an offspring category possessing the null allele. Divergent duplicated genes (some of them resulting in fixed heterozygosity phenotypes) were observed in all the enzyme systems analyzed in this study except peroxidase (for which it could not be established), which strongly indicates a polyploid origin of the rowan genome rather than duplication of chromosomal segments. Moreover, the divergence between genes within each duplicated system supports the hypothesis of an allopolyploid origin of S. aucuparia and the subfamily Maloideae.
4122604|Nucleotide sequence variation in the ITS15.8SITS2 region of nuclear ribosomal DNA and in the
3080321|To determine whether convergence has occurred between
10.1086/669908|Flowers of extant
2475051|Cuticle micromorphology of three collections of the parasitic conifer Parasitaxus ustus (Vieillard) de Laubenfels (Podocarpaceae) was studied with scanning electron microscopy. External and internal cuticle features of abaxial and adaxial leaf surfaces of both vegetative and epimatium-bearing branches are characterized. Leaves are amphistomatic with an abaxial tip lacking stomata and a small marginal frill. Cuticle is thin and external surfaces exhibit sunken Florin rings and highly undulating epidermal cell surfaces. Stomata have a scattered orientation on the leaf and have three to six subsidiary cells. Cuticle on the subsidiary cells, guard cells, and epidermal cells is smooth to slightly granular. Stomata lack polar extensions. Epidermal cells have variable shapes but are more elongate and rectangular near the abaxial leaf tip and between stomatal groups. Micromorphological characters are compared to those of the host plant, Falcatifolium taxoides (Brongniart et Gris.) de Laubenfels, and Florin's Dacrydium group C species that are considered by some workers to represent three separate genera: Halocarpus Quinn, Lepidothamnus Philippi, and Lagarostrobos Quinn. Micromorphologically cuticles are most similar to those of the genus Lepidothamnus, in particular L. fonkii Philippi, but those of Parasitaxus have less granular epidermal cell surfaces and a more irregular outline to the stomatal apparatus.
40072483|Several aspects of the reproductive biology of
3691729|The Juncaceae includes seven genera and ca. 440 species and is cosmopolitan in distribution. The bulk of the species diversity is found in
10.1086/682135|
               
3079946|Nectar is an important attractant for pollinators, and a plants success in sexual reproduction can be influenced by the amount and concentration of nectar produced by its flowers. We studied nectar production over flower lifetime in
2475240|Heteroblastic features of leaf anatomy in maize were identified by conducting a quantitative analysis of leaf anatomy. Heteroblastic variation in cuticle thickness and epidermal cell shape paralleled changes in previously defined juvenile- and adult-specific traits. The other traits examined in this study (thickness of the leaf blade, epidermal and bundle sheath cell size, vascular area, interveinal distance, mesophyll area : bundle sheath area ratio) varied in a more complex fashion. To determine which of these traits are regulated by genes involved in shoot maturation, we examined the effect of the Teopod2 (Tp2) mutation on their expression. Tp2 increases the number of leaves that express the juvenile form of cuticle thickness, epidermal cell shape, and vascular area and causes all other leaves to produce intermediate (juvenile/adult) forms of these traits. It has little or no effect on any of the other traits we examined. Thus, much of the heteroblastic variation in the internal anatomy of the maize leaf appears to be regulated by factors that are unrelated to the developmental phenomenon of phase change. The effect of Tp2 on leaf anatomy is interesting not only because it provides a criterion for distinguishing between different types of heteroblastic traits, but also because it provides some insight into the nature of the developmental processes involved in shoot maturation. In particular, the observation that Tp2 leaves are quantitatively intermediate between juvenile and adult leaves supports the hypothesis that some phase-specific aspects of leaf identity are regulated in a combinatorial fashion rather than by mutually exclusive patterns of gene expression.
3080285|In the southern Appalachian forests, the regeneration of canopy trees is severely inhibited by
3691852|Developmental instability is typically measured as patterns of fluctuating asymmetry (FA), small departures from perfect symmetry in structural morphology. Although the mechanisms producing developmental instability remain unclear, the disruptive effect of stressors during development is assumed to induce deviations from symmetrical phenotypes. Associations between developmental stress and FA are particularly interesting from the general perspective of fragmented and marginal populations, which are thought to be exposed to greater levels of genetic and environmental stress. We measured two leaf FA parameters at 18 populations across the range of the native tree
3874653|Molecular phylogenetic studies have shown that the evolutionary history of
2475142|After self-pollination of Brugmansia suaveolens, a characteristic stacking of cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) was seen in pollen tubes. The stacking commenced within less than 6 h after pollination and was the earliest noticeable ultrastructural change. This phenomenon was roughly coincident with a retarded growth rate of the pollen tubes. The RER formed intricate complexes consisting of combinations of two seemingly different arrangements, longitudinally stacked cisternae and concentric stacks. We present a model that interprets the stacked RER profiles as longitudinal sections through cylindrical formations with rounded ends. The appearance of profiles of RER aggregates in electron micrographs is determined by the angle of sectioning. Concentric profiles might be cross sections through such cylinders or sections through rounded or doughnut-shaped appendages.
3691763|
               
2475324|Bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) was inoculated at planting with vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (VAM) and Rhizobium phaseoli strain 127K44. Plants inoculated with both symbionts formed nodules in large clusters, as opposed to the single or linear groups of nodules that formed on plants inoculated only with Rhizobium. Light microscopic examination of root and nodule sections indicated that by 5 wk after inoculation, hyphal infection of the nodule cortex was abundant. Vesicles were observed in root and nodule tissue. Structures similar to degenerating arbuscules were seen in the central region of the nodule and in the nodule cortex. Intact arbuscules typical of VAM were not observed. Hyphae were also present in the central region of the nodule, particularly in regions where senescence of bacteria-filled cells had begun.
2475063|Inflorescence size of the current shoot of the thin-leaved sympodial orchid hybrid Oncidium Goldiana is dependent on the number of connected back shoot(s). Our study showed that the size of the inflorescence increased progressively from plants having no, one, or two connected back shoot(s). The size of the inflorescence was not affected by more than two back shoots connected to the current shoot. Defoliation experiments demonstrated that the leaves of the current shoot are the main source of photoassimilates for the inflorescence on the current shoot itself while the leaves of the connected back shoots are secondary sources of photoassimilates. Significantly lower dry mass of pseudobulbs for the defoliated current shoot indicated some degree of remobilization of storage reserves for inflorescence production. The relative importance of leaves on the current shoot and connected back shoots as a source of photoassimilates was confirmed using
10.1086/668221|The leaf cuticle of the
3691811|Studies were conducted to assess the role of photosynthesis and dark respiration in maintaining daily foliar ascorbate levels. Sevendayold sunflower plants were inoculated with a tagetitoxinproducing or nontoxigenic (control) strain of
3691596|Two species of aquatic angiosperms,
3080146|We investigated the effect of prescribed wetseason fire on the demography of
IJPS40999|Male flowers of
3080175|The magnitude of pollen limitation of reproduction was compared in three annual species of
3080205|One of the most widely distributed and distinctive leaf types of the Paleocene in North America and eastern Asia, previously named
2995815|Structural changes of the leaf blade of
2995581|Cuticle micromorphology of leaves from all five species of the Southern Hemisphere conifer genus Falcatifolium de Laubenfels (Podocarpaceae) was studied with scanning electron microscopy. Both herbarium and preserved specimens were examined and showed no differences in micromorphology. External and internal features of abaxial and adaxial cuticles are characterized for the five species and compared to other known podocarps. External cuticle surfaces exhibit undulating surfaces that may reflect underlying epidermal cell outlines, stomatal plugs composed of irregular blocks, and fairly regular stomatal rows. Stomata are separated by one to three epidermal cells. Two lateral subsidiary cells are present with polar subsidiary cells usually lacking. There is a deep crease in subsidiary cell cuticle, smooth to slightly undulating cuticle on guard cell surfaces near the stoma, a ridge on guard cell cuticle, thin cuticular flanges between guard and subsidiary cells, polar extensions, nonsinuous epidermal cell outlines with cuticle extending to the hypodermis, more elongate epidermal cells between stomatal rows than within rows, and usually granular epidermal cell surfaces.
10.1086/663972|Floral traits used to attract and reward pollinators should become vestigial during the evolution of self-fertilization from outcrossing due to the reduced fitness benefits of investing in pollinator attraction. However, few traits have been studied, and covariation with outcrossing is rarely evaluated using genetic estimates of the mating system. We examined covariation between petal size and color and genetic estimates of outcrossing among populations of the yellow-flowered, bee-pollinated
10.1086/658929|A long-standing problem in paleobotany is the accurate identification of the growth habits and statures of fossil plants. Tissue-specific analysis of stable carbon isotope ratios in plant fossils can provide an independent perspective on this issue. Lignin, a fundamental biopolymer providing structural support in plant tissues and the second most abundant organic material in plants, is
2475223|Euphorbia section Tithymalopsis is a group of seven species endemic to the southeastern United States. To assess patterns of genetic and morphological differentiation and to test hypotheses of evolutionary relationships among species, we examined 14 isozyme loci from 45 populations and 29 morphological characters from 29 populations representing seven species of section Tithymalopsis and two related species. Although each species can be delineated using morphological characters, there is little quantitative or qualitative allelic differentiation among species. Morphological and isozyme data suggest that species in section Tithymalopsis have diverged recently. Isozyme-based trees support hypotheses of monophyly for sect. Tithymalopsis, on the basis of morphological data. The isozyme data do not support a close relationship among species constituting the E. corollata complex but suggest that E. discoidalis, E. polyphylla, and E. pubentissima form a closely related group.
2475342|The middle Eocene Princeton chert locality in southern British Columbia, Canada, contains one of the best-preserved permineralized Tertiary floral assemblages known in North America. The quality of preservation of the vascular plant and fungal remains is exquisite because anatomical and morphological features have been preserved at the cellular level. Past studies indicate the vascular flora is rich in species diversity and abundance and includes the in situ remains of semiaquatic and aquatic plant communities. Our initial assessment of the fungi in this assemblage indicates a diverse fungal community had developed and that many of the component species are comparable to modern taxa. Fossil fungi include unilocular and multilocular stromatoid fructifications on leaves and fruits. These are comparable to three extant representatives of the Dothideales or eustromatic Coelomycetes of the Fungi Imperfecti. Two of these contain septate conidia but no ascospores. The third lacks spores but resembles the loculoascomycete genus Mycosphaerella in size and structure of the uniloculate stromata. Fossil representatives of the Hyphomycetes include a seed-borne sclerotic fungus similar to Alternaria and, in the rhizomes of an aquatic plant, Cercospora-like conidia along with moniliform cells that resemble those formed by the genus Rhizoctonia. The teliospores of an anthericolous smut are present in the anthers of an unidentified flower. This fungus is most similar to Microbotryum violaceum, a smut fungus that occurs in the anthers of Caryophyllaceae. The continuing study of the Princeton Chert is allowing us to better understand the role of these, and other, fungal constituents in early Tertiary semiaquatic/aquatic plant communities.
10.1086/678468|
               
3080180|The extent of asexual reproduction and the spatial distribution of clones can influence ecological and evolutionary processes in populations. Sawgrass,
3691747|The complete procambial system was recorded through the apical five disks of insertion of three serially transectioned shoot tips of
3079985|Subdioecy is a sexual system with male, female, and hermaphrodite phenotypes and is often considered a transitory stage in the evolution of full dioecy. Here, we examine sex ratios, sex expression, and sexual dimorphism in three subdioecious populations of
3691732|The reproductive structures of the monotypic genus
30117489|
               
3874614|Fossil records of the eusporangiate fern family Marattiaceae are common in Paleozoic and early Mesozoic sediments. However, whether this family occurred during the Cretaceous and Tertiary is unknown. Within the Marattiaceae, extant species of
10.1086/655963|A new anatomically preserved bennettitalean stem has been recovered from the Upper Cretaceous (Coniacian) Eden Main locality on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. The fossil, described as
30139303|For more than a century, most biologists have viewed the structural diversity of angiosperm female gametophytes as trivial variants of the reproductive process. However, analysis of variation among angiosperm female gametophytes from an evolutionary developmental perspective can provide new insights into patterns of reproductive innovation and evolution among flowering plants. The key is to link the developmental and structural diversity of angiosperm female gametophytes to evolutionary innovations (perhaps even adaptations) associated with endosperm genetics and ploidy. Selection has been hypothesized to favor endosperms with higher ploidy, higher heterozygosity, higher maternaltopaternal genome ratios, and reduced opportunity for genetic (interparental and/or parentoffspring) conflict. We evaluate these hypotheses for the seven basic genetic types of endosperm known among flowering plants and interpret their relative importance when mating system is considered. We demonstrate that variation in female gametophyte developmental patterns represents the source material that ultimately creates variation in endosperm genetics. Evolutionary transitions in female gametophyte development are therefore a function of selection directly acting on the resultant phenotypes of endosperms. Thus, the relation between variation in female gametophyte development and variation in endosperm genetic constitution should be seen as one between the origin of structural novelties (origin of the fittest) and its downstream consequences on the relative fitness (survival of the fittest) of these novelties, as expressed in the biology of endosperm.
40072544|How the cost of reproduction is paid in dimorphic populations is a fundamental question in plant reproductive biology, and females of dioecious species in arid environments often show lowered drought tolerance and survivorship attributable to higher reproductive allocation. The cost of reproduction in gynodioecious populations is less understood but can provide information on the selective advantages of dimorphism. Leaf gas exchange rates, water status, and spatial dispersion were measured in the two sex morphs of gynodioecious
IJPS41086|The role of protease inhibitors in modulating changes in protein content of potato (
2474923| Gametophytes of Callistopteris baueriana (Endl.) Copeland exhibit an unreported and unique morphology for the Hymenophyllaceae, combining characters that traditionally have been thought to be specific to either Hymenophyllum s. 1. or Trichomanes s. 1. We describe here the mature gametophyte morphology of C. baueriana from Hawaii. To explore gametophyte character evolution in the Hymenophyllaceae, gametophyte characters of selected genera within the family were analyzed phylogenetically. In Hawaii, gametophytes of C. baueriana were associated with sporophyte production or grew independently, often in extensive, dense mats. Well-developed sporophytes occurred at high elevations. At drier midelevations, sporophytes were dwarfed. Sporophytes were absent at the lowest elevations and gametophytes grew independently in large bryophyte-like mats. The sporophytes of C. baueriana seemed unable to survive and reproduce in dry conditions, whereas gametophytes survived and maintained their presence by vegetative growth and the production of gemmae. The gametophytes had a branched, ribbon-like thallus and were long-lived and clone-forming. Generally, a meristematic branch grew along the substrate while subordinate branches grew perpendicularly to the substrate and terminated in the production of gemmae. The gemmae were largely uniseriate, spindle-shaped, and branched or unbranched. Each sat between apical protuberances of a bulbous gemmifer. At maturity the gemma abscised from the gemmifer, possibly with the assistance of pressure from the apical protuberances and swollen dorsal side of the gemmifer. Antheridia, produced marginally on small thalli or on gemmae, were composed of at least five cells, and averaged 76 m in diameter. Archegonia were formed ventrally on lateral pads and had necks composed of four tiers of cells. Parsimony analysis of gametophyte characters of selected genera within the Hymenophyllaceae resulted in a single, most parsimonious tree, with Callistopteris sister to Trichomanes s. s. and Vandenboschia, the two most derived taxa in the analysis. Mecodium was sister to the clade containing Callistopteris, Trichomanes s. s. and Vandenboschia. Hymenophyllum s. s. was the basal-most taxon. The tree was consistent with hypotheses of gametophyte character evolution within the Hymenophyllaceae, proposing that gametophyte growth habit composed partly or wholly of filaments, one-dimensional gemmae, elongate, flask-shaped gemmifers, archegonia with necks of four tiers of cells, and small antheridia of five jacket cells are derived characters within the family. A thalloid growth habit, two-dimensional gemmae, bulbous gemmifers, archegonial necks with six to 10 tiers of cells, and large complex antheridia represent ancestral characters. 
10.1086/675235|
               
3691586|Changes in photosynthetic performance following partial defoliation may play a role in alleviating the negative effects of herbivores. We investigated effects of simulated and larval herbivory and the different spatial pattern of leaf tissue removal on the photosynthetic efficiency in the dioecious holly tree. We also addressed whether effects of herbivory on photosynthesis were sex specific. Experiments were conducted with thirdyear plants growing under natural light and temperature. Photosynthesis was evaluated by chlorophyll fluorescence parameters. Larval herbivory significantly increased the maximum quantum yield of photosystem II and decreased minimum fluorescence (
3080311|A morphometric study of 14 floral traits in females and hermaphrodites of
2995664|Meiosis has been investigated in five clones (genotypes) of Astragalus cicer L. Features characteristic of all clones included strongly diploid-like chromosome pairing at first metaphase, regular disjunction at first anaphase, high pollen viability, and plant fertility. Two contrasting patterns of meiosis were distinguished among the five clones based on their (1) frequencies of bivalents and (2) inversely proportional frequencies of multivalents. Meiotic behavior of A. cicer is compared and contrasted with that of other octaploid species. We conclude that A. cicer is a segmental allooctaploid, possibly an autoallooctaploid with two largely divergent genomes, in which meiosis has been diploidized by a pairing control system.
10.1086/679350|
               
3080056|A native weevil is a candidate for biological control of the introduced aquatic weed Eurasian watermilfoil (
10.1086/682055|
               
2475143| Pollen grains of Sauromatum are inaperturate with a microechinate exine ornamentation. The outer pollen wall is formed by the spongious endexine and spines. An acetolysis-resistant ektexine is missing. The endexine appears electron dense after TCH-Sp staining and electron translucent after the Thiry-test. The spines are polysaccharidic in nature. Acetolysis leads to a considerable increase in pollen size and destroys the spines. PAS-positive Ubisch body-like structures are found within the anther loculus. The tapetum is of the amoeboid type. Spines as well as Ubisch bodylike structures are formed by the tapetum at the stage of first pollen mitosis 
3691572|
               
2475221|To investigate the cover, frequency, biomass, and productivity of endolithic and epilithic lower plants on temperate-zone cliff faces, rock samples were randomly collected from the Niagara Escarpment in southern Ontario, Canada. Chlorophyll was extracted using dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and CO
3874603|Several different selfincompatibility (SI) syndromes have been previously reported from Polemoniaceae, including differences in genetic control, timing of the response, and the location of pollen tube inhibition. In order to examine the evolutionary linkage between genetic control and site of pollen tube inhibition, crossing experiments and microscopic analyses were performed on an additional species of Polemoniaceae,
10.1086/674318|
               
10.1086/668693|Six angiosperm pollen types studied with SEM are recorded in the Cretaceous (early Aptian) Tic flora on the basis of material recovered from two localities: Anfiteatro de Tic and Bajo Tigre.
3080143|Beach pea (
2995566|Eight populations of the perennial Arabis serrata located in different habitats in Japan were chosen to investigate the extent of variation in morphological and life history traits. Under controlled environmental gradients of nutrients and light, the plants showed statistically significant heterogeneity among populations in growth and reproduction after one and two growing seasons. Seven populations produced vegetative rosettes but only plants from three populations produced inflorescences in the first year. After 2 yr, populations showed fewer differences in growth response to an increment in nutrients. Almost all populations produced seeds after 2 yr. Light suppressed sexual reproduction in all populations and affected the growth of plants in most of the populations. Analyses of the response along each gradient indicated that the populations had different degrees of sensitivity to the environmental factors studied. A significant population-environment interaction was observed. Furthermore, populations of A. serrata from similar habitats had similar sensitivities to the two environments although with some temporal variation in some traits. Populations of A. serrata showed differences in their life history traits; they are either annuals in disturbed habitats or perennials in more preserved localities. A Wagner tree and a cluster analysis also revealed differences among populations of A serrata related to their presumed origins.
10.1086/675976|
               
3080149|To characterize genetic diversity within and among populations of
10.1086/668224|Field and greenhouse studies have shown that arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) can improve plant growth in environments with restricted water availability. The benefits of AMF symbiosis vary among plant species, but the extent to which AMF-mediated drought tolerance varies among subspecific taxa remains poorly understood. In this study, we examine differences in AMF response among three recently diverged, ecologically heterogeneous plant taxa (morphotypes) within the
2474953|The Zosteraceae, a family of marine sea grasses that are aquatic monocotyledons, is presently composed of three genera: one dioecious genus, Phyllospadix, and two monoecious genera, Zostera and Heterozostera. The reproductive structures of all genera in this family are unique, consisting of a flattened spadix with flowers on one side, all enclosed within a spathe. Using techniques of epi-illumination light microscopy, SEM, and paraffin embedding, we examined the developmental morphology of the complex and unusual reproductive structures in Zostera and Heterozostera Floral development studies showed that retinacules (speculated to be modified perianth parts) arise first, followed by anthers consisting of two bisporangiate thecae joined by a connective, and finally the gynoecium, consisting of a unilocular ovary. The best interpretation of these reproductive structures is that they are male and female parts of a complex inflorescence. Based on reproductive and vegetative comparative studies, the similarities between the genera Zostera and Heterozostera do not warrant placing Heterozostera tasmanica into a distinct genus but do warrant reinstating Zostera tasmanica into the genus Zostera in the subgenus Heterozostera.
10.1086/681562|Evolutionary developmental biology has come to prominence in the past two decades, in both the plant kingdom and the animal kingdom, particularly following the description of homeotic genes linked to key morphological transitions. A primary goal of evolutionary developmental biology (evo-devo) is to define how developmental programs are modified to generate novel or labile morphologies. This requires an understanding of the molecular genetic basis of these programs and of the evolutionary changes they have undergone. The past decade has seen the establishment of a common language and common standards, and these changes have greatly improved the integration of evo-devo. Recently, a more comparative approach has been added to mechanistic developmental biology. In this review we attempt to show how, by using this next-generation evo-devo approach, insights into both developmental biology and evolutionary biology can be gained. Although the concepts we discuss are more broadly applicable, we have focused our examples on traits of the angiosperm flower, a structure that has undergone enormous morphological and developmental evolution since its relatively recent appearance in the fossil record.
3080169|Recent studies have suggested that the presence of endophytes in tall fescue can lead to decreased species richness in the associated plant community. To assess the generality of this hypothesis, a field study tested the effects of endophyte infection on a 3yrold successional field dominated by
2995594|Seed bank dynamics of the short-lived perennial halophyte Hordeum jubatum L. and the annual halophytes Atriplex triangularis Willd. and Salicornia europaea L. were examined in three zones of an inland saline marsh near Rittman, Ohio. The seed bank was assayed using a sequence of temperature treatments to satisfy the germination requirements of all species. Viable seeds of H. jubatum and other halophytes persisted in the soil seed bank after the normal spring germination season. Total seed bank ranged from 479,200 seeds/m<sup>2</sup> to 85,925 seeds/m<sup>2</sup>. However, seeds of H. jubatum usually comprised less than 30% of the seeds in the total seed bank for the three zones of the marsh in which it occurred during the sampling period from February 1987 to November 1988. Atriplex triangularis also produced a persistent seed bank in each of the three zones. We concluded that H. jubatum is less dependent on a large seed bank for maintaining its population than are the annual halophytes because it is a short-lived perennial.
3691553|We describe the tracheid ultrastructure of
2995845|This article describes recent advances in research on the technology of synthetic seeds, with a particular focus on the potential use of propagules other than somatic embryos. Definitions are proposed to clarify the use of often confusing terms. A classification of the different types of unipolar propagules, according to their origin and nature, is also attempted. The explants could be divided into three groupings: natural unipolar propagules, i.e., microbulbs, microtubers, rhizomes, corms; microcuttings, i.e., shoots and nodes with apical or axillary buds; and differentiating propagules,
10.1086/679351|
               
10.1086/674446|
               
10.1086/658154|Hyperaccumulation of nickel (Ni) in certain plants may play a role in drought resistance under water stress. This article tests the influence of water stress on the Ni-hyperaccumulating shrub
2475010|Although the effects of photoperiod and temperature on flowering time are well established, their underlying physiology and implications for other aspects of growth and development require further investigation. The pattern of development in soybean (Glycine max L. Merr.) cultivars Biloxi (photoperiod sensitive) and Fiskeby V (photoperiod insensitive) are compared in an environment where photoperiod sensitivity was not expressed (11-h photoperiod) and in an environment where photoperiod sensitivity was maximally expressed (15.5-h photoperiod). A floral staging scale was developed to study the pattern of floral initiation and to compare rates of floral development. There were inherent differences between cultivars in earliness of flowering, vegetative development, and, therefore, in yield potential. When photoperiod sensitivity was not expressed, cv Biloxi had a short vegetative phase and floral primordia were apparent 14 d after sowing. Expression of photoperiod sensitivity, beginning 8-9 d after sowing, resulted in a much extended vegetative phase with increased rates of leaf initiation. Cultivar Fiskeby V had a minimal vegetative phase; floral primordia were apparent 9 d after sowing and initiation of primary nodes was complete 3 d later. There were inherent differences between cultivars in the duration of the transitional period between the initiation of the first lateral floral primordium and the initiation of the terminal inflorescence, a period that is important in determining yield potential. The pattern of floral initiation observed was primarily acropetal and reflected the competence of meristems to respond to the floral promoter. Meristems developing in the prophyll axes had consistently lower rates of leaf initiation and remained vegetative longer than other lateral meristems, indicating that there are subtle differences in the distribution of floral signals or that these meristems have different threshold requirements.
10.1086/675934|
               
10.1086/683276|
               
2474958|Salicornia bigelovii Torr. plants were grown in 5, 200, or 600 mol m
10.1086/668684|The Ashokan Formation of New York contains a rich assemblage of Middle Devonian spores whose average size straddles the traditional threshold that defines the megaspore (200 m). This assemblage provides the opportunity to examine how spore wall ultrastructure changed during the evolution of the heterosporous reproductive syndrome. The spores range in diameter from 139 to 220 m (average, 177 m), lack proximal sculpture except for 10% nearest the equator, and bear spines distally. When viewed with the TEM, wall thicknesses range from 4 to 9 m. The outer half of the wall appears homogeneous. In several cases, there is evidence for an inner separable layer (ISL) and associated laminae, like those seen in many extant lycophyte megaspores. Though near the diameter cutoff that defines a megaspore, there is little evidence of extensive laminae or sponginess (in the exospore that lies outside of the ISL) so common among both fossil (coeval and younger) and extant megaspores. It is possible that the plant(s) that produced these spores did not possess the developmental mechanisms to construct spore walls capable of expanding to sizes well above 200 m as some other plants of a similar age did. Alternatively, perhaps early-evolving large spores that did not produce a microspore did not require a laminate/granular/spongy outer exospore, either because of size requirements or for some other undiscovered reason.
2995833|The discovery of numerous anatomically preserved fossils in Upper Cretaceous sediments reveals that essentially modern osmundaceous ferns have inhabited southern Alberta, Canada, since the end of the Mesozoic. The Cretaceous fossils consist of small stems that are surrounded by leaf bases and adventitious roots. All of the features of the fossils fall within the ranges of variation for characters of living
4619769|We compared sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA and chloroplast
2475315|Pollen germination, pollen tube growth, and seed set were compared in growth chamber-grown plants derived from a typically outcrossing (Idria-2) and a typically selfing (Cantua Creek-2) population of Clarkia tembloriensis. Pollen of Idria-2 plants germinated uniformly and rapidly, usually within 1 h after pollination. Pollen of Cantua Creek-2 plants germinated more slowly, over a period of 1-7 h after pollination. The styles of Idria-2 plants were nearly twice as long as those of Cantua Creek-2 plants, but the time elapsed between the moment of pollination and when the pollen tubes reached the ovary was the same for both populations. However, even though the pollen tubes reached the ovaries at approximately the same time after pollination for all plants, fertilization of ovules, as measured by seed set, occurred immediately in the Cantua Creek-2 plants, while fertilization was delayed by 2-3 h in the Idria-2 plants. These differences in pollen germination and tube growth were significant and may have evolved in response to different levels of pollen competition in the two populations.
2995670|Sorghum bicolor mutants for cuticular wax production provide a model system for analysis of epicuticular wax (EW) physiology, biochemistry, and genetics. Mutants produced from seeds treated with the chemical mutagens diethyl sulfate (DES) and ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) were selected in the M<sub>2</sub> generation and self-pollinated to produce near-isogenic mutants of two classes: bloomless (lacking visible EW) and sparse bloom (possessing little visible EW). Scanning electron microscopy was used to further divide 33 selected lines into 14 unique classes based on altered EW structure. Mutations have affected the structure of cork silica (CS) cell associated EW or both CS cell and cuticle EW. The resulting spectrum of altered EW structure indicates unique alterations in EW biosynthesis or deposition which may correlate with specific EW alleles and loci within the Sorghum genome.
10.1086/652390|Disease epidemiology has rarely been examined in natural plantpathogen systems exhibiting obligate alteration of host species. We quantified rust infection in populations of jewelweed; its effect on host mating system, potential biotic and abiotic correlates of infection; and spatial patterns within populations. Jewelweed (
3691555|A large number of vegetative and fertile branching systems of
3691657|Natural flooding is a major component of the disturbance regime in many grassland ecosystems. The objective of this study was to analyze the relationship among constitutive and plastic root traits and tolerance to flooding in coexisting perennial species of the flooding pampa grasslands (Argentina). A mesocosm experiment was designed for five native species (
2995820|BY2 tobacco cells, grown in the presence of the cellulose biosynthesis inhibitor herbicide dichlobenil (DCB), change in morphology from finely dispersed clumps and filaments to large aggregates after 6 mo. In this article, we utilize structural, cytochemical, and immunocytochemical techniques to characterize the cell wall changes that accompany the habituation of the cells to DCB. Wall structure is altered radically in the habituated cells, revealing a lamellate structure with no distinct middle lamella, even at cell junctions. Plasmodesmata traverse the cell wall by more circuitous routes than in the control cells. Habituated cells also produce unusual appositions of the wall that extend into the cytoplasm. Immunogold localization of various pectin epitopes reveals a 30foldgreater density of gold particles detected in the walls of habituated cells compared to the controls and less density when the labeling of the middle lamellae is included. Antiextensin labeling was also found along the strands of pecticreactive material, and the density of immunogold labeling exhibits a similar increase to that for pectin. Cellulose, detected by cellulasegold, revealed only 2% of the reactivity of the controls, while callose detection was slightly greater compared to controls. Despite the loss of cellulose, xyloglucan is still detected, loosely associated with the strands of pectin or trapped between the pectin lamellae. Cortical microtubule arrays in habituated cells were apparently normal, despite a virtual absence of cellulose, although callose fibrils did parallel this array. These data indicate that longterm habituation to DCB results in the production of cell walls in which a pectinextensin network has replaced cellulose as the major component of the cell wall. These changes have profound effects on wall ultrastructure and the gross morphology of the cultures.
2475154|Arthrocnemum indicum L. is a stem-succulent perennial in the family Chenopodiaceae and is widely distributed in the tidal marshes of Pakistan. Seeds were collected from a coastal salt marsh situated on the Arabian Sea coast at Sands Pit, Karachi, Pakistan. Arthrocnemum indicum produces dimorphic brown and black seeds, and brown seed was significantly (P < 0.05) heavier. Experiments were conducted to determine the effect of salinity and temperature on the germination of seeds. Results indicated that both seeds are highly salt tolerant, and 3% of the brown seeds germinated at 1000 mM NaCl. Germination was significantly higher at 15
40072530|The genetic diversity of 61 coloredcotton lines, including 40 brown cottons and 21 green cottons, was analyzed based on agronomic traits and simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. A total of 344 alleles from 66 polymorphic SSR loci were detected among the colored cottons. The number of alleles per SSR locus ranged from two to 12, with an average of 5.212. The polymorphism information content was 0.3550.886, with an average of 0.716. Cluster analysis by UPGMA showed that these coloredcotton lines could be divided into four main groups, including nine subgroups. Three out of 10 agronomic traits had remarkable differences among groups, and 18 of 21 green cottons were classified into one group. This showed that the genetic diversity of the SSR markers reflected, to a certain extent, the diversity of agronomic traits and fiber color. The genetic similarity value of different strains recently developed in China was higher than 0.800, indicating that the new lines were very similar. However, some basic genetic coloredcotton germplasm with poor agronomic characters had a far greater genetic relationship compared with lines developed in recent years. In summary, the genetic background of colored cotton with elite properties was narrow.
3691896|In annual plants where dispersal is limited, the nearest neighbors of an individual are often genetic relatives. The negative effects on growth and reproduction that result from intraspecific competition can be greatest when genetic relatives, rather than unrelated individuals, are competing. This is because resource partitioning among genetically different, unrelated individuals might result in improved growth and reproduction when they compete. Alternatively, kin selection is hypothesized to have occurred when growth and reproduction are greatest for an individual competing with relatives compared with one competing with unrelated plants. To determine whether resource partitioning or kin selection is more likely to describe the dynamics of local competition, a greenhouse experiment was conducted with
4619793|A central goal of evolutionary biology is the development of a general predictive theory that incorporates the various forces structuring biological diversity. In this article, we argue that a focus on allometry and metabolic scaling theory provides the basis to begin to mechanistically link and understand patterns observed at ecological and evolutionary timescales. To make our case, we draw on and review several recently published papers and present new analyses. We argue that together, this synthesized work supports the notion that selection has maximized the scaling of resource exchange surfaces (e.g., photosynthetic surface areas) yet simultaneously minimizes the scaling of transport times and resistances. As a result, the scaling of plant metabolism, in turn, has profoundly influenced the evolution and ecology of plant form, function, and diversity, probably since the inception of the chlorophytes. In particular, we discuss preliminary support for the notion that stabilizing selection for 3/4power scaling of metabolism, in addition to competition for similar limiting resources, has led to the emergence of regular ecological patterns that have likely been prevalent throughout plant evolution.
10.1086/660104|
               
2995606|The origin of cilia at branch apices and the concomitant bifurcation of the apex in the lichen Teloschistes flavicans were investigated with optical and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Cilia are determinate structures formed continually from superficial mycobiontic cells that extend jointly from the recurved surface of the apical growth zone. Initiation of the cilium centrally results in bifurcation of the axis to both sides of the cilium primordium. The general organogenetic features of the growing apices of T. flavicans are compared with those of higher plant shoot apices.
3080276|The Indian Podostemoideae are characterized by a dorsiventral thalloid plant body, the nature of which is controversial.
IJPS41360|Selfing populations are often genetically depauperate and substantially differentiated. These genetic consequences of selfing are thought to contribute to the reduced longevity of natural populations. We analyzed multilocus microsatellite variation and population structure to examine the likelihood of high levels of selfing in
3080235|Fossil remains of the family Trochodendraceae are found in the early middle Eocene (4950 Ma) Republic flora of northeastern Washington, a flora that contains a highly diverse and extensive montane warmtemperate assemblage. In this study, we document the earliest known fossil record of
20533016|Gene flow can limit local adaptation and speciation. The outcome of breeding between populations determines the effectiveness of migration and the extent of gene flow. In crosses between populations, it is possible that some traits may indicate isolation and others may not. I measured the rate of successful hand pollination and the fruit production of the resulting hybrid progeny of crosses within and between six populations of the selfing annual
2475086|Predicting the dynamics of hosts and pathogens in natural systems requires a thorough understanding of the disease transmission process. It has been argued that, unlike for airborne diseases, the transmission of vector-borne diseases such as the anther smut fungus Microbotryum violaceum is a function of the frequency rather than the density of disease in a population. However, recent models indicate that frequency-dependent transmission of vectored diseases is only expected if the time required for interplant movement (host search) by the vector is short relative to the time spent per visit (handling time). Hence, frequency dependence is only expected to dominate at lower ranges of interplant distances. We test this prediction by analyzing disease transmission of M. violaceum in relation to interplant distance in a natural population of the host species Silene latifolia and Silene dioica. We conclude that (1) The infection probability of uninfected hosts strongly increased with the frequency of diseased hosts within a patch, whereas the number of infected plants within a patch had no effect in either of the host species. (2) In agreement with predictions based on vector behavior, the probability of infection in patches of S. dioica increased more strongly with increasing disease frequency among patches with high average host density (i.e., small interplant distance) than among patches with low host density This finding is consistent with the idea that transmission should shift from a more frequency-to a more density-dependent process when host search time increases relative to handling time. (3) In addition to local disease frequency and host density, individual host traits (host sex, size, and phenology) explained a significant part of the variation in infection probability within host species. The precise effects of individual host traits depended on local neighborhood characteristics. For instance, in S. latifolia, male hosts were on average more susceptible than female hosts, but the difference diminished with increasing disease frequency.
4619768|Chromosomal fluorescent
30130552|Phylogeny reconstruction at the species level, especially using organellar markers, is often complicated by problems such as incomplete lineage sorting and interspecific hybridization. Singlecopy nuclear genes may be useful for these cases because they have higher mutation rates and are biparentally inherited. One plant group in which hybridization and incomplete lineage sorting have been proposed based on analyses of internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and plastid data is a clade of mints from the southeastern United States:
2475367|A cladistic analysis based on rbcL sequences from a representative sample of 12 species yields a single most parsimonious tree that supports monophyly of Lycopodiaceae, Lycopodium, and Lycopodiella. Huperzia is resolved as paraphyletic to the morphologically divergent, monotypic Australasian Phylloglossum. The Huperzia-Phylloglossum clade is strongly supported and is sister group to a Lycopodium-Lycopodiella clade. These results provide the first clear evidence for the relationships of the problematic Phylloglossum drummondii. Profound differences in life cycle and morphology between Phylloglossum and other Lycopodiaceae are interpreted in terms of pedomorphosis (specifically, progenesis) and are viewed as adaptive responses to drought and brush fire. Our results show that rbcL sequence divergence among neotropical species of the supposedly ancient genus Huperzia is extremely low and that additional data will be necessary to resolve relationships among epiphytes and ground-living species. These surprisingly low levels of sequence divergence indicate that most living species diversity within Lycopodiaceae is of relatively recent origin Our results are consistent with a late Cretaceous or early Tertiary origin and diversification of epiphytic species within Huperzia, and these events may be linked to the diversification of angiosperms.
3080053|Shoot wood was compared with root wood of the same plant in 120 species of cacti. Monomorphic fibrous wood occurred in both organs in 27 species; in 40 species, monomorphic wideband tracheid (WBT) wood occurred in both. But in 23 species, root wood differed strongly from shoot wood; for example, two species had fibrous wood in shoots but parenchymatous wood in roots, and 12 species had WBT wood in shoots but fibrous wood in roots. Thirtysix species had dimorphic wood (an organ produced one type of wood for a while and then switched to producing a different type) in either or both organs. In eight species, shoots and roots initially produced the same type of wood but then one or the other switched; in 23 species, shoots and roots initially produced different types of wood but then one switched and afterward both produced the same type. But in five species, shoot wood did not match root wood either before or after the switch. Six species had enlarged storage roots as well as ordinary slender roots; wood in one type of root differed from that in the other and differed from shoot wood. The independence of wood morphogenesis in shoots and roots has allowed each to evolve to have characters that are adaptive to each organ.
10.1086/682061|
               
3874597|The majority of verified plant disease resistance genes (Rgenes) isolated to date are of the NBSLRR class, encoding proteins with a predicted nucleotidebinding site (NBS) and a leucinerich repeat (LRR) region. The conservation between different NBSLRR Rgenes opens the avenue for the use of PCRbased strategies in isolating and cloning other Rgene family members or analogs using degenerate primers for these conserved regions in plants. However, the screening of target sequences among the numerous amplified resistance gene analogs (RGAs) can be very laborious and timeconsuming. The amplification of RGAs from specific chromosomes could greatly reduce the number of RGAs to be screened and, consequently, speed up the identification of target RGAs. We have developed a technique that combines chromosome microdissection and homologous sequence amplification in order to acquire RGAs from single chromosomes in forest tree poplars (
2995882|In
3080075|To understand how light attenuation in limestone rock constrains the distribution and abundance of endolithic photoautotrophic organisms, we examined lightlevel profiles in 25 rock samples containing endolithic algae and cyanobacteria. We collected samples from three representative cliff sites along the Niagara Escarpment, Canada, using methods that allowed us to make comparisons among as well as within sites. Photosynthetically active radiation profiles were generated by manufacturing cavities in the bottom of thick slabs of surface rock and enclosing radiation sensors in the cavities. The thickness of the flat layer of limestone between the sensor and a light source was then abraded in steps of ca. 0.5 mm. An exponential curve was fitted to the measurements for each sample to allow statistical comparisons of the light levels at different depths. We examined the correlations between physical characteristics of the rock and light attenuation and between light attenuation and the maximum depth, relative biomass, and taxonomic richness of endolithic algae and cyanobacteria. The depth at which 0.01% of available light remained varied from 2.1 to 4.5 mm at different sites, but there was large withinsite variability on intermediate and small spatial scales. In contrast, the maximum depth of photoautotrophic endoliths was homogeneous within sites but different among sites (1.13.5 mm). Although the endoliths all have access to light, there was no significant correlation between the limit of their depth penetration and threshold quantum flux densities, indicating that the mechanisms controlling distribution and abundance of endolithic photoautotrophs are as complicated as those found for aquatic algae and cyanobacteria.
2995734|In central U.S. grasslands, plant and ecosystem responses to elevated CO
3691691|Phylogenetic relationships among 48 species representing the nine sections within the fern genus
2475298| Population biology has been studied in few species of cycads, and these studies have focused on adult demography. We investigated all life-history stages, including seed germination and recruitment, of Zamia amblyphyllidia over 3 yr in Cambalache Forest, Puerto Rico, and constructed stage transition matrices from our field data. We found two distinct stages in seed germination: radicle emergence and, 1-7 mo later, leaf emergence. Seeds released from cones early, before the onset of the dry season, germinated faster but suffered greater mortality during the first dry season than seeds released 2 mo later. However, after 3 yr both early and late seed cohorts had similar survivorship (2%-3%). We categorized plants to be seedlings, juveniles, or adults based on the number of leaflets on the longest leaf, as cone production was almost nonexistent among plants with 10 leaflets. Most "adults" did not cone over the 3 yr of the study. Despite low probability of coning among females, low fecundity of coning females, and low recruitment of seedlings to juveniles, the population was projected to have a finite rate of increase, , of nearly 1.0. High annual survivorship of adults, combined with episodic coning, appears to account for the persistence of Z. amblyphyllidia populations. 
IJPS40942|Seeds of Vitaceae can be easily recognized by their unique features, a pair of ventral infolds and a dorsal chalaza knot, but the inter- and intrageneric morphological variation in seed morphology has not been explored in detail. To facilitate identification of genera based on seed morphology, a study of 252 extant seeds representing all 15 genera of Vitaceae was conducted with attention to morphological characters and seed coat anatomy. Principal-component analyses were employed to assess the variation of seed morphology. Shape and position of ventral infolds and chalaza, shape of ventral-infold cavities, and testa anatomy are characters that can generically differentiate vitaceous seeds. Typically, seeds of
2474866|We investigated the degree to which the productivity of exceptionally slow-growing Thuja occidentalis (eastern white cedar) on limestone cliffs in southern Ontario, Canada, was constrained by the availability of water and nutrients. The experiment was conducted in the field on 60 saplings, ranging in age from 6 to 28 yr. They were either supplemented with water or with nutrient solution or received no supplements over two consecutive growing seasons. Productivity was measured on multiple scales: as in situ photosynthetic carbon uptake and stomatal conductance at saturating light; as monthly linear shoot elongation; as seasonal area growth of photosynthetic shoots; and as annual tree-ring increment. Root and shoot biomass, root extension, and tissue nutrient levels were also determined at the end of the experiment when the plants were harvested. Supplemental water did not significantly affect productivity of the saplings by any of the measures used. Nutrient addition, in contrast, significantly increased all measures of productivity. In the first growing season following the start of the treatments, the diurnal pattern of carbon uptake was altered and shoot elongation as well as leaf area growth were enhanced. An increase in tree-ring increments was not seen until the second season. Root biomass was also significantly increased in fertilized plants, but root extension and root: shoot ratio were unchanged. The tissue nutrient levels indicated phosphorus as the element most likely responsible for the nutrient effect. However, the magnitude of all effects was relatively small, indicating additional factors are limiting in the cliff-face habitat. Significant variation among individual trees was seen for all measures of productivity and was not explained by measurable microsite characteristics.
IJPS40943|
               
2475246|Histological and ultrastructural studies of the root nodules of naturally growing beach pea (Lathyrus maritimus [L.] Bigel.), an arctic/subarctic legume from the shorelines of Newfoundland, revealed considerable seasonal variation in the presence of storage organelles, such as amyloplasts and oleosomes (lipid bodies). Three successive years of samples taken during late autumn and early spring were processed for both light and electron microscopy. After fruiting, large numbers of amyloplasts with starch grains and oleosomes were observed in the uninfected interstitial cells and parenchyma cells of the nodule tissues. These storage organelles could not be seen in the cells of nodules sampled during postwinter periods before aerial shoots emerged, indicating their importance in overwintering. Persistent infection threads with rhizobia could be seen, and rod-shaped rhizobia in senescent cells were indicative of reversion of bacteroids to rod forms within the nodule tissue.
3874629|A new genus and species of anatomically preserved fossil filicalean ferns
2475196|Smyrnium perfoliatum has a solid style and a wet, nonpapillate stigma. The stigmatic surface coating is totally produced by the stylar transmitting tissue. The main secretion compounds are unsaturated lipids and methylesterified pectins. Lipid transport from the cells of the transmitting tissue to the extracellular space occurs by multivesicular bodies. The accumulating secretion forms an axial array of intercellular channels within the transmitting tissue. Ascending secretion forces the stigma cells to separate from each other. Pollen tubes enter the style between the stigmatic cells and grow within the secretion-filled channel.
2475278|Pollen germination and early tube growth were compared in Clarkia unguiculata under two different pollen deposition treatments. Pollen grains were deposited on the surface of the stigma either as clumps or spread evenly on the stigmatic surface. Pollinated flowers were collected and fixed at 15 min or 1, 4, or 7 h postpollination. Stigmas and styles were stained with aniline blue and viewed using fluorescence microscopy. Germination rates, numbers of pollen tubes per grain, and numbers of pollen tubes in the upper style were determined for both treatments. Pollen grains spread on the stigma did not have a significant advantage over clumped pollen. By 1 h postpollination, both clumped and spread pollen grains had reached maximal germination, without significant differences between treatments. By 4 h postpollination, the maximum number of pollen tubes in the upper style was reached, without significant difference between the clumped and the spread pollen treatments. An average of ca. 2.5 pollen tubes were produced per pollen grain in both the clumped and the spread treatments.
30113535|Fluorescent in situ hybridization is used to determine the number and position of 45S nuclear ribosomal DNA (45SnrDNA) clusters in members of the Gesneriaceae:
2474976| This study uses a wild and cultivated variety of Cucurbita pepo to examine the effects of temperature during pollen development on pollen performance and to examine the extent to which the effects of temperature on pollen performance are environmental or genetic. We found that pollen developed at 20C (cool temperature) grew significantly longer pollen tubes in vitro than pollen developed at 30C (warm temperature), and it sired significantly more seeds in competition with pollen developed at 30C. Developmental temperature not only affected the speed of pollen tube growth in vivo, but it also affected the resulting sporophytic generation. Seeds sired by cool- and warm-developed pollen did not differ significantly in seed weight, but seeds sired by cool-developed pollen had significantly faster root growth after 24 h and 48 h, significantly greater seedling mass after 48 h, and larger leaf area at 7 d than seeds sired by warm-developed pollen. This indicates that at least some of the effects of temperature on pollen performance had a genetic basis. We also examined the segregation of four single gene morphological traits in backcrosses using pollen from F
2475231|Floral structure and development of several species of the two acanthaceous subfamilies, Mendoncioideae (examined genus Mendoncia) and Thunbergioideae (examined genera Pseudocalyx and Thunbergia), were studied comparatively to evaluate their systematic relationship. Although the fruits are quite different (four-seeded capsules in Thunbergioideae and one- or two-seeded drupes in Mendoncioideae), development shows that there are no differences in the bauplan of the gynoecia. In Mendoncia species, two ovary locules and four ovules are initiated, although at anthesis the adaxial locule and its two ovules are no longer distinguishable The floral development of the different species is also uniform in other respects. Special differentiation of the stamens, such as lignified bristles on anthers, lack of an endothecial cell layer, elongated connective tips, and poricidal opening of the thecae further connect the two subfamilies. Floral structure and development of Mendoncia, Pseudocalyx, and Thunbergia strongly suggest that these genera form a natural group.
10.1086/666664|Xyridaceae, Eriocaulaceae, and Mayacaceae form the xyrid clade, which is weakly supported in Poales. The floral anatomy of xyrid species was studied, to contribute to the understanding of the relationships within the group. Both Eriocaulaceae and Xyridaceae have petals with elongated epidermal cells with straight walls, epipetalous stamens, staminodes, anthers with longitudinal dehiscence, an endothecium with band-like thickenings, and a style vascularized by the dorsal carpellary bundles; these characteristics thus corroborate the close relationship of these groups indicated by phylogenetic analyses. Mayacaceae is distinguished by the presence of papillose epidermal cells in the petals, a reduced inner whorl of stamens, poricidal anthers, an endothecium lacking thickenings, a style and stigma vascularized by the dorsal and ventral carpellary bundles, and the presence of an obturator in the ovary wall. A reduction in the inner whorl of fertile stamens also occurs in Juncaceae and Cyperaceae, linking Mayacaceae to the cyperids. The stylar appendages of
4619813|In order to investigate morphological patterns in Mesechiteae and test the new circumscription of the tribe, the gynostegium structure of nine species belonging to
10.1086/675693|
               
2995550|Ceratocapnos heterocarpa Durieu is a cleistogamous, heterocarpous annual species that produces both closed (cleistogamous, CL) and open flowers (chasmogamous, CH), and two types of fruit that are adapted to short-range ("short" fruit) and long-range spread ("long" fruit). CL flowers usually produce short fruits, whereas CH flowers produce both types of fruit in approximately the same proportions. The two floral types are never simultaneous; the CL flowers are formed first in winter, and, after an intervening period where intermediate flowers grow, CH flowers are produced in spring. Growth of CH flowers requires the plant to reach a given growth stage and calls for specific photoperiod and temperature conditions. CL flowers are considerably smaller and produce less pollen than do CH flowers and develop at a different rate. In CL flowers, anthers cover the whole stigma, onto which they unload their contents, but in CH flowers, both self- and cross-pollination can occur. The occurrence of the two types of flowers and fruits is a multiple reproductive strategy whose implications to the typical distribution of this species in the Iberian peninsula is discussed.
3874606|The breeding systems of two sympatric species,
4619753|The objective of this study was to evaluate leaf cuticular wax constituents across a broad selection of soybean (
10.1086/680595|
               
3691532|The dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton of
40072506|White clover is naturally polymorphic for cyanogenesis, and the ecological genetics of this polymorphism has been studied for more than 60 yr. Temperatureassociated cyanogenesis clines occur in both native and introduced populations. Whereas the selective factors favoring cyanideproducing plants in warm climates are well established (differential protection against generalist herbivores), those favoring acyanogenic plants in colder regions are less well understood. We tested the hypothesis originally proposed to explain this pattern: that cyanogenic plants suffer increased tissue death following freezing as a result of frostinduced cyanide autotoxicity. Tissue damage was assessed in laboratory freeze treatments at three temperatures: 10, 11.5, and 13C. We examined cyanogenic and acyanogenic genotypes sampled from across the species range, as well as from polymorphic populations sampled in North Carolina. Cyanogenic genotypes exhibited lower freezing tolerance in the specieswide sample but showed no similar trend in comparisons of plants from polymorphic populations; statistical power was reduced in the latter analysis and may be a contributing factor. These results indicate that expanded genotype sampling of polymorphic populations is warranted, and they tentatively suggest that factors such as herbivore abundance and resource allocation tradeoffs may contribute to the occurrence of cyanogenesis clines in white clover.
10.1086/668614|A cylindrical permineralized conifer seed cone has been identified from the Officer Member of the Trowbridge Formation, near Izee, in east-central Oregon. The cone is preserved in a Middle Jurassic (Callovian) marine calcium carbonate concretion, associated with araucarian seed cones, conifer twigs and wood, cycad seeds, fern rachides, and lycopodialean remains and was prepared by the cellulose acetate peel technique. The specimen is abraded, 2.8 cm long and 1.3 cm wide, and consists of a cone axis with helically arranged bract/scale complexes, with a large ovuliferous scale and a broad, flattened bract. The bract/scale trace arises as a cylindrical unit from the cone axis, in which the bract and scale traces are separated by ground tissue. The traces separate immediately in the cortex to form a crescent-shaped bract trace and a horseshoe-shaped scale trace with associated sclerenchyma bands that form two triangular bundles toward the distal end of the scale. Ovuliferous scale tissue covers one inverted seed per scale, forming a pocket that contains the seed. Seeds are attached at the chalaza to the inside of the pocket. Seed integuments have an outer epidermis of isodiametric cells with dark contents; one or two layers of palisade cells, occasionally appearing in I-beam configuration; and several inner layers of randomly arranged cells. The nucellus is adnate to the integument, to near the apex, where it forms a cellular mound of tissue. Cylindrical cones with helically arranged bract/scale complexes, bract and scale free to the base, one seed per scale enclosed in a pocket, and triangular sclerenchyma bands are characteristic of the genus
2995844|I examined the seasonal dynamics of reproduction for the first cohort of flowering males and females in
10.1086/647916|Gynodioecy involves the stable cooccurrence of females and hermaphrodites. Its maintenance theoretically depends on differences in female and male reproductive success among gender morphs. Although many gynodioecious species also include gynomonoecious individuals that carry a mixture of female and perfect flowers, little is known about the male and female fitness of this third morph. Here, we present the first study of the reproductive system of
3080155|Attempts to reconstruct phytogeographic history based exclusively on either modern or fossil distribution patterns may give misleading results. Local extinction within a widespread clade can undermine phylogeographic hypotheses based on modernday distribution patterns; e.g., within the Aceroideae,
40072525|Plant volatiles mediate numerous interactions between plants and insects, yet few studies have examined variation in volatile production within plant populations or the genetic and environmental causes of this variation. Here we document the effects of inbreeding and maternal family on volatile production by horsenettle
3691742|Protein disulfide isomerases (PDIs) play important roles in protein folding and redox signaling. We used antiserum generated against the chloroplast PDI, RB60, from the unicellular alga
3080333|Two abraded, cylindrical cone specimens found in calcareous concretions from the Cretaceous Spray Formation (Late Campanian) of Vancouver Island, British Columbia, were sectioned using the cellulose acetate peel technique and characterized anatomically. Their sclerenchymatous pith is surrounded by a ring of separate secondary xylem bundles that lack resin canals. The outer cortical zone is sclerenchymatous and covered in a dense ramentum of trichomes that is also present on ovuliferous scale and bract bases. Vascular traces to the ovuliferous scales and bracts arise independently. The bract, with a terete trace and two lateral resin canals, lacks a distinct abaxial lobe. Ovuliferous scales are sclerotic with resin canals adaxial, abaxial, and between the vascular bundles. The ovuliferous scales have an interseminal ridge that is prominent and thick near the micropylar end of the seed, thins out near the seed chalaza, and attaches to the seed wing tissue. There are two winged seeds per scale, and the edges of the ovuliferous scale turn upward and partly enclose the seeds near the micropylar end. Seeds have a ridged sclerotesta; nucellus, megagametophyte, and embryos with eight cotyledons are preserved. Cone structure most closely resembles fossil Pinaceae of the genus
3691568|To investigate relationships and character evolution in the angiosperm family Chloranthaceae, and to integrate fossil specimens into the phylogeny of extant taxa, a parsimony analysis was carried out using morphological data from 38 extant and six fossil species. Ten taxa
2474869|Ceratopteris (Parkeriaceae) is a pantropical genus of annual ferns possessing several features that make it exceptionally useful as a model plant system. The uniqueness of the homosporous fern life cycle allows the study of various phenomena at both the developmentally simple haploid gametophyte stage and at the complex vascular sporophyte stage. Consequently, both cellular and whole plant studies can be carried out simultaneously in a genetically natural and stable system. In genetic approaches, the ability to screen large numbers of mutagenized spores, along with the simple haploid genetics possible with the gametophyte stage and the ability to generate complete homozygotes from a single selfing, provide a powerful means of rapidly isolating and studying mutations. Ceratopteris gametophytes are developmentally simple. However, because they are autotrophic and possess several types of differentiated cells, they offer a number of opportunities for study. Control of germination responses, pattern formation and meristem development, spermatozoid differentiation, apogamy and apospory, pheromonal controls of sexual differentiation, as well as a variety of biochemical/physiological traits can be studied using various approaches. At the same time, the sporophyte provides a typical vascular plant system for study of a variety of developmental, genetic or biochemical/physiological phenomena. Recent and ongoing improvements in culture techniques, along with increased use of molecular approaches, will substantially expand the use of Ceratopteris as a model plant system.
2474960|High plant species diversity in tallgrass prairie results not from a large number of grass species but, rather, from a large number of forb (nongrass, herbaceous) species. Although morphological characteristics of tallgrass prairie forbs differ strongly from those of the grasses and their patterns of abundance vary substantially with burning regime and topographic position, comparatively little is known about the ecology of persistent tallgrass prairie forbs. We measured leaf-level physiological characteristics of the dominant C
2474894|We compared photosynthetic rates and indices of nutrient-use efficiency for evergreen and deciduous shrubs growing in the Okefenokee swamp. Despite statistically significant differences between evergreen and deciduous species, photosynthetic variables and leaf-level nutrient-use efficiencies did not sort cleanly into two groups representing differences in leaf longevity-instead, traits varied continuously with specific leaf mass (SLM). Lyonia lucida, an evergreen (SLM: 161.1 g/m
IJPS40927|Recent plastid phylogenomic studies have helped clarify the backbone phylogeny of angiosperms. However, the relatively limited taxon sampling in these studies has precluded strongly supported resolution of some regions of angiosperm phylogeny. Other recent work has suggested that the 25,000-bp plastid inverted repeat (IR) region may be a valuable source of characters for resolving these remaining problematic nodes. Consequently, we aligned all available angiosperm IR sequences to produce a matrix of 24,702 aligned bases for 246 accessions, including 36 new accessions. Maximum likelihood analyses of the complete data set yielded a generally well-supported topology that is highly congruent with those of recent plastid phylogenomic analyses. However, reducing taxon sampling to match a recent 83-gene plastid analysis resulted in significant changes in bootstrap support at some nodes. Notably, IR analyses resolved
3080198|Andropogoneae is a monophyletic tribe of 85 genera that includes
2475339|In the southeastern region of Coahuila, Mexico, 1,844 fruits with characteristics that relate them to the order Zingiberales have been recovered from Upper Cretaceous (Campanian) sediments. They are tricarpellate and trilocular and have axial placentation and numerous anatropous, operculate, small seeds per locule. Two types of fruits are distinguishable. Striatornata sanantoniensis gen. et sp. nov. is closely related to Spirematospermum, and both are interpreted as members of the Musaceae based on the presence of a chalazal chamber and hilar cavity. Tricostatocarpon silvapinedae gen. et sp. nov. is difficult to accommodate within an extant family of the Zingiberales; however, the opercular structure, integumentary anatomy, and general fruit morphology strongly support its recognition as a member of the order, perhaps related to Musa cardiosperma. Comparison of integumentary anatomy reveals that while the integuments of the fossil seeds have a similar construction pattern, this is not comparable to any of the patterns so far known among the seeds of extant members in Zingiberales, indicating changes in the reproductive biology of the order.
2995547|Leaf spectral reflectance was measured in the field to provide estimates of plant stress for a barrier island interior. During summer on Horn Island, Mississippi, visible (400-760 nm wavelengths) reflectance in Myrica cerifera L. was slightly greater on a site that remained flooded compared to an adjacent site that remained relatively dry, indicating only mild stress on the flooded site. This coincided with leaf water potentials, conductances to water vapor diffusion, and foliar element concentrations that were similar between the two sites. Although Na and Cl concentrations were much greater on the island than on a mainland site, visible reflectances and chlorophyll a concentrations indicated that M. cerifera was not stressed in comparison to the mainland. In Pinus elliottii Engelm., greater visible reflectance on the flooded than on the dry island site and on both island sites compared with the mainland indicated appreciable stress. These reflectance responses to the island environment, particularly reflectance increases near 600 nm and 700 nm, were spectrally similar to those reported previously for a variety of environmental conditions that inhibit growth. Infrared (760-2500 nm) reflectance also differed among sites for both species but was less sensitive to the barrier island environment than visible reflectance. Reflectances indicated that M. cerifera was adapted better than P. elliottii to the barrier island environment, particularly in saturated soils.
2475357|Increased seed production in pollen-limited plants may result in decreases in future fecundity, growth, and/or survival, indicating that resources limit seed set in the long term. In pollen-limited Blandfordia grandiflora populations, I generated high- and low-reproductive-effort plants to examine whether increased seed production resulted in demographic costs over a 3-yr period. I used similar treatments to examine whether trade-offs occurred between seed production and corm mass within a flowering year. To examine how demographic costs might be avoided, I compared masses of leaves, roots, and corms of flowering + fruiting and nonflowering plants. I also examined whether seed production was resource limited by comparing seed abortion, production, and mass in early and late opening flowers on cross-pollinated plants and assessed the magnitude of reproductive effort (RE) in open- and cross-pollinated plants. Seed abortion, set, and mass did not differ between early and late fruits, indicating that sufficient resources were available for maximal seed set and seed set was not resource limited within a reproductive episode. RE of open-pollinated plants was high, ca 50%. Excess cross-pollination increased RE by only about 1%. Ancillary structures contributed 85%-88% of RE; seeds contributed only 12%-15%. Costs of seed production over the 3-yr period were not detected; none of the plants flowered, and plant growth (masses of leaves, roots, and corms) and plant survival, ca. 85%, were similar. Within a reproductive season, corm mass of open-pollinated plants and plants from which flowers were removed did not differ, indicating that seed production did not depend directly on stored resources. For flowering and nonflowering plants, total vegetative masses did not differ, but mass was allocated differently among the plant parts. In flowering plants, mass of leaves was greater, but corm mass was less, indicating that resources for reproduction are supplied by producing more leaves and using underground reserves. Overall these findings indicate that a substantial increase in seed production may not result in demographic costs, and that natural seed production in B. grandiflora is limited by pollen rather than by resources.
2995632|Chromosomes of Alstroemeria pelegrina were studied at both mitosis and meiosis. The somatic chromosome number was 2n = 2x = 16. These chromosomes were divided into two groups. The first group contained four pairs of metacentric, submetacentric, or subtelocentric chromosomes of different sizes, with the smallest pair exhibiting polymorphism with respect to the presence or absence of satellites. Chromosome pair number 4 exhibited polymorphism unique to A. pelegrina. This may be useful in identifying A. pelegrina as the parent of a cultivar carrying this polymorphism. The second group with four pairs was acrocentric, and three pairs had satellites. Chromosome pairing at metaphase I was normal, with eight bivalents that formed either open rings or rods. Pollen fertility was 75% in A. pelegrina alba but less than 45% in A. pelegrina rosea.
3691868|Three out of four haploid sporophytes of
2474914|The incidence of somaclonal variation was estimated by RAPD fingerprinting in in vitro cultured plantlets of the highly regenerative genotype A70-34 (synonym RL34) of Medicago sativa L. (2n = 4x = 32) from the cultivar Rangelander. Plantlets obtained by axillary branching propagation on growth-regulator-free medium were compared with those obtained through indirect somatic embryogenesis, i.e., from somatic embryos regenerated from callus proliferated from petiole tissues. The initial donor plant, maintained in pot in the greenhouse, was used as the control. All evaluated genotypes were maintained in vitro after tissue sampling for DNA extraction and polymorphism analysis. Plantlets derived from axillary branching propagation exhibited no variant for any of the 75 RAPD markers obtained using eight different 10-mer primers, even after 12 repeated monthly subcultures. In contrast, the RAPD fingerprints of 9 of 39 plantlets regenerated by indirect somatic embryogenesis differed from that of the donor for at least one primer and one polymorphic amplification product. The eight primers generated 19 new RAPD markers in the somaclonal variants that were not found in the donor plant fingerprints, while 24 RAPD markers present in the donor plant fingerprints were not scored in the somaclonal variants. One of the indirect somatic embryogenesis-regenerated plants displayed 13 polymorphic bands, but it did not survive in vitro culture after the second transfer to fresh medium. Most of the somaclonal variants displayed one to five polymorphic bands. Moreover, six of nine somaclonal variants were polymorphic, with respect to the donor plant, with two or more primers. Axillary branching propagation proved to be a safe clonation technique, as far as genetic stability of the proliferated tissues is concerned, and RAPD markers were an efficient tool for the early detection of somaclonal variants in tissue culture.
2475164|The study of floral development made its entrance into plant science about the middle of the nineteenth century, mainly through the works of Payer and Hofmeister. Such studies were, and will also be in the future, using modern methods, of fundamental importance to a better understanding of floral morphology, morphogenesis, phylogeny, and function. This is to be shown by the following examples: (1) support of morphogenetic theories by comparison of early developmental stages (inhibition of primordium initiation. "Hemmfeld-Theorie," or inhibitory field theory); (2) similar flower structures with different developmental patterns (androecium, corolla tube); (3) developmental patterns as markers for systematic and phylogenetic considerations, projection of developmental character states upon systems based on molecular data; and (4) events in late floral development concerning the function of secondary pollen presentation mechanisms.
2995654|The arrangement of the simplest type of stomatal complex, the agenous form that has no noticeable subsidiary cells, was examined in three dicots: catalpa (Catalpa speciosa Warder), geranium (Pelargonium zonale L.), and the Chinese scholar tree (Sophora japonica L.). The degree of patterning of stomata in these three species as measured by the method of Clark and Evans is 1.64, 1.62, and 1.65, respectively. The frequencies of stomata (S), cells adjacent to stomata (I), and cells not adjacent to stomata (F) are similar: 0.198, 0.684, and 0.117 for catalpa; 0.189, 0.644, and 0.167 for geranium; and 0.195, 0.693, and 0.112 for the Chinese scholar tree. Stomatal patterning in clover, Trifolium repens L., and the garden pea, Pisum sativum L. var. arvense cv. Dun, were also examined as nonagenous species for comparison with the other three species. Two models were constructed to depict the purely heterotypic (inhibitory) type of stomatal formation. The geometric model describes this type of stoma determination by a simulation graphics program and determines the frequencies for the three types of cells, i.e., S, I, and F, as 0.163, 0.737, and 0.099. The mathematical model consists of three simultaneous differential equations, one for each type of cell, and their frequencies are solved as 0.172, 0.688, and 0.142. The similarity of the data collected from these two models to those for the three species with agenous stomata indicates that the pattern of stomatal arrangement can be explained by heterotypic induction. Parallel studies made on clover and pea, species previously identified with cell lineage determination of stomata, also can be explained quantitatively by inhibitory models.
3080223|Leaf 
2475251|The Cycas pectinata complex is a group of poorly understood Asian cycads threatened by habitat destruction and overcollecting. We estimated the genetic variation in 17 isozyme loci across 39 populations representing 10 taxa in this complex from China, India, Thailand, and Vietnam. Three species from Thailand and an Indian endemic were also examined for comparison. Lower levels of intrapopulation variation than those reported for other gymnosperms were found in the C. pectinata complex. Our results support the hypothesis that low intrapopulation variation with relatively high spatial differentiation is a biological and evolutionary characteristic typical of cycads, unlike other gymnosperms. Large numbers of historically shared alleles and high genetic identities confirmed the close relationships of taxa in the complex. Strong gene flow occurred among local populations 2-7 km apart. Long-distance gene flow was restricted. The estimates of gene flow among taxa were generally low except between C. pectinata var. pectinata and the three southern Thailand endemics. Cycas sp. "clivicola," possessing the least gene diversity in the complex, is likely the youngest species. Cycas siamensis has the highest gene diversity in the complex and is probably the oldest species, centered in southern Thailand. This region, harboring more morphologically distinct taxa than any other, is a diversity center for the complex. These populations in southern Thailand should be given priority in conservation.
10.1086/666668|
               
3691537|
               
10.1086/675694|
               
40072495|Floral ontogeny is described in five speciesrepresenting four (of 11) generaof the mycoheterotrophic monocot family Triuridaceae in order to address hypotheses on the evolutionary origin of their reproductive units, in which the inflorescenceflower boundary is ambiguous. This study provides broader ontogenetic sampling across all three tribes of Triuridaceae (Kupeaeae, Triurideae, and Sciaphileae). The observations highlight some radical morphological shifts in floral units of Triuridaceae, marked by associated morphological novelties. These include the presence of carpel fascicles in
3080103|A phylogenetic investigation of a monophyletic lineage of spurge plants, tribe Euphorbieae, was conducted to elucidate evolutionary relationships, to clarify biogeographic patterns, and to reexamine the previous classification of Euphorbieae. Cladistic analyses of the 52 morphological characters of 61 species resulted in 2922 equally most parsimonious trees of 193 steps with a consistency index of 0.34. The strict consensus tree indicates genus
3080177|Pollinatormediated selection in the deceptive orchid
3691642|Until now, our knowledge of the Lower Cretaceous conifer
2995714|Three species of Pinus are described using permineralized seed cones from Miocene and Pliocene sediments in Idaho and Oregon. Pinus weasmaii, from the Pliocene of Idaho, belongs to the subgenus Pinus, section Pinus, subsection Contortae and closely resembles modern P. banksiana and P. contorta. Pinus berglundii, from the Middle Miocene of Oregon, belongs to the section Pinus, subsection Oocarpae. While similar to modern P. attenuata and P. muricata, P. berglundii is distinctive in several anatomical features and represents a separate lineage within the subsection. Cones of P. lindgrenii Knowlton are documented from both Miocene and Pliocene strata in Idaho. They belong to the subgenus Strobus, section Parrya, subsection Cembroides and closely resemble modern P. edulis and P. monophylla.
4619789|The phylum Streptophyta comprises all land plants and six monophyletic groups of charophycean green algae. Which of these charophycean groups is the most closely related to land plants has long been debated. In 2001, a phylogenetic analysis of four genes encoded by three cellular compartments was inferred that robustly supports the placement of the Charales as sister to land plants as well as the notion that charophycean green algae evolved progressively toward an increasing cellular complexity. This view on the origin of land plants is now being challenged by recent analyses of chloroplast genome sequences from six charophyceans. Phylogenies inferred from multiple chloroplast genes and proteins support the hypothesis that the Charales are sister to a clade composed of the Coleochaetales, the Zygnematales, and land plants, thus implying a more complex evolutionary history for charophycean green algae. Analyses of four sets of genomic features (gene content, intron content, gene order, and insertions/deletions in coding regions) provided strong, independent evidence for the early emergence of the Charales and revealed that most of the features typical of land plant chloroplast genomes were inherited from their green algal ancestors. Here we review the information derived from these comparative genome analyses and present some additional, complementary analyses.
3874627|Permineralized rhizomes and stipe bases of filicalean ferns occur in the Upper Cretaceous (Campanian) Horseshoe Canyon Formation near the town of Drumheller in southern Alberta, Canada, and these provide an opportunity to describe the first anatomically preserved Mesozoic species of Blechnaceae/Dryopteridaceae. The two new fossil species also provide evidence that modern stelar architecture and stipe anatomy evolved in these families before the end of the Mesozoic.
2995567|Various data are currently being used to show phylogenetic relationships of epigeous cup fungi (Pezizales) and truffles (Tuberales). We studied ontogeny of the ascospore wall, spore ornament development, and septa of vegetative and reproductive hyphae of Genea gardnerii by TEM. Ultrastructural and cytological features of G gardnerii link Genea to the transitional type of epigeous Otideaceae in the Pezizales. The evidence includes the presence of a fan-shaped septal plugging structure with a double translucent band at each side of the plug at the base of the ascus and a transitional type of spore wall deposition similar to Lachneae of the Otideaceae.
4619772|Fruits and infructescences of the Cerro del Pueblo and El Cien Formations, Coahuila and Baja California Sur, Mexico, respectively, allow detailed description and comparison of reproductive structures of plants that grew from the Late Cretaceous at least up to the Miocene. Infructescences collected in the Rincn Colorado and Presa San Antonio localities resemble those of some members of Alismatales; they share multiple or aggregate infructescences, with sessile, unilocular, operculate berrylike fruits, that are free from one another intheir distal zones and contain a single orthotropous ovule. Nevertheless, they have other characteristics notfound in either fossil or extant infructescences, limiting this resemblance. These features include the development of a distal seed crown by integumentary projection, a fruit operculum inserted into the seed crown, and a channel running through the mesocarp from the exposed operculum surface to the proximal end of the fruit. The presence of sclerotized layers in the seed suggests that the reproductive organs are mature. Differences in number of fruits per infructescence, seed form, number of integumentary layers, and cell sizes in the seed and fruit suggest that two related species are represented among the ca. 1283 known infructescences. This suggests that during the Cretaceous diversity within the order was important. The only infructescence collected from the OligoceneMiocene El Cien Formation has a morphology that closely resembles that of the Cretaceous material. Even the polyhedric shape of the exocarp cells of the Baja California Sur material is similar to that of the Coahuila material. Unfortunately, this material was not cut for further comparison, but the available data suggest that this lineage lived in northern Mexico until at least the OligoceneMiocene.
4122585|The Podostemaceae (eudicots, Malpighiales) are adapted to rivers that exhibit distinct highlow water seasonality, mainly in the tropics. They attach to submerged rocks with ribbonlike or crustose green roots that cover the substrate like a carpet. Pronounced root dorsiventrality resulted in disklike crusts lacking root caps. African Podostemoideae show a bewildering array of forms not known from other flowering plants, such as (i)foliage leaves having a basis with two sheaths (e.g.,
3079990|A coniferlike plant occurs among the rich fossil biota at the Late Pennsylvanianage Hamilton Quarry in southeastern Kansas.
2995529|The scope of reaction-diffusion theory comprises both intracellular and multicellular domains. I distinguish between two meanings of the word "morphogen" and discuss briefly events probably involving Turing morphogens in chemical reactions, animals, and slime molds. Three examples from the plant kingdom are discussed more extensively: repeated dichotomous branching in Micrasterias; whorl formation in Acetabularia; and unequal cell division in the cyanobacterium Anabaena catenula.
4619827|Although broccoli is moderately tolerant to salt stress, the tolerance mechanism is still unknown. Therefore, inthis article, the uptake and transport of nutrients and water in relation to the changes in root anatomy (phi thickening appearance) caused by salinity stress have been studied. The effect of phi thickening in the response of these plants to salinity was studied by comparing two methods of measuring root hydraulic conductance, pressurizing roots and natural exudation, and analyzing the nutrient concentrations in the xylem. The permeability properties of phi thickening were tested by a tracer that moves only via the apoplastic pathway.
3691695|A fossil angiosperm from the Brazilian Crato Formation,
10.1086/660881|Epiphytes represent an important element of the tropical flora and are widely distributed across vascular plants. Despite this diversity, however, little is yet known of the evolutionary history, habitat preference, morphological diversity, and biogeographical patterns of epiphytes as a whole. Approximately 10% of cacti are epiphytes inhabiting humid regions, and
2995751|Seeds and young seedlings of
2995783|Allozyme analyses for 433 individuals of the endangered monotypic genus
3691727|Recent molecular phylogenies of the grasses (Poaceae) have revealed unexpected relationships among species with disparate inflorescence morphologies. 
10.1086/647920|A new fulllength cDNA encoding an AP2/EREBP domaincontaining transcription factor named
2995625|Branching pattern and intensity, aboveground biomass partitioning, and leaf display in response to light environment were studied in saplings of the shade-tolerant broad-leaved evergreen tree Castanopsis fargesii. Relative light exposures corresponded with those in forest gaps and clearings: 18%, 33%, 55%, and 100% full sunlight. At 18% full sunlight saplings had comparatively long main stems and long, sparsely bifurcating first-order lateral axes (as counted centrifugally). In more exposed environments saplings developed shorter first-order lateral axes that supported larger numbers of higher order axes of greater total length and weight. These saplings had relatively small leaves in high densities. The differences in aboveground morphology were partly due to variability in overall plant size and were partly a direct effect of light environment. The different crown shapes and foliage densities were considered adaptive in the different light environments. The favorable growth and morphological responses of the saplings to high light environments indicate that C. fargesii is a competitive species in large gaps and clearings.
3691685|The mustyearthysmelling sesquiterpenoid dehydrogeosmin (DHG) was found several years ago as a novel compound in flowers of some cactus species, which called attention to the biology of floral scents of the Cactaceae. Our studies showed that the odor bouquet of DHGproducing cactus flowers is dominated by isoprenoids. All floral volatiles were produced by the perianth during the exclusively diurnal anthesis. Volatile emissions were diurnal, as was the daily opening schedule of flowers. Within one species, the odor composition of cultivated specimens varied strongly, whereas little variation was found among individuals of a natural population of the same species. However, field studies revealed that DHG is not produced by all specimens in natural populations. Our results on the timing and location of odor emission support the hypothesis that this unusual volatile may play a role in pollinatorplant interactions.
2995712|Ascosporogenesis is studied in Mycolachnea hemisphaerica of the tribe Lachneae, Humariaceae. Ontogeny of spore-delimiting membranes, free cell formation, and primary wall deposition in this genus are essentially the same as reported in other Pezizales. During formation of the secondary wall, the matrix of wall material accumulates within the perisporic sac into two zones, an inner, compact zone, and an outer, loosely fibrillar zone. The secondary wall is deposited onto the epispore layer through a gradual condensation of this material in the inner zone. A distinctly ornamented secondary wall is formed in M. hemisphaerica, and there are three different types of inclusion bodies in the sporoplasm. Overall spore ontogeny is very similar to that of species of Trichophaea.
10.1086/670236|
               
3691777|Terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase (TdT)mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) was used to identify internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in the liverwort
2995699|Calla palustris shows annual production of one or two inflorescences on each ephemeral seasonal shoot. Shoots are sympodial; the terminal inflorescences are produced in the summer of the year before the mostly perfect flowers open. Overwintering terminal buds show limited preformation of foliage leaves on renewal shoots; most leaves are neoformed. The spadix produces a series of prominent flower primordia in up to eight irregular orthostichies. Each primordium develops no perianth but a series of indistinctly trimerous stamen initials in centripetal order. The gynoecium originates as a single dorsiventrally asymmetric collar-like outgrowth that becomes ovate and encloses the series of basal anatropous ovules, showing no evidence of a pseudomonomerous condition either in development or vasculature. Floral variation within a spadix is considerable, distal flowers are usually wholly male, basal flowers show reduced stamen number, but no strictly female flowers are produced. Vascular traces to the floral appendages are derived from an anastomosing system that obscures any uniform pattern. Morphogenetic considerations describe the vascular system better than any reference to imaginary evolutionary antecedents.
3691776|The culture of bentcotyledonstage zygotic embryos of
3691604|Recent molecular phylogenetic studies have shown that the Gunnerales, including
2995649|Natural hybridization between Arizona singleleaf pinyon (Pinus monophylla subsp. fallax [Little] Zavarin) and Colorado pinyon (P. edulis Engelm.) was studied in northwestern Arizona, using morphological characters. The array of phenotypes indicated introgression of both species. In the Grand Canyon hybridization occurred between elevationally stratified populations of the taxa where flowering phenology was overlapping. Colorado pinyon showed evidence of introgression in the western Grand Canyon area and up the Colorado River canyon into southeastern Utah, as well as southeastward below the Colorado Plateau. Long-distance pollen dispersal may be responsible for introgression into southeastern Utah, and hybridization in northwestern Arizona may have started during the Late Pleistocene.
3691601|Early endosperm and embryo development within the reduced ategmic ovule (the placentalnucellar complex or PNC) of the parasitic angiosperm
3691668|Annonaceae and Myristicaceae, the two largest families of Magnoliales, are pantropical groups of uncertain geographic history. The most recent morphological and molecular phylogenetic analyses identify the AsianAmerican genus
3080072|Sporophylls of the homosporous fern
3874620|The Lower Cretaceous (Valanginian to Hauterivian) Apple Bay locality on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, has yielded several fragments of fertile permineralized osmundaceous pinnae. Specimens are preserved in calcareous concretions, showing both internal anatomy and allowing for the reconstruction of external morphology. Sporangia are borne laterally and clustered along terete pinna segments. They range from 550 to 650 m in diameter, with a lateral annulus that is nine to 12 cells wide and two to three cells high and is separated from the stalk by only one or two cells. Spores are spheroidal and trilete, 4052 m in diameter, with long laesurae and a coarsely tuberculate exospore. Some tubercles are fused, forming microrugulae. Sporangial structure and spores most closely resemble those of
3080218|Because of harsh environmental conditions, cliff walls tend to have depauparate vascular plant floras. However, the resistance to desiccation and low light requirements of algae and cyanobacteria make them integral components of cliff walls. In addition, protozoa may be present within moist microhabitats. To document part of the cryptobiotic flora of these habitats, nine cliffs were sampled in the Hocking Hills, Ohio, vicinity over a 3mo period in the spring of 1999. A total of 140 infrageneric algal and 25 nonphotosynthetic protozoan taxa were recorded. The algal flora was dominated by bacillariophytes (80 taxa), with cyanobacteria (43), chlorophytes (12), euglenophytes (4), and xanthophytes (1) comprising the remainder of observed taxa. The majority of cyanobacterial taxa were chroococcalian forms that were collected at all nine sites. In addition, 15 nonnitrogenfixing filamentous forms were observed but tended to be less abundant. Protozoan taxa were comprised of ciliates (18 taxa), heliozoans (4), and rhizopods (3). All major groups of taxa exhibited the greatest abundance and diversity during March and decreased throughout April and May. Environmental parameters (light, temperature, humidity, moisture, and aspect) were measured and combined with species data for cluster (unweighted pair group mean average clustering) and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). Cluster analysis showed little geographical grouping of sites, but the sites appeared to be clustered based on moisture level. The CCA showed four significant (
3691735|Understanding mechanisms involved in the maintenance of gynodioecy in natural populations requires evidence concerning the phenotypic expression and reproductive consequences of male sterility. We have recently discovered male sterility in populations of
2474886|Clarkia gracilis ssp. sonomensis has a floral polymorphism (presence vs. absence of petal spots) that is determined by a single gene. Most populations are monomorphic, indicating that frequency-dependent selection may limit the spread of the rare allele within a population. Also, the vast majority of populations are composed of the dominant (spotted) phenotype. To determine whether fertility selection mechanisms might favor one phenotype over the other and/or act in a frequency-dependent manner, I examined pollinator behavior and postpollination success in these plants. Differential pollinator visitation among floral spot phenotypes was tested using experimental arrays placed into natural populations composed of different frequencies of the two phenotypes. Slight pollinator preference for spotted plants was detected in some arrays; in no array was there significant preference for unspotted plants, even when the background population was 100% unspotted plants. There was no evidence of frequency-dependent visitation behavior by pollinators. A hand-pollination experiment explored the relative abilities of the two floral morphs to sire and mature seeds when given ample pollination, both in single- and mixed-donor pollen loads. Pollen from spotted plants sired 10% more seeds than pollen from unspotted plants in the single-donor treatments, although phenotypic frequencies of offspring from mixed-donor loads did not differ from random expectation. Maternal seed maturation rates did not differ between morphs. These results support a previous finding of a consistent male fitness advantage for spotted plants over the whole range of phenotypic frequencies found in natural populations.
3080229|The consequences of partial selfincompatibility on the breeding system of
3080289|We conducted a population genetic analysis of the heterocarpic species
10.1086/679758|
               
3691556|Large numbers of roots and stems of aquatic Lythraceae have been found in association with fruits and seeds of
3691876|Macrofossils of Casuarinaceae from Early Oligocene sediments at Little Rapid River, Tasmania, are assigned to a new species,
2474920| The development of chlorosis was studied in primary leaves of barley plants (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Brant) grown at ambient and twice-ambient CO2 partial pressures. Leaf yellowing was observed 17 d after sowing when plants were grown in controlled environment chambers equipped with high-intensity discharge lamps at an irradiance of
3080266|The population dynamics of the endangered fragrant prickly apple cactus of southeastern coastal Florida were studied in order to predict future population growth and structure. Plants in two populations were tagged, mapped, and measured each year for 5 yr. Recruitment and mortality were recorded. These small populations declined dramatically with high mortality and low recruitment rates. Transition matrices based on stem length were constructed and analyzed. The dominant eigenvalues indicated declining populations. Projection analysis also indicated population decreases, but it underestimated the actual declines. This result is understandable since the predicted stable length distributions (analogous to stable age distributions) were different from the actual length distributions at the end of the fifth year. In 8 yr, the two populations declined by 55.3% and 59.8%. Elasticity matrices indicated the overwhelming importance of the largest individuals to the survival of the populations, yet changes in reproductive rate had negligible demographic effects. Actual length distributions at the end of the fifth year were projected to the eighth year and compared with actual length distributions in the eighth year. For population 1, there was a significant difference, in which there were actually more small individuals and fewer large individuals than projected, but results were not significantly different for population 2. A population viability analysis indicated that modal time to extinction for both populations was <20 yr.
3691683|Historically, dichogamy, the temporal separation of male and female function in flowering plants, has been interpreted as a mechanism for avoiding inbreeding. However, a comparative survey found that many dichogamous species are selfincompatible (SI), indicating dichogamy evolved for other reasons. Here we reexamined the association between dichogamy and SI in a phylogenetic framework and tested the hypothesis that dichogamy evolved to reduce interference between male and female function. Using paired comparison and maximum likelihood correlation analyses, we found that protandry (male function first) is positively correlated with the presence of SI and protogyny (female function first) with selfcompatibility (SC). In addition, estimates of transitionrate parameters indicated strong selection for the evolution of SC in protogynous taxa and a constraint against transitions from protandry to protogyny in SC taxa. We interpret these results as support for protandry evolving to reduce interference and protogyny to reduce inbreeding.
3691824|Mature pollen grains of
3080184|We sequenced the
3874639|Simply visiting and manipulating plants in a way consistent with measurement in typical ecological studies influences the amount of leaf herbivory experienced by some plant species. We examined the mechanistic basis for why
20533046|Molecular phylogenetics has revolutionized our understanding of the Caryophyllales, and yet many relationships have remained uncertain, particularly at deeper levels. We have performed parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses on separate and combined data sets comprising nine plastid genes (12,000 bp), two nuclear genes (5000 bp), and the plastid inverted repeat (24,000 bp), giving a combined analyzed length of 42,006 bp for 36 species of Caryophyllales and four outgroups. We have recovered strong support for deeplevel relationships across the order. Two major subclades are well supported, the noncore and core Caryophyllales;
2475236|Exotherms and lethal low temperatures were examined in four species of chaparral shrubs that co-occur in the Santa Monica Mountains, southern California: Rhus laurina, Rhus ovata, Ceanothus megacarpus, and Ceanothus spinosus. For all but R. ovata, excised leaves froze at significantly lower temperatures than leaves on intact branches (range 4.3
40072513|Uniparental reproduction has often been regarded as advantageous for colonization. In pseudogamous apomicts, reproduction via single individuals requires selfpollination and consequently selfcompatibility (SC) for production of viable seeds. SC and reproductive fitness have been studied in diploid and polyploid taxa of the
3079982|Mapping all procambial strands in serial transections of the six contiguous nodes below the tassel primordia of a young stem of
3691690|We have compared selfed and outbred offspring from individual plants of the annual plant
2475141|Ultrastructural features of Brassica napus tapetal cells during microsporogenesis from early microspore development through late maturation are described Emphasis is placed on the two major lipid-containing components (plastids and lipid bodies) of the tapetal cells, particularly the little-studied lipid bodies. By the early microspore stage, the walls of the tapetal cells are mostly dissolved, and a lipoid layer has been deposited on the tapetal side of the middle lamella of the outer tangential wall between the tapetal cells and the anther wall cells An electron-dense layer of presumed sporopollenin is subsequently deposited on the tapetal side of the lipoid layer, thus forming a continuous peritapetal layer, occluding the plasmodesmata, and isolating the anther locule. A prominent feature of the young tapetal cells is an abundance of ribosomes and endoplasmic reticulum (ER); the vacuoles are small; plastids are undifferentiated; and only a few, small cytoplasmic lipid droplets are present. As maturation continues, the ER becomes associated with the developing lipid bodies; the plastids enlarge and accumulate plastoglobuli, forming elaioplasts The lipid bodies differentiate into complex structures composed of a mixture of lipid and apparent membranous components. We propose a structural model for the biogenesis of the lipid bodies. As the microspores reach maturity, the lipid bodies, plastids, and other tapetal organelles are released from lysed tapetal cells, and the remnants of these organelles are deposited on the surface of the maturing pollen, forming the tryphine.
2995627|Pollen hydration, germination, and pollen tube growth were examined in Picea glauca. Pollen germination and the early stages of pollen tube growth were similar in vitro and in vivo, although germination occurs within hours in vitro but days in vivo. We found no instances in vitro of separation of the stalk cell, movement of the stalk/body cell complex, or division of the body cell nucleus to form two male nuclei. These are all events which occur once the pollen tube has penetrated the nucellus and may be triggered by some interaction between pollen tube and nucellus. The low moisture content and the lack of polysomes in dry pollen may contribute to the relatively slow rate of germination. Once pollen has germinated, a pattern of zonation is established in the pollen tube. The pollen tube becomes branched as it penetrates the nucellus, and we propose that these branches, as well as the plasmatubules located at the distal end of the pollen tube, have a role in the nutrition in pollen-tube growth. The stalk cell initiates the release of the stalk/body cell complex from the intine and may be involved with movement of the body cell in the pollen tube. The male nuclei form while the pollen tube is penetrating the nucellus. A partial cell plate is formed between the male nuclei, but a cell wall is never completed. The male nuclei are lobed and contain tubules located just inside the nuclear membrane. The nuclear lobing and tubules may have a role in nuclear movement through the egg cytoplasm.
3691851|Compounds of the dihydroxynaphthalene (DHN) fungal melanin pathway are in short supply worldwide, especially 1,3,6,8tetrahydroxynaphthalene, the chemically unstable starting point of the pathway, and are not commercially available. This is becoming an impediment to physiological survey work in the DHN pathway. We describe the use of our black yeast
3079972|Coleoptera and Diptera are the primary pollinators of extant basal angiosperms (wind pollination is rare); lineages of these insects were established by the Late Jurassic. Contemporary examples of insect pollination of nonangiosperm plants are present in Gnetales (flies, moths) and Cycadales (beetles). The breeding systems of extant basal angiosperms are dominated by bisexual, protogynous, fragrant flowers that may form chambers in the female phase. Floral thermogenesis is widely distributed throughout the extant basal angiosperms (Nymphaeaceae, Illiciaceae, Aristolochiaceae, Magnoliaceae, and Annonaceae), into the basal monocots (Araceae) and extends into the advanced monocots (Arecaceae and Cyclanthaceae) and eudicots (only one family, Nelumbonaceae). The cycads are the only other plant group with heatproducing reproductive structures (male and female cones). Flower temperatures of thermogenic plants are in the range required by endothermic insects for purposes of mating and flight, and it is hypothesized that floral heat is a direct energy reward to insects (a resource). Floral fragrance and heat played major roles in early plant reproductive systems, and fragrance could signal not only food and sex but also heat.
2475173|The evolutionary origin of flowering plants has long been contentious. The large morphological gap between flowering plants and their potential gymnosperm relatives makes homology difficult to assess. Uncertainty at the base of the angiosperm clade prevents firm reconstruction of plesiomorphic flower characters. The recent discovery of homeotic genes that specify flowers and flower organs raises the possibility of a new class of evidence bearing on flower origins. Homeotic genes may give strong evidence on homology. Sequence changes or events related to morphological evolution may help resolve the base of the flowering plant tree. This article reports the creation of resources to facilitate isolation of homeotic and other genes from taxa critical to flowering plant origins: we have made 16 genomic DNA libraries of 15 species, including Gnetales (Welwitschia [two libraries], Gnetum [two species], and Ephedra) and basal angiosperms (Nymphaea, Peperomia, Magnolia, Illicium, Drimys, Cinnamomum, Trochodendron, and Platanus), as well as an advanced monocot (Juncus) and two species of the advanced dicot Heliotropium. Sequences of the first genes cloned from these libraries, a LEAFY homolog from Welwitschia and one from Gnetum, along with recently released pine sequences, demonstrate that a paralogous duplication of LEAFY predated the divergence of Coniferales and Gnetales. LEAFY is not always single copy in diploids but has persisted as paralogs for a long interval.
IJPS41343|The distribution of genetic diversity of a plant species over the landscape provides insight into the evolutionary process and affects conservation strategies. We used both conventional methods (
3080140|Investigations of the method by which the plant body of Podostemaceae fastens to naked rocks in waterfalls refute the hitherto accepted existence of a special glue secreted by these plants. Instead, roots and crusts of Podostemaceae utilize bacteria, mainly cyanobacteria of biofilms, for attachment. These plants essentially depend on the sticky components (extracellular polymeric substances [EPS]) of slimecoated cyanobacteria that live within biofilms covering the rocky substratum: the EPS of biofilm functions as the pasting agent. Adhesive hairs, developing from the lower side of the Podostemonad plant body, stick to the cyanobacteria threads and the biofilm matrix, which, in turn, fasten to the substratum. This mode, occurring widely, is exemplified herein with five Old World species of both subfamilies of Podostemaceae.
10.1086/673539|
               
IJPS40884|Floral diversification and specialization are thought to be driven largely by interactions with pollinators, but the extent to which current selection on floral traits is mediated by pollinators has rarely been determined experimentally. We documented selection through female function on floral traits in two populations of the rewarding orchid
3080168|We studied the anatomy of the basal meristem and root development in
2995705|Mesophyll and bundle-sheath cells of mature leaves of Moricandia arvensis, a C<sub>3</sub>-C<sub>4</sub> intermediate, contain all the ultrastructural components typical of photosynthesizing cells, as do vascular parenchyma cells and companion cells. Plasmodesmata occur between all possible cell combinations of the leaf, with the possible exception of the bundle-sheath cell/sieve-tube member interface, where plasmodesmata are either rare or absent. Within the contiguous tissues, the greatest plasmodesmatal frequencies occur at the anticlinal interfaces between palisade parenchyma cells and those mesophyll cells that lie in the plane of the minor venation and the interfaces between palisade parenchyma cells and bundle-sheath cells. Of the interfaces involving cell types of the minor veins, the greatest frequencies occur at bundle-sheath/phloem parenchyma and phloem parenchyma/phloem parenchyma or phloem parenchyma/companion cell interfaces. Plasmodesmata between companion cells and other parenchymatous cells of the vascular bundle and between companion cells and bundle-sheath cells are modified on the companion-cell side of the wall, where most lack discernible desmotubules and appear to be occluded with a uniformly dense, amorphous material. Concentration gradients exist along the mesophyll cell/bundle-sheath cell/vascular parenchyma cell and phloem parenchyma cell routes. Neither sieve-tube members nor companion cells plasmolyzed at 1.4 M of osmoticum, the highest molarity used. On the basis of plasmodesmatal distribution and concentration gradient, we conclude that photoassimilates move symplastically to the region of the sieve tube-companion cell complexes and that phloem loading in the leaf of M. arvensis occurs from the apoplast and is an active process.
3080231|We designed a transectbased survey of allozyme variation in water birch,
10.1086/650154|Plants experience damage to both their vegetative and their reproductive parts. Loss of leaf area can affect subsequent photosynthesis and resources available for growth and reproduction; damage to flowers can result in loss of ovules and seeds by consumption, but herbivory may also disfigure flowers, interfering with their functions of attracting and rewarding pollinators. We examined natural populations of the butterfly pea,
40072526|Calycanthaceae, sister to all other Laurales, are the most distinct family of the order in their gynoecium structure (lateral placentation, presence of two ovules). Gynoecium structure was studied in a representative of each genus of Calycanthaceae and gynoecium development in a representative of each of the two subfamilies (Calycanthoideae and Idiospermoideae). Newly found shared features are postgenital coherence between the free carpels (extragynoecial compitum), abortion of the upper of the two ovules, and lobation of the outer integument. Differences in reproductive structures between the two subfamilies are reviewed. Newly found differences include carpel primordium shape, contribution of the outer integument to micropyle formation, epidermis differentiation of the rim of the integuments, and mode of formation of the compitum. Unexpectedly, at anthesis, ovary and ovules of
2995858|Floral symmetry has a relevant status in the study of both pollination biology and animal behavior. In this work, a brief review and classification of symmetry types in flowers is provided as a basis for understanding the role of floral symmetry in pollination phenomena. We focus on insects as a fundamental group of pollinators, and we discuss symmetry from the perspective of insect perception. We conclude that symmetry is a specific cue with a signal value that is perceived by insect pollinators. A simple nervous system, such as that of honeybees, is capable of an extremely flexible and adaptive processing of symmetry. Performances consistent with categorization and concept building may be observed, provided that appropriate learning paradigms are employed. Perfectly symmetrical flowers might signal a high quality and/or quantity of nectar or pollen to pollinators that, in turn, might exert strong selection pressure on symmetric features. However, coadaptation arguments in the strict sense are not adequate because it is impossible to determine whether the insect's capacity to perceive symmetry is younger or older than is the origin of flower symmetry.
3079940|The water content of germinating seeds fluctuates in response to water potential changes in the surrounding environment. We tested the hypothesis that the endosperm functions as a water reservoir when imbibed seeds experience drying, and we characterized water uptake and movement within barley (
3080217|The identification of
40072515|The genetic diversity of 17 populations of
IJPS41338|Ferns in the genus
3691791|Homeosis is the result of a developmental process where attributes of one structure are transferred to the position normally occupied by a different structure. The importance of homeotic mutations in the evolution of flowers and their impact on the whole pollination strategy is discussed from a morphological perspective, with special reference to the development of floral organs and the underlying genetics. Three case studies are presented where transformations of organs in flowers have important evolutionary implications, and these are related to the genetic background that is causal for these changes. I hypothesize that petals in the Rosaceae are derived from stamens through homeosis. The petals usually occupy an apical position in a complex multistaminate androecium. Evidence is derived from the similar primordial morphology of petals, their occasional replacement by stamens, obhaplostemonous androecia without petals, and the position of the family next to Rhamnaceae and Urticales. It is postulated that petals and stamens are homologous structures in the Rosaceae, but they are expressed morphologically and functionally in a different way. As most members of the nearest sister groups of Rosaceae (especially Urticales) are wind pollinated, the transformation of stamens into petals led to a sudden expansion of the family through the development of better pollinator attraction. The Papaveraceae mostly have a multistaminate androecium of many whorls and three perianth whorls of bracteolar origin differentiated into sepals and petals; the outer stamens are arranged in alternation with the two inner perianth whorls. Two opposite evolutionary trends are believed to have occurred in the family. In
10.1086/662657|We investigated whether the plants of the Galpagos Archipelago and Cocos Island, which are each others closest neighboring insular systems, show any such sister relationships. Five genera of vascular plants have endemics in both archipelagos, including plants with different life histories and dispersal mechanisms: tree ferns, epiphytes, trees, herbs, and shrubs, with adaptations for dispersal by wind or birds (two genera each) or with no obvious dispersal adaptation (one genus). We obtained molecular phylogenies for these genera to test the hypothesis of phytogeographical links between the islands. The phylogenies for all five genera were not consistent with this hypothesis, but they supported floristic studies in revealing no direct phytogeographical links between the islands. We attribute this lack of floristic affinity primarily to air and ocean circulation patterns that limit dispersal between Galpagos and Cocos and to a low frequency of interisland bird movements. There are also major ecological differences between them, and Cocos Island is quite small, which limits the chance of random dispersal events and subsequent establishment.
3080129|Stomatal ontogeny is often inferred but rarely documented for extinct fossil plants because it requires observations from young leaves that are rarely preserved as fossils. The discovery of several very young leaves of the Jurassic plant
10.1086/681821|
               
3691594|Mitotic metaphase complements of four Eurasian
2995842|
               
10.1086/683011|
               
10.1086/653132|New data on floral morphology, development, and vasculature in two Brazilian genera of the monocot family Velloziaceae (Pandanales) are used to explore the homologies of their unusual floral structures, especially the corona of
3691582|
               
3080291|Phylogenetic models of the Clusiaceae have so far been based on morphological data only. As an additional source of phylogenetic information, the chloroplast gene
10.1086/667626|Evidence from
2474946|Using starch gel and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, we examined allozyme diversity in six island and seven mainland populations of Aster spathulifolius Maxim., a plant species occurring in the coastal regions of Korea and Japan. We estimated four parameters of genetic variability: percentage of polymorphic loci (P), mean number of alleles per locus (A), mean expected frequency of heterozygotes (h
3691832|A phylogenetic analysis of cycad genera was conducted using sequences of plastid
10.1086/648987|An updated data set of 25 fossil floras sampling plant communities from the Early Cretaceous (123 million years ago) to the Pliocene (3 million years ago) is reanalyzed to assess the evolution of a latitudinal gradient in seed size during the radiation of angiosperms and the effect of this gradient on estimations of temporal trends in seed size. There is a significant negative correlation between the median seed size of Tertiary floras and their paleolatitude. As in modern floras, average seed size decreased from the equator toward the poles. Results indicate that previous documentations of a striking increase in withinflora seed size around the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary (66 million years ago) are valid and conservative: the older (Cretaceous) floras sampled communities that in life were closer to the equator, relative to the younger (Tertiary) floras.
2995799|The purpose of this study was to determine whether seasonal temperature changes interact with salinity concentration to inhibit germination. Flooding of a marsh may also influence the size of the seed bank. Soil cores (6.0 cm
2475047|Sixty-two slow-growing Thuja occidentalis (eastern white cedar), 6-28 yr in age and 11-52 cm in size, were excavated from a vertical limestone cliff. Their root extension, distribution, biomass, and belowground allocation were investigated, as was the degree to which these rooting characteristics were influenced by substrate factors such as rock fracturing and the presence of soil pockets and ledges. Alson examined was the correlation between such microsite characteristics and individual tree growth rates. The results showed that the majority of trees grew in rock without soil or in very small soil pockets. Rooting was shallow, penetrating solid rock to an average of only 9 cm (maximum 30 cm). Roots were found almost exclusively in rock fissures of the softer, more weathered rock layers, penetrating harder layers only via crevices. Root competition was largely absent when trees grew in rock. The prescence of absence of soil had no effect on aboveground or belowground biomass, root: Shoot ratio, or growth rate but significantly affected the pattern of root deployment. Root: shoot ratios were within the normal range for temperature-zone trees (average 0.48). All microsite factors were poor predictors of individual plant growth rate. The likely availability of both water and nutrients near the rock surface may explain the lack of deep root penetration and a minimal need for soil. Plasticity of root deployment without a loss of uptake efficiency may be one of the characteristics that enable T. occidentalis to persist on cliff faces.
3080145|Mature leaves of nitrate and ammonialimited soybean plants often have an elevated activity of carbohydrate metabolizing enzymes (de Veau et al.
3691829|Because in gynodioecious species females are expected to be more pollen limited than hermaphrodites, we tested for sexdifferential pollen limitation at the flower level, comparing fruit production and fecundity between openpollinated and handpollinated flowers of
2475182|Conventional growth-turgor analyses of wall yielding do not take into account developmental changes in tissue and cell geometry that could significantly alter the force on and stress borne by expanding walls. To ascertain the role of wall stress in the decline in growth during leaf maturation, we analyzed the relation between leaf elongation and epidermal turgor (P
3080073|A series of experiments was conducted aboard the U.S. space shuttle and the
3691796|Recent phylogenetic analyses of angiosperms have identified a set of basal angiosperm lineages (
2474916| Microbotryum violaceum infects more than 200 species of Caryophyllaceae, although individual isolates of the fungus are limited in host range to one or a few species. The goal of the present study was to establish a molecular profile of individual haploid M. violaceum strains from different host species and to evaluate different methods for producing such profiles. Eighteen different sporidial strains from seven different host species were examined for electrophoretic karyotype, for random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) profile, by phylogenetic analysis of intron sequences in the -tubulin gene, and by parsimony analysis of melting curves of total genomic DNA (DNA thermal profiles). While no one method could resolve all isolates from closely related host species, together the results obtained with these methods were able to group isolates based on their host species of origin. Taken together, host range/host species of origin and the genetic differences indicated by the molecular methods in this study would appear to define pathovars or formae speciales of this fungus. 
2995774|Using histological techniques, we investigated the development and organization of the primary root and the root apex of
3080141|The disintegration of chloroplasts during zygote maturation in
2474902| Anatomically preserved pollen cones are described from the Middle Eocene Princeton chert of British Columbia, Canada. Cones are ellipsoidal; range from 2.8 to 6.9 mm in length, 1.6 to 3.5 mm in diameter; and are often subtended by scale leaves. Cone axes contain longitudinally oriented, cortical resin canals and 14-18 vascular bundles. Microsporophylls are helically arranged, each bearing two abaxial pollen sacs, many containing pollen grains. Grains are bisaccate and monosulcate, ranging from 50 to 70 m in length and 27 to 43 m in width. Proximally, the corpus is rugulate with a tectate-alveolate infrastructure. Sacci have a well-defined endoreticulum and an external ornamentation that is psilate to scabrate. Variations in cone size, cone anatomy, and pollen morphology indicate that several developmental stages are preserved. The large number of cones present in the chert, especially those representing short-lived ontogenetic stages, and the preservational quality of the cones support depositional interpretations for a rapid burial and preservation. These factors also indicate that the pollen cone-producing plants occupied a marginal position in proximity to the lacustrine environment. Four species of Pinus, based on woody twigs, dwarf shoots, leaves, and ovulate cones, are presently known from the Princeton chert. The association of these pollen cones with Pinus similkameenensis leaves and Pinus arnoldii ovulate cones indicates possible taxonomic affinities among these species. The Princeton chert specimens are the oldest Pinus pollen cones to be described and are the first in the genus for which fossil pollen ultrastructure has been described. 
2995527|The analysis of longitudinal growth is reviewed in terms of growth trajectories and fields of velocity and relative elemental growth (REG) rate. Then the relationships among cell division rate, cell size, and growth rate are reviewed. A careful distinction is made between spatial (site specific) and material (cellparticle specific) aspects of growth and cell division. The equations indicate the experimental design and numerical analysis needed to assess the physiological importance of gene products recently proposed to regulate cell cycle activity. Effects of temperature and water stress on growth and cell division in seedling roots of maize are described. Temperature changes REG rates and cell production rates in synchrony, so the cell length pattern is unchanged by temperature perturbation between 19 and 29 C. In contrast, water stress has no effect on REG rate in apical regions but shortens the length of the growth zone. Water stress also causes a decrease in the cell production rate. Thus water stress uncouples the synchrony between growth and cell division to produce longer cells at the base of the meristem and shorter cells at the base of the growth zone. The longer cells near the root apex probably facilitate transport of metabolites from the phloem to the dividing cells in stressed roots. In general, patterns of cell size may affect the selection of plants for environmental adaptation.
3080165|The morphological variation among reproductive organs of extant seed plants makes assessment of organ homology difficult. Comparisons of expression patterns of homeotic genes that control organ development will yield new information about the homology of organs to assess inferences deduced from previous morphological studies. In angiosperms, the
2995638|Ultrastructural analyses of the cell walls from top and bottom halves of gravistimulated pulvini from oat leaves show a decrease in the density of material within the cell walls from the lower halves of pulvini after 24 h of gravistimulation. Assays of cellulose synthesis with a <sup>14</sup>C-sucrose pulse-chase experiment indicate no difference in the amount of new cellulose synthesized in top compared with bottom halves of gravistimulated pulvini. The highest rate of cellulose synthesis occurs with 12-24 h of gravistimulation. Treatment of graviresponding pulvini with 2,6-dichlorobenzonitrile (DCBN) had only a minor effect on segment gravitropic curvature. We also found that there is no difference in the activities of either glucan synthase I or glucan synthase II in top halves as compared with bottom halves of gravistimulated pulvini. We conclude that the graviresponse in oat stems is not driven by new cell wall synthesis but, rather, by changes in cell wall plasticity and osmotic potential.
3080088|Six separate isolates closely resembling the pyrenomycetous ascomycete
3691583|To elucidate the gene regulation of pigmentation in sweet potato, expressions of the genes involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis were investigated in correlation with the accumulation of the anthocyanins during plant development. Fragments of the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway genes involved in the central flavonoid pathway, including those for chalcone synthase (CHS), chalcone isomerase (CHI), flavone 3hydroxylase (F3H), dihydroflavonol 4reductase (DFR), anthocyanidin synthase (ANS), and UDPGflavonoid30glucosyltransferase (UF3GT) were investigated in sweet potato, and their expressions were characterized in various tissues and developmental stages in both purple and yellowfleshed varieties. Transcription patterns of the anthocyanin biosynthetic genes show accumulation at the early stages of root development (1030 d after planting), followed by a decline. The anthocyanin biosynthetic genes were expressed throughout all stages of root development, wherein their expressions were activated at the stages corresponding to anthocyanin accumulation. Quantification of total anthocyanin content in various sweet potato tissues showed that the anthocyanin content of the purplefleshed variety was highly concentrated in all root types except in the lateral roots, while in the yellowfleshed variety, anthocyanin content was highest in the pigmented roots. The anthocyanin content at the different developmental stages of the sweet potato plant is highest during the early stages of development (1030 d after planting), which is in accordance with the transcription levels of the anthocyanin biosynthetic genes.
10.1086/668790|
               
3080157|Geological and climatological processes that have impacted the biota of the Northern Hemisphere during the Tertiary are expected to yield little resolution when area cladograms are compared without taking the timing of diversification into account. In an attempt to establish a set of appropriate phylogenetic comparisons, we distinguished between a Pacific track involving (minimally) China, Japan, and eastern North America but not Europe, and an Atlantic track involving China, Europe, and eastern North America but not Japan (or, in most cases, western North America). Within the two Atlantictrack taxa considered here
10.1086/670235|
               
40072555|Origins of biotic seed dispersal by vertebrates and evolution of different seed sizes are conspicuous features in angiosperm evolution. In the Cretaceous, angiosperms remained small seeded, and biotic seed dispersal was rare. In the Early Tertiary, average seed size increased drastically, and biotic seed dispersal by vertebrates became common. Later in the Tertiary, along with climate cooling and the opening of vegetation, average seed size dropped. Fossil data suggest a positive correlation between seed size and biotic seed dispersal. This article examines three hypotheses: (1) the coevolution hypothesis, which suggests that evolution of large seeds and biotic dispersal were driven by interactions between plants and frugivorous vertebrates; (2) the recruitment hypothesis, which suggests that vegetation change altered recruitment conditions that favored large seeds and in turn promoted biotic dispersal; and (3) the lifeform hypothesis, which suggests that large seeds and biotic dispersal evolved as coadapted traits along with evolution of large plant lifeforms. The hypotheses are complementary rather than mutually exclusive. Evidence suggest that changes in vegetation structure (open vs. closed) are probably a primary driving mechanism of seed size and dispersal evolution, but lifeforms, seed sizes, and biotic dispersal systems have evolved as coadapted sets of traits in response to these environmental changes.
3691611|The phylogeny of
2475113|The frequency of parasitism of a mistletoe, Plicosephalus curviflorus, on Acacia tortilis as a function of host density and host size was investigated. The influence of host size and parasite frequency on flowering success of the parasite was also investigated. Parasitism was contagiously distributed but occurred most intensely in low-density Acacia stands. The distribution of Acacia size classes showed spatial autocorrelation, with smaller, more shrublike trees occurring in high-density clusters. Parasitism frequency and intensity were highest on larger trees, indicating that the spatial patterns of parasite distribution could be explained in part by the spatial patterns of the host size classes. Flowering success of mistletoes was not influenced by tree size but was negatively correlated with the number of mistletoes on the host. The late onset of parasitic attack with respect to the age or size of the host and the negative conspecific density effects on flowering success by the parasite could reduce adverse fitness effects on the host and thereby increase the probability of stable coexistence of A. tortilis and P curviflorus. The size structure of the host population, by influencing the distribution of parasites among the hosts, may influence the population dynamics of the parasite and the stability of the host-parasite association.
IJPS41363|We present the first pollination data on Neotropical species of Violaceae with actinomorphic flowers. Floral biology of
2995878|Controls on leaf stomatal conductances imposed by soil water availability and foliage acclimation to longterm integrated irradiance were studied in a natural mixed deciduous stand composed of shadeintolerant
4619820|The Late Devonian (earliest Frasnian) plant
40072559|
               
3691850|In hermaphroditic plants, the number of flowers in the inflorescence and the presence of a reward may have a differential effect on male (pollen dissemination) and female (pollen deposition) reproductive success and thus on the evolution of floral features. Two rewarding and one nectarless orchid species were used here to test the hypothesis that a large inflorescence serves primarily to increase male reproductive success (male function hypothesis). We have found that both in rewarding and in nectarless species, the rate of increase of male reproductive success with the number of flowers is not significantly different from that of female reproductive success, which does not support the male function hypothesis. Since the lack of reward causes lower reproductive success in nectarless orchids, we hypothesized that in nectarless species, the average time interval between flower opening and its first visit by a pollinator is longer compared with rewarding ones. Our data confirmed this hypothesis.
10.1086/668689|
               
10.1086/668220|Levels of hybridization between related species can vary in response to evolutionary history or local environmental conditions, such as pollinators and abiotic factors, that affect reproductive isolation. Contact sites between the herbs
10.1086/674449|
               
2475198|Trichophaea brunnea is a small, pyrophylic, operculate discomycete with hyaline, uniguttulate ascospores and an excipulum fringed with short, brownish, tapering hairs. Most recent literature places the species in Sphaerosporella because of its smooth spherical spores, as opposed to ellipsoid spores of other species of Trichophaea. Ellipsoid-spored species of Trichophaea have both smooth and ornamented ascospores with variable guttulation and other apothecial characters. These differences raise questions as to the relationship of T. brunnea to other species of Trichophaea. In this article we examine the fine structure of spore wall development in T. brunnea to determine if it is comparable to that of ellipsoid-spored species. We found that while early stages of spore ontogeny are similar, there are differences in staining properties of the primary wall of three species compared, but wall development in T brunnea is much like that in the type T. abundans The pattern of deposition and staining properties of various wall layers support other conclusions that Sphaerosporella should not be recognized as a distinct genus.
3691562|Roadside soils are contaminated with a variety of substances toxic to plants, including manganese (
3691736|Although breeding system investigations were previously performed in only nine of the 100
40344045|The genus
10.1086/674315|
               
2475187|The tissue localization of the antimalarial sesquiterpenoid compound artemisinin in annual wormwood (Artemisia annua L.) was determined by differential extraction of a glanded biotype and through the use of a glandless biotype. A 5-s dip in chloroform extracted 97% of the artemisinin from glanded A. annua leaf tissue. In addition, all of the detectable artemisitene, an artemisinin analog, was extracted. This extraction method caused collapse of the subcuticular space of the capitate glands on the leaf surface, whereas no other damage to the leaf surface was observed with SEM. Light microscopy and TEM revealed that this extraction method, despite causing some organelle structural changes, did not disrupt cell membranes. An A. annua biotype without glands contained neither artemisinin nor artemisitene. These results indicate that artemisinin and artemisitene present in foliar tissue are localized entirely in the subcuticular space of capitate glands of A. annua.
2475090|Primary inflorescence bracts are initiated in a spiral phyllotactic pattern on the flanks of the inflorescence apex. A cincinnus primordium forms in the axil of each primary bract. A prophyll is initiated in the transverse plane and later extends around the periphery of the cincinnus to produce a sheathing, but not tubular, bract. The apex of the cincinnus forms a flower. Flower development begins with the enlargement and flattening of the floral apex. Sepal initiation is sequential but differs in the first two flowers of a cincinnus. The different sequences are likely the result of developmental constraints that operate at the time of sepal initiation. After initiation, the margins of the sepals become confluent and intercalary growth produces the synsepalous calyx. The periphery of the flower, interior to the sepals, now rises to form a ring primordium composed of three common petal/androecial primordia. The common primordia enlarge, flatten, and separate to produce a petal to the exterior and an androecial member to the interior. The outer androecium forms in the regions of the ring primordium left vacant by the formation of the other floral parts. The anterior outer androecial member soon ceases growth and contributes only initially to the formation of the labellum. The gynoecium shows heterochrony in its time of initiation, which occurs much earlier than in other species of Zingiberaceae. Gynoecial initiation takes place on the margins of the central flora cup, at the time of the separation of the common primordia. Three gynoecial primordia from in antipetalous positions. Septa development differs in the basal and apical portions of the ovary. At the base, the primordia grow inward and fuse to form the central axis of the ovary. At the apex, there is little radial growth of the primordia. They cease growth soon after initiation and produce a unilocular cavity. Ovules form at the junction of these two regions and project up into the cavity. Epigynous nectaries form after all other floral organs.
3079960|Our recently acquired understanding of the ABC program, which controls floral organ identity in model plant species such as
3080173|We applied allometry to examine the effects of elevated [CO
2475360|Effects of time and storage temperature on physiological (ethylene production) and biochemical (amino acid levels, polyamine balance, protease activity) parameters were investigated in apple (Malus domestica Borkh. cv. Granny Smith) tissues during postharvest ripening and senescence. The fruit shelf life was ca. 90, 150, and 200 d when stored at room temperature (RT), 10
3691630|Podostemaceae are an ecologically and morphologically unusual aquatic group of angiosperms; e.g.,
20533019|
               
20533044|The impact of the horizontally transmitted endophyte
3080293|Wellpreserved polliniferous flower buds from the Upper Miocene Inden Beds (Hambach lignite, Lower Rhenish Basin, Germany) were studied by scanning electron and transmission electron microscopy techniques. The
3874634|Cell walls of the stigma and style are important zones for cellcell recognition, nutrition, guidance, and protection of the pollen tube along the transmitting tract. The objective of this study was to investigate the modulation of selected cell wall epitopes during pistil development in the crop species
2995874|In this study we quantified features of the transmitting tissue for a broad range of angiosperm species to compare these values to pollen tube number and ovule number. Pistils from 25 species, from 10 angiosperm families, including one monocotyledon, were serially sectioned at the base of the style, and the cellular and noncellular areas within the transmitting tissue were determined using an image analysis package. Transmitting tissue cell number and whole stylar area were also measured. Overall stylar structure and tissue areas were generally consistent within families but differed significantly among families. There was a positive overall relationship between quantity of transmitting tissue, pollen tube number, and ovule number. However, the ratio of transmitting tissue intercellular space to pollen tubes was 
30117487|Breeding systems exert profound effects on the amount and distribution of genetic diversity within and among populations. Knowledge of breeding systems is also important for understanding dynamics between coevolving organisms, e.g., pathogenhost interactions. Here we study the breeding system of the obligate anther smut
3691653|
               
2995821|Glaucarubolone, a naturally occurring quassinoid from the root bark of
3080067|Reinvestigation of Cretaceous Cupressaceae
3080107|Two taxa of Middle Devonian Cladoxylopsida from localities in Belgium and Germany are redescribed. A counterpart of one of the missing type specimens of
10.1086/668247|Several specimens of a new fungal reproductive unit,
2475114|The complex fruit heteromorphism of the amphicarpic annual Catananche lutea (Asteraceae) was studied. This species produces two types of subterranean achenes (amphic-1 and amphic-2) and three types of aerial achenes (peripheral, intermediate, and central). Subterranean achenes are produced in February-April in fewer number than aerial achenes, and they are larger and heavier. Amphic-1 achenes germinate quickly and in high proportions. Amphic-2 achenes exhibit delayed germination, which is spread over time as a result of the inhibitory action of the pericarp, and they germinate in low proportions. Aerial achenes are formed between April and May and have similar germination requirements; while the final proportion and rate of germination are quite high in every case, the time and the way in which achenes disperse differ between types. Peripheral achenes have a scarcely developed pappus and are subtended by the inner bracts of the capitula; they disperse when capitula are released by the dead mother plant (short-range dispersal). Central achenes have a highly developed pappus and are dispersed by wind sooner than peripheral achenes (long-range dispersal). Some intermediate achenes are dispersed like central ones and others are dispersed like peripheral ones. There are no significant viability differences between the different types of achenes. Light has an adverse effect on germination of all the achene types: it slightly lengthens the incubation period and decreases both the percentage and rate of germination. Subterranean achenes produce larger seedlings-at least early in the season-than do aerial achenes; however, those produced by peripheral achenes of the aerial capitula grow at the highest rate. Subterranean achenes spread germination over time; they constitute a very safe means of reproduction and an available achene reserve on soil. Aerial achenes spread germination in space, thereby increasing the distribution of the species.
3080230|Recent theory indicates that plants may be able to increase their fitness by adjusting the relative investment of resources in growth and reproduction, through the male or female function, in response to alterations in resource availability throughout the growing season. Fruit production has been shown to be costly to plants in terms of carbon and mineral nutrients that, otherwise, could be used for further growth, defense, or pollen production and dispersal. Consequently, the failure of flowers to initiate and/or produce mature fruits (e.g., because lack of pollination or flower predation) should free resources for growth, defense, and additional flower production. This prediction, however, assumes that plants have the physiological mechanisms to appropriately reallocate unused resources from the female function. This study examines whether plants of
10.1086/674447|
               
3079943|Common dallisgrass (
3080270|Three structurally preserved conifer ovulate cones are described from Pliocene sediments at Ch'ijee's Bluff on the Porcupine River, near Old Crow, Yukon Territory, Canada. Cones are ovoid to conical, symmetrical, 3.44.4 cm long and 2.83.4 cm wide, with helically arranged conescale complexes. Ovuliferous scales are thin at the base, expanded at the apex, 2 cm long and 1 cm wide, with flat, rhomboidal apophyses and minute dorsal umbos. Pith is parenchymatous with scattered sclerenchyma at its outer edge. The parenchymatous inner cortex contains 1215 small resin canals. Outer cortex is also parenchymatous with a thin outer sclerenchymatous zone. Vascular tissues of the scale and bract originate as a complete cylindrical trace from the axis stele. Resin canals are abaxial to the scale trace as it separates from the bract. The abaxially concave ovuliferous scale trace splits into separate vascular bundles that alternate with resin canals in the most distal sections. Bracts separate from scales medially, lack abaxial lobes, and contain terete traces that are accompanied by two resin canals. The paired seeds are elliptical, 2.73.9 mm long and 2.12.5 mm wide, with wings up to 16 mm long. Fossils were compared anatomically with extant species of
4619780|We studied the effects of population size, plant density, and interpopulation distance on the process of sexual reproduction in experimental populations of the perennial selfincompatible
3691705|The perianthless members of the Piperales are unique among the basal lineages of angiosperms because they are mainly herbaceous plants with over 2000 species possessing highly reduced flowers. There have been several attempts to address the evolution of the flower morphology in the group, but no previous study has included a DNAbased estimate of phylogeny. Here we present a robust reconstruction of the phylogenetic relationships of the genera in the perianthless Piperales using DNA sequence data from three genes (
4124879|The origin of land plants from aquatic ancestors and their subsequent evolutionary radiation was due to major modifications in an ancestral developmental program allowing for plants of increasing complexity and stature. By comparing the developmental programs in different kinds of plants, we can understand how developmental differences lead to morphological differences. The ability to dissect the developmental genetic pathways of model angiosperm taxa such as
2474870|The developing spermatogenous cells of Ceratopteris richardii are ideal to investigate the plant cytoskeleton. Spores sown on sterile medium produce gametophytes with antheridia at all developmental stages within a week of growth at 22
10.1086/661294|The
2474931|The ornamental daylily, Hemerocallis fulva (Hemerocallidaceae), possesses a short, vertically oriented basal shoot packed with a circle of root tubers that are exhausted during sprouting after dormancy. During the growth period a new circle of root tubers is formed, enabling the plant to survive the next resting phase. In shallow-planted individuals the new root circle appears just above the old one. The new root tubers show strong contractile activity and pull the cryptocorm downward. Deep-planted cryptocorms of H. fulva move upward by the growing shoot tip. During the sprouting process, a few internodes of the deeply located shoot tip elongate, and thus the new root circle appears at a distance of several centimeters from the old root circle. However, this shoot elongation only appears when the individual is positioned very deeply in the soil (facultative shoot elongation). Induction experiments make clear that the parameters (light, temperature fluctuations) that normally influence the activity of contractile roots cannot regulate root contraction in H. fulva. Contraction is a basic characteristic of H. fulva roots and always functions to pull down the vertical shoot. However, individuals of H. fulva are well adapted to secure the best soil position for survival by having two mechanisms to regulate soil depth: the pulling effect of contractile roots, and, as an emergency response, the opposite effect of upward growth of the facultative shoot elongation.
3691587|Genetic variation of the mangrove genus
10.1086/674131|Sampling a whole flora or any significant subset for ex situ conservation purposes is a complex, long-term proposition. Thus, it is important to consider what constitutes an adequate sample not only for all taxa as a whole but also for each taxon individually as well as how to strategically schedule collection over time. There are five basic sampling questions: from which species to collect, from how many and which populations, from how many and which individuals, how many and what kind of propagules to collect, and, finally, at what point is the desired sample size too great for a population to bear in one year? There is no single correct sampling strategy or protocol. Each situation must be evaluated in the context of the particular purposes, goals, and uses for which the collection is being made as well as the nature of the sampling universe, the manner in which the samples will be stored and maintained, the period of time they will be stored, and whether the wild-collected samples are to be used directly or whether their numbers will be increased by agricultural growouts. Purposes include providing a long-term insurance policy against extinction in the wild and, in the near to medium term, supplying native plant material for small- to large-scale restoration purposes. The term sampling universe refers to the target taxa of interest: it could be the entire seed plant flora of Taiwan or particular subsets, such as endemics, higher-elevation plants, ecologically important taxa, rare plants, and so on. Plants with orthodox seeds are much easier to work with and are more economically stored as dried, frozen seeds in a seed bank than either plants with recalcitrant seeds or taxa maintained as growing plants.
3691687|In rare species that cooccur with widespread congeners, hybridization can be an integral force because it can lead to an infusion of novel and beneficial genes through introgression, or it may result in genetic swamping of the rare plant species. At a disturbed prairie remnant in central Ohio, the potential for hybridization was examined within sympatric populations of a rare prairie species,
3080226|In
2995601|Growing plant cells increase in volume principally by water uptake into the vacuole. There are only three general mechanisms by which a cell can modulate the process of water uptake: (a) by relaxing wall stress to reduce cell turgor pressure (thereby reducing cell water potential), (b) by modifying the solute content of the cell or its surroundings (likewise affecting water potential), and (c) by changing the hydraulic conductance of the water uptake pathway (this works only for cells remote from water potential equilibrium). Recent studies supporting each of these potential mechanisms are reviewed and critically assessed. The importance of solute uptake and hydraulic conductance is advocated by some recent studies, but the evidence is indirect and conclusions remain controversial. For most growing plant cells with substantial turgor pressure, it appears that reduction in cell turgor pressure, as a consequence of wall relaxation, serves as the major initiator and control point for plant cell enlargement. Two views of wall relaxation as a viscoelastic or a cherr orheological process are compared and distinguished.
3691790|New Normapolles reproductive structures are described from two Late Cretaceous localities, Mira and Esgueira (Olho de Agua), in the Beira Litoral region of western Portugal. They are assigned to a new genus,
10.1086/650156|Permineralized reproductive structures have been known from Antarctica for the past four decades. No formal descriptions have been available for this material, however, leaving a gap in our knowledge of the glossopterid clade.
20533058|
               
10.1086/679618|
               
2474881|Angiosperm carpels are closed (sometimes barely so) saclike structures, sometimes with a long ventral stigmatic crest. Interpretation of winteraceous carpels, particularly those of Tasmannia (synonym Drimys sect Tasmannia) piperita, has been critical to both ontogenetic and phylogenetic theories regarding general carpel development. Results from developmental studies in several Tasmannia species have suggested that, in this genus, carpels are congenitally fused. I investigated carpel development in Tasmannia insipida, a species closely related to T. piperita, using a replica technique to produce scanning electron micrographs indirectly from living material and anatomical sections from the same material after fixation; thus a surface and internal view of one and the same organ were obtained. Contrary to a previous report, I find that in T. insipida, carpel closure occurs late in development and is postgenital. The significance of having two different modes of carpel development in a single genus is discussed.
4122582|Large multilocus analyses can greatly reduce sampling error in phylogenetic estimates and help resolve difficult phylogenetic questions. Yet conventional multilocus analyses may be confounded by variation in the phylogenetic signal or processes of evolution among loci. We used nonparametric bootstrapping methods to examine locusspecific variation within a 12locus seed plant data set and to examine the effects of this variation on estimates of seed plant phylogeny. The observed maximum likelihood and maximum parsimony bootstrap support from phylogenetic analyses of sites within single loci often notably differs from the bootstrap support obtained by sampling an equal number of sites from the concatenated 12locus data set. This indicates heterogeneity among loci in the phylogenetic inference, and the differences among loci are not explained by the distribution of fast and slowly evolving sites. Bootstrap analyses that resample loci with replacement, rather than sampling individual sites with replacement, reveal extensive sampling variance among loci. The results suggest that seed plant phylogenetic analyses may not be robust to sampling error when only 12 loci are used and indicate a need for further investigation into the causes of the locusspecific variation.
10.1086/670011|
               
3691651|A week before fertilization in Douglas fir, a secretion fills the micropylar chamber of the ovule that houses the engulfed pollen. This liquid initiates pollen tube formation. This secretion is rich in proteins. Proteomic analysis using gel electrophoresis, combined with quadrupole timeofflight tandem mass spectrometry peptide sequencing, identified nine of the more abundant proteins as a 90 kDa xylosidase with an isoelectric point (pI) of 6.6, a 65 kDa xylosidase with a pI of 6.0, a 70 kDa invertase with a pI of 6.3, a 50 kDa invertase with a pI of 6.5, a 45 kDa galactosidase with a pI of 7.8, a 29 kDa galactosidase with a pI of 5.9, a 40 kDa aspartyl protease with a pI of 5.5, a 37 kDa peroxidase with a pI of 7.9, and a 33 kDa serine carboxypeptidaselike protein with a pI of 4.5. This research presents the first evidence that conifer ovular secretion proteins may influence pollen selection and development.
3080061|DNA sequences of the plastid gene
3691817|Sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS region were used to estimate phylogenetic relationships of
10.1086/663971|The Rubiaceae is the fifth largest plant family and is found on all continents, mostly in (sub-)tropical regions. Despite a large representation of Rubiaceae in the Paleotropics, the subfamily Cinchonoideae has its primary distribution in the Neotropics. Within the Cinchonoideae only two tribes, Naucleeae and Hymenodictyeae, have Paleotropical centers of distribution. In this study, we used information from five chloroplast DNA markers and fossil data to investigate when the subfamily was established in the Neotropics as well as major subsequent dispersal events within and out of the Neotropics and within the Paleotropics. Our results show that the ancestor of Cinchonoideae and its sister, Ixoroideae, was present in South America during the Late Cretaceous. Dispersal to Central America was estimated to occur during the Early Paleocene, and subsequent dispersals to the Caribbean islands occurred during the OligoceneMiocene. The ancestor of Naucleeae and Hymenodictyeae dispersed to the Paleotropics no later than the Eocene, and the findings of fossils of
2474947|This study describes the meiotic chromosome pairing behavior and method of reproduction of 16 Paspalum malacophyllum accessions and their F
10.1086/650155|We measured the terpenoid chemistry, cone insect distribution, and the relationship between these two parameters in the seed cones of ponderosa pine. Analyses of mono, sesqui, and diterpenes from four separate sites revealed high amounts of terpenoid diversity and variation. The majority of this variation occurred among trees within sites, but differences were also seen among sites and among cone clusters from individual trees. Cone insect distributions differed substantially in both time and space, with significant differences seen between two points in time and between five sites. Negative correlations existed between levels of cone insect herbivory and both a monoterpene and a diterpene factor at one site, indicating that these herbivores may be one reason that ponderosa pine maintains the high levels of chemical variation observed.
2474943| Tobacco plants (Nicotiana tabacum cv. Sevilla) were grown under controlled conditions and submitted to regular fertilization with macro- and micronutrients. The aim of the experiment was to determine the response of NO
10.1086/663970|Dehardening (deacclimation) to water stress is an integral phase of desiccation tolerance (DT) in bryophytes. Shoots of the desert moss
4619831|The mechanical architecture of the Carboniferous seed fern
3080020|Two carbonic anhydrase (CA) antibodies, one to the primarily periplasmic alphatype enzyme of the chlorophycean
2475346|We use emergence, the inability to predict the properties of higher hierarchical levels from the properties of lower, as a means of exploring some abstract properties of individuals. Biological hierarchies are often of increasing size of parts, from molecules to an organism. Emergence in an individual also occurs in a hierarchy of different sized aggregations of homologues-for example, spikelets in a grass inflorescence. The evidence for emergence was differences among angles with a vector of isometry as detected after bootstrapping. Emergence results from developmental variation and historical constraint. The former precludes complete characterization, whereas the latter determines the degree of emergence through rendering certain variants nonviable. Developmental variation arises from the continually changing external and internal environments, the former arising from environmental fluctuations and heterogeneity, and the latter from the appearance of new parts; the mechanisms leading to historical constraint are all those whereby an organism remains viable. Emergence is one aspect of the increasing complexity that occurs with development and may be related to the irreversible changes resulting from the dissipation of information into structure.
4124883|The ABC model for the specification of floral organ identity, published 15 years ago, has proven to be a useful framework for interpreting floral development data from a wide variety of species. In
3079961|We have extended our studies of angiosperm phylogeny based on a pair of duplicated phytochrome (
2995828|Except for a few members of the Metzgeriidae, occurrences of specialized conducting tissues are undocumented in liverworts. There have been reports, however, that some liverworts, including the complex thalloid liverwort
3691669|Biogeographical and paleontological studies indicated that some ancient Gondwanan taxa have been carried by the rafting Indian plate from Gondwana to Asia. During this journey, the Indian island experienced dramatic latitudinal and climatic changes that caused massive extinctions in its biota. However, some taxa survived these conditions and dispersed out of India into South and Southeast Asia, after India collided with the Asian continent in the Early Tertiary. To test this hypothesis, independent estimates for lineage ages are needed. A published
2474868|Sexual, tetraploid (2n = 4x = 40) yellow-anthered dallisgrass, Paspalum dilatatum Poir., was crossed with apomictic, hexaploid (2n = 6x = 60) Uruguaiana dallisgrass from Brazil for the purpose of determining their cytological relationship, the genome composition of the Uruguaiana biotype, and the reproductive behavior of their hybrids. Five hybrids were recovered; two had a chromosome number of 50 and the others had 45, 55, and 70 chromosomes. Meiotic chromosome pairing in these hybrids indicated that the biotypes have two homologous genomes, I and J, which comprise the yellow-anthered biotype (IIJJ). The identity and source of the third genome in the hexaploid biotype is unknown, and it was designated as X. The 55-chromosome hybrid had five extra chromosomes belonging to the X genome. Limited pairing involving these duplicated homologues indicates that the Uruguaiana biotype has modified versions of the X genome. The meiotic irregularities in this biotype support these findings. Consequently, this biotype was assigned the genome formula IIJJXX
3080199|A detailed investigation has been undertaken on two dispersed spore taxa, characterized by their zonate structure and an ornament of bifurcatetipped processes, that were recovered from Middle Devonian deposits from Scotland:
3691730|The surfaces of gynoecia of
2475091|Sporophytes of the fern Thelypteris palustris Schott. were cultured from gametophytes, and leaf venation was examined in three ways. First, the vein pattern was evaluated over the heteroblastic sequence as venation shifts from dichotomous through anistomous to pinnate branching. The ratio of total vein length to leaf area is constant for leaves over this heteroblastic sequence, and pinnate branching alternates between left and right with an occasional pair of consecutive branches on the same side. Second, a new method of study, tracheid analysis, evaluates the length and deployment of tracheids in leaves as well as those of general epidermal cells. A terminal vein cell enlists a new cell into a vein from a hemispheric area of ca. 20 cells; vein branching occurs by two independent events of cell enlistment, one for each of two new branches. Vein fusion is not true fusion but an anastomosis where two veins run parallel along a leaf region. Third, puncturing experiments were performed on leaves in the fiddlehead stage. A damaged vein terminus leads to cessation of both vein extension and general growth in the injured region, whereas damage to marginal and intercostal areas does not alter development. These studies indicate that (a) a vein lengthens by enlistment of an unspecialized cell to become a specialized terminal cell of the vein; (b) this newly enlisted cell is one in a hemispheric field of ca. 20 uncommitted cells; and (c) timing of vein branching is determined more by the size of this field of cells rather than by the status of the vein itself. These features are compatible with Sachs's hypothesis of preferred channeling rather than Meinhardt's Turing type of model or Goebel's postulate that procambial cells are derived directly from the marginal meristem.
3080005|Sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA were used to generate a phylogenetic hypothesis for the Asian and eastern North American disjunct
2475011| An RFLP analysis, performed on offshoot leaves surrounding the shoot tips of four date palm (Phoenix dactylifera L.) cultivars (Kenessy, Lulu, Nabtha Saf, and Sheshi) generated cultivar-specific hybridization patterns with a single cDNA probe and total DNA digested by EcoRI. A northern blot analysis performed on RNA extracted from leaves and organogenic calli revealed that the cDNA probe, isolated from an organogenic callus cDNA library of cv Boustammi Noire, hybridized to a 2.4-kb mRNA transcript. The partial nucleotide sequence of this mRNA and the derived amino acid sequence of the open reading frame were determined. Comparison with the public sequence databases showed amino acid similarities with Fab1p, a recently identified zinc finger protein involved in vacuole function and interorganelle traffic pathways in yeast. 
3874641|Populations of
10.1086/654848|Alismatales are a key clade in monocot evolution, as they are sister to all other monocots, excluding Acorales. However, phylogenetic relationships within the order are poorly resolved, prompting the need for a reevaluation of pollen and tapetum characters, which have proved useful in other monocot groups, such as lilioids. Development of monosulcate pollen in
2475308|Grasses of the Andropogoneae, such as sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench) and sugarcane (Saccharum spp.), accumulate large amounts of harvestable sucrose in the stalk. Sucrose is translocated from the leaves, yet the metabolic fate of sucrose up to and during storage in the stalk is uncertain. This study determined whether sucrose is necessarily routed through inversion and hexose-phosphate isomerization for storage in cells of the intact stalk. Sorghum stalks were dual-infused with [U-
3691782|Agricultural settings are hypothesized to impose strong selection on invading weed species, and the direction of selection can be consistent across many generations, depending on croprotation schedules. Because the history of selection is often known, agricultural environments provide a useful experimental setting for studies testing mechanisms of adaptation and rates of evolutionary response. Here, two populations of
2474895|Ambrosia trifida flowering was observed in the field and laboratory; individual staminate and pistillate flowers were collected and processed for light and scanning electron microscopy. The inverted staminate flower consists of a corolla with five connate petals, five stamens with connate anthers, and a central pistillodium (transformed gynoecium). Each anther is terminated by a "claw," a thin, flexible appendage that curves back toward the pistillodium. Abaxial epidermal cells of the claw resemble cells of a fern sporangium annulus, with thick inner walls and thin outer walls. This differential wall thickening causes the claw to straighten partially under dry conditions, thereby rupturing the anther and releasing pollen. Just before the pollen is released, however, the pistillodium elongates rapidly, tripling its length in less than an hour. As it grows past the anthers, it further straightens the anther claws and pushes a wad of pollen beyond the corolla. While still within the corolla, trichomes attached in a ring around the pistillodium apex extend beyond its tip parallel to its axis. After the pistillodium grows out of the corolla, however, these trichomes bend outward 90
3874642|Identifying key ecophysiological traits that differ among dominant plant species and can be linked to speciesspecific responses to drought would improve our ability to forecast community and ecosystem responses to global climate change. The mesic grasslands of the central plains of North America are dominated by two C
3691546|
               
3691883|The genus
2475145|The ruminate endosperm of developing, mature, and germinated seed of Phacelia tanacetifolia was investigated with light and scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive spectroscopy. At each of the three stages examined, large numbers of calcium oxalate crystals were visible in the endosperm epidermis and in a few cells of the outermost endosperm layers. In developing seeds the endosperm cells were characterized by a large number of starch grains interspersed with some protein bodies of small size, while in the mature seeds, there were few small starch grains and a large number of big protein bodies. The globoids observed within protein bodies could be ascribed to the "type 1" phytin inclusions and showed considerable P and Ca levels, some K, and only traces of Mg and S. During germination we observed vacuolation and initial digestion of the protein bodies, which was indicated by peripheral pitting. Digestion started from the endosperm epidermis and continued toward the inner endosperm. The Ca contained in globoids, mobilized at germination together with protein reserves, is probably the Ca source used by P. tanacetifolia seedling during early growth. The role of Ca-oxalate crystals in the endosperm is briefly discussed.
3691649|We studied the effect of
3691693|Patterns of morphological variation within the grass genus
3079968|A survey of five mesofossil floras from the Early Cretaceous (Barremian or Aptian) of Portugal documents considerable taxonomic and structural diversity among early angiosperms. Currently ca. 140150 different angiosperm taxa have been identified in these floras, of which ca. 85% are taxa at the magnoliid gradeperhaps also with some basal monocots. Evidence is beginning to emerge that those lineages identified as basal among angiosperms in phylogenetic analyses (recently referred to as the ANITA grade of basal magnoliids, including Amborellaceae, Nymphaeales, Illiciales, Trimeniaceae, and Austrobaileyaceae) were already well represented in the Early Cretaceous, at which time they were probably more diverse than they are today. Many of the fossil angiosperms from the Portuguese floras cannot be assigned to any existing group, and there is clear evidence of significant extinction.
30130551|The hybridization of plants can have significant consequences for the structure of consumer communities, and hybridization effects on plant defenses have been suggested to affect the distribution of consumers within hybrid zones. It is currently unknown how hybridization may affect ontogenetic patterns of phenolic biosynthesis. We describe the seasonal variation of absolute and relative concentrations of 18 individual phenolics, total proanthocyanidins, and nitrogen in the
10.1086/654845|Low precipitation can limit plant distributions. Soil variation might interact with precipitation gradients to define species borders. Analyzing the eastern species border of the California annual
3080312|Most perennial herbs can produce clones (genetically identical ramets), and the frequency of asexual propagation relative to sexual reproduction can affect genetic and genotypic diversity. The power to detect clones also depends on marker diversity. Using horizontal starchgel electrophoresis, we surveyed two rare perennials found in isolated wetlands:
3691688|The showy corolla of
30130546|Cleistogamous species constitute strong evidence for the stability of mixed selfing and outcrossing but have been largely overlooked as theoretical and empirical systems for studying the forces thought to influence matingsystem evolution. Inbreeding depression is expected to play a major role in the maintenance of outcrossing, yet reliable estimates of inbreeding depression for cleistogamous species are virtually nonexistent. We estimated both population and familylevel inbreeding depression for all life cycle stages for a population of the cleistogamous perennial
10.1086/667232|
               
3691602|Pollen and orbicule ontogeny in representatives of three genera of Dioscoreales
2475281| Seasonal changes in leaf anatomy and ultrastructure were studied in a sward of Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers. grown under Mediterranean field conditions and under water stress. Relative water content (RWC), leaf water potential (), and specific leaf weight were determined. Anatomical measurements included leaf thickness and number and area of bundle sheath and mesophyll cells. Quantitative measurements from electron micrographs were used to evaluate the subcellular structure of mesophyll and bundle sheath cells from well-watered and water-stressed plants. In well-watered swards leaf mesophyll cell number was highest at the beginning of June, but in stressed plants the maximum was reached in the middle of July. Water stress decreased both mesophyll and bundle sheath cell areas during the experimental period, although there were no significant differences in plant water relations in autumn. Ultrastructural changes in bundle sheath cells under stress included increase in starch deposition in chloroplasts, changes in the orientation of thylakoids, and reduction in chloroplast area. Furthermore, water stress increased the cell wall thickness by 20%. Stressed mesophyll chloroplasts were characterized by an increase in the peripheral reticulum and in starch granules and a decrease in the amount of grana stacking related to a decrease in leaf sodium concentration. The number of mitochondria per mesophyll cell was increased by water stress. Longer periods of stress induced folds in the outer tangential walls in bundle sheath cells. In mesophyll cells alterations in cellular shape and in plasmalemma were observed, and the cytosol appeared to be markedly heterogeneous. In late summer the chloroplast envelope was swollen and distorted; undulating dilated thylakoids were observed and the stroma appeared less electron dense. In mitochondria, the matrix became progressively clearer. Environmental stresses influenced leaf anatomy and cell ultrastructure. Furthermore, ultrastructural changes could be related to variations in potassium and sodium contents. 
3691898|A new megaspore flora is described from lower Potomac Group sediments collected in Cecil County, northern Maryland. Ten genera and 13 species of megaspores are recognized from the North East Plaza locality (Aptian, ca. 115 Ma), of which nine species are new records for the Early Cretaceous of the Atlantic Coastal Plain. Recovered specimens have affinities both to heterosporous ferns, e.g.,
2475107|Sodium azide caused the rapid abscission of branches only in the mature regions of Azolla filiculoides. The abscission started at or after 5 min of exposure to 0.5 mM sodium azide. The presence of ethylene at 70 ppm neither induced rapid abscission within 3 h nor influenced the rapid abscission of Azolla branches caused by sodium azide. Cycloheximide or actinomycin D had no inhibitory effect on the abscission that was caused by sodium azide. Light and electron microscopy revealed that large, flattened cells, present at the base of each branch, formed an abscission layer. Sequential observations of large flattened cells from the apical to the mature region of Azolla indicated that the middle lamella between the cells in the mature region had already been partially degraded, even when a branch was still attached to a plant. Sodium azide induced the rapid dissolution of the small amount of middle lamella that remained between the large, flattened cells in the mature region, as well as modification of the primary wall of these cells. These events appeared to weaken both the cell walls and the adhesion between the cells, causing cell expansion and rounding. The expansion and rounding of the large, flattened cells facilitated the complete separation of these cells and the subsequent separation of the branch. Possible mechanisms for the rapid abscission of Azolla branches upon treatment with sodium azide are discussed.
2475001|Karyotypes of eight tetraploid (2n = 28) South American species of Elymus, were symmetrical (arm ratios: 0 70-0.78) and uniform (intrachromosomal asymmetry index: 0.105-0 133). Significant differences in arm ratio and asymmetry index were found among tetraploid species and also among geographically isolated populations within one species. Variation was nearly continuous, and significant differences were found only between the extreme values. The opposite situation was found among three hexaploid species (2n = 42) that can be readily differentiated by significant differences in karyotype parameters Significantly higher intrachromosomal asymmetry indexes in E. erianthus (6x, 2n = 42) and E mendocinus (8x, 2n = 56) indicated relatively larger differences in chromosome size between the genomes of the progenitors of these polyploid species Low variation in the tetraploid species and high variation in the hexaploid and octoploid species were also found in the number and morphology of chromosomes with secondary constrictions (CSCs). Tetraploid species with the genome formula SSHH (S from Pseudoroegneria and H from Hordeum) showed only four CSCs from the S genome of Pseudoroegneria. The presence of CSCs from both S and H genomes in synthetic SSHH tetraploids and in natural SSHHHH hexaploids indicated absence of suppression of nucleolar organizing region (NOR) activity (amphiplasty) between the NORs from the S and H genomes. On the basis of karyotype and molecular data, it was hypothesized that the nucleolar organizing regions from the H genome were eliminated or highly reduced during the evolution of the tetraploid species.
10.1086/663965|Leaf fossils of
2475048|Vaccinium macrocarpon Aiton (Ericaceae) cranberry, a dwarf shrub and a typical taxon in temperate peat bogs, has its central distribution in cool temperate regions in eastern North America. Isolated southern marginal populations are distributed along the Appalachian corridor and on the North Carolina coastal plain. A common garden (Blacksburg, Virginia) was utilized to determine whether marginal cranberry clones exhibit greater phenotypic plasticity than central clones. Three central clones from Massachusetts (MA), Wisconsin (WI), and New York (NY) and three marginal clones from North Carolina (NC), Tennessee (TN), and West Virginia (WV) were tested. A suite of phenotypic traits was measured in response to edaphic variation in the common garden. An analysis of reaction norms took the form of an analysis of covariance to test for significant differences among clones and to estimate regression slopes (plasticity) when compared with environmental (nutrient) variation. There was no regional variation in phenotypic plasticity, but there was significant clonal differentiation for 77% of nonintercorrelated traits. However, in most cases the differences were seemingly random, with little biological importance. Hence little differentiation in relation to population origin was observed among clones. Matrix comparisons were performed using a Mantel test to check for pairwise correlations among the following matrices: geographic distances, trait means, plasticity, and molecular variation assessed by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) profiling. No correspondence was found among matrices. The recent postglacial distribution of cranberry may account for the absence of phenotypic and genetic heterogeneity.
40344040|Mating displays can incur costs in stressful environments. We examined whether males from artificialselection lines differing in floral display (many vs. few flowers) responded differently to stress in the sexually dimorphic dioecious plant
2995757|The infection process of
3691591|The newly recircumscribed monocot order Pandanales now includes five families: Cyclanthaceae, Pandanaceae, Stemonaceae, Triuridaceae, and Velloziaceae. We present new data and a review of pollen morphology, microsporogenesis, and tapetal characters in Pandanales in a systematic context. Probable plesiomorphic character states include pollen dispersed as monads, pollen small to medium in size with an ovoid shape, monosulcate apertures, perforate to reticulate sculpturing, a columellate exine with a foot layer, successive microsporogenesis, and a secretory tapetum. These correspond to generalized monocot or lilioid pollen and anther character states, and all occur within Dioscoreales, the sister group to Pandanales. Within Pandanales, there are apparently homoplastic trends in each family toward either reduction in aperture size (e.g., from sulci to pores) or covering the aperture with exine (e.g., from monosulcate to monosulcateoperculate), resulting in a reduction in the delicate apertural area exposed to desiccation and entry of pathogens. Apomorphic character states in Pandanales include pollen dispersed as tetrads (only in
3874640|
               
2995744|Two geographically separated natural populations of
2995704|Light, scanning electron, and transmission electron micrographs of ripening kiwifruit were compared at different stages of softening. The three tissues of the fruit, outer pericarp, inner pericarp, and core, differed in packing and cell size. Morphometric studies indicated that the volume of intercellular air spaces increased as the fruit softened. Cell walls swelled in the outer pericarp carlier than in the core and in both tissues well before the climacteric. Except for plasmodesmatal regions, staining of cell wall material markedly declined or was lost in ripe fruit. Middle lamella breakdown was evident in samples taken from both ripe fruit and fruit just prior to ripeness, and electron-dense bodies accumulated between the plasmalemma and cell wall. The results support studies on changes in chemical composition and indicate that kiwifruit cell walls undergo ultrastructural changes during ripening similar to other fruit. However, the extent of cell wall swelling, loss of stainability, and timing of the changes differs.
4619844|
               
3691875|Myristicaceae consist of 21 genera and nearly 500 species of lowland rainforest trees with a pantropical distribution. This article presents new scanning electron microscopy observations on pollen of 13 genera, including all Asian genera, which had previously received very little attention from palynologists. While confirming that all Myristicaceae have monoaperturate pollen shed as monads with a sculptured aperture membrane, this study increases our knowledge of the diversity of pollen shapes, aperture shapes, tectal sculpture and microsculpture, and infratectal structure across the family. It also clarifies a few characters in previously investigated AfroMalagasy taxa. These results are discussed in the context of a recent phylogenetic study. While several pollen characters appear to be homoplastic, aperture shape, tectal sculpture, and infratectal structure seem to be of great phylogenetic value in Myristicaceae and clearly distinguish an AfroMalagasy clade of five genera (including
3691723|Widely separated plant communities supported by similar physical environments can display much similarity in their life form spectra even though these communities are often floristically unrelated. Such structural similarity reveals the strength of the physical environment in natural selection, particularly for the height, position, and duration of the perennating budthe underlying premise of Raunkiaers life form system. But similarities among communities in life form spectra can be limited in part by phylogenetic constraints within the native flora. Phylogenetic constraint has been forcefully and repeatedly demonstrated with the arrival into new ranges of species with novel life forms that have become invasive (i.e., alien species with life forms novel to a recipient community have often become persistent, prolific, and even dominant). Communities invaded by species with a heretofore unrepresented life form are exceptionally diverse, both geographically and environmentally, and include coastal foredunes, intertidal mud flats, riparian sites, temperate grasslands, temperate marshes, and subtropical and temperate forests. The frequency with which alien trees (
3691744|Shoots and foliage elements of shadeintolerant conifers strongly vary in size, but the effects of size on shoot lightharvesting efficiency have not been quantified. We investigated shoot adaptation to seasonal average integrated quantum flux density in gymnosperms
3691554|
               
2995530|The concepts of differentiation and cell-cell communication, particularly positional signaling and induction, are considered here as they relate to the development of multicellular plants. Connections between the structural analyses of these concepts and other disciplines are discussed and some of the challenges of integrating biotechnology with more classical approaches to these problems are explored.
3691670|Some of the most interesting but still most contentious disjunct biogeographical distributions involve Southern Hemisphere tropical and warm temperate families. The PHMV clade of Myrtales includes four families (Psiloxylaceae, Heteropyxidaceae, Myrtaceae, and Vochysiaceae) that exhibit a number of these biogeographical patterns. The related Psiloxylaceae and Heteropyxidaceae are small families restricted in distribution to the recent volcanic Mascarene Islands to the east of Madagascar and to southeast Africa, respectively. Myrtaceae are found on three major Gondwanan regions (South America, Australasia, and Africa). Because the New World taxa are almost exclusively fleshy fruited, it is unclear whether the family distribution is a classic Gondwanan vicariance pattern or results from one or more longdistance dispersal events over ocean barriers. The Vochysiaceae represent one of a handful of families with amphiAtlantic distributions vigorously argued to support both longdistance dispersal over the Atlantic and vicariance of western Gondwanan biota by Atlantic seafloor spreading. Molecular phylogenetic relationships, fossil dating of nodes, and penalized likelihood rate smoothing of maximum likelihood trees were employed for a Myrtaleswide analysis using
4619798|
               
10.1086/669911|
               
2475361|Although physiological responses to drought have been examined in several species of epiphytic bromeliads, few have included a comprehensive methodological approach to the study of the carbon and water relations of a single species undergoing drought stress. Thus, physiological and anatomical responses to an imposed drought treatment were examined in the atmospheric Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) epiphyte Tillandsia ionantha. From 0 through 20 d without water, nocturnal malic acid accumulation and CO
2995603|We summarize the current information on gametophytic plants from the Lower Devonian that are represented by three types based on permineralizations in the Rhynie Chert, two of which are antheridial (Lyonophyton and Kidstonophyton) and one that is archegoniate (Langiophyton). Impression and compression remains attributed to Sciadophyton and Calyculiphyton also are interpreted as gametophytic, based on their similarity to the permineralized forms. All are axial structures, with some axes terminating in cup-shaped gametangiophores on or in which gametangia occur, and all exhibit preserved cuticles with stomata and conducting tissue. Similarity in epidermal and conducting cell characters serves as a basis for postulating sporophyte relationships for the Rhynie Chert gametophytes as follows (N-2N): Lyonophyton-Aglaophyton, Kidstonophyton-Nothia, and Langiophyton-Horneophyton. Comparison with bryophytes and tracheophytes shows that these forms exhibit unique combinations of characters. They are more advanced than bryophytes in some features but differ in conducting cell type from tracheophytes. Thus they may represent lineages distinct from either of these groups. Their construction indicates some degree of morphological similarity between haploid and diploid thalli in the life cycles of these entities, thus supporting to some extent an alternation of isomorphic generations and the homologous theory of sporophyte origin for land plants. Alternatively, these data may indicate the early establishment of axial gametophytic structures within the context of an antithetic theory of sporophyte origin.
3080076|Understory vegetation dynamics was monitored throughout the 1998 growing season in four eastern Canadian forest types: sugar mapleAmerican beech (
2475331|Plants of section Rhizobium in the genus Dendrobium (Orchidaceae) are characterized by thick and fleshy leaves or by leathery leaves that are often terete or approach the terete form. The full description of foliar anatomy concentrates on the unusual epidermal features and internal canal. The exposed epidermis is abaxial, but in a few species, in addition to the abaxial epidermis, a small amount of adaxial epidermis is also exposed in a foliar groove. In those leaves covered entirely by abaxial epidermis, the adaxial epidermis is still present but immersed within and surrounded by the mesophyll. It flanks the walls of an internal canal represented as a lacuna on cross sections. The bilaterally symmetrical arrangement of the vascular bundles, a characteristic of all examined leaves in section Rhizobium, divides the leaf into equilateral halves, the canal being centered along the midplane. Xylem of all vascular bundles faces the midplane of the leaf. We postulate that the canal, lined with cells of the adaxial surface, is the product of an evolutionary sequence of events commencing with the grooved leaf lacking a canal, passing through a phase featuring an eccentrically located canal, and culminating in a centrally sited canal. Anatomical data support the monophyly of section Rhizobium, and the unifacial-leaved species constitute a distinctive clade within the section.
20533036|Floral phyllotaxis of Laurales (Magnoliidae) is poorly and sometimes conflictingly documented, especially inthe pluricarpellate families of the core Laurales (Gomortegaceae, Atherospermataceae, Siparunaceae, Monimiaceae). In this study four types of floral phyllotaxis were recovered: Fibonacci spiral, simple-whorled (decussate), complex-whorled, and irregular. Whorled and spiral phyllotaxis cooccur in all families except Gomortegaceae and even vary within a species in some Mollinedioideae (Monimiaceae). Complexwhorled floral phyllotaxis with two or more organs in a position where only one is expected and changes in merism are especially prominent in Atherospermataceae and Monimiaceae. The most elaborate complexwhorled phyllotaxis pattern (leading to 8merous whorls) is present in flowers with a flat floral base. Presence of a hyperstigma is correlated with double positions inthe perianth. Flowers with low organ number commonly have simplewhorled phyllotaxis; flowers with high organ number have complexwhorled or irregular patterns. Spiral phyllotaxis occurs in flowers with a broad range of organ numbers. Irregularities in organ sequence were found at the periphery of the gynoecium in some Atherospermataceae and Monimiaceae, involving staminodes, carpellodes, and carpels. In Laurales, floral phyllotaxis diversity appears to have evolved from spiral phyllotaxis, independently in Atherospermataceae, Siparunaceae, and Monimiaceae.
10.1086/647919|We investigated changes in floral developmental patterns and sex determination in the PCK (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase) clade using a comparative approach and SEM. We identified variation in patterns of floral development that may be correlated with sex determination. Nine different patterns of floret development were identified, based on sex of the lower floret, sequence of stamen development, and rate of glume and lemma differentiation. Although staminate florets are always formed by the abortion of the gynoecium, the timing of abortion differs among species. Similarly, the formation of sterile lower florets showed different pathways that may operate at the level of floral meristem or organ identity. Finally, we discuss several reasons why patterns described for maize and closely related species may not be easily extrapolated to other grasses.
3874643|Rising atmospheric CO
3874626|An anatomically preserved leptosporangiate filicalean that combines characters of the Pteridaceae and tree ferns has been discovered in the Lower Cretaceous (ValanginianHauterivian boundary) Apple Bay flora on Vancouver Island, Canada. Exindusiate sori are radial, with numerous annulate sporangia diverging from a conical receptacle that is positioned below a pinnule vein. No paraphyses or other trichomes are present. Sporangia have a nearly vertical annulus that is not interrupted by the long, quadriseriate stalk. Spores are trilete and angular, with a distinctive equatorial flange and a distal deltoid structure that contacts the rim at the corners of the spore. The suture extends threefourths of the distance to the margin and is flanked by prominent ridges. Spore walls consist of two dense layers, and the surface is psilate.
2475059|Plants may increase the average quality of their seed crops by selectively aborting less vigorous progeny when resources are limited. Selective fruit abortion was examined in selfing and outcrossing populations of the Australian proteaceous shrub Grevillea barklyana. Inflorescences were pollinated with cross pollen, self pollen, or a combination of the two pollination types on different flowers. Fruit initiation and maturation were similar on self- and cross-pollinated inflorescences. Self-incompatibility indices indicated that all plants were fully self-compatible. When self and cross fruits competed for limited maternal resources on the same inflorescences, numbers of self and cross fruits did not deviate from a 50:50 ratio. This indicates that differences in the vigor of self and cross progeny were minimal, which may be a consequence of populations having a history of inbreeding. Most fruits aborted early in development, before substantial investment of resources. Results in the selfing and outcrossing populations were similar, indicating that neither selective abortion nor inbreeding depression can account for differences in mating patterns.
2995544|The internodal vasculature in Ephedra viridis Cov. consists of eight vascular bundles: four leaf traces and four axial bundles. In the nodal plexus, the four leaf traces diverge into the leaves, two per leaf. As they continue upward, the axial bundles on either side of the stem fuse for a short distance and then separate. Above this level, but still in the nodal region, the four axial bundles divide, giving rise to four small branch traces, which diverge into the branches, two per branch. Above the node, each of the four axial bundles divides again, reestablishing eight vascular bundles in the internode. The chlorophyllous leaf intergrades from an isobilateral to a weakly bifacial appearance, tip to base. The two collateral veins of the leaf consist entirely of primary phloem and primary xylem and are bordered by poorly defined bundle sheaths, which are interrupted by transfusion tracheids and gelatinous fibers. Notable features of the node are the presence of the nodal plexus, relatively short cell lengths, numerous transfusion tracheids, and collenchymatously thickened parenchyma cells. The latter occur in the pith and interfascicular regions. In the internode, four to five layers of cortical chlorenchyma are radially arranged around the vascular cylinder. The internodal bundles are composed of primary phloem and primary xylem separated by the precursors of the fascicular cambium. Transfusion tracheids, parenchyma cells, and fibers make up the interfascicular regions. The interfascicular cambium originates in cells bordering already established fascicular cambia and spreads laterally. The transition to secondary growth begins in the node and spreads basipetally. The cambial activity of the first year produces secondary phloem and secondary xylem in the bundles, but only secondary xylem in the interfascicular regions. The secondary vascular tissue of the first year lacks rays.
10.1086/664717|Antheridiogen systems, whereby notch-bearing, archegoniate gametophytes induce maleness in ameristic neighbors, have been detected in many core leptosporangiate ferns. Previous studies have failed to detect an antheridiogen system in Osmundales, which is sister to all other extant leptosporangiates; hence, antheridiogen systems are thought to have evolved after their divergence. Detailed studies of morphological development and patterns of gender expression in Osmundales and other basal leptosporangiate clades are needed to clarify how antheridiogen systems evolved. Here, we tracked the development and gender expression of gametophytes of
2475249|The nucleotide sequence of two cDNA clones synthesized from eastern white pine (Pinus strobus L.) ovule mRNA showed significant sequence homology to the legumins, which correspond to the 11S-globulins of several angiosperms. Northern hybridizations with one of the cDNA clones, named Glb-2 (P. strobus 11S-globulin-like clone 2), revealed that the mRNA was present in the ovules from the early globular stage of embryogenesis through the mature seed stage but not in unfertilized ovules. Glb mRNA was found in the megagametophyte of ovules containing late-stage globular embryos by filter-bound RNA and tissue print hybridization experiments. No Glb mRNA was found in in vitro-cultured globular stage embryos with attached suspensors, sporophytic ovule tissues, whole seedlings, or mature needles.
4619767|In a gynodioecious plant population, where female and hermaphroditic plants cooccur, females must produce more seeds or betterquality offspring than hermaphrodites to be maintained. Further, differences in the magnitude of pollen limitation and inbreeding depression between females and hermaphrodites may affect the relative fitness of the gender morphs and consequently population dynamics. We integrated demographic data into data on pollen limitation and inbreeding depression in a gynodioecious herb. Using a matrix model approach, we then examined the effects of pollen limitation and inbreeding depression on population growth rate and sex ratio. Hermaphrodites tended to contribute more to population growth rates than females. Because of the insensitivity of population growth rates to variation in annual fecundity, pollen limitation of either females or hermaphrodites had a negligible effect on population sex ratio. Inbreeding depression expressed simultaneously in three fitness components of the offspring produced by hermaphrodites reduced stochastic population growth rate and increased female frequency. Given that population growth rates are insensitive to fecundity transitions and that hermaphrodites have moderate selfing rates, our results suggest that inbreeding depression plays a larger role in the maintenance of females in gynodioecious populations than pollen limitation.
2995645|The floral structure of Besseya and Synthyris was examined to clarify corolla variation and delineate characters for phylogenetic analysis. Inflorescences of both genera are racemes, although those of Besseya have more numerous flowers that are more compactly arranged than in Synthyris. Inflorescence changes may be associated with perianth variability, including the diminution of the corolla in B. rubra and its loss in B. wyomingensis. Besseya was originally segregated from Synthyris because its corolla is bilabiate and lacks a basal tube. The corolla bilabiation and lack of a tube in Besseya arise as part of the same evolutionary modification-a cessation or diminution of zonal growth in the corolla in the region of stamen insertion. The androecium of Besseya and Synthyris consists of two stamens, conforming to the prevalent pattern of tribe Veroniceae. Like most other Scrophulariaceae the synovarious, bicarpellate gynoecium has a paracarpous region in the upper portion of the ovary. The carpellary septa in this region appear postgenitally united.
30113528|Plants from the genus
40072557|The charcoalified fossil flower,
10.1086/673934|
               
3691746|Four aspects of the structural effects of branch roots on their parental root axes are described: (1) lesser accumulation of secondary xylem on the side that is toward the branch root, (2) formation of depressions where branch roots emerge, (3) accumulation of parenchyma along the loci where branch roots are formed, and (4) lobing of the parental axis in coordination with branch root attachments. Thus, cell proliferation and accumulation and cell differentiation around the parental root axis vary with the locations of branch root attachments, with the latter relating spatially to the differentiation of protoxylem in the parental root axis. The examples reviewed show that these structural features vary independently of each other, in combinations that result in alternative morphological outcomes.
2475215|The reproductive cycle of kauri (Agathis australis [Lambert] Steud.) is similar to that of most temperate pines, extending over 19-20 mo from pollination in October to seed maturity in February or March. There is a ca. 3-mo winter dormant period from May or June until August or September, when the pollinated cones are at the free nuclear megagametophyte stage with pollen tubes permeating the nucellus. When growth resumes several archegonia differentiate; male gametes form; and fertilization occurs about November. Proembryo and early embryo development occur by early January followed by embryo growth and maturation. Cotyledon initiation begins in January and the embryo quickly fills 65% of the seed. At fertilization the megagametophyte contains no histochemically or ultrastructurally detectable lipid or protein bodies and only small amounts of starch. At the massive embryo stage small lipid bodies appear followed by protein bodies, first in the megagametophyte, then in the embryo. The predominant storage product is lipid found as small droplets throughout the cytoplasm. Protein bodies vary in size with homogeneous matrix proteins and crystalloids. Abundant starch accumulates only in the root cap. Cotyledons and hypocotyl-shoot axis contain primarily lipids and proteins that are similar in ultrastructure but generally smaller than those of the megagametophyte. The bract-scale complex of the megasporangiate strobilus was investigated and found to consist of a bract fused to a very reduced ovuliferous scale. The single median ovule develops one large seed wing and a rudimentary wing. Bractscales abscise when strobili mature and dry, releasing the seed.
10.1086/669912|The genus
3691835|Genera of blueberries from the Andean clade (Vaccinieae, Ericaceae) have traditionally been distinguished on the basis of stamen characters in combination with features of the calyx and corolla. However, previous molecular phylogenetic studies have shown that most Andean genera are not monophyletic, and several workers have noted morphological overlap between Neotropical blueberry genera. This study analyzed sequence data from
2474884| To help understand what conditions lead to the development of new organs on shoots of Opuntia ficus-indica, a widely cultivated prickly pear cactus, detached cladodes were kept in a glasshouse and were shaded, exposed to full sunlight, or exposed to full sunlight and injected with various osmotica and hormones. Daughter cladodes emerged more slowly on cladodes detached in January (mean time of 12.6 wk) than in May (4.2 wk). In the field, new organ development was more rapid and more fruits were produced compared with cladodes detached in January and kept in a glasshouse. Shading by 94% essentially eliminated the development of daughter cladodes for cladodes harvested in both seasons over the 18-wk observation period. Daughter cladodes had a lower percentage dry mass and a higher water potential than the detached cladodes on which they developed, suggesting that water entered them primarily via the phloem. Compared with detached cladodes injected weekly with 1% of the cladode fresh mass of water for 6 wk, injection of 1.5 M sucrose accelerated daughter cladode development by 1.4 wk, 750 mM KCl by 3.0 wk, and 750 mM KNO
2475148|Land plants are a monophyletic group that arose from a common ancestor that would be classified with the charophycean green algae. Thus early divergent plants and charophycean algae can be used as simple model systems for studying the evolution of more complex features of higher plants. We used TEM and SEM to examine surface layers of the charophycean green algae Nitella gracilis, Chara zeylanica, and Coleochaete orbicularis and of gametophytes of the putatively early divergent bryophytes Monoclea gottschei (liverwort), Notothylas orbicularis (hornwort), and Sphagnum fimbriatum (moss) in an attempt to learn how the cuticle of vascular plants may have originated In all of the taxa we studied, TEM data indicate that there is an osmiophilic layer on the outer cell wall that bears some structural resemblance to early developmental stages of vascular plant cuticles. SEM shows further that the surface layer of Monoclea is nodular, that Notothylas may have either a nodular or a sheetlike surface, and that Coleochaete and Sphagnum bear sheetlike surface layers with regular ridges running parallel to the edges of their thalli. The numerous ridges at the edge of the thallus in Coleochaete resemble those at the base of branches in charalean algae. These algae have a distinctive sheetlike or ridged surface layer, composed of strands, which appears to protect young, unexpanded shoots and is then pulled apart as growth takes place This may be a specialization resulting from the charalean lifestyle. Based on our results, it appears that some structures that are at least positionally analogous to the plant cuticle arose before the charophycean algae and bryophytes diverged from a common ancestor. While structural correlation is not proof of homology, it indicates that further examination at the biochemical level is warranted.
10.1086/673302|Desiccation-tolerant (orthodox) seeds can survive in the dry state for considerable periods and so can be stored successfully at low water content and subzero temperatures. Orthodox seeds possess a variety of protective processes and mechanisms that confer desiccation tolerance, important among them being metabolic shutdown and intracellular dedifferentiation. In contrast, desiccation-sensitive (recalcitrant) seeds cannot tolerate water loss and so cannot be stored using conventional seed bank conditions. Particularly with respect to storage, recalcitrant seeds do not undergo intracellular dedifferentiation nor any significant metabolic shutdown. Embryos of recalcitrant seeds remain metabolically active, with little or no reduction in extent of the extensive intracellular membranes. At the water content at which they are shed, with the ongoing metabolism in recalcitrant seeds, developmental phenomena grade imperceptibly into those associated with germination. Thus, recalcitrant seeds can be stored intact only until germination is initiated, which can range from a few days to several months, depending on species. Mild drying to inhibit germination in storage (subimbibed storage) leads to more rapid loss of viability. The only feasible method for long-term storage of germplasm of recalcitrant-seeded species is cryopreservation, but this requires partial drying to prevent ice crystal damage. However, the response to drying depends on the drying rate: slow drying induces viability loss at high water contents, whereas material dried rapidly can survive (in the short term) to water contents low enough to permit vitrification of the remaining intracellular water rather than the formation of ice crystals, if cooling rates are rapid enough. Recalcitrant seeds are almost invariably too large to permit the rates of drying and cooling required for vitrification, and so excised embryonic axes are generally the explants of choice. This review highlights how the physiology of recalcitrant seeds impacts on attempts to cryopreserve the excised embryonic axes/embryos.
2475257|The germination, survivorship, and growth of seedlings of Castanopsis cuspidata and Quercus gilva, both evergreen oaks in the evergreen broad-leaved forests of southwestern Japan, were observed over a 3-yr period under light conditions ranging from full sunlight to 2% of full sunlight. My purpose was to determine how light condition affects the establishment of these species and the eventual compositions of regional forest stands. At the end of the first growing season many seedlings did not have aboveground shoots, irrespective of the light conditions. These shootless seedlings form two groups: either shoots perished because of the hot and dry summer or shoots did not emerge at all. However, many of the shootless seedlings of C. cuspidata produced a shoot in the following year. Despite having smaller acorns and more shootless seedlings, C. cuspidata survived the hot and dry summer as well as Q. gilva did. The low shoot/root mass ratio of established C. cuspidata seedings at the end of the first season may be a key to survival. Although shootless seedlings were smaller than ordinary seedlings, by year 3 growth rates of both were similar, suggesting that the shootless seedlings contribute to regeneration. By year 3 mortality of both species was low and similar, except in 2% full sunlight where Q. gilva had greater survival. At the end of three growing seasons, C. cuspidata reached Q. gilva in height and biomass growth under bright conditions, and C. cuspidata had greater shoot/root mass ratio and smaller specific leaf area compared with Q. gilva.
10.1086/673305|
               
3080156|Ten North Temperate taxa representing diverse angiosperm lineages were analyzed for biogeographic histories using the dispersalvicariance analysis method to gain insights into the origin and evolution of disjunct distributions in the Northern Hemisphere. Results indicate four general biogeographic patterns: (1) origin and speciation in eastern Asia with subsequent expansion into North America and/or Europe (e.g.,
3079947|Redflowered, tubular
3080006|Metaxylem vessel elements from macerated xylem of rhizomes and rhizophores of
30117483|The loss of genetic variation in small populations through drift and inbreeding is thought to decrease fitness and population viability. In order to evaluate the suitability of small
3874605|The pollination biology of two sympatric species,
3691658|DNA sequences of nine genes (plastid:
3080171|To test for population differentiation in sensitivity to abscisic acid (ABA) in jewelweed (
40072545|Developing and mature inflorescences and flowers of several representatives of
10.1086/667614|The clusioid clade is one of the major subclades identified within the large, diverse rosid order Malpighiales, using molecular data. However, nonmolecular synapomorphies are unclear, and more comparative data are needed to elucidate deep relationships within the order. In this article, pollen and tapetum characters are reevaluated in relation to recent hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships within clusioids. This is done to shed light on the evolution of pollen and tapetum, particularly the evolution of pollen dyads, and also to assess the potential utility of pollen and tapetal characters in the systematics of the clusioids. The comparative morphology of pollen and tapetum is examined in selected taxa from Bonnetiaceae (
3691783|The anther smut fungus
2475052|Elymus panormitanus var. heterophyllus, PI-235086, was collected in Israel and became part of the National Plant Germplasm System as Elymus caninus L. in 1956. Bivalent pairing at metaphase I (MI) in E. panormitanus var. heterophyllus (2n = 42) was typical of other allohexaploids within the Triticeae. However, chromosome pairing analysis at MI of the tetraploid hybrids with Pseudoroegneria spicata (2n = 14, SS) and the pentaploid hybrids with Pseudoroegneria stipifolia (2n = 28, SSSS), Elymus lanceolatus (2n = 28, SSHH), E. panormitanus (2n = 28, SSYY), and Elymus nevski (2n = 28, SSYY) indicated that two of the three genomes of E. panormitanus var. heterophyllus were at least partially homologous to the S genome and confirmed the presence of a Y genome. Cluster analysis of 18 key characters separated E. panormitanus var. heterophyllus from E. panormitanus However, the continuous variation between the two taxa made taxonomic separation difficult unless the samples represented the two extremes. In this unique case, two taxa-E. panormitanus var. heterophyllus and E. panormitanus-were very close morphologically but different genomically. Elymus panormitanus var. heterophyllus is a hexaploid (SSSSYY; 2n = 42) and E. panormitanus is an allotetraploid (SSYY; 2n = 28).
10.1086/673306|
               
3691775|Using scanning electron microscopy, we studied the comparative floral ontogeny of closely related taxa in the tribe Isopyreae of the Ranunculaceae (
2995801|The goals of this study were to test the hypothesis that plasticity of life history traits is greater among species with broad ecological distributions than among species with narrow ecological distributions and to determine whether homosporous filicalean fern gametophytes exhibit adaptively meaningful responses to soil substrates. Sporophyte populations of
10.1086/668793|
               
IJPS41064|The exact geographic origin of invasive species populations is rarely known; however, such knowledge is vital to understanding species invasion success, spread, and evolution as well as for assessing any biological control options. We investigated the shrub
10.1086/673246|
               
3691571|
               
3080332|
               
3080158|The fossil record shows that the legume family was abundant and taxonomically diverse in Early Tertiary tropical deciduous forests of North America. Today, woody members of this family are almost nonexistent in temperate deciduous forests. This former North American legume diversity now lies in the Tropics, including the Greater Antilles. To show the Antillean refugia, we detail a phylogenetic and biogeographic analysis of two legume groups, the
2475094|When NO
2475220|Using inorganic nitrogen-limited (N-Lim) spinach and soybean plants that accumulate elevated foliar levels of free glucose, sucrose, and starch, we determined the influence of carbohydrate level upon total leaf vitamin C (ascorbate + dehydroascorbate) level and on the redox ratio of ascorbate (ASC) to dehydroascorbate (DHA). In the light, the levels of free glucose and glucose sources, including sucrose and starch, were usually considerably higher in the leaves of inorganic nitrogen-limited spinach and soybean plants than in the leaves of N-sufficient (N-Suff) control plants. However, in the light, leaves of N-Suff plants often had as much or more total vitamin C than leaves of N-Lim plants. There was never a consistent relationship between elevated glucose or other elevated carbohydrate levels and an elevated level of vitamin C. In contrast, the leaves of both N-Lim spinach and soybean plants displayed considerably higher ratios of ASC to DHA in the light periods than did leaves of N-Suff plants. This suggested that in leaves of N-Lim spinach and soybean plants, the elevated levels of foliar glucose and other glucose sources caused the increased availability of reductant that, in turn, supported a more rapid reduction of DHA to ASC.
30117480|The tapetum, a nutritive tissue necessary for microspore development, is of two basic types in angiosperms: secretory and plasmodial. A third type, invasive nonsyncytial, is possibly intermediate. Secretory tapeta are plesiomorphic in angiosperms, and plasmodial and invasive tapeta are derived types that have evolved several times in earlydivergent angiosperms and particularly in monocots. Many eudicots have secretory tapeta. In this article, records based on new observations for plasmodial and invasive tapeta in eudicots are presented, together with a literature survey. The data indicate that these tapetal types have evolved independently several times in eudicots, particularly in laterbranching lineages. They are rare in earlydivergent eudicots, where they occur only in
2995788|SEM observations of tracheary elements of three leptosporangiate ferns,
3691830|The origin of the polyploid orchid
3080195|Studies of dichogamy seldom address its possible effects on other floral traits. An exception has been work on the apioid umbellifers (Apiaceae, subfamily Apioideae), which typically exhibit andromonoecy and both intra and interfloral dichogamy. Several students of apioid umbellifers have suggested that variation in proportions of perfect and staminate flowers among sequentially blooming inflorescences (umbels) of individual plants has evolved in response to dichogamy. Here, we report a 2yr study of dichogamy, pollination, and sex expression in
20533017|Alien species have profound ecological and evolutionary impacts on native species. In this study, we used microsatellite loci to evaluate the impact of grazing on
2995777|The sequence of events during protein and lipid deposition has been examined in the developing endosperm of
4619840|Capsule dehiscence, seed dispersal, and seed dormancy and germination were examined in
3691749|The winter annual
2995713|About 2,000 specimens of infructescences, cymules, fruits, bracts, staminate inflorescences with in situ pollen grains, and leaves assignable to Betulaceae have been collected from the Munce's Hill locality (Paleocene, Paskapoo Formation), Joffre, Alberta. Infructescences are composed of many cymules, each cymule consisting of two fruits. Each fruit is an oval nutlet surrounded by two equal-sized bracts. Bract form varies considerably with respect to size and marginal dissection. Bracts are as deeply dissected and variable as the British type specimen of Palaeocarpinus laciniata Crane from the Paleocene of southern England but usually have one or two lobes instead of several lobes. A short pedicel is present at the base of the fruit, a feature not reported in the British specimens. Furthermore, nutlets have numerous longitudinal striations rather than three longitudinal ribs on their surfaces. Based on the characteristics of nutlets and bracts, these specimens are described as P. joffrensis Sun et Stockey sp. nov. Associated staminate inflorescences are compound catkins composed of many cymules, each consisting of a triangular primary bract, ovate secondary bracts, and numerous stamens. Elongate pollen sacs contain triporate pollen grains with rugulate ornamentation and numerous Ubisch bodies. Transmission electron microscopy reveals a thin foot layer, granular interstitium, and a thick tectum with microchannels. The presence of secondary bracts in inflorescences and aperture characters of the pollen grains show similarity to the genus Corylus. Associated leaves, also resembling Corylus, are ovate to elliptic, with acuminate to attenuate apices, cordate bases, and toothed margins. Six to nine pairs of secondary veins enter the primary teeth with vein endings bending toward the leaf base. Prominent abmedial branches from the secondary veins enter subsidiary teeth. Tertiary and quaternary veins come together at the sinuses, an important feature of Betulaceae. Based on their association and taxonomic affinities, both leaves and-staminate inflorescences are thought to represent detached organs of P. joffrensis.
2474901|A new genus of fossil angiosperms (Protofagacea allonensis gen. et sp. nov.) is established for staminate flowers with associated fruits and cupules from the Campanian (Late Cretaceous) Buffalo Creek Member of the Gaillard Formation in central Georgia, U.S.A. Staminate flowers are typically borne in sevenflowered dichasia (more rarely three- or five-flowered) subtended by three series of bracts. Flowers have six small imbricate tepals in two cycles of three, 12 stamens in two cycles of six, and a vestigial gynoecium with three styles surrounded by a mass of simple trichomes. Pollen is very small, prolate, tricolporate, and reticulate to microfoveolate. Associated fruits are triangular or lenticular in cross section and the triangular fruits bear six short tepals at the apex. Fossil pollen identical to that produced by the staminate flowers is attached to the apex of the fruits. Associated cupules are pedunculate and four-lobed and bear three or more fruits. The cupule lobes bear three series of bracts similar to those subtending the staminate dichasia. Scars on the internal surface indicate that each cupule contained a central fruit that was elliptical in cross section and two lateral fruits that were triangular in cross section. Comparisons of P. allonensis with extant taxa clearly indicate a relationship to extant Fagaceae sensu lato, based particularly on the presence of the cupule, the form of the fruits, and the morphology of staminate inflorescences and flowers. However, pollen morphology (probably plesiomorphic) differs from that of extant taxa, and detailed resolution of the affinities of Protofagacea will require a clearer understanding of relationships among extant Fagaceae sensu stricto and Nothofagaceae.
3874625|The discovery of two anatomically preserved rhizomes with attached stipe bases and adventitious roots contributes to our knowledge of filicalean fern diversity and evolution. Specimens are preserved in marine carbonate nodules at the Lower Cretaceous (Valanginian to Hauterivian) Apple Bay locality on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. They represent a previously unknown filicalean fern with transitional solenostelicdictyostelic stelar architecture and are described as
40344043|Floral morphology, anatomy, and histology are comparatively studied in Fouquieriaceae and Polemoniaceae, and previous studies are reviewed. In recent molecular phylogenetic analyses, the two families form a strongly supported clade within the asterid order Ericales, while they were generally placed far from each other in premolecular classifications. This study documents unexpectedly diverse floral features for Polemoniaceae, including various corolla aestivation patterns, different types of anther attachment and anther morphology, as well as two types of nectary structure. Prominent features shared by the two families include determinateterminal inflorescences, hyaline sepal margins, similar patterns of floral vasculature, late sympetalous corolla development, similar degrees of sympetaly, sterile connective protrusions, short thecal septa, endotheciumlike cells in the connective, trimery in the gynoecium, a stylar canal, parietal, and axile and placentation in the same ovary, similar patterns of ovule arrangement and ovule orientation, distally curved micropylar canals, mesophylltype nectaries with stomata, winged seeds, and seed coat epidermal cells with helical or annular wall thickenings. Several of these features represent potential synapomorphies for the clade with Fouquieriaceae and Polemoniaceae. In addition, potential synapomorphies are also identified for the individual families. While the results of this investigation further support the close relationship of Polemoniaceae and Fouquieriaceae, they also emphasize that it is necessary to abandon preconceptions about the systematic importance of certain characters that turn out to be more homoplasious than previously thought.
20533041|Cultivated cotton fiber has undergone transformation from short, coarse fibers found in progenitor wild species to economically important, long, fine fibers grown globally. Morphological transformation requires understanding of development of wild fiber and developmental differences between wild and cultivated fiber. We examined early development of fibers, including abundance and placement on seed surface, nucleus position, presence of vacuoles, and fiber size and shape. Four species were studied using microscopic, morphometric, and statistical methods:
3691619|An anatomically preserved ovulate cycadeoid cone has been discovered in Upper Cretaceous (Campanian) sediments of Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. The specimen is preserved by calcareous cellular permineralization and displays diagnostic features of the genus
10.1086/652013|We studied a cohortbased, longlived species to determine whether favorable periods that promote regeneration are driven by local, regional, or globalscale factors. Limited demographic data exist for the keystone species
10.1086/679349|
               
10.1086/677238|
               
10.1086/682211|
               
4619757|Wellpreserved fossil seeds of an ANITAgrade angiosperm are described from the Gokurakuzawa locality exposed along the Kobisa River, Fukushima Prefecture, in northeastern Honshu, Japan. Sediments at this locality compose the Tamayama Formation, the uppermost sedimentary unit of the Futaba Group, which is of early Santonian age (ca. 85 million yr BP). On the basis of comparison with extant taxa, these seeds are assigned to Nymphaeales. The presence of unequivocal Nymphaeales in the middle part of the Late Cretaceous contributes to emerging evidence for continuity in the fossil record of this key group of flowering plants from the very earliest phases of angiosperm diversification in the Early Cretaceous through their very extensive representation during the early Cainozoic and up to the Recent. The fossil seeds are assigned here to a new genus of Nymphaeales,
40344014|Although the floral morphology of Oleaceae appears to be simple at first sight, fundamental problems still exist. The most detailed morphological studies date back to the 1920s but do not contain developmental data. Such data, based on the SEM investigation of 15 species out of 10 genera and covering most tribes andsubtribes of the family, are presented here. In the dominant floral type, the perianth is tetramerous. The four sepals initiate simultaneously in orthogonal positions on the floral apex. The corolla partly emerges as a continuous ringlike structure from which four petal lobes arise in diagonal positions (early sympetaly). In other cases, the petal primordia emerge separately, fusing later to a corolla tube (late sympetaly). The primordia of the two stamens arise in transverse positions. The gynoecium is bicarpellate throughout the family, with the two carpel primordia emerging in median positions. Deviations from the common pattern are represented in
2474922| We studied the effects of increased rain acidity and ozone on net photosynthesis (A), internal CO
2475050|Recent phylogenetic analyses of the Caprifoliaceae and related families have paved the way for critical study and interpretation of the fossil record. A new extinct genus, Diplodipelta, is established on the basis of winged fruits from the Eocene, Oligocene, and Miocene of western North America, with two species: Diplodipelta reniptera (Becker) comb. nov. and D. miocenica (Berry) comb. nov. Although formerly attributed to Ptelea and Dodonaea, detailed comparative studies demonstrate that the fossils actually represent the Caprifoliaceae, tribe Linnaeeae, on the basis of elongate, indehiscent, longitudinally ribbed fruits with a sterile apical neck and persistent, epigynous calyces, and "supernumerary bracts." The samaroid dispersal units resemble those of extant Dipelta because the bracts are enlarged into wings that function in wind dispersal. However, Diplodipelta differs from Dipelta by the presence of a pair of fruits, rather than just one fruit, per dispersal unit, by the adnation of lateral wings to the peduncle, and by a peculiar transverse folding of the median wing. On the basis of available characters, Diplodipelta appears to be the sister group to Dipelta The stratigraphic record of Diplodipelta, together with the occurrence of genuine Dipelta fruits in the late Eocene of England, indicates that the divergence of these genera occurred during or prior to the late Eocene. The fossil record of Caprifoliaceae is reviewed, and previous reports of fossil Abelia fruits are discounted.
2995779|Previous studies have assayed the gravitropic response of roots and hypocotyls of wild type
10.1086/657277|Infrared absorption spectra of exudates from 65 species of gymnosperms were measured using microFourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. On the basis of the infrared spectra, three compositionally distinct groups of exudates can be distinguished: resins, volatile-rich resins, and gums. Resins and volatile-rich resins are mainly composed of terpenoids, whereas gums are polysaccharides. Resins and volatile-rich resins are restricted to conifers (Pinophyta). Gums, on the other hand, are produced by some conifer families including Araucariaceae and Podocarpaceae; nonconifer gymnosperms including
3080021|Dimorphic ray and disc achenes of
3080331|
               
IJPS40954|When both selection and demography vary over time, how can the long-run expected strength of selection on quantitative traits be measured? There are two basic steps in the proposed new analysis: one relates trait values to fitness components, and the other relates fitness components to total fitness. We used one population projection matrix for each state of the environment together with a model of environmental dynamics, defining total fitness as the stochastic growth rate. We multiplied environment-specific, stage-specific mean-standardized selection gradients by environment-specific, stage-specific elasticities of the stochastic growth rate, summing over all relevant life-history and environmental paths. Our two example traits were floral tube length in a rainforest herb and the timing of birth in red deer. For each species, we constructed two models of environmental dynamics, including one based on historical climate records. We found that total integrated selection, as well as the relative contributions of life-history pathways and environments, varied with environmental dynamics. Temporal patterning in the environment has selective consequences. Linking models of environmental change to relevant short-term data on demography and selection may permit estimation of the force of selection over the long term in variable environments.
2995675|The regulation of initiation, size, and spacing of vascular rays was studied experimentally by partial girdling (leaving a longitudinal narrow bridge) and small wounding removing 1-2 cm<sup>2</sup> of bark in mature stems of Pinus halepensis Miller and Ailanthus altissima Swingle. The partial girdling treatment, which increased cambial activity locally, increased the number of xylem rays and the width or height of some of the existing ones. In addition, it caused the formation of resin ducts in P. halepensis and gummosis in A. altissima. Similar results were obtained with longitudinal wounds, even when growth was not confined to narrow bridges of cambium, and without changing rate of cambial activity. In both cases, within a narrow bridge and near a wound, the increase in ray number and ray dimension was mainly a wound response, but ray size was sometimes larger near the wound surface than in the middle of the narrow bridges.
10.1086/660880|Two genera of Rosaceae are described from the latest early Eocene Republic flora of northeastern Washington State, United States.
10.1086/668222|A new anatomically preserved megasporophyll,
3691560|Mapping every leaf trace in serial transections of shoot apices reveals a threedimensional pattern of procambial development that was not appreciated in previous studies of
10.1086/658151|The taxonomy of the
3691899|In the fossil record,
4619819|In the large, pantropical family Melastomataceae,
3079986|We examined relationships between seed mass, seed nutrients, and seedling growth in two populations of
10.1086/658921|Symbiotic associations between grasses and fungal endophytes are generally regarded as mutualistic, yet benefits to host plants may vary with environmental context. Previous studies have emphasized how endophytes influence plant responses to single stressors. In contrast, the outcome of endophyte-grass interactions under simultaneous biotic and abiotic stresses remains poorly explored. We hypothesized that benefits from endophyte symbiosis become most apparent in complex environments where hosts experience multiple stresses. We evaluated the performance of endophyte-infected (E+) vs. endophyte-uninfected (E)
3691764|We provide evidence for the origin of sexual individuals from parthenogenetic progenitors in natural populations. We demonstrate that this reversal has occurred independently in three geographically separated populations of the Asteraceous polyploid,
3691692|
               
10.1086/648992|Recently, the biotic context for sexual and mating system evolution in plants has received special attention; however, the significance of interactions with antagonists has only begun to be revealed. We investigated the effect of florivory on reproduction and inbreeding depression by simulating damage on selfed and outcrossed progeny of hermaphrodites of
2995879|Phytochromemediated stem elongation in response to crowding in dense stands has been shown to be a form of adaptive phenotypic plasticity. However, increased stem elongation could affect the patterns of allocation to leaves and roots and so affect the water relations of the plants. We tested this hypothesis by measuring biomass allocation, lightsaturated photosynthetic rates, and stomatal conductance of elongated and nonelongated
10.1086/681161|
               
2995592|The increase in cell size and the activities of cell wall lytic enzymes during fruit growth supported by the mesocarp cell enlargement have been studied in peach of the freestone cultivar Redhaven. Four growth stages (S1-S4) in peach fruit were observed. Cell enlargement and formation of intercellular spaces in the mesocarp were directly correlated with the increase in fruit diameter. Cellulase and exopolygalacturonase showed the highest activity during the first stage of fast fruit growth (S1), while the endopolygalacturonase activity increased during the last growth stage (S4), when the fruit reached its final size and ripening started.
3080304|A new plant fossil from the earliest Carboniferous of Anhui, China, is described. This species, known only from compression, consists of three orders of branching and dichotomous appendages. The firstorder axis represents the morphology of a stem or small trunk. Lateral organs are attached along the primary axis in three ranks. The appendages are arranged along the thirdorder axis in three ranks and divided into sterile and fertile appendages. The sterile appendages are dichotomized two times with a pointed tip. The fertile appendages are made of paired erect sporangia on the supporting axial system with two dichotomies. A dense terminal branching system is attached at the end of first and secondorder axes. Based on comparison with and differences from established taxa, this plant is named
2995790|Fernlike leaflets from the Paleocene of Wyoming and Eocene of Oregon are recognized as cycad foliage based on diagnostic epidermal structure. The fossils conform to
3080213|We examined the effect of nectar robbery on phase duration of a natural population of
2475158| The fates of individuals in nine fixed plots in three areas were recorded for a population of Gaura neomexicana ssp. coloradensis on F. E. Warren Air Force Base in Cheyenne, Wyoming, U.S.A., from September 1992 to September 1994. The data were used to construct a stage-based transition matrix model for the population across two transitions. The specific goals were to determine if the population size is increasing, decreasing, or stable; if there is significant spatial and/or temporal variation in demographic parameters; which demographic transitions have the most impact on population growth; and the probability of extinction. An additional objective was to compare Gaura with other plant taxa that have been similarly modeled. The population is increasing, although some plots experienced a decline, as evidenced by the asymptotic growth rates () calculated for the individual plots and for the population as well as the actual numbers of plants in the plots The population stage structure varied across the two transitions and was different from that predicted by the matrix model. Log-linear analysis revealed significant temporal and fine-scale spatial variation in demographic transition frequencies for Gaura. Elasticity analysis indicated that growth from one stage to another had the largest effect on population growth rate and that the most important single (nonsummed) transitions were from large rosette to flowering and recruitment into the small rosette stage. The population as a whole will persist, but there is a chance for local extinction under certain conditions. The mean growth (G), survival (L), and reproduction (F) elasticity values placed Gaura in the range of other semelparous herbs. 
10.1086/664714|Late Cretaceous angiosperm woods from the Western Interior of North America are poorly known relative to palynomorphs and leaf macrofossils. In this report we describe angiosperm woods from the Campanian Crevasse Canyon Formation and the Maastrichtian Jose Creek Member of the McRae Formation, in south-central New Mexico. New taxa include
2475073|Two questions on the multivariate relationships among traits and their plastic responses were analyzed in an experiment on the phenotypic plasticity of plants from seven natural populations of Phlox drummondii from Texas to five greenhouse environments. (1) Do different environmental stresses (herbivory, low nutrients, small pot, and low water) result in similar changes among suites of traits? (2) Are the differences in plastic responses among populations large enough to alter their phenetic interrelationships? Our results indicate that the responses of plants to macroenvironmental variables are specific to that environment, evoking not only quantitative (size) but also qualitative (shape and allocation) phenotypic differences. Further, the overall phenetic similarity among populations changes radically depending upon the environment in which they are compared; i.e., apparent phenetic relationships vary with the treatment. These results demonstrate both trait- and environmental-specificity of plastic responses, leading to the production of distinct whole-plant phenotypes in different environments.
2995609|The relationship between leaf anatomy, specifically the percent of leaf volume occupied by waterstorage parenchyma (hydrenchyma), and the contribution of respiratory CO<sub>2</sub> during Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) was investigated in 12 epiphytic species of Tillandsia. It has been postulated that the hydrenchyma, which contributes to CO<sub>2</sub> exchange through respiration only, may be causally related to the recently observed phenomenon of CO<sub>2</sub> recycling during CAM. Among the 12 species of Tillandsia, leaves of T. usneoides and T. bergeri exhibited 0% hydrenchyma, while the hydrenchyma in the other species ranged from 2.9% to 53% of leaf cross-sectional area. Diurnal malate fluctuation and nighttime atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> uptake were measured in at least four individuals of each species. A significant excess of diurnal malate fluctuation as compared with atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> absorbed overnight was observed only in T. schiedeana. This species had an intermediate proportion (30%) of hydrenchyma in its leaves. Results of this study do not support the hypothesis that CO<sub>2</sub> recycling during CAM may reflect respiratory contributions of CO<sub>2</sub> from the tissue hydrenchyma.
10.1086/670258|Wood (secondary xylem) is responsible for water transport and has been well-studied anatomically, ecologically, physiologically, and phylogenetically. Comparative methods can reveal patterns of evolution for xylem traits using knowledge from the phylogenetic history of the taxa and the branching pattern of phylogenies. Bignoniaceae (Lamiales) is a family of pantropical plants of various growth habits that includes trees, shrubs, and lianas, which display diverse wood anatomies and for which robust phylogenies are available. Here we review important aspects in classical wood anatomy and evolution and test hypotheses regarding patterns of wood evolution using the Bignoniaceae as a model. Altogether, 85% of the genera currently recognized in Bignoniaceae were sampled, and 30 characters were delimited and mapped onto a robust phylogeny of the family. Some patterns of wood evolution within the Bignoniaceae seem to have been shaped by ecophysiological and habit aspects in the family. For example, vessels increase in diameter in the lianoid lineages but decrease in trees and shrubs during evolution. Rays in trees have evolved from a mixture of homo- and heterocellular to exclusively homocellular and storied in some lineages, while in the lianas the opposite pattern was recorded. Other patterns are consistent with more general phylogenetic trends; for example, parenchyma increases in abundance from the most basal to the most derived nodes of the phylogeny. Other characters in the family that are delimited and discussed include growth rings, porosity, perforation plates, ray width, and height. This work provides evidence that wood evolution is rather labile and that the evolution of new habits and the occupation of new habitats greatly influence wood evolution.
3691799|The evolution of selected characters of the perianth, androecium, and gynoecium was reconstructed on a modification of the recent threegene topology for angiosperms to address patterns of evolution in the flowers of basal angiosperms. The reconstructions indicate that the patterns of perianth and stamen phyllotaxis are usually, but not always, closely associated. The attainment of a stable perianth and stamen phyllotaxis preceded stability in the gynoecium. There are several surprising reversals from whorled to spiral phyllotaxis in different clades. The developmental mechanisms responsible for changes in stamen number have rarely been evaluated in basal angiosperms, in contrast to the eudicots. Our reconstructions reveal a close relationship between a whorled phyllotaxis, a reduction of the number of stamen whorls, and stamens in double (paired) positions. Staminodes appear frequently in different lineages. A strict distinction between a sepalderived and a staminodial, stamenderived perianth is not always clear and may reflect shifting boundaries between organdetermining genes. The frequent coexistence of spiral phyllotaxis, trimery, and dimery in the same clades, with the occasional presence of an intermediate pentamerous condition, emphasizes the instability of merosity (merism) in basal angiosperms; transitions between seemingly highly different flower configurations occur often. A stable merosity is strictly linked with few synorganized carpels, except for the presence of a single carpel. Symmetry of flowers is either structurally correlated with the basic merosity, the result of extreme reduction, or developmentally correlated with shifts in organ initiation. Despite uncertainty about character evolution in certain lineages or their equivocal relationships, floral characters are generally consistent with phylogenetic relationships inferred from molecular data. The distribution of floral characters is discussed for the major clades. Several clades (e.g., MagnolialesLaurales, monocots) are strongly supported by synapomorphic morphological characters.
10.1086/663163|
               
4619803|
               
IJPS41056|The objectives of this study were to characterize the fluorescence and spectral reflectance patterns of galled and nongalled portions of leaves of
2475199|Leaf surface wetness, e.g., dewfall, has been shown to have a strong influence on photosynthetic CO
10.1086/681023|
               
10.1086/683303|
               
2995578|We studied the annual shedding of small branches in balsam poplar (Populus balsamifera) and found that in Calgary the majority of these branches fall in October, prior to leaf abscission in November. The proportions of abscised branches with attached leaves, secondary branches, and viable buds were approximately 0.5, 0.3, and 0.4. The mean age of abscised branches was 6.7 yr, and the mean length was 20.4 cm. The degree of branch abscission in a tree may depend on its age and vigor, since abscission appears to be the consequence of self-shading in older branches by the new growth that forms at the periphery of the canopy each year. The nitrogen and potassium content of buds in abscised branches was shown to be the same as that in buds of still-attached branches, but the leaf area of abscised branches was significantly less than that of attached branches of similar size and age. The relationship of self-pruning to tree strength and wood quality is discussed. Though most branches abscise mainly during October, superimposed on that seasonal pattern are other times of increased branch abscission that correspond to days when strong winds occurred. During the early period of branch life, there may often be a partial separation layer. This constitutes a weak link, and if strong winds occur the branch may be shed. If conditions are more moderate, the partial separation layer will heal over, leading to the formation of swollen bases on the younger branches. Branch breakage also occurs (without separation layer formation), but to a lesser extent than branch abscission, and breakage is more common during May and June. Breakage may serve to prune out poorly located and unproductive new growth.
3691877|
               
3691751|Relatively little is known about insect defense mechanisms in the ferns and mosses. The current paradigm is that secondary metabolites and physical barriers are most important in conferring insect resistance in ferns, lycopods, and mosses. We investigated whether proteinbased resistance exists in representatives of these taxa. We screened a total of 23 plant species for proteinbased insecticidal activity against the two common lepidopteran pests: corn earworm (
3080204|The oldest macrofossil of Marsileaceae,
3080066|The
3691634|We aimed to assess the impact of drier and warmer conditions on flowering traits of two common species of the coastal Mediterranean shrublands,
2475120|A new genus and species, Celatheca beckii, is described from the Early Devonian (Siegenian) Posongchong Formation, Wenshan district of southern Yunnan, China. The plants consist of anisodichotomously divided vegetative or fertile axes. Divisions of the main axes produce irregularly to helically arranged lateral branch systems; vegetative ones are two to three times divided, and each unit ends in strongly recurved tips. Fertile lateral branches divide one to two times basally, and after a distance of 0.3-1.7 cm divide again twice closely and cruciately. Each of the four resulting segments consists of two parts, an inner elongate-oval sporangium and an outer adjacent leaflike appendage. The lobed distal ends of the leaflike appendages fold inward to enclose the sporangia so that the whole fertile structure appears coherent. Superficially the fertile structures resemble a synangium, but close examination shows the sporangium/appendage units are discrete structures joined only at the juncture of their stalks with the fertile axis. Comparison to the similar-appearing, presumed synangiate Yarravia shows the Chinese fossils to differ in having a smaller number of discrete sporangia and in the presence of the leaflike appendages forming a cupule-like covering. The sporangium/appendage organization is similar to that of some early cupulate ovules but probably is not homologous. This discovery further enriches the composition and diversity of the Posongchong flora and demonstrates another plant in which sporangia are protected by a modified vegetative structure. Its similarity to Australian Lower Devonian plants is discussed in view of current evidence of paleocontinental positions and early land plant biogeography.
3691738|A new herbaceous lycopsid,
2475070|Seasonal drought and flooding severely limit pasture growth in savannas, although tropical grasses show broad variation in their tolerance to these water stresses. In this study we analyzed and compared the responses in morphology and anatomy of the roots of four important perennial C
3691529|In many organisms, variation among genes in the relative frequencies of synonymous codons reflects variation in local compositional biases and the intensity of natural selection on codon usage. Identification of preferred codons has been straightforward in most important model organisms, but this has not been the case with
3691859|
               
2995533|The two most prominent model species for the study of different aspects of floral development, Arabidopsis thaliana and Antirrhinum majus, are members of large families, Brassicaceae and Scrophulariaceae, and orders, Capparales and Scrophulariales. In both groups flowers play an important role in evolutionary diversification, but the evolutionary trends are different. In the Capparales changes in floral symmetry and organ number and in the Scrophulariales changes in organ elaboration and synorganization are especially prominent. Certain evolutionary changes of the floral ground plan have occurred many times in parallel in different genera and tribes. Further, a substantial part of floral diversity is not directly related to the ground plan but superimposed on it as diversification of the floral organs in size, shape, color, and scent, all features that may be related to pollination biology. At this level parallel evolutionary trends also abound. My review comprises this diversity with special emphasis on such multiple parallel changes. I suggest that they are based on genetic changes that may be acquired relatively easily and that they are not as deeply rooted as changes that occurred only once. They may be expected to be at a lower hierarchical level in the (epi)genetic system. If change occurs through mutation in the model species that is similar to the variation that is found in the wild types of deviating, related genera, then these changes would be especially interesting to analyze. A better understanding of these multiple parallel changes would also be crucial for an improved phylogenetic analysis of both orders. Since both model species have relatively simple floral ground plans in contrast to the vast diversity that exists in the flowering plants between extreme taxa, such as Magnoliales and Orchidales, generalizations on principles of genetics of floral development should include glimpses of these extreme groups.
10.1086/663968|Various pollen morphotypes of
30130558|Cauliflower (
3691849|A comparison of four pollination treatments revealed that
4619792|The emerging field of evolutionary developmental biology (evodevo) seeks to identify the specific genetic basis for plant evolution. Whereas molecular biological studies are rapidly exposing the developmental mechanisms of evolution, paleontological studies reveal the sequence in which evolutionary changes have occurred. Aspects of both fields are reviewed in this article. Plant structure develops along genetically patterned pathways, some of which produce distinctive morphological features. Such features serve as fingerprints for regulatory mechanisms, thus providing a record of growth regulation for both living species and plant fossils. Transformational series of structure through geological time form the contextual framework for inferring evolution from the fossil record, but the most widely practiced application of transformational series forplants, Telome Theory, has no developmental basis. By contrast, the fossil record of leaf evolution in seed plantsdocuments morphological changes to which a growing understanding of genetic pathways can be correlated. Leaves are defined by a number of features, including determinacy and adaxial/abaxial identity. Fossils of early seed plants show stepwise acquisition of these characters, from which we can infer developmental modifications leading to the evolution of the characters. Previous work has revealed that an interregulated network of genes is involved in the specification of these features. The genes identified as being involved in various aspects of leaf development provide clues to the evolution of each character. In particular, expression of the
3691833|A twotiered, nested molecular phylogenetic study of panicoid grasses to explore character state transitions between the C
2475140|The initiation and development of the major and minor veins and contiguous tissues in the leaf blade of barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Morex) follow similar patterns. Both bundle types are associated with two bundle sheaths, an outer parenchymatous bundle sheath (PBS) and an inner mestome sheath (MS). In both major and minor veins, the procambial strand arises in the median layer of cells and gives rise to both the vascular tissues and the MS. The PBS and mesophyll, by contrast, originate in all three cell layers of the ground meristem. Development of the vascular bundles and contiguous tissues in the barley leaf is essentially similar to that of their counterparts in the leaf of Festuca arundinacea, another C
10.1086/653544|The objective of this study was to test whether branching intensity is interspecifically correlated with the biomass allocation patterns of woody species at the level of the whole plant. For this purpose, we examined leaf size and number and branch size and number at different branch orders and computed both a commonly used measure and a newly constructed measure of branching intensity (i.e., Whitneys parameter and , respectively) to determine whether biomass allocation patterns are correlated with branching intensity for25shrub species from a dry valley in southwest China. Whitneys parameter (BI) was calculated as
2474934|Development of the procambial system of the spikelet of wheat is described from serial transections of successively older primordia selected before anthesis. The procambial median traces of the two glumes merge into the procambial system already in the rachis. More distally in the spikelet primordium, the procambial median traces of the first two lemmas, and then the major lateral traces of the two glumes differentiate in isolation and merge successively with the glume median traces linked to the rachis. Such mergers establish the procambial paired sympodia, which will become the junction of all procambial strands developing distally in the spikelet with the vascular system of the rachis. The paired sympodia form an arc opposite the rachis traces. The first procambial traces from the distal regions of the spikelet to augment the paired sympodia by basipetal mergers are the major laterals of the lemmas of the first two florets. The major lateral traces of all lemmas of the spikelet become interconnected by a series of n, n - 1 mergers between adjacent distal lemmas and between lemmas two and one directly with the paired sympodia. The procambial system for the sexual components of the florets is initiated in the proximal pair of florets, then successively in the distal florets. In each floret, the three isolated stamen traces merge into a unit whose flanks merge into the descending traces of the palea and of the lemma intermediate laterals. This composite of traces becomes an intrafloret link with the lemma's median and major lateral traces and, through them, an interfloret connection to the paired sympodia. The progress of procambial trace mergers in the spikelet primordium is helpful in explaining patterns of grain filling, confirming systematic relationships of wheat to its close relatives, and in revealing morphogenetic similarities between spikelets and axillary buds.
3691855|Ecological theory predicts that a generalist strategy should be more favored in changing environments than in stable environments. I tested whether phenotypic plasticity is greater in plants from a temporally heterogeneous habitat than in plants from a more homogeneous habitat. In addition, I evaluated whether the environmental heterogeneity of the original habitat influences the relationship between environmental stress and phenotypic integration, i.e., the degree of correlation among phenotypic traits. The perennial weed
2995795|Two sites exist for endocarp dehiscence (shell split) in the pistachio nut (
2475095|Arthrocnemum indicum Willd., a stem succulent perennial in the family Chenopodiaceae, is widely distributed along the coastal areas of Pakistan and forms an important component of the vegetation of salt marshes in the vicinity of mangrove swamps. Seed germination of halophytes is often inhibited by hypersaline conditions at these sites, which prevents the establishment of new populations (Ungar 1991). We studied the affect of growth regulators and compatible osmotica in alleviating the innate and salinity-induced dormancy in dimorphic (brown and black) seeds of A. indicum. Germination of both types of seeds decreased with an increase in salinity. Brown seeds germinated at the highest salinity concentration (1000 mM), whereas only a few black seeds germinated at 800 mM NaCl, and no germination was recorded at 1000 mM NaCl. The osmotica, proline and betaine, did not relieve salinity-induced dormancy in either black or brown seeds. Plant growth regulators, gibberellic acid (GA) and kinetin, significantly (P < 0.05) alleviated the salinity-induced germination inhibition of both seed types but over different salinity ranges and to different degrees. Both growth regulators significantly increased (P < 0.05) the rate of germination over most salinities, but the effect of GA was more pronounced than kinetin.
2474879|Somatic embryos of the cork oak (Quercus suber L.) obtained after many generations of recurrent embryogenesis do not show signs of major structural abnormalities except for the appearance of more than two cotyledons or embryos fused at their embryonic axes. Secondary embryogenesis is mainly of multicellular origin and takes place after a slight proliferation of cells in the external layers of the primary embryo root cap. The first sign of secondary embryo formation is the appearance of meristematic primordia on the periphery of the proliferating tissue. They soon develop into bipolar structures and form cotyledonary primordia, and then the new embryos emerge from the proliferation mass. However, the unicellular pathway for secondary embryogenesis cannot be disregarded. In some cases the proliferation mass becomes brownish and takes on a more friable appearance. In this case, single cells, groups of cells, and globular proembryos appear isolated from the surrounding necrotic tissue. However, no further development of these structures can be observed in solid cultures. When microscopic fragments are cultured in a liquid medium, isolated globular and torpedo embryos are obtained. Culture conditions may determine the pathway through which secondary embryogenesis takes place.
2475045|Microelectrode techniques were used on epidermal peels of Avicennia germinans to characterize functional aspects of secretion in salt glands. Increasing the concentrations of K
3079996|The metabolism, transport, and action of the hormone auxin (indole3acetic acid; IAA) is thought to regulate the morphological processes responsible for generating the characteristic body plans of green plants. One objective of this study was to determine the general class of the IAA biosynthetic pathway operating in the vegetative apices of the liverwort
10.1086/673883|
               
2995832|An ultrastructural investigation of 60 species, representing 47 genera, of Araceae showed two basic pollen wall types, each with two subtypes. The two main types are distinguished by presence (type 1) or absence (type 2) of an acetolysisresistant ektexine. The subtypes are differentiated by a structured (type 1a) or unstructured (type 1b) ektexine, respectively, and the presence (type 2a) or absence (type 2b) of polysaccharidic wall ornamentations. A characteristic of all types is a spongy endexine, which is electron dense after thiocarbohydrazidesilver proteinate staining and is only partially resistant to acetolysis.
10.1086/657280|
               
10.1086/677649|
               
3080290|The pollination biology and breeding system of
IJPS40894|Consistent differences in the physiological performance of wild populations of closely related plant taxa may be the result of environmentally induced phenotypic plasticity or adaptive evolution (or a combination of the two). Here we report the results of a field study of physiological and fitness-related traits in geographically proximate sister taxa in the annual wildflower genus
2995549| The breeding system of Eucalyptus leucoxylon was investigated using crosses, microscopy, and isozyme analysis. In the study population, 57% of trees were male sterile because microspores were produced by meiosis and formed exines; however, they contained little starch, lacked intines, and had collapsed by anthesis, surrounded by incompletely degenerated tapetum. Hermaphrodite trees produced bisexual flowers, which were protandrous. Anthers dehisced in the bud and 93% of pollen was deposited on the upper style and lower stigma as the filaments extended; only 7% remained on the anthers. Hermaphrodite flowers set low levels of autogamous and assisted selfed seed, compared with open pollinations. Counts of pollen tubes in open-pollinated pistils of each morph showed that female flowers received less pollen than hermaphrodite flowers, but despite this, there was no difference in open-pollinated seed set between the two morphs. Multilocus estimates of outcrossing rates (t) from male-sterile trees showed values approaching complete outcrossing (0.96), while hermaphrodite trees showed significant levels of inbred seed in open-pollinated seed crops (0.83) but still maintained a higher outcrossing rate than reported for most other eucalypts. This study has shown that E. leucoxylon maintains high levels of outbreeding, despite the deposition of self pollen on the stigma in the secondary pollen presentation mechanism; it may achieve this through protandry, pollen removal, male sterility, and late-acting self-incompatibility. 
3691647|The genus
2995660|Floral meristic and organogenetic variation was sampled in Ruppia occidentalis from an alkaline lake of the Nebraska Sandhills and in Ruppia maritima var. rostrata from a saline, non-Sandhills lake nearby. The androecium is meristically stable, always having two stamens, but the gynoecium is not. Seventy-two percent of the flowers of R. maritima had four carpels and the others had three, and in 80% of inflorescences the two flowers had the same number. In about one-third of inflorescences having dissimilar carpel numbers, the four-carpellate flower was uppermost. The number of carpels in each flower of R. occidentalis ranged from four to nine, averaging six, and in 57% of inflorescences both flowers had the same number; of those that did not, most had more in the lower than upper flower. Twenty-five percent of the flowers had four carpels, 8% had five, 35% had six, 15% had seven, 14% had eight, and 3% had nine. Ordered, dimerous, decussate organogenesis through the first four carpels followed the same pattern in both species, but carpels beyond four were alternate with the first four and the decussate pattern was broken. The stomatiferous dorsal lobe of each carpel produced persistent gas bubbles that probably aid flotation of the inflorescence and might function in trapping pollen as well. Only ephydrophilous pollination was observed in both species.
10.1086/668227|A perithecial ascomycete,
2475101|Exceptionally well-preserved silicified remains of a new species of Taxodium have been recovered from the Late Cretaceous (ca. 70 million years old) sediments of the Horseshoe Canyon Formation near Drumheller, Alberta, Canada. Specimens include three-dimensionally preserved branches bearing dimorphic leaves, pollen cones, pollen, seed cones, and seeds. The abundance and quality of preservation of these remains have allowed for detailed examination of morphological and anatomical features for comparison with extant representatives of the Taxodiaceae. The vegetative axes bear taxodioid leaves and rare cupressoid leaves; staminate and pistilate axes are subtended entirely by cupressoid leaves. The seed cones are erect, short-stalked, and globose, arranged alternately on branches, and bear up to fifteen helically arranged, deciduous bract-scale complexes. Each cone scale bears two more or less triangular seeds. Vasculature and arrangement of the resin canals of the cone scales are much more complex than that of any of the extant species examined. The pollen cones are typical of extant Taxodium; the pollen grains are structurally comparable, but small when compared with extant representatives of the genus. Comparison of these fossils with extant representatives of the Taxodiaceae indicate that they are most similar to Taxodium, but are comparable to Glyptostrobus and Cryptomeria in some features. The Horseshoe Canyon Taxodium is the first unequivocal report of Cretaceous Taxodium from North America and provides insight into the early evolution of the genus and phylogenetic relationships among other representatives of the family.
10.1086/678467|
               
2995870|Stages of normal sexual reproduction between pollen germination and egg maturation are described for interior spruce. These prezygotic stages were studied by light and electron microscopy in more detail than was possible in previous studies, and new observations have been made. Sperm (male gametes) formation and the organelles that accompany the sperm within the pollen tube are described. The pollen tube grows toward a lipid secretion that originates in the neck region of the archegonium. Megagametophyte development was followed from the early cellular stage through the series of mitoses that result in neck cells, the ventral canal cell, the central cell, and ultimately the egg. Maturation of the egg includes formation of modified plastids (formerly described as large inclusions) and small inclusions that are membranebound regions of cytoplasm. At egg maturation, modified plastids are excluded from the mitochondriarich perinuclear zone that surrounds the nucleus. Small inclusions occupy the periphery of the cell so that the egg nucleus and perinuclear zone are centrally located. A second article in this series describes pollen tube entry into the archegonium, delivery of sperm to the egg, gamete fusion, and proembryo and embryo formation.
3080100|Androdioecy is a rare breeding system in which low male frequency is expected in populations because males require a strong increase in their fertility to be maintained by selection.
10.1086/669926|
               
10.1086/663967|Numerous fossil winged seeds from the early Miocene (2221 Ma) of Ethiopia represent the earliest and only definitive record of the ecologically and economically important legume genus
2475222|Larger plants tend to be more branched than smaller plants in some species. The nutrient diversion hypothesis for apical dominance proposes that the apical meristem of a plant acts as a strong metabolic sink, depriving nutrients from latent axillary meristems and thereby promoting strong directional (e.g., vertical) growth with little branching. Hence, larger plants may be more branched because they may have more resources that cannot all be sequestered by the apical meristem, leaving an excess available for branch production from axillary meristems. However, larger plants may also be more branched because they incur greater damage from herbivores that disrupt apical dominance. Hence, the availability of nutrients may be a confounding factor for studies of response to herbivory through effects on apical dominance. In order to distinguish these effects, we applied nutrient and water supplementation to two natural populations of Verbascum thapsus in which herbivores were excluded to test the hypothesis that nutrition level, including water, plays a role in determining the extent of branching. We used a full factorial experimental design involving three levels of resources (control, water, and water with fertilizer) and shoot apex removal. Both a single-season experiment and a two-season experiment were performed, the latter involving only the three levels of resources as treatments. Branching was increased by shoot apex removal and was enhanced by the addition of nutrients but only in clipped plants. Thus, the nutrient diversion theory does not solely explain the strong apical dominance exhibited by V. thapsus; an alternative hypothesis involving weevil herbivory is indicated that may further explain the growth form and branching patterns in this species.
4619829|The increasing number of pseudogenic internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions (ITS1, 5.8S rDNA, ITS2) reported for plant taxa raises questionsfor example, concerning the proportion of functional copies. Our application of quantitative PCR (qPCR) with genomic DNA under stringent conditions revealed that <3% of the copies of the ITS region were putatively functional in the genomic PCR pool in
10.1086/683277|
               
2475230|The mating system of Ophiopogon xylorrhizus Wang et Dai was studied in three natural populations with allozyme electrophoresis. The outcrossing rate was estimated by assaying eight enzyme loci. A mixed mating system model was used, and outcrossing rates were estimated for populations and families. The multilocus outcrossing rates in three populations were 0.467, 0.323, and 0.091. The extent of outcrossing in populations depended on the plant density (r = 0.9998; P < 0.02; df = 1). The frequency distribution of family outcrossing rates was slightly bimodal. A mixed mating system with considerable complete selfing and complete outcrossing was found in this species. Positive correlations were observed between family outcrossing rate and maternal heterozygosity (r = 0.70-0.98) and between family outcrossing rate and fecundity (r = 0.971; P < 0.0005; df = 7). Inbreeding depression was examined in populations P3 and P4, both of which had high outcrossing rates. Inbreeding depression was expressed mainly in seed production. Mating system pattern contributed to the high genetic variation in this species. Because of high inbreeding depression and habitat destruction, this species is threatened with extinction. Conservation in situ by protecting the habitat is the best way to conserve this species.
10.1086/661295|
               
10.1086/675576|
               
2475082|Teliospore germination by the anther-smut fungus, Ustilago violacea (Pers.) Roussel (Microbotryum violaceum Deml & Oberwinkler), was examined at a range of nutrient and temperature treatments. On germination, a teliospore produces a promycelium, and concurrently its nucleus undergoes meiosis. Promycelia of U. violacea are generally considered to consist of three cells; however, they were more often two-celled at low nutrients and temperatures. A cytological study of promycelial development confirmed that the daughter nuclei of the first meiotic division are separated immediately by a septation in the promycelium. After the second meiotic division, one of the two proximal nuclei migrated back into the teliospore. At high temperatures and levels of nutrients, the two distal nuclei were separated by a second septation event in the promycelium; this resulted in a three-celled promycelium, with each cell being uninucleate. However, at low nutrients and temperatures, the second septation event did not occur, resulting in two-celled promycelia with a single postmeiotic nucleus in the proximal cell and two postmeiotic nuclei in the distal cell. The morphology of conjugations between promycelial cells and sporidia confirmed first-division segregation of mating type in U. violacea. A consequence of centromere linkage of mating type in U. violacea and the septation event that separates the daughter nuclei of the first meiotic division is that both nuclei in the distal cell of two-celled promycelia are of the same mating type. Therefore, conjugation by the binucleate cell is required for formation of the infectious, heterokaryotic stage. The environmental influence on promycelial development can therefore affect the number of heterokaryons possible in single-teliospore colonies (one in colonies with two-celled promycelia, but at least two in colonies with three-celled promycelia), the relative contributions of postmeiotic nuclei to infective stages, and the representation of meiotic products in the sporidial population, and therefore the breeding system of the fungus.
10.1086/661510|Rice blast is one of the most serious diseases of cultivated rice. We characterize here the nucleotide variation present at nine blast resistance (
3691854|We tested the generalist annual plant
4619770|Two new species of
10.1086/668694|The pollen grains of several gymnosperm groups consist of a main body and one to three air-filled bladders, or sacci. Although sacci may serve a buoyancy function to orient the grain on the ovular pollination droplet in some taxa, sacci have also been shown to increase pollen volume while adding minimal mass, thus decreasing density and thereby increasing the aerodynamic efficiency of wind pollination. However, no published studies have quantitatively addressed the effects of grain geometry or surface ornamentation at the low Reynolds numbers that pollen grains demonstrate. The objectives of this study were to empirically investigate the effects of varying geometries and surface ornamentation on the aerodynamic properties of saccate pollen grains through the experimental determination of drag coefficients and shape factors. Structurally different grains of two extant conifers (
2995617|A survey of the seed morphology of 24 species and all of the four genera, Pyrola, Orthilia, Moneses, and Chimaphila, of the subfamily Pyroloideae of the Ericaceae showed that the testa and the endosperm dimensions, and especially the pitting patterns on the inner periclinal walls of the testa cells, are significant taxonomically at or below the generic level and even at the infraspecific level in some species. Seeds of Moneses are clearly distinguished from those of the other three genera in having transversely elongated large pits (pitting type 5) on the inner periclinal walls. Chimaphila species are uniform in having smooth or slightly pitted inner periclinal walls (pitting types commonly 1-2). Thus, the seed morphology of Moneses is clearly different from that of Chimaphila. Seed morphology of Pyrola shows considerable variability and no seed characters define the genus. Orthilia seeds do not have any peculiar characteristics and are more similar to those of Chimaphila than Pyrola according to principal component analysis. Within the genus Pyrola, the monotypic subgenus Amelia is distinct in having densely arranged large pits (type 4) on the inner periclinal walls. In the other subgenus Pyrola, section Scotophylla is uniform in having low ratios of seed length to width and seed length to endosperm length, but the other two sections, Pyrola and Chlorantha, vary widely in their seed morphology. Infraspecific differentiation of the seed morphology is noted for P. asarifolia and C. umbellata, respectively.
2995888|Flower anatomy, embryology, and seed anatomy are described for some Brazilian species of
2995885|This study reports the meiotic chromosome pairing behavior and method of reproduction of three
3080055|We compared 13 traits of invasive exotic, noninvasive exotic, and ecologically similar native species to determine if there are generalizable differences among these groups that relate to persistence and spread of exotic species in tallgrass prairie plant communities. When species were grouped as invasive (two species), noninvasive (five species), and native (six species), no differences were found for the suite of traits examined, likely because of the high variability within and between groups. However, when exotic species, regardless of invasiveness, were compared with the native species, specific leaf area was ca. 40% higher for the exotic species, a result that is consistent with that of other studies. This pattern was also observed for five of seven pairwise comparisons of exotic and native species with similar life history traits. In contrast, total endofseason biomass was as much as three times higher for the native species in five of seven of the nativeexotic species pairs. For other traits, differences between exotic and native species were speciesspecific and were generally more numerous for noninvasive than for invasive exotic species pairwise comparisons. Thus, contrary to predictions, exotic species capable of successfully invading tallgrass prairie did not differ considerably from native species in most traits related to resource utilization and carbon gain. Moreover, invasive exotic species, those capable of displacing native species and dominating a community, were not distinct for the observed traits from their native counterparts. These results indicate that other traits, such as the ability to respond to resource pulses or herbivory, may explain more effectively why certain invasive species are able to invade these communities aggressively.
2475100|Vegetative shoots, ovulate cones, and putative seeds of Conewagia longiloba gen. et sp. nov., a fossil conifer from the Upper Triassic New Oxford Formation of York County, Pennsylvania, are described. Vegetative shoots represent up to three orders of branches bearing robust, spirally arranged leaves. Leaves are somewhat flattened and falcate with a papillate cuticle. Ovulate cones bear closely spaced, helically arranged bract-scale complexes. Ovulate cone scales possess a stalklike basal portion fused to a subtending bract, with an expanded upper part consisting of 11 proximally fused foliar components oriented in a single plane. Each component forms a narrow, toothlike lobe on the distal cone scale margin. The acute apex of the bract is free and lies adjacent to a groove in the abaxial cone scale surface. Dispersed seeds with a longitudinal ridge or rudimentary wing may have been produced by this conifer. The 11 ovulate cone scale foliar components of C. longiloba are the greatest number known in any early Mesozoic conifer, and the taxon helps to fill a previously unappreciated temporal gap in the fossil record between the Paleozoic and modern conifers that have numerous ovulate cone scale components.
2475201|Artificial hybridizations between Clarkia unguiculata (Onagraceae) translocation homozygotes identified a fifth chromosome arrangement (E). Hybridizations between individuals homozygous for chromosome arrangement E and others homozygous for either arrangement C or D yielded only monosomic progeny. In most cells the longest potential chain (five or seven chromosomes) in these 17-chromosome translocation heterozygotes broke into smaller chains and univalents. The members of the chain disjoined alternately, as in naturally occurring Clarkia translocation heterozygotes. The monosomics were vigorous and morphologically normal, but only partly fertile. Self-pollination of a monosomic produced 16-, 17-, and 18-chromosome plants. The nullisomics were vigorous and morphologically normal, but highly sterile. In this regard they are similar to those of Clarkia amoena, which arise by chromosome repatterning, and are not comparable to the classical sort.
10.1086/668792|The genus
3691853|We examined net photosynthesis, transpiration, stomatal conductance, and leaf fluctuating asymmetry on two species (
3691779|The effects of increasing air temperature and changing daily temperature regime under conditions of elevated CO
4619765|Host fidelity can play an important role in sympatric host race formation of phytophagous insects by providing a mechanism for prezygotic reproductive isolation. Similarly, but less recognized, host fidelity of insects could provide a mechanism for maintaining hostspecific differentiation among insectvectored pathogens. We studied the transfer of fluorescent dyemimicking spores of the pollinatortransmitted anther smut fungus
3080260|Biparental inbreeding occurs when plants receive pollen from genetically related neighbors. The frequency of biparental inbreeding in natural populations is unknown but directly relevant to the evolution of plant mating systems. We suggest a simple manipulative experiment to distinguish the effects of biparental inbreeding from those of selffertilization. The basis of the method is to compare the levels of inbreeding in plants with and without the potential to outcross with genetic relatives. We eliminate the potential for biparental inbreeding by transplanting seedlings to different locations within a population. The level of inbreeding is then estimated from homozygosity at molecular markers. This method is applied in a study of two natural populations of
3080328|
               
20533022|The genus
3080058|Mass allocation and the size dependency of reproductive allocation (RA) are primary components of life history that depend on resource availability and that affect microevolution. For example, tight genetic covariance between life history traits in one environment could limit the ability of selection to modify separate components of reproductive fitness. Here, the quantitative genetics of mass allocation and the allometry of reproduction were examined in relation to soil nutrients in the annual
IJPS40968|Although plant breeding systems are evolutionarily labile, a shift from one system to another can involve formidable ecological obstacles. In order for gynodioecy to evolve from hermaphroditism, the carriers of a male-sterility mutation (i.e., females) must overcome two major hurdles: females must attract pollinators without offering pollen as a reward, and they must produce enough seeds to compensate for the loss of reproduction through the paternal route. We investigated the relative performance of female and hermaphroditic plants in a greenhouse study of
40344035|
               
3080172|The concentration of carbon dioxide [CO
3691576|Sex expression in gynodioecious plants is often governed by an interaction between maternally inherited cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) genes and nuclear male fertility restorer genes. Previous studies have documented an association between females and maternally inherited molecular markers in the cytoplasmic genomes in natural populations, suggesting that these markers are associated with different CMS types. We analyzed the spatial distributions of mitochondrial and chloroplast alleles and the sexual phenotype of individuals within five Alaskan populations of
2474865|"Leaf tatter" is a type of leaf injury associated with Acer saccharum. The goals of this research were to define symptoms of leaf tatter in A saccharum and to describe morphological and anatomical differences among cultivars exhibiting varying degrees of injury. Two anatomical studies were undertaken: (1) a leaf developmental study, to determine the normal appearance and development of leaves of A. saccharum, and (2) a leaf tatter study among cultivars, to compare the anatomical nature of the susceptible Green Mountain cultivar with the less susceptible Legacy and Caddo cultivars. Results indicate that leaf tatter is initiated at leaf margins-either by irregularly shaped, desiccated areas at the tips of lobes and/or by tearing in sinus areas. Green Mountain characteristically exhibited a larger leaf than Caddo or Legacy in all measured dimensions. The leaves of Green Mountain had a higher percentage of total leaf thickness occupied by spongy mesophyll, and palisade cells tended to be aligned in rows and columns rather than appearing to be randomly arranged. These differences may play a major role in explaining the greater susceptibility of Green Mountain to leaf tatter.
3691530|Pairs of linearly variable differential transducers, with a sensitivity of 1 m, were used to compare daily changes in stem thickness with transpiration and net CO
2995604|Malus pumila `M.26' apple shoots grown in vitro were induced to root by treating with naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) or by infecting with Agrobacterium rhizogenes strain A4. A histological study was conducted to follow the development of the adventitious roots. In response to NAA adventitious roots formed endogenously, initiating within the vascular tissues of the stem. A clear connection between roots and shoot was apparent. Roots formed along the base of the stem, up to 2 mm from the cut surface. Adventitious roots formed in response to infection with A. rhizogenes showed both endogenous and exogenous development. In endogenous root formation, callus formed within the cortex with subsequent formation of tracheid nests, causing a bulge in the stem. Exogenous callus, formed at the base of the shoot, also produced tracheid nests, and in some specimens was quite extensive. Roots developed from both of these callus structures. We hypothesized that the response to A. rhizogenes involves auxins through either increased concentration or increased sensitivity of the infected cells since the morphological response closely resembled that obtained when tissue was treated with auxins.
3080194|Thigmomorphogenesis, or touch response, is a widespread and ecologically significant, yet understudied, form of phenotypic plasticity in plants. I investigated uni and multivariate differentiation for plasticity in response to mechanical stimulation induced by wind in several populations of
2995648|Paspalum cromyorrhizon Trin. (2n = 2x = 20), P. indecorum Mez (2n = 2x = 20), and P. laxum Lam. (2n = 6x = 60) were crossed with yellow-anthered dallisgrass, P. dilatatum Poir. (2n = 4x = 40), to determine their genome relationships. Meiosis was irregular in all hybrids examined. Twelve P. dilatatum x P. cromyorrhizon hybrids had a chromosome number of 2n = 3x = 30. The mean chromosome association of these hybrids was 25.50<sup>I</sup> and 2.25<sup>II</sup> per cell. Seven P. dilatatum x P. indecorum hybrids had 30 chromosomes. Their mean meiotic chromosome association was 23.45<sup>I</sup>, 3.27<sup>II</sup>, and 0.004<sup>III</sup> per cell. Three P. dilatatum x P. laxum hybrids had 50 chromosomes. Their mean chromosome association was 44.76<sup>I</sup>, 2.61<sup>II</sup>, and 0.004<sup>III</sup> per cell. In all hybrids, a majority of the bivalents were synapsed as rods. The P. dilatatum biotype in these crosses has the genome formula II JJ, and this study indicates that the other three species do not have the I or J genome. Previous crosses have shown that P. cromyorrhizon has a form of the N genome, and this study supports that finding. The genome compositions of P. indecorum and P. laxum remain unknown.
2995852|Permineralized gigantopterid stems of
30139301|Wind pollination is predominantly a derived condition in angiosperms and is thought to evolve in response to ecological conditions that render animal pollination less advantageous. However, the specific ecological and evolutionary mechanisms responsible for transitions from animal to wind pollination are poorly understood in comparison with other major reproductive transitions in angiosperms, including the evolution of selfing from outcrossing and dioecy from hermaphroditism. To investigate correlations between wind pollination and a range of characters including habitat type, sexual system, floral display size, floral showiness, and ovule number, we used a largescale molecular phylogeny of the angiosperms and maximum likelihood methods to infer historical patterns of evolution. This approach enabled us to detect correlated evolution and the order of trait acquisition between pollination mode and each of nine characters. Log likelihood ratio tests supported a model of correlated evolution for wind pollination and habitat type, floral sexuality, sexual system, flower size, flower showiness, presence versus absence of nectar, and ovule number. In contrast, wind pollination and geographical distribution and number of flowers per inflorescence evolve independently. We found that in windpollinated taxa, nectar is lost more often and ovule number is reduced to one. We also found that wind pollination evolves more frequently in lineages already possessing unisexual flowers and/or unisexual plants. An understanding of the ecological and lifehistory context in which wind pollination originates is fundamental to further investigation of the microevolutionary forces causing transitions from animal to wind pollination.
10.1086/668687|
               
3691590|The degree of developmental instability has been hypothesized to reflect the level of environmental and genetic stress. However, levels of fluctuating asymmetry or other indicators of developmental instability are rarely measured in the same populations under field and common garden conditions, making it difficult to determine whether differences in asymmetry derived from field measurements are simply phenotypic or genetic in origin. We studied fluctuating asymmetry of leaves in three populations of
40072549|
               
3080109|Leaves of two new plants are reconstructed from their isolated leaflets collected from the Oligocene Los Ahuehuetes locality near Tepexi de Rodrguez in Puebla, Mexico. The leaves of
3080306|Cells in a
2995805|The basic floral ground plan is remarkably constant across Brassicaceae. However, within
2475337|The recent introduction to cultivation of Lathyrus belinensis has enabled experimental crosses to be made with cultivars of the sweet pea L. odoratus. Lathyrus belinensis has flowers with yellow pigmentation, a color missing from cultivars of sweet pea. Chemical analyses revealed that three pigment types, carotenoid, flavonoid, and anthocyanin, are present in L. belinensis, which is easily identified as seedling leaves exhibit a diagnostic red pigment spot and pods are membranous and indehiscent. Like L. odoratus, L. belinensis is distinctly scented. A hybrid was established by means of embryo rescue. Karyotypes of the parental species are very similar, and meiotic pairing in the hybrid indicated considerable homology. The hybrid between L. belinensis and the cream-flowered L. odoratus cv Mrs. Collier showed reduced vigor and novel flower color. A chemical/biochemical rationalization for the observed color changes is presented. Light and scanning electron microscopy showed differences in petal surface features and the distribution of pigments within petals.
2474919|Genotypes from 11 populations of the rare plant Vicia dumetorum (Fabaceae) were cloned and raised under two light regimes to assess the relationship between reaction norm variation and RAPD diversity. Analysis of variance revealed extensive plasticity and a significant main effect of clone and population for most characters, while consistent genotype x environment interactions were found only at the between-population level. The variance caused by differences between population means was usually lower than the variance attributable to differences between clone means within populations (34% vs. 66% when averaged over characters), while the genotype x environment interaction variance showed the opposite pattern (70% vs. 30%). The RAPD variation was low with an overall polymorphism of 5.3% and a Shannon diversity index of 0.008 (average over populations). Analysis of molecular variance revealed that the within- and between-population components accounted for 63% and 37% of the total variance, respectively. Clones from marginal and central populations differed little in reaction norm parameters and there was no significant association between interpopulation distances based on overall means across light regimes (reaction norm elevation), patterns and amounts of plasticity (reaction norm slope), and RAPD markers. Hence, comparisons of different suites of characters indicate some concordance between partitions of diversity (RAPD vs. genotype x environment interaction variance), while the geographic pattern in the three types of data appears to be different.
2995862|Phase change (the change from nonreproductive to reproductive status) and heteroblasty (ontogenetic changes in vegetative metamers) are two determinants of longitudinal asymmetry in plants. These concepts are critically important to understanding the regulation of plant development as well as morphological evolution and lifehistory variation. Since Goebel, the two have been conflated. This article questions how phase change and heteroblasty are delimited and explores some of the problems that arise in the explicit or implicit link between them, given that several lines of evidence indicate that they are distinct and independent facets of plant development. It is suggested that problems are perpetuated through use of the terms juvenile and adult to describe both phenomena.
30130566|The Appar flax germplasm was originally released by the USDA Soil Conservation Service as a cultivar of
10.1086/651230|We measured vessel dimensions, most significantly vessel length, in the aerial roots of four epiphytic aroids using a digital camera to photograph sequential sections. Pendulous aerial roots in Araceae can grow from the forest canopy and so reach considerable length (>30 m) before they contact the ground, branch, and become anchored. In the freehanging state, the length over which tissue maturation occurs can exceed 1 m. We show that the distinctive medullary vessels do not anastomose and each series of vessels, end to end here termed a pipe, must differentiate without interruption throughout the length of the root and do not become fully functional until the ground is reached. Measurements show different vessel parameters, including vessel overlap at each vessel end, which is not usually considered in estimates of hydraulic conductivity. Our method of measurement is simple and direct and shows the topographic relation of all vessels in a single organ, suggesting that vessels in long plant organs can be measured precisely, giving results of value in considering the hydraulic properties of xylem elements.
2475255|Many species of angiosperms have mixed mating systems in which a portion of progeny result from self-fertilization and some from outcrossing. We show that Agalinis neoscotica has evolved a novel set of developmental and morphological characters in the flower that assure self-pollination without sacrificing the opportunity for outcrossing. Pollinator exclusion, emasculation tests, and controlled self- and cross-pollinations conducted at three field sites indicate that A. neoscotica is self-compatible. An overall mean pollen-ovule ratio of 128.5 for four populations indicates facultative selfing and indicates that self-fertilization occurred. An estimation of the mating system, using two enzyme loci in each of two natural populations, verifies that selfing occurs in each population, but neither population is completely selfing. Seeds of A. neoscotica are produced by a mix of self-fertilization and cross-fertilization. Observations of buds and flowers of A. neoscotica show that this species differs from its close relatives by precocious self-pollination in bud, thus assuring reproduction in the absence of pollinators, and in three characteristics that provide an opportunity for outcrossing: delayed germination of self pollen, presentation of additional stigmatic area, and lengthened period of anthesis. These results indicate that examination of preanthesis buds and flowers throughout anthesis is necessary for understanding the modes of selfing involved in mixed mating systems.
10.1086/671807|
               
3080098|The pool of storage carbohydrates in plants may be formed in competition with allocation to growth (true reserves) or, where growth is inhibited by external factors, with no cost to growth (accumulated reserves). The latter hypothesis was addressed using
3080241|Microsporogenesis is highly labile in earlybranching angiosperms, i.e., those with mostly sulcate pollen, compared with the tricolpate and tricolpatederived eudicots. New records of microsporogenesis in basal angiosperms (19 taxa were examined), together with a review of the literature, demonstrate that the existing typology has been too strictly applied; several basal angiosperms have apparently intermediate forms and therefore do not fit easily into simultaneous or successive categories. Intermediate forms include the modified simultaneous type, where ephemeral cell plates are formed after the first meiotic division but then disperse, and simultaneous cleavage follows the second meiotic division. This relative diversity reflects a range of variation in number and position of pollen apertures in basal angiosperms, although both monosulcate and inaperturate pollen may occur in conjunction with either simultaneous or successive microsporogenesis. However, many taxa with inaperturate pollen have successive microsporogenesis, whereas many monosulcate taxa have the simultaneous type (although successive and monosulcate is common in monocotyledons). The predominance of simultaneous microsporogenesis in extant basal angiosperms and in land plants in general (including gymnosperms) indicates that simultaneous microsporogenesis is plesiomorphic in angiosperms, despite the occurrence of the successive type in the putative firstbranching extant angiosperm,
4619807|A first comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of tribe Salsoleae s.l. (Salsoloideae: Chenopodiaceae) is presented based on maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analysis of nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer and chloroplast
3691624|To investigate the mechanism of transcription in plant mitochondria, proteins displaying binding activity to mitochondrial plasmid promoters were studied. We have identified a conserved nonanucleotide motif at the 5 end of a
10.1086/668688|A fossil seed cone with characters that have been hypothesized as transitional to the origin of crown group gnetophytes has been discovered in Lower Cretaceous deposits on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. This cone, described as
40344016|New data are presented on shoot architecture and branching pattern in one of the two perennial species of Hydatellaceae (Nymphaeales),
40344020|Endemic plant species are often thought to be restricted to marginal habitats as a result of a tradeoff between fitness in highstress environments and competitive ability in benign environments. Here we provide a unique test of this hypothesis by manipulating competition and habitat quality across a gradient and contrasting closely related species that differ in their habitat specializations. We compared the competitive abilities of five
3080057|A previous study showed that flowers of
3079964|Patterns and trends in angiosperm evolution can only be inferred using a wellresolved and wellsupported phylogenetic tree, and many inferences of character evolution across the angiosperms rely on reconstructions at or near the base of the tree. For this reason, inferences of phylogeny and evolution in basal angiosperms have implications for understanding evolution in the angiosperms as a whole. Recent studies have concluded that the first three branches of extant angiosperms are
2475312|The outer pollen wall of Geranium robertianum L. (Geraniaceae) is exclusively formed by the ectexine, characterized by a perforated footlayer, unbranched columellae, a tectum that forms a reticulum, and supratectate pila. An endexine is missing. The intine protrudes through the channels of the footlayer to the exine cavities. The intine material in the exinic interstices is immediately covered by tapetally synthesized vesicles, called pollen-coating vesicles (PCV), which form a compact layer within the exine cavities. The PCV layer is interpreted as a protecting barrier. During final pollen maturation the PCV layer is superimposed with lipidic pollenkitt. Endoplasmic reticulum and elaioplasts participate in the pollenkitt formation. The electron-translucent zones at the bottom of the exine cavities may represent degeneration products of the primexine matrix.
10.1086/683304|
               
3691864|Development of characteristics of the C
2475118|Roots of Nuphar, Nymphaea, and Ondinea were studied with SEM in order to determine presence of perforations in end walls of tracheary elements. Nuphar has occasional small perforations and Nymphaea has a scattering of small perforations, but no perforations were observed in Ondinea. In Nuphar and Nymphaea, metaxylem elements have helical-reticulate wall thickenings, but end walls of tracheary elements have at least some scalariform pitting; in Ondinea, end walls are identical to side walls. In all three genera, striations (thickenings) in primary walls of tracheary elements are common, as in Euryale and Victoria.
10.1086/668695|The fossiliferous ironstone deposits of the Upper Cretaceous Horseshoe Canyon Formation in the Drumheller badlands, Alberta, Canada, contain a diverse, anatomically preserved flora. Within this assemblage occur abundant stems, leafy shoots, leaves, ovuliferous cones, and pollen cone clusters that are here described as a new species of
10.1086/660882|Phylogenetic relationships among carnivorous plants of the angiosperm order Caryophyllales have been explored, although a robust phylogeny encompassing all carnivorous genera is absent. We sample nuclear ribosomal spacer (internal transcribed spacer) and chloroplast intergenic spacer (PY-IGS), along with previously sequenced DNA from members of the noncore Caryophyllales, for use in Bayesian statistics and maximum likelihoodbased searches of phylogeny. Taxonomic relationships across genera are refined, and three strongly supported clades are identified: monophyletic Droseraceae, Nepenthaceae, and a third clade containing Ancistrocladaceae, Dioncophyllaceae, and Drosophyllaceae. In combination with phylogenetic reconstruction, stochastic character mapping is used to assess evolutionary changes in the morphology of glands that are found on the lamina and involved in the digestion of prey. The presence of sessile glands is identified as the likely ancestral character state, and stalked and pitted glands are suggested to have been acquired independently by ingroup and outgroup taxa. Additionally, in some genera we found a lack of association between gland vasculature and plant carnivory, demonstrating that the internal architecture of glands is not indicative of whether the plant is a functional carnivore. Finally, we discuss how adaptive changes resulting in the evolution of the carnivorous gland may have occurred either by emargination of the leaf blade or homologous transformation of pinnae.
30130549|B73 and Mo17 represent the main families of elite maize (
2474885|Responses of a salt-tolerant line (Euroflor) and a salt-sensitive line (SMH-24) of sunflower to water deficit were assessed when 2-wk-old plants were subjected for 16 d to 0 or -0.6 MPa polyethylene glycol (8000) in aerated nutrient solution. The salt-tolerant line was superior to the salt-sensitive one in growth performance under simulated drought conditions. The two lines did not differ in leaf water, osmotic, and turgor potentials under water deficit. A decrease in leaf water and osmotic potentials as well as an increase in turgor potential were observed uniformly in both lines at -0.6 MPa polyethylene glycol. Stomatal conductance, transpiration, and gas exchange in Euroflor were not affected by water deficit, whereas all were in SMH-24. Euroflor had significantly greater values for all these variables than SMH-24. The lines did not differ in water-use efficiency. From this study it is clear that salt tolerance and drought tolerance of the two lines examined share osmotic effect. The differing degree of drought tolerance of the lines can be related to stomatal conductance, transpiration, and gas exchange but is independent of any of the water relation parameters measured.
40344021|Patterns of tectum ornamentation in pollen of
3691846|Fluoresceinconjugated bisindolylmaleimide inhibitor (FIM1) was used to identify protein kinase C (PKC) presence and activity in
3080247|Fifteendayold intact primary leaves of
3691885|Floral organogenesis in three species of
10.1086/677679|
               
3691579|Pollination biology plays a major role in the evolution of selfing and the maintenance of mixed mating systems. We examine whether selfing in a population of
2475244|Mechanical analyses were carried out on stem segments representing young to old ontogenetic stages of a mature specimen of the tropical liana Condylocarpon guianense (Apocynaceae). Two-, three-, and four-point bending tests demonstrated that during ontogeny, the Young's modulus (E) of the stem decreased from a mean of 2722 MN m
2995526|Some guiding principles are given in five theses to provide a synthesis between comparative morphology, the science of the outer form (Gestalt) of plants, and plant anatomy as the science of the histological structure of plants. A short historical review shows that both are concerned with different organismal units. In morphology the whole plant is the unit; in anatomy it is the cell. The differentiation of the plant form has little to do with the cellular structure, which is secondary, because the cell walls are used as a means of form stabilization. But the existence of the cell wall system gives the plant the option to differentiate the resulting tissues and the cells the option to be latent organisms. The cormophytean organization of the land plants started with an open, flat thallus presenting surfaces to the environment. In megaphyllous cormophytes the leaf is the main plant organ, which has taken over the essential plant functions into a closed, modifiable, developmental program. Stem and root organs are added during evolution, staying in an open condition and growing monotonously.
2475031|Interspecific comparisons of stomatal response to variable light have generally supported the hypothesis that stomatal adjustments are more rapid in plants with high photosynthetic capacity. We compared stomatal responses to variable light in bur oak (Quercus macrocarpa) leaves that had low photosynthetic capacity and high apparent anthocyanins levels ("red leaves") with responses in green leaves. When incident sunlight was experimentally varied, stomatal conductance (gs) in red leaves was no less responsive than in green leaves. In both leaf types, gs declined at the same rate (
30130557|Rotated Image with Maximum Average Power Spectrum (RIMAPS) is a new image characterization technique that was recently described as a valuable tool for the analysis and characterization of technical and biological surfaces. The objective of this work was to ascertain whether RIMAPS may be used to obtain a quantitative description of patterns of development displayed by roots in hydroponics. Visual observations on roots of wildtype barley (
30117485|Plant species with separate genders often exhibit gender differences in traits related to reproductive allocation. In gynodioecious species, females often produce more seeds than do hermaphrodites, leading to a higher reproductive cost. The mechanisms that allow females to meet the high costs of reproduction are currently under debate. In this study, we test the hypothesis that there are genetically based gender differences in physiological traits that enable females to finance these costs through higher photosynthetic carbon gain in the gynodioecious perennial
IJPS40920|Section
4122590|We recognize a new genus of Nyssaceae on the basis of abundant foliage and reproductive remains from the Paleocene of North America.
3080203|New observations on trunks of
10.1086/673242|
               
2475168|Key innovations are thought to be especially important adaptations that confer the ability to utilize resources in a novel manner and may therefore allow taxa to diversify. Here I review the data indicating that the evolution of floral nectar spurs represents a key innovation in Aquilegia and many additional groups. Aquilegia has apparently radiated recently and this radiation is closely associated with the evolution of nectar spurs. Numerous studies support the hypothesis that nectar spur morphology is important in plant reproduction and may provide a prezygotic reproductive isolating mechanism via differential pollinator visitation. The evolution of nectar spurs is highly correlated with increased species diversity across multiple independent lineages and thus provides strong support for the key innovation hypothesis. Previous studies have suggested that the evolution of nectar spurs may have been due to a simple genetic change in Aquilegia. I review these data and point out several cautions to this conclusion. Finally, I suggest that future research to determine the genetic basis for the development of nectar spurs will lead to especially interesting insights to the evolutionary origin of morphological novelties.
10.1086/673245|
               
3874651|Micropropagated grapevine (
3691884|The androecium of Papilionoideae generally consists of 10 stamens in two whorls, with alternating initials, i.e., a monosymmetric androecium. Recent studies show that the concept that regards staminal fusion as a synapomorphy in Papilionoideae has to be abandoned. Thus, reconsidering the importance of these androecial features is necessary, and new morphological characters are needed for a better understanding of legume evolution. In this context, the floral development in 31 species from 15 papilionoid tribes was analyzed by SEM, focusing on androecial symmetry. Together with the analysis of 33 herbarium specimens and the literature, androecial characters of 91 taxa of 27 tribes (of 30 total) are considered. The inner stamen whorl is initiated asymmetrically in 39 species of 11 tribes of Papilionoideae and in some taxa of Caesalpinioideae. The asymmetry is manifested in that the adaxial antepetalous stamen is formed to the left or right of the median plane. In contrast to this, in 52 species of 19 tribes the androecium is initiated symmetrically, with the adaxial stamen lying exactly in the median plane. Asymmetric androecia were found in basal lineages of Papilionoideae as well as in the dalbergioids and parts of genistoids. Bossiaeeae, Genisteae, and Sophoreae show both androecium types, while in taxa of the derived MillettieaePhaseoleae and in Hologalegina only symmetric androecia were found. Both androecium types occur independently of staminal fusion and are therefore seen as an interesting new androecial character in Papilionoideae. The occurrence of asymmetric androecia in basal lineages of Papilionoideae and in some Caesalpinioideae and its independence from staminal fusion is of interest in understanding legume evolution. I suggest the following hypotheses on the evolution of asymmetric androecia, which are not mutually exclusive: (1) symmetric androecia are derived within Papilionoideae, and/or (2) asymmetry arose independently several times.
10.1086/680554|
               
10.1086/647921|Many nonnative plants require pollinators to produce the seed needed to establish beyond their native range. Local variation in pollination can cause variation in mating patterns, reproductive output, genetic diversity, and selection, which can influence invasion dynamics. We quantified pollinator visitation, pollen deposition, and pollen limitation of reproduction in the invasive shrub
3080116|Flower development and anatomy of
10.1086/653144|A marattialean trunk of
3080309|In natural plant populations, pollen grain load sizes may vary greatly and have the potential to affect the intensity of pollen competition for ovules. Pollen competition can in turn, affect seed production, fruit set, and progeny vigor, with important ecological and evolutionary consequences. In this investigation, we determined the potential for pollen competition in four adjacent natural populations of
3691686|Fig pollination is a wellknown example of obligate mutualism involving specialized fig wasps (Hymenoptera, Agaonidae) and
10.1086/673239|
               
2995548|In Banksia spinulosa var. neoanglica (Proteaceae) not all flowers and inflorescences are equally likely to produce fruit. Fruit set is low on the apex of inflorescences, and most inflorescences with small supporting stems do not produce fruit. Resource limitation was examined as a possible determinant of this fruiting pattern. All flowers had two apparently functional ovules, indicating that B. spinulosa is not andromonoecious. Ovules from the apical third of inflorescences were smaller than ovules from the mid and basal thirds of inflorescences. Also, ovule size decreased with decreasing stem diameter of inflorescences. However, small ovules were fertile. Experimental removal of flowers from the basal one-third and two-thirds of inflorescences increased fruit set of apical flowers by 71% and 152%, respectively. Similarly, fruit set of inflorescences with small stems increased twofold when inflorescences with large stems were prevented from producing fruit. These results indicate that resources can be reallocated both within and among inflorescences and that fruiting patterns are primarily a consequence of interovary competition occurring at both these levels. Anatomical constraints may also be important because the increases in fruit set in the experimental treatments did not completely compensate for the flowers and inflorescences that were removed. Low fruit: flower ratios in B. spinulosa may allow plants to increase reproductive output when nutrients are abundant and to compensate for the effects of floral predators.
3080121|Because of the modular structure of pearl millet (an annual grass crop, Poaceae), different tillers of a plant share the same genotype but are subjected to different environmental conditions during their maturation. This allows investigation of the effects of tiller flowering phenology on allocation to resourceproducing photosynthetic biomass, sexual functions, and thus tiller gender. All tillers of plants of two families collected from individual maternal plants (represented by 33 and 31 plants each) were analyzed. In both families, allocation to aboveground vegetative biomass decreased as flowering was delayed. On average, lateflowering tillers were 65% smaller than the first ones to flower. The proportion of biomass allocated to reproduction significantly increased with the flowering rank of the tillers, suggesting that translocations of assimilates occurred between early and lateflowering tillers. In both families, lateflowering tillers produced significantly fewer pollen grains per stamen than earlyflowering ones, and female reproductive allocation (expressed as seed mass per tiller) was also affected by flowering phenology. Tillers became increasingly female as flowering phenology progressed. This gender variation is possibly adaptive because pollination efficiency is maximized by plant height. Natural selection may favor a shift toward femaleness to maximize reproductive fitness in small, latedeveloping tillers.
20533057|We investigated whether dynamic photosynthesis of understory
2475000| Elymus thoroldianus (Oliver) G. Singh, E. melantherus (Keng) A. Lve, and E. kokonoricus (Keng) A. Lve are short-lived perennial grasses of the tribe Triticeae distributed throughout the upper and middle mountain ranges of central Asia. Analyzer species used to produce interspecific hybrids with the three target taxa were Pseudoroegneria spicata (Pursh) A. Lve (SS), E. lanceolatus (Scribn. & Smith) Gould (SSHH), Psathyrostachys juncea (Fisch.) Nevski (NN), E. batalinii (Krasn) A. Lve (SSYYPP), E. alatavicus (Drob.) Tzvelev (SSYYPP), E. grandiglumis (Keng) A. Lve (SSYYPP), and E. kengii (Tzvelev) A. Lve (SSYYPP). Elymus thoroldianus, E. melantherus, and E. kokonoricus are self-fertile allohexaploids (2n = 42). Analysis of metaphase I pairing configurations in the F
2995590|The ontogeny followed in serial transections of spikelet primordia of Phragmites reveals that the three principal procambial traces of the lemma form in isolation in the rachilla node subjacent to the node of the lemma insertion. The median trace is initiated before the main laterals; all three differentiate bidirectionally from their initiation sites. The median trace has an uninterrupted ascent through the internode toward its lemma. Since the ascent of the laterals in the rachilla is variously interrupted by the descending procambial traces, the ascending laterals are redirected toward their original destination by another set of bidirectionally differentiating procambial traces. Such traces are designated "prime" or "capturing" traces. The palea traces also serve as prime traces by displacing the lemma intermediates in the rachilla from the lemma toward the descending stamen traces of the floret. Basipetally differentiating capturing traces like those discovered in Phragmites may occur in panicoid and arundinoid grasses and in several monocotyledonous families outside of the Gramineae without occurring among the festucoid grasses.
40072517|The developmental process of flower and fruit production was studied for the first time in
3691540|The discovery of a partially permineralized strobilus of
40072546|Cadmium is a toxic pollutant, but the relationships between morphological modifications and Cd accumulation in different organs, as well as the physiological impact of accumulated Cd in leaves of different ages, remain an open question. We compared Cd concentration in the primary branches and main stems of the perennial shrub
2995834|Wellpreserved fossil fungal bodies of four different morphologies were discovered on and in a permineralized bisexual cone of a Cretaceous cycadeoid,
20533018|
               
10.1086/662654|Reinvestigation of cycadalean leaf and leaflet remains from the Eocene of Hamilton Bay, Alaska, and La Porte, California, using features of epidermal anatomy as well as macromorphology, indicates that these remains, which were formerly assigned to modern cycad genera, conform to the extinct genus
10.1086/683393|
               
30117482|During cytokinesis in onion (
10.1086/679478|
               
3691882|Floral development and androecium structure were studied in eight genera of the Malvoideae (Malvaceae s.l.). All core Malvoideae (Malvaceae s.s.) share a uniform pattern of floral development and have several characteristic androecium structures in common. A corolla/androecium ring wall is formed and subsequently differentiated into five androecial sectors (=primary androecial primordia) that give rise to the androecium and corolla. Petals are developed at the base of the androecial sectors and are shifted slightly clockwise or counterclockwise relative to the androecial sector. Secondary androecial primordia are initiated centrifugally in two rows on each sector in an alternate pattern. The first secondary androecial primordium is initiated on the opposite side of the androecial sector from the petal. The secondary androecial primordia later subdivide longitudinally and differentiate into functional androecial units, which each have a twolocular theca with a single longitudinal dehiscence zone. In some taxa, sterile tips are formed at the distal end of the androecial tube in an antepetalous position. In Matisieae, sister to core Malvoideae, the early floral development is nearly identical to that in core Malvoideae. In later development and at anthesis, Matisieae and core Malvoideae show more pronounced differences. In Matisieae, a subdivision of secondary androecial primordia occurs generally transversely as compared with longitudinally in core Malvoideae. While the androecium of core Malvoideae consists of a long tube with lateral stalked androecial units, the androecial tube of Matisieae is stouter and bears sessile androecial units mostly on lobes. These lobes, however, do not correspond to the androecial sectors, as do the sterile androecial tips of core Malvoideae. The sterile androecial tips of core Malvoideae have the same position as androecial units at the tip of androecial sectors in other Malvaceae and could be remnants of these structures. The androecial lobes in Matisieae are, however, positioned alternipetalously and might correspond to remnants of a second whorl of androecial structures found in other Malvaceae or Malvales.
2475138|Shoot-apex culture in maize (Zea mays L.), which results in the formation of an entire new shoot by the cultured meristem, was used to examine phase change. In phase change, patterns of differentiation of leaves, axillary buds, and nodes change in a coordinated manner as the plant matures from a juvenile to an adult. The culturing of meristems from adult-phase plants restored the ability of the plant to form leaves with juvenile traits, including having epicuticular wax, a thin cuticle, violet staining with toluidine blue, and round epidermal cells. Although shoots from cultured apices had a few extra nodes compared to seed-derived plants, the upper, adult-like portion of the culture-derived shoots were identical to the adult region of normal maize plants in such traits as position of ear shoot, size and shape of leaves, and the presence of trichomes on leaves. These results support the conclusion that phase-specific patterns of differentiation in the shoot are the result of signaling throughout the plant and not the age of the meristem.
2474907|Environmental and physiological elements influencing pistillate flower production are described for the gynomonoecious annual Silene noctiflora L. (Caryophyllaceae). We tested two environmental (temperature/physical disturbance) and two hormonal (gibberellin/ethylene) factors in greenhouse experiments. The effect of ethylene on rosette-stage seedlings was also tested in the field. A 6
2995523|According to the "cell theory" in its original form, morphogenesis in multicellular organisms results from oriented cell divisions and cell growth. This view is based on the still-valid fact that cells represent the smallest structural and functional units exhibiting all fundamental properties and manifestations of life. Each cell stores, replicates, and partially expresses the genetic information of an organism. Recombination and syngamy take place at the cellular level, and sexual reproduction of multicellular organisms depends on single cells. Nevertheless, morphogenesis in multicellular organisms is governed by supracellular factors. This basic tenet of "organismal theory" is demonstrated best by plasmodial organisms such as siphonal algae that can be structured to a certain, if limited, extent in the absence of individualized cells. It seems improbable, though, that "cell theory" and "organismal theory" represent true alternatives. Multicellular organisms are not merely aggregates but nonlinear systems of cells with emergent characters. Typological and finalistic "explanations" are not, however, intended to clarify causal connections. The formulation of a unifying concept appears to be hindered not only by obsolete historical reasons but also by conceptual differences and also by methodological barriers. Concerning the balance of genetic and epigenetic factors in morphogenesis, it appears unlikely that information stored in one-dimensional nucleic acid molecules could suffice to direct ordered three-dimensional development.
10.1086/668868|A new structurally preserved fern rhizome species,
40344047|A new species of extinct conifer plants,
3080292|We investigated the monophyly and phylogenetic relationships of the genera
4122593|The perianth of
3691815|The effect of soil salinity on the growth and competition among
3691805|Improved knowledge of Dipsacales phylogeny provides a solid framework for studies of character evolution. Although the polarity of many characters can now be confidently established, for others it remains unclear. This results largely from uncertainty about the broader relationships of Dipsacales and is especially problematic for characters that differentiate the two basal lineages, Adoxaceae and Caprifoliaceae. Within Caprifoliaceae, changes in stamen number became decoupled from corolla evolution, a reduction from five to four stamens, coinciding with the origin of the Linnina clade. Subsequently, there was a reduction to two stamens within Morinaceae and to three, two, and one within Valerianaceae. In contrast, within Adoxaceae, stamen number covaries with the number of corolla lobes, although the number of stamens was effectively doubled within Adoxina by the division of each stamen. Fleshy fruits may have evolved separately in Adoxaceae and in Caprifolieae. These vary in the number of seeds and in the presence or absence of an endocarp and show repeated patterns in the evolution of color, perhaps underlain by shifts in the timing of developmental events. In Caprifoliaceae, dry fruits include bicarpellate septicidal capsules in Diervilleae and initially tricarpellate, singleseeded achenes in Linnina. Achene fruits exhibit a variety of independently evolved dispersal mechanisms, especially involving modifications of the calyx lobes or bracts subtending the ovary. Within Linnina, a distinctive epicalyx surrounding the ovary appears to have originated through the fusion of supernumerary bracts. It is possible that the epicalyx evolved twice, once in the ancestor of the Morinaceae and again in the
3079959|DNA sequences of five mitochondrial, plastid, and nuclear genes from 105 species (103 genera and 63 families) representing all major lineages of gymnosperms and basal angiosperms were analyzed using parsimony methods to reconstruct the phylogeny of basal angiosperms. The standard most parsimonious trees search, taxon deletion analyses, and constraint analyses in combination with KishinoHasegawa tests provided a rigorous analytical perspective for identifying
2474900| Foliar compression plant fossils of highly variable pinnule shape and bipinnate organization, previously assigned to Triphyllopteris and reassigned to Genselia Knaus, are here assigned to four species, including Genselia lanceolata n.sp., based on a morphometric system of character delimitation. Triphyllopteris biloba Read is placed in synonymy with Genselia lescuriana, and Genselia latilobata (Read) Knaus is placed in synonymy with Genselia rarinervis Specimens were collected from the Lower Carboniferous Pocono and Price Formations of the Appalachian Basin of North America. Whole-frond reconstructions and emended species diagnoses are presented based on visual diagnostic characters and quantitatively determined ranges and patterns of variation. Specimens that are intermediate in appearance, and thereby unassignable to species by visual examination, were preliminarily grouped into subsets based on patterns of pinnule shape variation. These patterns were determined by measuring the length/width ratios of the basalmost and apicalmost pinnules for each pinna and then graphing their difference (within-pinna heteromorphy) against linear frond distance (pinna number). Final species assignments were determined by testing the conformity of these specimens to quantitatively defined ranges and patterns of variation. I expect that these delimitations based on morphological discontinuities will result in a more natural taxonomy than previously possible for this vaguely diagnosed form genus. Because specimens of Genselia exhibit highly intergradational character states, I considered it appropriate to test the null hypothesis that quantitative delimitations may be arbitrary partitions of a single highly variable taxon. This was tested by a one-way ANOVA and a Newman-Keuls Multiple Comparison Summary. This comparison tests whether partitioning into subsets having different means significantly reduces within-group variance. Subsets were identified in 12 out of 15 characters at a significance level of  = .05. 
2475027|The interface between generative and vegetative cells in Amaryllis pollen consisted of the two parallel plasma membranes of these cells. The paired plasma membranes were highly convoluted with broad lobes bulging into the vegetative cells and narrow indentations projecting into the generative cells. In thin sections, rows of knobbed projections were aligned on the inner surface of the vegetative cell plasma membrane. When these membranes were freeze-fractured, the fracture faces of the vegetative cell plasma membrane showed two distinct domains: a particulate fracture face in the lobes and oblique parallel ridges on the indentations. These two domains may correlate with separate functions. The lobes with projections appeared to be attached to the vegetative cell cytoskeleton and may be involved in movement of the generative cell through the pollen tube. The indentations may function to hold the generative cell in place within its cavity in the vegetative cell. These membrane specializations have been observed separately at the generative cell-vegetative cell interface in other species, but not in other cell types. No unusual arrangements of intramembrane particles in the generative cell membrane were observed.
3874613|A new species of the arborescent lycopsid disseminule
3691552|The distribution of vestured pits in angiosperms is briefly reviewed. In some major clades, the character is of constant occurrence and thus very conservative; in others, it is more variable and apparently subject to both parallel origins and reversible losses. There is a striking correlation between the type of vessel perforation plate and vestured pits. Virtually all taxa with vestured pits have simple perforation plates. This correlation, together with contrasting ecological trends for scalariform perforation plates and vestured pits, has inspired functional hypotheses that vestured pits contribute to hydraulic safety. Whereas scalariform perforations may be instrumental in reducing the effects of freezinginduced embolisms in temperate to boreal and alpine regions, vestured pits seem to be a good candidate to facilitate embolism reversal in xeric and warmer regions with high transpiration rates. The presence of highly lignified structures within the pit chamber may influence hydraulic resistance, decrease vulnerability to cavitation, or help to repair embolism by compartmentalizing or affecting the contact angle of the convex airwater interface within intervessel pits.
10.1086/668786|
               
2475159|Seventeen genotypes of lemon were characterized using genome size and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. Genome size was measured by flow cytometry (FC). Eight genotypes displayed a characteristic DNA content. The remaining nine genotypes required the combined use of FC and RAPD for identification The DNA content of the genotypes varied between 0.770 (Cristiania) and 1.146 (Cerza) pg/nucleus, accounting for a difference of ca. 33%
2474878|The compound leaf of the wildtype pea exhibits basal stipules, proximal leaflets, and distal tendrils, which are profoundly modified by several recessive genes thought to act as homeotic mutations. The acacia (tl) gene appears to replace simple tendrils with leaflets in the distal region, while the afila (af) gene appears to replace the leaflets with branched tendrils in the proximal region. Morphological analyses of all homozygous and heterozygous combinations of this genetic system indicate that these genes affect many other features of leaf morphology, including leaf length, petiole length, pinna number, and branching order. Moreover, these genes are apparently expressed within the context of preexisting proximal and distal regions in the developing leaf. Pinna identity on the leaves from different genotypes is therefore regulated by the interaction among relative pinna position, morphological region, and genetic background. Current models of pea leaf development fail to account for several characteristics of pea leaves, such as (1) the leaf phenotype of the double recessive mutant called pleiofila, which consists of novel compound pinnae with very small terminal leaflets, (2) mixed pairs of proximal and distal pinnae, and (3) intermediate narrow leaflets/broad tendrils in certain heterozygotes. Starting with the assumption that the pleiofila leaf represents the ground state of the pea leaf, the available evidence indicates that the dominant Af and Tl genes are acting as heterochronic mutations that determine the timing of lamina formation and axis termination, with the result that these genes cause the observed morphological changes in pinna identity.
40344013|DRGs are highly conserved GTP binding proteins. All eukaryotes examined contain DRG1 and DRG2 orthologs. The first experimental evidence for GTP binding by a plant DRG1 protein and by DRG2 from any organism is presented. DRG1 antibodies recognized a single 43kDa band in plant tissues, whereas DRG2 antibodies recognized 45, 43, and 30kDa bands. An in vitro transcription and translation assay suggested that the 45kDa band represents fulllength DRG2 and that the smaller bands are specific proteolytic products. Homogenates from pea roots and root apices were used to produce fractions enriched in cytosolic and microsomal monosomes and polysomes. DRG1 and the 45 and 43kDa DRG2 bands occurred in the cytosol and associated with cytosolic monosomes. In contrast, the 30kDa form of DRG2 was strongly enriched in polysome fractions. Thus, DRG1 and the larger forms of DRG2 may be involved in translational initiation, and the 30kDa form of DRG2 may be involved in translational elongation. DRG1 and the 45 and 43kDa forms of DRG2 can reassociate with ribosomes in vitro, a process that is partially inhibited by GTPS. Cells expressing FLAGtagged ribosomal proteins from transgenic lines of
10.1086/650202|Fluctuating asymmetry (FA) represents small, random variation from symmetry, and it has been used as an indicator of plant stress at relatively local scales. In this study, variation in FA was examined at the landscape scale across the whole distributional range of the two oak species
2475252|Adaptive plasticity in plants is commonly interpreted for fitness estimates like size and fecundity. The specialization hypothesis, however, predicts that plasticity in such characters is not a product of selection but, rather, a product of specialized (i.e., ecotypic) adaptation to particular environmental conditions. In response to a recent test of this hypothesis (Emery et al. 1994), we refine its predictions to recognize that the evolution of specialized ecotypes may be accompanied by an increase, decrease, or no change in the plasticity of size or fecundity. These predictions depend on whether specialization is associated with the less favorable or more favorable end of an environmental gradient and on whether specialization to one end of the gradient comes at a cost of reduced performance at the other end. We argue that, for size or fecundity characters, a plastic response to environmental deterioration is adaptive only if the alternative is dormancy or death and is generally less adaptive than phenotypic stability. Based on analysis of reaction norms for reciprocal transplants, we illustrate how it is possible to reject the specialization hypothesis and how to recognize results that are consistent with this hypothesis.
2475335|Pollen production per anther was investigated in relation to the gender and biomass of the flowers, their positions in the umbel, the number of flowers, the proportion of male flowers, and the sequence of flower development (order of umbel) in the common European andromonoecious species Anthriscus sylvestris. Male flowers have significantly less pollen per flower than perfect flowers. Both in male and in perfect flowers, pollen amount per flower does not change much with the sequence of flower development while, at the same time, the proportion of male flowers significantly increases, to almost 100% in quaternary umbels. Pollen production per flower does not depend on the position of the flower in the inflorescence and is weakly correlated with the investigated variables, except for the rudimentary quaternary umbels. The pollen production per flower in quaternary umbels is significantly lower, and flower mass explains up to 80% of the variation. The data support the hypothesis that in andromonoecious species pollen output is regulated at the level of flower production rather than pollen per flower.
4619799|Molecular phylogeny shows that the temperate legume tribe Loteae is close to the mostly tropical Robinieae and monogeneric Sesbanieae, but comparative morphological studies of these groups are limited. Unusualpatterns of inflorescence symmetry and calyx development have been described in some Loteae, but taxon sampling was low. We studied these features with scanning electron microscopy in 25 species of Loteae plus in three
3691786|Fifteen new legume taxa based on fruits and foliage, including 10 Mimosoideae (three
3691870|The ability of root systems to absorb water was determined as the root hydraulic conductance for five exotic genotypes (PI 416937, H2L16, N95SH259, PI 4078592, and PI 471938) and the commercial cultivar Young of soybean (
3080108|Numerous anatomically preserved fragments of the Middle Pennsylvanian age filicalean fern,
10.1086/651944|Maternal effects of herbivory for fitnessrelated traits of offspring, especially those traits that are expressed later in a plant's life, have rarely been studied. To better understand how herbivory to the maternal plant influences traits of its progeny and whether this depends on the mating system that produced the seed or the growth environment of the seedling, we examined maternal effects of herbivory in
2475174|In 1984, I proposed a hypothesis that, in flowers, generalized character states are expressed in early stages of ontogeny and that specialized character states are expressed late in ontogeny. The early expressed states (e.g., floral symmetry and number and position of organs) are usually stable and characterize suprageneric levels of hierarchy (subfamilies, tribes), while specialized states (e.g., fusions among organs, heterogeneity within an organ whorl) usually characterize genera or species. This hypothesis is currently being tested in various ways and for various plant groups. The distribution of character states for a character can be seen among a set of related taxa, for such characters as order of organ initiation, floral symmetry, position of the median sepal, and loss of floral organs. Character states for unisexuality can be expressed by differing mechanisms at any of several stages of development, from early stage (organogeny) through midstage (organ suppression or transference of function) to late stage (organ differentiation). Pollination mechanisms generally are expressed late in floral development. Characters that are difficult to interpret in light of the earlier hypothesis include those concerning inflorescence, bracteoles, and petal aestivation. The hypothesis is used to test for convergence in three segregate genera of Cassiinae and supports that convergence has occurred. Floral organogeny differs markedly among the three genera, but the resultant flowers are similar at anthesis.
40344032|Evolutionary relationships in
2475316| In this study, we examined genetic variation and levels of differentiation between five Costa Rican populations of the Guanacaste tree (Enterolobium cyclocarpum Jacq.), using electrophoretic allozyme methods. Eleven out of 17 loci were polymorphic (P = 64.7) and five were studied in detail. For these five polymorphic loci, the observed heterozygosity ranged from 0.355 to 0.381, while the expected heterozygosity ranged from 0.340 to 0.379. Mean expected heterozygosity using these five polymorphic loci and six monomorphic loci was 0.167. All populations are near Hardy-Weinberg proportions. Only the isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) locus failed to conform with the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium at one location, namely, Ciudad Coln (P-value 0.006). Genetic differentiation between populations is low, as shown by the heterogeneity of gene frequencies and the mean
2995860|Anisophylly is a special case of shoot dorsiventral symmetry in which leaf size and form differ between dorsal and ventral sides of the shoot. Anisophylly is normally coupled with leaf and stem asymmetry, modified phyllotaxis, and anisoclady. Anisophylly may be expressed throughout the shoot system (habitual anisophylly) or restricted to lateral shoots (lateral anisophylly). The combination of anisophylly, shoot dorsiventrality, and plagiotropy has arisen numerous times during evolution of the land plants, most notably in the primarily tropical families of Acanthaceae, Gesneriaceae, Melastomataceae, and Urticaceae. It is thought to represent an adaptation that maximizes light capture in dimly lit understories. In species for which anisophylly is an intrinsic expression of overall shoot symmetry, anisophylly and associated features of shoot dorsiventrality are expressed early in development. In contrast, when expression of anisophylly depends on growth conditions, anisophylly is secondarily imposed on early isophyllous leaf development. Despite more than a century of experimentation, very little is understood about the physiological control of anisophylly and dorsiventrality. Development of these features requires regulated suppression of some parts of the shoot and stimulation of others. Shifts in the temporal and spatial patterns of growth suppression and enhancement occur during both the ontogeny of an individual and during evolutionary change. Elucidating these processes for anisophyllous shoot development also should have broader significance for understanding the evolution of other morphological innovations.
20533021|Phylogenetic relationships within the tribe Gaultherieae (
40072538|The influence of biotic interactions on the expression of inbreeding depression has received only modest investigation; however, these interactions may be important in determining the magnitude and/or variation of inbreeding depression seen in the wild and invoked in models of mating and sexual system evolution. We present the first experimental test of the effects of plantmycorrhizal fungus interactions on the expression of inbreeding depression. We inoculated selfed and outcrossed seedlings from eight hermaphrodite genotypes of wild strawberry (
2995784|Isozyme tests were used to examine the genetic structure of six populations (
2995542|The complexity of developmental processes constrains evolutionary changes. A rare change, an evolutionary innovation, may be inferred from the combined information of fossil steles and of the controls of vascular differentiation. This change was the gradual appearance of a new shoot apex, with determinate but dominant appendages and a weak, yet persistent, promeristem. The controls of vascular differentiation could be used to indicate additional evolutionary events. These could include the responses of the differentiating vascular tissues themselves and not only the formation of inductive signals by the meristematic centers. They could also involve the interactions between the phloem and the xylem, expressed by the development of vascular rays and perhaps by the ribbing of steles. Since the specification of orientation is an essential aspect of vascular differentiation, continued work requires information on the three-dimensional cellular structure of fossil tissues. Complementary studies would be experimental comparisons of the morphogenetic responses of the various groups of extant plants.
10.1086/662129|The climbing Boston ivy (
3080192|Emergence is examined in populations of
IJPS41377|Water lilies, such as the blue Egyptian water lily (
3691752|In obligate pollination mutualism, selection should favor increased exploitation by either party at the expense of the other. One potential pathway to increase such exploitation at the expense of the mutualist partner is through indirect mutualism across trophic levels, where the natural enemy of a pollinator could reduce pollination costs to the plant. We tested this hypothesis, asking whether a specialized parasitoid wasp that kills yucca moth larvae before they have completed seed feeding will increase the production of intact yucca seeds. In the two years of study in a population of
2995642|Vascular tissues in root and shoot apices, lateral buds, leaves, and petioles of florists' chrysanthemum Dendranthema grandiflora cv Pink Marble affected by chrysanthemum phloem necrosis were studied by light and electron microscopy for early evidence of disease. Specimens were taken from field-, glasshouse-, and growth-chamber-grown plants. Additionally, vascular tissues of initially uninfected cv Fanfare scions were examined after they were inoculated by grafting to infected Pink Marble stocks. Ubiquitous cytopathological features of affected tissues included (i) strongly autofluorescent clusters of obliterated young phloem; (ii) severely hypertrophied, resembling nacre, and/or collapsed mature sieve-tube elements and protophloem cells; (iii) prominent cell-wall ingrowths, similar to those of transfer cells, in phloem parenchyma and companion cells; (iv) distinct apposition formation along phloem parenchyma walls; (v) end-wall disruption of immature sieve-tube elements; and (vi) abnormally dense and darkly stained cell protoplasts. Intracellular bodies, some of which resembled mycoplasma-like organisms, were seen consistently in infected plants but infrequently in anatomically affected cells.
2475115|Life history strategies of the Leucus urticifolia populations growing in disturbed and undisturbed habitats were studied. Seed banks of both populations were persistent, with greater numbers and more species diversity in undisturbed populations. The undisturbed population showed a 65% allocation to reproduction at maturity as compared with 4% biomass allocation to reproduction in disturbed population. Populations of L. urticifolia in an undisturbed subtropical desert community of Karachi, Pakistan, have larger and more persistent seed banks, larger plant size, and higher reproductive allocations as compared with a disturbed community.
3080316|
               
3080317|Development of the gynoecium of
2995669|Procedures for the isolation of highly enriched preparations of specialized oil cells of avocado (Persea americana Mill.) fruit and cleating of plant tissues were applied to an examination of the idioblast oil cells of avocado. These cells are present in all organs examined (leaf, fruit, root, and seed cotyledon) and are dispersed throughout the tissues. Histochemical tests indicate the presence in the oil cells of alkaloids and sesquiterpene hydroperoxides and, possibly, other terpenes. Freeze-fracture electron microscopy of oil cells of the fruit (both in situ and in vitro) indicates that some of the components of the oil contained in these cells undergo a phase transition to a crystalline state at 4 C, while the storage lipid in the mesophyll cells, primarily triacylglycerols, does not. Thin-layer chromatography (TLC) of a lipid extract of the isolated oil cell preparation shows at least six different components with a polarity less than phospholipids but greater than tri- or diacylglycerols. The TLC-detectable composition of the lipid in oil cells remained unchanged during fruit maturation and ripening.
40072502|Decorticated woody stems from the Tournaisian (early Mississippian) of Montagne Noire, Southern France, are characterized by a wide eustele with a parenchymatous pith and numerous primary xylem strands in contact with the secondary xylem. Primary xylem maturation is endarch to mesarch. Small leaf traces are emitted according to a spiral phyllotaxis. Secondary xylem is dense, composed of tracheids with araucarian pitting, and uni to triseriate rays that do not exceed 40 cells in height. Anatomy of the primary and secondary vascular system of the Montagne Noire specimens allows their assignment to
2995772|Zygotic embryo development in the
10.1086/669914|
               
4619779|In many plant species, ontogeny is characterized by the production of different leaf forms, but the functional significance of this phenomenon is unclear. In
10.1086/663973|A new genus and species of fossil flowers,
2995797|Leaf yellowing was studied in 1018dold barley seedlings (
3080039|Elevated exposure to ultravioletB (UVB) radiation influences the growth and development of higher plants in a variety of ways, with different species exhibiting varying degrees of resistance and susceptibility. The effects of relatively shortterm highintensity exposure to UVB upon photosynthetic CO
2475303|A new species of Palaeocarpinus Crane (Betulaceae) is recognized from the Paleocene of southwestern Wyoming that extends the concept of the genus to include fruits with nonspiny bracts. Fruits of P. aspinosa sp. nov. are borne in pairs on an elongate infructescence, each fruit enclosed by two equal bracts that are entire-margined to serrate but not dissected or spiny. Associated staminate catkins contain well-preserved pollen that is not only triporate, but commonly tetra- to pentaporate. The pollen exine is tectate-granular, with spinulate ornamentation. Co-occurring betulaceous leaves are similar to those of P. joffrensis Sun et Stockey from Canada and P. orientalis from China and to leaves of extant Corylus. The associated infructescences, leaves, and staminate inflorescences with in situ pollen facilitate detailed reconstruction of this extinct species and provide a clearer understanding of the genus and its relation to extant genera. Palaeocarpinus aspinosa, with its nonspiny fruit bracts and multiporate pollen, adds to our understanding of the morphological diversity present in this widespread early Tertiary genus. The nondissected bracts may have been effective for wind and water dispersal whereas other species with spiny burrlike bracts may have been dispersed by furry animals.
2474959|We studied seed germination responses of 41 collections of Leymus cinereus (basin wildrye), a native perennial bunchgrass widely distributed in western North America. Collections made in 1987 and 1988 were largely nondormant in midautumn but relatively slow to germinate at optimal temperatures (mean germination time 6-16 d). Seeds germinated more quickly after a 2-wk chilling pretreatment (mean germination time 2-11 d). Mean germination time under conditions simulating prolonged snowpack (1
2475127|A study was undertaken to examine how the daily photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD), during prolonged inorganic nitrogen (N) limitation of vegetative soybean plants, influenced the magnitude of leaf photosynthate partitioning into starch and sucrose as well as into anaplerotic products, e.g., phosphoenolpyruvate and malate. Glycine max cv. Williams plants were grown from emergence to preflowering (27-32 d) under either N-Sufficient (N-Suff) conditions (14.5 mM NO
2474989|The possible causes of low seed set in Syzygium cuminii, a woody tree bearing flowers with many ovules but fruits with single seeds, have been investigated. Pollen grain limitation and lack of fertilization do not completely explain the single seededness of fruits indicating the involvement of postfertilization factors. Developing ovules exhibited a clear pattern during the early fruit growth, and only one of the ovules eventually matured into a seed. Aqueous extracts of developing ovules significantly increased the rate of abortion of the other ovules in vitro, but the extent of abortion caused by aqueous extracts of maternal tissues from fertilized flowers did not differ from the control, implying that the developing ovules may produce a factor that causes the abortion of other ovules. Silver thiosulfate, an ethyleneaction inhibitor, significantly reduces the rate of such developing-ovule-mediated abortion in vitro as well as in vivo This study indicates that abortion in S. cuminii is mediated by chemical(s) produced by the developing embryo, a possible reflection of "sibling rivalry" among developing seeds.
2475352|The leaves initiated at successive nodes in the heteroblastic series in Leea guineensis seedlings become progressively more complex in construction. Leaves at the first four nodes are simple and are followed by transitional forms between nodes 5 and 7. These transitional leaf forms are compound in nature, and intermediates such as deeply lobed leaves are not observed. At successively higher nodes, the compound nature of the leaves becomes progressively more complex. The most common sequence of leaf morphologies is simple (nodes 1-4), trifoliate to pinnate (nodes 5-7), bipinnate (by node 8), and tripinnate (by node 11). The developmental morphology of the simple leaves in the sequence was markedly different from the compound leaves that followed. However, the early stages of development of the compound leaves, regardless of their degree of complexity, were very similar. Therefore, there appears to be a striking developmental distinction between the simple leaves and the compound leaves in the sequence. Simple leaf primordia become centrally concave and assume a characteristic folded appearance, whereas compound leaves have up to three orders of branching and are structurally more complex. However, compound leaves of different levels of complexity seem to share certain developmental features. At its maximum, the compound nature of the leaf can best be described in terms of subunits of seven leaflets. Thus, the complexity of the leaf can be viewed as a reiteration of the basic unit. The increase in compound leaf complexity does not alter the rate of leaf production.
2995818|The developmental morphology and anatomy of the highly specialized vegetative organs of
IJPS41028|
               
10.1086/668229|
               
2474972|The ultrastructure of spores and hyphae of a Glomus isolate (INVAM-906/312); structure and development are described with both light and transmission electron microscopy. The spore wall is formed by two layers in one group; the outer is evanescent and formed by an amorphous matrix, whereas the inner wall layer is laminated and has fibrils that seem to be arranged in an arcuate pattern as observed in other glomalean spores. The spore has a more complex wall structure than hyphae. The content of both spore and hyphae also differs regarding the presence and distribution of lipid globules, vesicles, and other structures. Intracytoplasmic bacterium-like organisms (BLOs) were observed in spores and germ tubes; some of these BLOs were apparently undergoing binary fission.
3691654|Allozyme variation (17 loci coding 11 enzymes) was investigated in 14 populations of the fern
3691565|Aspects of the reproductive biology of the waratah
3691633|
               
3691682|We estimated levels of developmental instability in leaves, as indicated by fluctuating asymmetry (i.e., random deviations from perfect bilateral symmetry), across a broad hybrid zone between two taxa in the
3080001|I examined the costs of producing and maintaining floral structures in
40344012|
               
2995630|Rosa setigera is unique within the genus because the plant is cryptically dioecious, the flowers of male and female plants appearing identical. Flowers produce no nectar, and the plants rely upon insects, which feed on or collect pollen, for pollination. The plants' gynoecia in both sexes are extremely similar; however, overall the synstigmatic length, synstylar length, ovary length, ovule length, and ovule width are greater in flowers of female plants than in flowers of male plants. Only the single stigma width of male plants was found to be greater than that of female plants. Furthermore, ovary volume, ovary width, ovule length, ovule width, and ovule volume in flowers of female plants increase over the period of 4 d of a flower's life (i.e., with petals), whereas in flowers of male plants those characters either decrease or remain relatively constant over the 4-d time period. No overall differences in synstigmatic width, synstylar width, single stigma length, synstigmatic area, and ovary width were found. The results indicate that dioecy may be a relatively recent occurrence in this species.
10.1086/668789|
               
3691822|Elaters of most liverworts and some hornworts are characterized by prominent spiral secondary walls. Investigation of elater development in two liverworts,
2995707|The genetic basis responsible for deviations from a basic number of five pappus parts was analyzed in a cross between M. douglasii inbred strain B14 (0-5 pappus parts, modal number 3) and M. bigelovii strain C94 (4-7 pappus parts, modal number 5). The F1 pappus part number is near 5, and most F2 plants have averages near 5. Offspring of F2 plants with relatively low pappus part numbers also had low pappus part numbers. The strong correlation between the segregation of average pappus part numbers in the F2 and the genotypes of a restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) in the nuclear DNA suggests that most of the F2 segregation can be explained by the segregation of a single major gene, linked to the RFLP, with dominance for the higher number of pappus parts and minor modifiers that keep the F2 phenotypes from reaching the parental high and low values. Various components of the variation in pappus part numbers within one plant are illustrated. Independent genetic effects determining changes in average pappus part number with plant age and with the position of the achene on the capitulum seem to segregate in the F2.
30130564|Recent phylogenetic analyses based on molecular markers have resulted in a solid phylogeny of
10.1086/662135|
               
3080197|Genetic diversity within Canadiangrown North American ginseng (
2995861|In vascular plants there are at least eight ways to develop polymerous whorls, i.e., whorls with four or more leaves. Six ways are presented and compared with literature to estimate organ identity (morphological significance) of the leaflike whorl members. New shoots (also seedlings) may start with dimerous or trimerous whorls. Then leaf number per whorl rises as follows: (1) Many taxa add more leaves per whorl continuously with increasing size of the apical meristem (e.g.,
2474944|Nineteen clones of Panicum hemitomon, a fresh marsh dominant, and 25 clones of Spartina alterniflora, a salt marsh dominant, were collected from the coastal marshes of Louisiana and Texas. Plants were deacclimated from field conditions under uniform, nonsaline conditions in the greenhouse for four to six vegetative generations and morphological variables were then measured. Genotypes of each species were subjected to a salinity screening protocol where salinity was increased in weekly increments of 2 per mil (g salt/L solution) for P hemitomon and 10 per mil for S. alterniflora using a commercial sea salts mix. Plants were harvested when there was 50% death of aboveground tissue, defined as the lethal salinity level. Both species displayed highly significant intraspecific variation in lethal salinity level, ranging from 7.6 per mil to 12.0 per mil for P. hemitomon and from 83 per mil to 115 per mil for S. alterniflora. Both species also displayed significant intraspecific variation in many morphological variables, as well as in leaf-rolling index, leaf expansion rates, aboveground, belowground, and total plant dry weight, and belowground-to-aboveground biomass ratio. An ANOVA of principal component scores further illustrated intraspecific variation in both species expressed as a single principal component made up of lethal salinity level and covariable-adjusted total plant dry weight. In S. alterniflora none of the plant morphological variables was significantly correlated with salt tolerance, whereas leaf rolling at 35 per mil accounted for 38% of the variation in lethal salinity level among genotypes. Conversely, in P. hemitomon leaf rolling was not significantly correlated with salt tolerance, but two morphological variables, leaf length and leaf length x width, accounted for 44% and 46%, respectively, of the variation in lethal salinity level among genotypes. Therefore, morphological traits related to plant size appear more important in explaining genotypic variation in salt tolerance in the glycophyte P. hemitomon than in the facultative halophyte S. alterniflora. The ability to identify superior salt-tolerant genotypes within both species has significant implications for marsh restoration and creation projects throughout their ranges.
10.1086/671803|
               
3080051|Axial hydraulic conductivity (
40072512|Many species, particularly those that flower in spring, are flowering 35 d earlier than they did in the first half of the twentieth century. This has been interpreted as a consequence of rising temperatures. However, correlated with this rise in temperature is an increase in atmospheric CO
10.1086/654901|This study focuses on the floral development of
2475366|Fire and mammalian herbivory have been suggested as natural control agents of mistletoes that parasitize and kill eucalypts in the agricultural districts of southern and eastern Australia. In the absence of experimental information about the effects of fire and browsing on problem mistletoe species, the response of Amyema miquelii and Amyema pendula to burning and pruning was investigated near Armidale, northern New South Wales. Treatments consisted of burning mistletoes with a kerosene flamethrower (two treatments), defoliation, and branch removal (two treatments). Plants were treated in September 1991, and final measurements were made in October 1993. Treated A. pendula suffered 29% mortality and A. miquelii, 16% mortality. All leaf-pruned and control plants survived the entire period. Burning killed more plants than pruning (38% vs. 11% mortality, respectively), and smaller mistletoes suffered greater mortality than larger plants. Leaf-pruned plants resprouted within 4.5 mo of defoliation, while burned survivors recovered most slowly, with the last A. pendula survivors resprouting beyond 7 mo. After 2 yr, leaf-pruned A. miquelii had barely managed to recover pretreatment canopy dimensions and foliage density; the foliage of leaf-pruned A. pendula was still significantly less than that of controls; and the canopies of burned and more severely pruned survivors were still markedly smaller than their pretreatment dimensions. Both mistletoe species were sensitive to burning and slow to recover from severe defoliation and stem removal. Periodic crown fires and heavy browsing are likely to affect the population densities of both species.
3080243|We discuss the structural homology of the gynoecium and the developmental variations associated with ovary diversity in Saxifragaceae. Diverse ovary positions are present within most of the major clades in the family. We demonstrate that superior ovaries, although widely reported for various members of the family, are unusual and limited to a few species of
10.1086/679904|
               
40072514|Previously we showed in a limited set of populations that polymorphism at a biallelic indel,
2995863|Asymmetry along the longitudinal axis of a plant can be created by heterophylly, the production of leaves of different size or shape by an individual. Heterophylly is a widespread phenomenon ranging in degree from subtle variation in leaf size to striking differences in the size and shape of leaves produced by a single plant. Because leaf size and shape influence critical leaf functions, heterophylly may have significant consequences for plant fitness. To date, very few studies have directly addressed whether differences in leaf phenotypes produced by a single plant do result in differences in their functional properties or how any such differences affect individual survival and reproduction. I suggest some general approaches to determining the ecological and evolutionary significance of heterophylly and illustrate these approaches with two case studies from my work. One study demonstrates a functional difference between alternate leaf shapes in a heterophyllic violet. The other illustrates the use of phenotypic selection analysis to determine whether the optimum leaf phenotype differs among environments encountered by individual plants. Following the case studies, I review other published work relevant to the ecological and evolutionary significance of heterophylly, much of which has not been conducted explicitly in that context. In sum, this work suggests that the significance of longitudinal asymmetry created by heterophylly is case specific. Some instances of heterophylly may constitute adaptation to finegrained environmental variation, and others may simply reflect inevitable effects of environmental factors on leaf development that have ultimately neutral or negative effects on individual fitness. The study of heterophylly provides common ground for physiologists, developmental biologists, ecologists, and evolutionary biologists. Recognition of this common interest and increased interaction among groups studying heterophylly would promote a more systematic and synthetic picture of the biological bases and significance of this widespread phenomenon.
10.1086/673370|
               
10.1086/668230|
               
4619826|We tested two hypotheses for how vessel evolution in angiosperms influenced xylem function. First, the transition to vessels decreased resistance to flowoften considered the driving force for their evolution. Second, the transition to vessels compromised safety from cavitationa constraint emerging from the pit area hypothesis for vulnerability to cavitation. Data were obtained from branch wood of 17 basal taxa with vessels and two eudicots possessing primitive perforation plates. Results were compared with previous data from vesselless angiosperms and eudicots with simple perforation plates. Contrary to the first hypothesis, basal taxa did not have significantly lower sapwoodspecific resistivity than vesselless angiosperms, despite vessels being wider than tracheids. Eudicot resistivity was ca. 4.5 times lower. On a vesselarea basis, resistivity of primitive vessels (
10.1086/679352|
               
30117488|Twentysix permineralized icacinaceous fruits have been identified in the calcareous nodules from the Eocene Appian Way locality on Vancouver Island. Specimens of three fruit types were studied using the cellulose acetate peel technique and threedimensional computeranimated reconstructions. Fruits are drupes with thin exocarp and mesocarp and a distinctly pitted endocarp with tubercles. Endocarps are unilocular and bilaterally symmetrical, with straightwalled (cylindrical) to conical protrusions into the locule cavity. The outer layer of the endocarp in all fruits is composed of thickwalled interlocking digitate sclereids. The largest fruits are at least
2995662| The indirect effects of selective grass herbivory by bison (Bison bison) on the xylem pressure potentials () and primary production of ungrazed tallgrass prairie forbs were assessed during the 1990 growing season on the Konza Prairie Research Natural Area (KPRNA) in northeast Kansas. Responses in three forb species, Vernonia baldwinii, Ambrosia psilostachya, and Aster ericoides, were measured in grazed and adjacent ungrazed patches. Seasonal predawn and midday  responses in these forbs were also compared with responses in Andropogon gerardii, the dominant grass in tallgrass prairie. Reductions in grass leaf area by herbivory may result in greater availability of soil water to the remaining forbs, if the forbs and grasses utilize similar soil water resources. Overall, selective herbivory of the grasses had an inconsistent effect on leaf  in the remaining forbs. When  were relatively high during the growing season, no significant differences in water status were detected between A. gerardii and the forbs. However, when  were low, predawn and midday  were higher in V. baldwinii (as much as 1.0 MPa), and midday  were higher in A. psilostachya (0.5 MPa) compared with A. gerardii. In contrast,  were not significantly different between A. ericoides and A. gerardii. Grazing by bison substantially increased light availability to ungrazed forbs (> 40%) in grazed relative to ungrazed areas. Compared with ungrazed areas, end-of-season aboveground biomass in grazed patches was 40% greater for individuals of A. psilostachya and 33% and 26% greater for reproductive biomass and floret numbers, respectively, in V. baldwinii. We conclude that the potential benefits of selective grass herbivory on forb water relations may be reduced or offset by other factors such as significant alterations in the microclimate of grazed patches. Nonetheless, increased productivity in grazed patches in two of the three forbs studied indicates that selective consumption of grasses by bison may benefit some forb species. 
3691701|Wood of 12 species of
40072511|Effects of global climate change on invasive alien species of plants and on the resulting progeny have received little attention. We examined the combined effects of temperature and carbon dioxide (CO
3079970|Pollen morphology is summarized for most families of magnoliids, including unpublished observations. This survey explores the extent to which pollen types and possible evolutionary trends in these basal angiosperms can be linked to the results of recent molecular and nonmolecular cladistic analyses. Particular consideration is given to comparing pollen of the ANITA cladessimilar to the magnoliid I groupwith the eumagnoliid clade (magnoliid II group) within which the monocots are grouped and which is more closely related to higher dicots (eudicots). I conclude that there are no fundamental differences between pollen of the ANITA and eumagnoliid groups. The ancestral angiosperm pollen grain was probably monosulcate with a distal aperture and a homogeneous or partly granular ectexine and possessed an endexine and a twolayered intine with a channeled outer layer, with the latter probably initially restricted to apertural regions.
3691761|Anatomically preserved land plant fossils from the Lower Devonian Rhynie Chert contain conducting tissues with cells that range from darkcolored, elongated cells without secondary wall thickenings to tracheids similar to those of extant tracheophytes. A suite of tissuespecific microanalytical techniques was used to assess lignification in fossils of
30117481|Flowers are phenotypically integrated units that may require a precise configuration of floral organs for proper function. Plants, however, are metameric organisms that often exhibit architectural and temporal variation in floral size and shape. Clearly, architectural and temporal effects could interrupt phenotypic integration within flowers, yet such effects have not been explicitly examined. We compared correlations among floral characters for the closely related but morphologically divergent species
3874637|Floral ontogeny of two dioecious species in the Menispermaceae,
4619845|A new species,
4619841|We investigated genetic variation within and among 11 populations of
3080179|The potential for interspecific hybridization within the genus
3691808|Vein pattern development in the leaves of higher plants requires that a continuous system with hierarchical vein size classes and regular spacing be formed de novo from ground meristem precursors. In this study, we use a molecular marker of procambium identity,
2995798|The plasma membraneassociated NADH oxidase (NOX) of spinach leaf disks demonstrates a regular periodicity of
3079952|The brilliant blue fruit color of
2995807|Relationships within the Amygdaloideae have long been a point of discussion in Rosaceae systematics.
10.1086/664713|Bird pollination has evolved in four species of Macaronesian
4619825|Two structurefunction hypotheses were tested for vesselless angiosperm wood. First, vesselless angiosperm wood should have much higher flow resistance than conifer wood because angiosperm tracheids lack lowresistance torusmargo pits. Second, vesselless wood ought to be exceptionally safe from cavitation if the small cumulative area of pits between tracheids confers safety (the pit area hypothesis). Data were obtained from branch wood of 19 vesselless angiosperms:
10.1086/677229|
               
2995543|The control of primary vascular tissue differentiation by auxin produced by the shoot apex ranks among the better known hormone signaling systems in vascular plants. Surprisingly little is known, however, about the relationship between the pattern-forming properties of this system and stelar architectures in different major groups of vascular plants, including those represented in an extensive and systematically important fossil record. Expanding upon suggestions by Wight, I present a simple computer model relating known properties of the auxin signaling system with explicit predictions about the configuration of stelar tissues suitable for comparison with morphometric data derived from both living and fossil plants. The model divides the continuous acropetal process of vascular tissue determination into a series of vignettes in which target meristematic tissue receives quantified concentrations of hormone, i.e., auxin, from "organizing centers" (OCs), branch or leaf primordia, serving as hormone sources. Specific parameters of the model include longitudinal spacing, phyllotaxis, variable hormone production rates of the OCs, size of the shoot apex, and reaction of the target tissue to specific signals received. To test the applicability of this approach, model predictions are compared with detailed morphometric data collected from Psilophyton and members of the Aneurophytales. Close correspondence is observed between predicted hormone concentrations from the model and the configuration of stelar tissues, including relative positions of primary xylem, primary phloem, secondary xylem, and the presence of morphological gradients in the primary xylem related to the protoxylem/metaxylem continuum. In addition to the morphometric comparisons, a wider exploration of the model involving both orthostichous and Fibonacci phyllotaxis of OCs is conducted. The results are compared with members of the Iridopteridales, Cladoxylopsida, Calamopityaceae, and Medullosales. Striking correspondence is observed allowing for reinterpretation of the evolution of vascular plant stelar architecture not just in terms of historical patterns of important mature structures but also as a system of evolving developmental dynamics underlying these structures. All comparisons made so far serve to underscore the fundamental relationship in early vascular plants between the evolution of increased complexity in stelar architectures and the evolution of complex lateral branches and leaves. Among evolutionary events occurring in the fossil record, the model of hormone determination offers important insights into (1) origin of ribbed protostelic systems from primitive columnar architectures as a consequence of increased compactness of the shoot apex and orthostichous phyllotaxis; (2) conspicuous differences in the three-dimensional configuration of protoxylem strands supporting a developmental distinction between Devonian "radiate protoxylem" and "permanent protoxylem" groups; (3) quantifiable differences in protoxylem/metaxylem tissue fabric probably related to differences in hormonal activity of lateral appendage primordia during early development; (4) origin of pith at the center of the stele related to changes in the geometry of the shoot apex under several possible models of hormone determination; and (5) dissection of the stele into discrete primary vascular bundles possibly related to changing receptivity to the hormone signal and the geometric consequences of flow rates in three dimensions over developmentally significant intervals of time. In each instance, the computer model provides new ways to interpret evolutionary change within and between major groups of vascular plants, with specific stelar architectures of these plants offering reciprocal illumination for further improvement of the model. Because of the unique nature of their development and excellent fossil record, I suggest that vascular plants in many ways seem to be the ideal study group for integrating developmental process directly into analysis of homology and estimation of phylogenetic relationship.
10.1086/666661|Fifty-nine stems of
3080101|Climatic constraints on insects in alpine environments have important consequences for the biology of their plant mutualists; in particular, reduced insect diversity and activity in alpine plant populations can result in pollinatorlimited seed set and, potentially, in low genetic diversity. However, highly effective pollination by bumblebees in alpine populations can compensate for low visitation rates. In this study we hypothesized that, because of highly effective pollination by bumblebees, alpine populations of
3691869|Several types of proteins are known to accumulate as a result of dehydration stress in plants, and many of these are thought to serve a protective function. This includes the dehydrin family of proteins, which accumulate in cells in response to drought, low temperatures, or salinity and in embryo tissues during the maturation phase of seed development, when the seed is losing water in preparation for dormancy. Many studies to date have concentrated on the expression, localization, and function of dehydrins in seed tissues. Our study provides some of the first evidence for a chloroplastlocalized dehydrin by using cell fractionation combined with immunofluorescence and immunogold electron microscopy to determine dehydrin location in mature leaf tissues of
10.1086/651947|The vegetative body of
2995741|The developmental events of florets and a critical stage for sex determination in two wildrice populations (
4619818|A phylogeny for all extant species of the heterosporous fern genus
30113529|The development of digestive glands in pitchers of three species of
2995824|Conifer needles of highelevation species have been reported to screen UV radiation effectively from penetrating the leaf interior. Experiments were designed to investigate the epidermal transmittance (ET) of lodgepole pine (
2475026| Bunya pine (Araucaria bidwillii Hooker) produces large seeds that consist of a massive megagametophyte that surrounds an embryo 25-30 mm long and 3-5 mm in diameter. The seeds germinate on the soil surface, but elongation of the cotyledonary tube pushes the hypocotyl, with its associated plumulc and radicle, into the soil (cryptogeal germination). The hypocotyl subsequently develops into a large parenchymatous tuber that is supplied with carbohydrates translocated from the megagametophyte through the cotyledonary tube. Later the epicotyl grows upward through the overlying soil to commence photosynthesis. Elongation of the cotyledonary tube from 3 to 9 cm in less than 7 d results entirely from cell elongation, principally in the proximal regions of the tube. Cell elongation is also important in the tenfold elongation of the hypocotyl in less than 2 wk, but a substantial number of anticlinal divisions followed by cell elongation also occur. The sevenfold increase in hypocotyl diameter involves both increase in cell diameter and periclinal cell divisions. When elongation of the cotyledonary tube ceases, the distal portion that remains embedded in the megagametophyte remains structurally unaltered for several weeks. In contrast, the tube outside the seed quickly develops tannin deposits in the surface layers, and between weeks 2-4 extensive collapse of the ground parenchyma cells occurs, leaving the vascular bundles suspended within a framework of collapsed cells. Unlike other cryptogeal species, bunya pine forms an abscission zone at the base of the cotyledonary tube, and thus an organized detachment of the tube from the tuber can occur. The initial divisions leading to abscission zone formation commence between weeks 2-3, and by week 4 the zone extends across the ground tissues but not the vascular bundles. The vascular system of the tuber consists of four to six pairs of vascular bundles that run parallel to each other, without anastomoses, for most of the length of the hypocotyl. At week 0 the vascular bundles were completely undifferentiated, but at week 1 they had typical collateral bundle tissue distribution and proportions, although abutting the abaxial side of the primary phloem was an unusual group of relatively large-diameter (25-50 m) cells that never accumulated starch grains and elongated to over 2,500 m in length. After several months the cambia in each pair of vascular bundles differentiate through the intervening parenchyma toward each other, eventually forming four to six small cambial rings. This results in some highly unusual patterns of secondary growth as several cylinders of secondary vascular tissues begin to develop within the storage parenchyma of the tuber. 
2475041|Ontogenetic studies were made of the rhizome, tuber, and basal bulb of Cyperus esculentus (yellow nutsedge). Early in the growth of a rhizome, cells at the periphery of the vascular cylinder divide periclinally, forming radial rows of inner cortical cells. Tubers develop at the tips of rhizomes that originate from tubers and basal bulbs. Early in development of a tuber, a primary thickening meristem (PTM) is established at the bases of young leaf primordia, which is responsible for the early establishment of the cortex. At lower levels of the developing tuber, the PTM becomes primarily a root-producing meristem that may be close to or somewhat separated from the central cylinder that consists of individual but interconnected vascular bundles. Increases in size of the cortical and central parenchymatous regions in the tuber are primarily the result of the function of a ground meristem and cell enlargement. At maturity, the parenchymatous cells are packed with starch grains. Basal bulbs originate from rhizomes that possess more complex vascular cylinders than those that give rise to tubers. The basal bulb is a greatly shortened axis with a complex set of vascular bundles that is basically leaf traces. A PTM within the basal bulb arises near the shoot apex. The meristem extends down in cup-shaped fashion and gives rise to derivatives that form roots, horizontally encircling procambial strands, and parenchymatous sectors. Procambial strands vascularize rhizome primordia that are initiated at the surface of the basal bulb.
10.1086/653688|Seeds of two palm species conforming to the extant genus
2995737|Generalizations about rare and endangered species are important for the development of conservation management policy and for understanding of the nature of rarity. Therefore, we sought such generalizations by statistically comparing eight life history and reproductive traits of rare and common plant species in two betterstudied but climatically and geographically distinct Holarctic florasthose of California and the British Isles. Trends were often similar in both floras. Rare and common species differ significantly for a number of characters. In both floras, a woody habit was significantly more frequent for the rare species than the common species. Also, in both floras, monocarpy was less frequent in the rare species, significantly so in California. The rare species of both floras were, on average, significantly shorter in stature than the common species. This trend in stature remained significant when nonwoody species were compared but did not do so for woody species. Rare and common species differed with regard to their frequency of inflorescence structure types, but these differences were not concordant for both floras. The rare species of the British Isles had significantly higher proportions of mixed and polymorphic flower colors; the trend was not significant in California. In both floras, rare species had a higher frequency of manyseeded fruits, significantly so in California. California's rare species had a significantly higher frequency of dehiscent fruits than common species; the trend was reversed and not significant for the British Isles. We found no significant differences for characters associated with fruit dispersal. Finally, in California, the median altitude of the range of the common species was significantly greater than that of the rare species. At present, these correlates cannot be assigned as possible causes or consequences of rarity. Nonetheless, they may represent highrisk traits that could be used to identify other species already at risk or potentially at risk of becoming rarer.
3080068|The early history of Hamamelidaceae is currently documented by several reproductive structures from Late Cretaceous sediments of the Northern Hemisphere. Recently discovered floral remains from the late Santonian (Late Cretaceous) Allon locality, in central Georgia (United States), represent an additional extinct taxon,
2995546|We investigated whether isolated mitochondria of rice (Oryza sativa L.) respond to elevated temperatures by synthesizing a set of unique polypeptides in organello. Mitochondrial samples were prepared by conventional procedures that included surface sterilization and sucrose-gradient purification. The heat-shock treatment adopted for isolated mitochondria was based on the most effective temperatures to induce in vitro synthesis of heat-shock proteins by cytosolic polysomes isolated from etiolated rice seedlings. Heat-induced unique polypeptides were detected in mitochondrial samples prepared from growth-chamber-grown seedlings. In contrast, no heat-shock protein was detected in mitochondrial samples isolated from aseptically grown rice seedlings. Three different rice varieties, including a cytoplasmic male-sterile line, Zhen Shen 97A, gave the same results. We found that the extent of bacterial contamination in mitochondrial samples could be readily determined by plating. Mitochondrial preparations of growth-chamber-grown rice seedlings were found to contain a significant number of bacteria, whereas very few or no bacteria were detected in mitochondrial samples isolated from aseptically grown seedlings. We conclude that isolated rice mitochondria do not respond to elevated temperatures by synthesizing a unique set of proteins and that bacteria are responsible for the synthesis of heat-shock proteins in contaminated rice mitochondrial samples.
2475033|Analyses of life cycle, morphogenesis of the monocarpic shoot, and propagation have been carried out on Allium rothii, a desert geophyte from the Western Irano-Turanian region. Plants from a natural population in the Negev Desert highlands were examined during a 2-yr study. The bulb of A. rothii is a temporary organ that is completely replaced by a renewal bulb within 2 yr. The ephemeroid root system is annual, superficial, and adapted for effective absorption during short periods of moist soil. Seeds germinate best in January and February at temperatures between 5
2475075|Seed morphology of Hydrangeaceae was explored to describe the parameters of diversity, define characters and character states, and hypothesize monophyletic groups in the family on the basis of derived features. Eleven seed characters were defined that delimit four basic aspects of morphology, including (1) shape, (2) primary sculpture, (3) secondary sculpture, and (4) appendages. Character states could not be delimited readily in some aspects of diversity, including transectional shape and length of seeds. Despite continuous variation in seed length, when mapped on previous cladograms these data supported the hypothesis that seeds less than 1.0 mm long were plesiomorphic and that seed size had increased separately in different subclades. Seed size increased in association with wing loss in Fendlera, Fendlerella, and Whipplea. A shift from apical, interstylar dehiscence of fruits that produce a very limited gap for seed emergence in most members of the hydrangea clade to fruit wall fragmentation may have permitted an increase of seed size in Decumaria, Pileostegia, and Schizophragma. The data help to support hypotheses of monophyly for Deutzia and Philadelphus, although relevant character states appear to display parallelisms. The data also help to demonstrate the paraphyly of Hydrangea as traditionally circumscribed. A derived urceolate seed form allies Broussaisia and Dichroa with Hydrangea hirta and Hydrangea luteovenosa. These data indicate that fossil seeds recognized as Dichroa from the Middle Oligocene of Europe may be indistinguishable from those of certain Hydrangea species. Hydrangea heteromalla and Hydrangea paniculata share derived long, spindle-form seeds with a flange at the micropylar pole with Decumaria and Schizophragma, and these taxa may form a monophyletic group that includes Pileostegia. The tropical species of Hydrangea section Cornidia share a derived rarity of anticlinal crosswalls in the seed body. Current phylogenetic hypotheses indicate that the micropylar cowls that Cardiandra and Deinanthe share with Deutzia are evolutionary parallelisms. A derived funicular appendage supports prior hypotheses of monophyly for Fendlerella and Whipplea. These two genera may be most closely related to Fendlera, with which they share seed coat cells with convex long axes.
2995764|Competition among plants for available water and other resources seriously limits the persistence and productivity of alfalfa (
2475012| Some aspects influencing the achievement of transgenic bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) plants have been studied. The morphology of the shoot apex in 17 cultivars within the Carioca and Jalo types was analyzed. In some cultivars the apical meristematic region was partially covered by the primordia leaves. Cultivars in which the meristematic area was 100% exposed were assessed for multiple shoot induction using three concentrations of benzylaminopurine (4.4 M, 22.2 M, and 44.4 M). The cultivar PF9029984 showed prolific multiple shoot induction. The early events of multiple shoot formation were examined using scanning electron microscopy. Transgenic bean plants from a Carioca-type cultivar were obtained by particle bombardment. The inheritance of the introduced foreign gene was Mendelian in all transgenic bean lines. Southern blot hybridization confirmed the integration of foreign genes into the plant genome. 
2995823|Past studies of the ability of epiphytic Crassulacean acid metabolism bromeliads to acclimate to different light levels yield conflicting findings; some indicate that these plants are similar to shade plants whereas others stress their similarity to sun plants. This study investigates the ability of individuals of
2474899|The homozygous albino offspring from 11 different red mangrove trees (Rhizophora mangle) heterozygous for albinism were pigment fingerprinted by HPLC/diode-array spectroscopy. The majority of albino genotypes were deficient in suites of chlorophylls, xanthophylls, and carotenes. A total of five different chemical phenotypes was distinguished. In red mangroves, genetic load due to homozygosity for chlorophyll deficiency follows Muller's mutation load model; i.e., small load contributions are made by many different loci. The average load contribution is 1.3 x 10
2475234|The tropane alkaloids of Erythroxylum coca var. coca and Erythroxylum novogranatense var. novogranatense were localized using histochemical, cytochemical, and immunocytochemical probes. At the tissue level, these alkaloids were localized in leaves, stems, and fruits with Dragendorff's reagent. Alkaloids were found in the mesophyll, including palisade, spongy, and vascular parenchyma cell layers, and in some cells of the collenchyma. No alkaloids were detected in the epidermis of either Erythroxylum species. Alkaloids were also detected in the endosperm and embryos of orange and mature red fruits but not in tissues of immature green fruits. Quantitative HPLC reveals that embryos had 2.5-5 times more cocaine (w/w%) than endosperms, but 40 times less than leaves. In contrast to leaves, cocaine was a minor alkaloid present in fruits. Dragendorff's reagent was used to develop thin-layer chromatography plates and specifically stained the alkaloids extracted from leaves of both species. Complexing of alkaloids with tannins resulted in aggregates in the vacuole of E. coca leaf cells as visualized by transmission electron microscopy. Immunocytochemical localization, using anticocaine polyclonal antibodies on leaf tissues, proved that these compounds are localized in vacuoles of both photosynthetic and vascular parenchyma, as demonstrated by the use of Dragendorff's reagent. The alkaloids were associated with intravacuolar globules and appear to be aggregates with a core formed by phenolic compounds and a periphery enriched in alkaloids. The vacuolar localization of the cocaine alkaloids indicate that they may be complexed with phenols in vivo, thereby rendering them relatively immobile. The implications of the cellular and tissue localization of tropane alkaloids in Erythroxylum are discussed.
40344036|
               
3080142|An analysis of the epithelial cell ultrastructure of secretory ducts in the primary phloem of
2475333|Delphinium tricorne Nutt. is an herbaceous perennial of mesic deciduous forests in eastern North America. Seeds have underdeveloped linear embryos that must grow from about 0.5 to 2.4 mm before seeds can germinate, and this growth occurs only at low temperatures. At 5
10.1086/651229|To place a new fossil occurrence of
2475209|Data from a series of eight papers, representing a survey of Gnetales at the species level, are summarized in order to develop concepts on the relationship between the anatomical data and ecology, phylogeny, and systematics. Most of the characters and character states newly reported have phylogenetic and ecological correlations for Gnetales as a whole rather than systematic significance within the genera. Wood features are sensitively related to habit, although strategies in lianoid species of Ephedra differ from those in lianoid Gnetum species. Data also bear close relationships to organography. Vessel details are given special attention because workers have questioned whether vessels originated in Gnetales independently of those in angiosperms, and thus whether or not vessel origin in the two groups is a synapomorphy. The evidence cited here favors origin of vessels in Gnetales independent of vessel origins in angiosperms Hitherto unappreciated contrasts between vessels of Gnetales and those of angiosperms are detailed: the torusmargo structure of pits in Gnetales (both Ephedra and Gnetum), and the aspiration ability of gnetalean pits represent modes of conduction and promotion of conductive safety different from those in angiosperms, and the shape difference (circular vs scalariform), cited in data matrices of cladograms, is secondary to the different functional syndromes. The intercalation of circular bordered pits into helical secondary wall thickenings of primary xylem tracheary elements of Ephedra and Gnetum (a feature found also in conifers and Ginkgo but not in angiosperms) is given new functional interpretations. Ephedra and Gnetum contain both tracheids and fiber-tracheids that co-occur in a mode different from that in angiosperms which contain both cell types together. Ray structure like that of Gnetales occurs widely within seed plants and likely offers little conclusive information about relationships. Wood data on Gnetales are compatible with the hypothesis that a vesselless group of gymnosperms, such as Pentoxylales or Bennettitales, is the closest sister group of angiosperms. Formation of successive cambia in Gnetum differs from that in Welwitschia: the latter has phellem but no other bark. Because Welwitschia has only phellem, there are more numerous bark features in common between Ephedra and Gnetum than one might have expected. The three genera appear monophyletic on the basis of wood and bark. Infrageneric anatomical features of systematic importance are few, although the arboreal Gnetum gnemon differs from the lianoid Gnetum species in significant ways
10.1086/682708|
               
10.1086/676818|
               
10.1086/651228|In
40344031|The Galapagos endemic plants
10.1086/682336|
               
40072529|Linkages among leaf traits and environment have most often been tested across communities but infrequently within lineages. We studied seven endemic Hawaiian
2995605|Spores of Botrychium jenmanii germinate after 5 wk in darkness in axenic culture on a nutrient medium containing arginine as the nitrogen source. Gametophytes from crowded cultures are narrow with an antheridial ridge as wide as the ventral region, making the gametophytes I-shaped in cross section. The antheridial ridge bears sunken antheridia, and the more or less vertical flanks of this ridge usually bear numerous archegonia. Gametophytes from crowded cultures are often contorted with one or more bends. Individually grown gametophytes are long and straight with the median dorsal ridge bearing exposed antheridia on its apex and the flanks of this ridge bearing numerous archegonia. The antheridia and archegonia are functional in axenic culture, and fertilization occurs on up to 60% of the gametophytes after flooding with water. About 2 mo after fertilization, the embryo is large enough to cause a swelling on the side of the gametophyte. After 3 mo, the primary root breaks through the gametophyte followed by the first leaf. No rudimentary leaves are formed. The primary leaf is etiolated or photosynthetic depending on whether it develops in the dark or light, respectively. Two more leaves are formed in less than a year.
3080193|The primary requirement for a new diploid species to arise via hybridization is ecological divergence from its parental species. Ecological divergence protects the nascent hybrid species from competition with its progenitor species and may contribute to reproductive isolation. However, the means by which hybridization might facilitate the necessary adaptive transitions are poorly understood. Here, we report the results of a glasshouse experiment in which 42 morphological and ecophysiological traits were measured in three hybrid sunflower species (
3874619|The Pennsylvanian filicalean fern
20533023|Fossilized
2475314|The histopathology of Botryosphaeria ribis invasion and Melaleuca quinquenervia response was studied under laboratory and greenhouse conditions. Infection of excised leaves in a moist chamber occurred through wounds and stomata, and tissue discoloration followed. Development of callus tissue on wounded stems was more pronounced after spring inoculations than after fall inoculations and, likewise, more on nonstressed ramets than on stressed ramets. Callus ridges on B. ribis-inoculated wounds were surrounded by two-to-three-celled suberized layers, which were also present on callus ridges of noninoculated wounds and healthy bark. Cells in callus ridges of B. ribis-inoculated wounds had lignified cell walls and contained tanninoid substances that were invaded by hyphae. Invasion of callus tissue occurred through the interface between the callus ridges and the sapwood. Invasion and discoloration of phloem, cambium, and xylem occurred beyond the margins of callus ridges. In noncallused wounds, hyphal colonization was extensive in the cambium and phloem regions. In both callused and noncallused stems, hyphae grew inter- and intracellularly in the cortex, cambium, xylem, and pith. Callus did not limit fungal invasion of newly formed tissues or the tissues formed prior to wound inoculation. Stem girdling by the fungus appeared to be delayed by callus formation.
40072533|Opuntioideae are a diverse subfamily of Cactaceae with significant diversity of form and habitat and wide distribution throughout the New World. Nuclear ribosomal ITS and chloroplast
2475083|Microbotryum violaceum, Basidiomycota, infects species in the Caryophyllaceae (Pinks). Three morphological stages are found during the life cycle of M violaceum: haploid sporidial cells (of opposite mating type), dikaryotic hyphae, and diploid teliospores. The conjugated haploid cells and the dikaryotic hyphae are the only forms that are infectious to the host plant. Gene expression during hyphal development of this fungus was examined by mRNA differential display Using differential display, we isolated one fragment (c11) that represented a transcript expressed in the dikaryotic hyphal stage but not in the conjugated or haploid stages. The differential expression of the corresponding gene was confirmed by Northern blotting. This partial cDNA was cloned and sequenced. Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends, 5'-RACE was used to recover the 5' end of a cDNA for c11. The combined sizes of the 5'-RACE product and the 3'-end cDNA generated from differential display corresponded with the mRNA size estimated by Northern analysis Sequences for several 5'-RACE clones differed by as much as 20% from each other. Sequence analysis for three 5'-RACE clones with identical sequence, when combined with that for the c11 differential display fragment, revealed an open reading frame (HSGc11) that encodes a protein with 455 amino acids; no significant similarities were found between this protein and others in the protein database. Southern hybridization analysis indicated that this gene belongs to a gene family in M. violaceum. The gene hybridized to DNA for M. violaceum sporidial strains of both mating types. The successful cloning of the HSGc11 gene demonstrated that the combination of mRNA differential display and 5'-RACE offers a relatively efficient approach for identification and cloning of developmental genes in this and other plant pathogenic fungi
10.1086/676675|The utility of 18S and 26S in broad phylogenetic analyses has been much maligned due in large part to the low signal in both genes. However, few analyses have employed complete 26S rDNA sequences over a broad range of taxa, and most alignments of the two genes are done de novo, without taking into account the secondary structure of the two rRNA genes. Here we mine next-generation sequence data to compile large matrices (429 taxa) of complete 18S + 26S gene sequences, and we compare both de novo alignment methods with curated alignments done by eye that take into account secondary structure and hard-to-align regions (profile alignments). The combined 18S + 26S topology is overall very similar to recently published gene trees for the angiosperms based on three or more genes. Overall support for the backbone or framework of the combined tree is low (bootstrap support below 50%). Few major clades have bootstrap support above 50%. Most well-supported clades are tip clades (families and orders sensu APG III
10.1086/665820|Angiosperms represent more than three-quarters of all land plant species despite existing for only a quarter of land plant history, inspiring much interest in understanding what aspects of angiosperm biology may have enabled their unparalleled success. However, comparative study of extant plants cannot fully address the basis of angiosperm dominance because most living nonflowering plants are members of recently radiating lineages as young or younger than the flowering plants and, thus, are a highly biased sampling of the full 400 Myr history of vascular plant diversity. Here, a survey of the fossil record demonstrates that most anatomical traits that are now unique to the angiosperms were more broadly distributed among extinct lineages. However, the growth capacities of angiosperms are likely to have been uniquely high for all of vascular plant history and may have enabled a greater range of architectural possibilities, including the fast-growing annual herbs that represent a large proportion of angiosperm diversity. Many of the gymnosperm lineages lost to extinction during the angiosperm radiation may have been understory and earlier successional plants with advantages relative to conifers for early establishment but without the capacity to match either the high leaf area of mature conifers or the high productivity per unit leaf area of angiosperms. Vascular plants had already occupied all terrestrial climate zones before the angiosperm radiation, but the spread of flowering plants may have substantially changed the vegetation structure of many ecosystems and may have actually changed the temperature and rainfall patterns that determine ecosystem distributions.
IJPS41183|Historically, the persistence of mixed mating (reproduction via both self- and cross-fertilization) has presented a puzzle because classic theory predicts that mixed mating should be evolutionarily unstable. One mechanism that could contribute to the maintenance of mixed mating in cleistogamous species is the ability to invest in the appropriate type of reproduction (outcrossing vs. selfing) for a given pollination environment. We tested whether
10.1086/676984|Pollen development is examined in
3080080|We compared the reproductive biology of a declining native grass,
2474939|Inbreeding depression, the decreased fitness of progeny derived from self-fertilization compared to outcrossing, is affected by the environmental conditions in which it is examined, often being greater in adverse environments than in benign environments. We germinated selfed and outcrossed seeds from the same Blandfordia grandiflora plants and estimated inbreeding depression in germination under benign laboratory conditions and adverse field conditions. In both environments, more outcrossed seeds germinated than did selfed seeds. In the laboratory, only 7.7% more outcrossed seeds germinated than did selfed seeds (98.4%  0.6 vs. 90.7%  3.9), whereas in the field the difference was 22.1% (92.5%  1.9 vs. 70.4%  5.0). The decrease in germination between the laboratory and field was only 5.9% for outcrossed seeds, but was 20.8% for selfed seeds. Germination of selfed seeds was more variable than of outcrossed seeds in both environments (coefficients of variation, selfed seeds vs. outcrossed seeds: laboratory, 13.6% vs. 1.9%; field, 22.5% vs. 6.5%). Germination success varied significantly among maternal plants, except for outcrossed seeds in the laboratory. In the laboratory, 60% of plants expressed inbreeding depression, whereas in the field all plants expressed inbreeding depression. The magnitude of inbreeding depression was significantly greater in the field than in the laboratory (0.242  0.156 vs. 0.078  0.130). Inbreeding depression of individual plants was positively related between the two environments (r = 0.69). The greater inbreeding depression in the field indicated that selfed seeds were unable to cope with the physiological demands that were imposed by the more adverse field environment.
30113531|Fluctuating asymmetry (FA), random nondirectional deviations from perfect symmetry, has been proposed as a useful indicator of environmental stress. Nevertheless, FA acts as a nonspecific indicator of stress; thus, factorial designs are needed to disentangle which of the factors may induce FA. We used an experimental approach in which seedlings of
IJPS41059|Several small pinnate leaves of early Oligocene age from Cethana, Tasmania, are newly described and found to be conspecific with
10.1086/668788|Members of the genus
3691678|We investigated the early floral development of the monotypic genus
3691600|The buckwheat (
2995685|Interspecific differences in morphological and physiological responses to shade commonly correspond to ecological roles in mesic woodlands but rarely have been studied in semiarid woodlands and savannas. I compared shoot mass, root mass, root: shoot ratio, taproot elongation rate, whole-seedling leaf area, whole-seedling specific leaf area, leaf area ratio, and photosynthetic capacity among three species of California oaks in three experimental shade treatments: full sunlight <tex-math>$({\rm I}_{\text{full}})$</tex-math>, 50% of full sunlight <tex-math>$({\rm I}_{50\%})$</tex-math>, and 10% of full sunlight <tex-math>$({\rm I}_{10\%})$</tex-math>. Although there were no intraspecific differences in the percentage of seedling biomass allocated to leaves, stems, and roots in different shade treatments, interspecific differences in biomass allocation, shade-induced changes in leaf morphology, whole-seedling photosynthetic capacities, and taproot elongation rates may explain, in part, shade tolerance of Quercus agrifolia and shade intolerance of Q. lobata seedlings reported in the literature. However, morphological and physiological responses of Q. douglasii, which recruits in shade, were similar to those of Q. lobata and do not adequately explain the high recruitment of Q. douglasii seedlings in shade reported in the literature. At <tex-math>${\rm I}_{10\%}$</tex-math>, root weights of Q. lobata and Q. douglasii seedlings decreased by 46% and 60%, respectively, and showed similar decreases in total seedling biomass and root: shoot ratios. Shade did not affect whole-seedling biomass, root weight, or root: shoot ratio of Q. agrifolia seedlings. Total seedling leaf area of Q. lobata and Q. douglasii did not increase in shade, whereas at <tex-math>${\rm I}_{10\%}\ Q$</tex-math>. agrifolia seedlings doubled in leaf area. Specific leaf area and leaf area ratio of Q. agrifolia seedlings also increased substantially more than the other two species. For seedlings grown at <tex-math>${\rm I}_{10\%}$</tex-math>, photosynthetic capacity per leaf area did not differ among species, but whole-seedling photosynthetic capacity at 150  E m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> was <tex-math>$111.3\ \mu {\rm mol}\ {\rm g}^{-1}\ {\rm s}^{-1}$</tex-math> of oxygen evolved for Q. agrifolia grown at <tex-math>${\rm I}_{10\%}$</tex-math> compared with 34.7 and <tex-math>$51.3\ \mu {\rm mol}\ {\rm g}^{-1}\ {\rm s}^{-1}$</tex-math> for Q. lobata and Q. douglasii, respectively. At <tex-math>${\rm I}_{10\%}$</tex-math>, the taproot elongation rate of Q. agrifolia seedlings was 63% of the rate at <tex-math>${\rm I}_{\text{full}}$</tex-math>, while Q. douglasii and Q. lobata elongation rates dropped to 54% and 26% of rates at <tex-math>${\rm I}_{\text{full}}$</tex-math>, respectively. This variation in shade acclimation may partially explain interspecific differences in ecological functions, including interactions with other species, patterns of recruitment, and successional roles.
2995877|The developmental changes in chloroplast ultrastructure and carbonfixation metabolism were studied in flowers of
3691865|Early floral development in
2475247|Somatic embryogenesis in geranium (Pelargonium x hortorum Bailey cv. Scarlet Orbit Improved) was achieved by culturing hypocotyl explants on media supplemented with either thidiazuron (TDZ) or indol-3-yl-acetic acid (IAA) and 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP). The physiological relationships between the morphological changes that lead to complete development of somatic embryos and the endogenous levels of plant growth regulators were studied. TDZ induced similar but more pronounced and earlier morphological changes in cultured tissues than did IAA and BAP, but after 21 d in culture, both treatments promoted the formation of somatic embryos of different developmental stages that were similar to zygotic embryos. TDZ induced a higher number of somatic embryos, with similar but greater increases in the endogenous levels of auxins and cytokinins, than did IAA and BAP. This may indicate that TDZ may be a more potent plant growth regulator in inducing physiological and morphological changes than combined auxin and cytokinin, during the process of somatic embryogenesis in geranium.
20533035|Molecular and morphological data were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of Camphorosmeae (Chenopodiaceae) in Australia, a tribe adapted to and widespread in the temperate arid and semiarid areas of the continent. A total of 71 species, representing nearly half of the species and all 14 currently recognized endemic genera, were sampled. Of seven molecular markers tested (ETS, ITS, the
3691666|This review brings together evidence on the monophyly and ages of angiosperm lineages ranging across the tropical Atlantic with data on the direction, strength, and speed of sea currents and wind jets across that ocean. Mainly for pragmatic reasons (data availability), the focus is on genera, which introduces a rankbased constraint into the analysis. However, transAtlantic disjunctions at the genus level seemed more likely to be attributable to longdistance dispersal than those involving families or species; familylevel disjunctions often may date back to the breakup of Africa and South America, and specieslevel disjunctions often may be anthropogenic. At least 110 genera (listed in this article) contain species on both sides of the tropical Atlantic. Molecular phylogenies and age estimates from molecular clocks are available for 11 disjunct genera, tribes, and species. Inferred directions and modes of dispersal can be related parsimoniously to water currents between Africa and South America and to exceptional westerly winds blowing from northeastern Brazil to northwest Africa. Based on diaspore morphology and inferred dispersal biology in the 110 genera, transAtlantic dispersal by water (in both directions) appears more common than dispersal by wind or on birds. Wind dispersal appears to have occurred in the direction from South America to West Africa but rarely in the opposite direction.
2995528|When simple shoots and flowers are examined, a restricted set of patterns is found. Characterization involves three levels of scale: (1) The overall array is roughly radially symmetrical. (2) The elements within it are usually arranged in either straight radii or in spiral lines. (3) The element itself, e.g., a leaf or petal, has a plane of bilateral symmetry that lies on a radius of the overall array. Proposed morphogenetic mechanisms have centered on the second level, where the propagation of pattern is based on "feed forward," an influence of recently made primordia on the site of initiation of the next. This influence has been postulated to be chemical inhibition emanating from the center of each primordium. New primordia would arise in uninhibited regions and then produce inhibitor. An alternate candidate for this influence rests on the fact that the buckling of a constrained inanimate sheet can also propagate pattern. Bump formation on a sheet experiencing uniform upward pressure is influenced both by the boundary of the sheet and by humps already present on it. I propose that in meristems the tunica exhibits minimal energy buckling behavior, and the corpus supplies upward pressure. Simulations involving bumps can propagate patterns with straight or spiral configurations. This is feed-forward of pattern, at the second level. When bumps also develop adaxial creases tangential to the margin of the dome, these creases link the bilateral symmetry of the appendage with the overall radial symmetry (levels 1 and 3). By serving as an apparent new linear anchor for buckling of the dome, a new crease converts the influence of a leaf on the dome from modifying internal curvature to becoming an external boundary condition. Creases appear stiff and tend to form a ting. When such a ring is kept taut by internal pressure, it promotes radial symmetry, stabilizing the whole array. The biomechanical model ties together all three levels of scale. Cyclic buckling phenomena could explain why the number of patterns is restricted and why they take the form that they do.
3874659|
               
10.1086/663164|Variation in pollination intensity can influence the degree of gametophytic competition with diverse consequences for plant fitness. Such effects should be particularly important in wind-pollinated plants because they commonly possess uniovulate flowers. In several dioecious species, competition between female- and male-determining microgametophytes has been proposed as a cause of female-biased sex ratios. Here, we examine functional relations among pollination intensity, seed set, sex ratios, and sporophyte vigor in
2995647|Cold stratification was required to break dormancy in seeds of Echinacea angustifolia var. angustifolia, a widely distributed taxon of prairies and barrens in the midcontinental United States. The temperature requirements for germination of E. angustifolia seeds coming out of dormancy differ from those reported for 15 other species of Asteraceae, which first began to germinate at high (30/15, 35/20) or at medium (20/10 C) temperatures. As seeds of E. angustifolia began to afterripen, they germinated over a range of thermoperiods including 15/6, 20/10, 25/15, and 30/15 C. After 8 wk of stratification, seeds germinated to 63%-91% at 15/6, 20/10, and 25/15 C. Thus, even when seeds are not fully afterripened, they can germinate to high percentages at low spring temperatures, whereas those of other spring-germinating composites must be nondormant to germinate well at low temperatures.
2995702|A complement of more than 800 soluble proteins was resolved at each of the first five successive stages of early development of the Zea mays ovulate inflorescence by high resolution two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and a multicolor silver stain. Among the polypeptide complement a subset of 39 occurred that appeared and/or disappeared during the first five organogenic stages of development. All individual subset polypeptides were observed at one or more stages of development, but not all five. The temporal modifications in appearance and/or disappearance of polypeptides during development fell into several distinct patterns. None of these proteins appeared exclusively at either the stage with branch primordia or floral primordia with lemmas. In contrast, the appearance of some proteins in the subset was restricted to only the terminal meristem, the spikelet primordia, or the spikelet primordia with lemmas. Most of the subset polypeptides appeared first in association with spikelet primordia. These observations indicate that early morphologic events of female inflorescence development in maize are linked to a distinctive pattern of protein change.
3874661|
               
10.1086/648990|Tubular red and pink flowers often indicate bird pollination.
2474970|Chalazogamy, the penetration of the pollen tube into the ovule via the chalaza instead of following the normal path through the micropyle, has been described in a number of unrelated species. The causes determining this behavior are unknown. We examined the pollen tube path from pollination to fertilization in Pistacia vera L., a chalazogamous species. While pollen germination and pollen tube growth in the style follow a pattern very similar to that observed in most plant species, pollen tube penetration into the ovule occurs via the funiculus. This is mediated through the formation of a ponticulus, a funicular protuberance that physically connects ovule and style. Once in the ponticulus, the pollen tube reaches the core of the funiculus, and there it takes a 90
3080083|We studied pollen flow and reproductive success in two differentdensity stands of
3691567|Root apical meristem (RAM) organization was characterized in a wide range of dicotyledonous angiosperms and interpreted in light of recent phylogenies based on DNA sequence data. RAM organization was classified using the open and closed system of Guttenberg. In longitudinal section, closed RAMs have clonally distinct tiers of initials, but in open RAMs the initials are shared among the primary tissues. For open RAMs, we distinguished between intermediate-open (fate of derivatives easily identified) and basic-open (fate of derivatives not immediately evident). The ancestral state of angiosperm RAMs was intermediate-open, with closed organization first appearing near the base of the core eudicots. Basic-open was derived and was found in the eurosid I orders Fabales and Cucurbitales; therefore, at least two new RAM organizations appeared during the radiation of angiosperms. In the core eudicots, there is evidence for multiple independent reversions, from closed to intermediate-open. In all the species we observed, T divisions of the root cap protoderm initial delimit protoderm from the innermost cell layer of the peripheral root cap. Changes in RAM organization appear to be a normal part of the life cycle of the root; therefore, the choice of root age is important in studies of RAM organization.
2995775|Somatic embryogenesis and organogenesis of lilies have not been investigated in detail before, although tissue culture methods have been applied to the propagation for decades. We investigated the effects of light and different auxins on regeneration in lily (
2475293|We have optimized the in vitro conditions for germination and tube growth of potato pollen, primarily that of tetraploid cv. Borka, in suspension culture under constant aeration and pollen density. Optimal concentration of H
2995651|Numerous anatomically preserved remains of Cordaixylon iowensis (Cordaitales) occur at a Middle Pennsylvanian coal-ball locality at What Cheer, Iowa. The fossils form the basis for anatomical, morphological, and architectural analyses and allow for the characterization of the fourth whole-plant species of North American cordaite based on interconnected organs at a single locality. Vegetative and reproductive features of C. iowensis are shown to be similar to Mesoxylon birame, and the primary vascular architecture of the plant is demonstrated to be sympodial. The historical and current basis of, as well as problems with, cordaitean taxonomy and nomenclature are reviewed, and based upon the results of a cladistic analysis of four North American cordaitean plants, nomenclatural revisions are proposed. An architectural analysis of C. iowensis documents a plant with rhythmic growth that corresponds to Rauh's model.
2995626|Cliffs of the Niagara Escarpment, southern Ontario, Canada support a presettlement forest of stunted, long-lived, and grossly deformed Thuja occidentalis showing pronounced strip-bark growth. Previous studies had suggested that longevity and axis asymmetry in these trees were both influenced by root-mediated shoot mortality, but no quantitative data to support this hypothesis were available. To understand whether such a process could explain cliff-face tree morphology, whole plants were collected, serial sectioned, and morphologically analyzed. Dates of initiation and death of each root or branch were recorded, and the spatial and chronological relations between root and shoot mortality events were examined. The results showed that particular roots that had died were spatially connected to parts of the shoot system that died on average within 2.2 yr. Shoot mortality never preceded root mortality for roots and shoots that were spatially related to each other. A quantitative relationship was found between the size of the roots and shoots that were connected. These observations could be explained either by a disruption of the upward movement of water in hydraulically separate sections of xylem or by an interruption of the transport of photoassimilate to the roots. In either case, radial architectural segregation may permit the plant to survive in hostile and resource-patchy environments.
30130547|Among the most important environmental sensors in plants are the phytochromes, members of a duplicatedgene family of photoreceptors. We characterized the functional diversification of this gene family with respect to a single ecologically important and highly environmentally sensitive processgerminationand thereby addressed the consequence of gene duplication in the evolution of environmental sensitivity. We exposed single and multiple mutants of different phytochromes of
3079953|Cuticle micromorphology of the unusual Vietnamese pine,
3080263|In a previous study,
2475040|Hacquetia epipactis has a wet, nonpapillate stigma. Stigmatic cells are moribund at maturity and become disrupted because of accumulated and ascending stylar secretion. The stigmatic surface coating is produced completely by the stylar transmitting tissue. The style is a half-solid type, with large secretion-filled schizogenous channels. The secretion mainly contains polysaccharides mixed with a small amount of lipids. Pollen grains germinate within the stigmatic secretion and the pollen tubes grow directly into the stylar channels.
2475266|Species differences in photosynthetic and stomatal responses to steady-state and variable light were examined in two co-occurring tallgrass prairie forbs, the cool-season legume Baptisia bracteata var. glabrescens and the warm-season composite Helianthus annuus. Previous studies indicated that these species might have similar responses to short-term, minutes-long shade because of their similar growth forms. However, photosynthetic carbon gain, oxygen evolution, transpiration, and leaf xylem pressure potential measurements showed that Helianthus was far more responsive than Baptisia to changes in light availability. Helianthus had higher photosynthetic capacity, photosynthetic temperature optimum, stomatal conductance, and transpiration rates, rapid stomatal closure during shade, and delayed photosynthetic recovery when light levels increased, traits common to species exposed to high temperatures or periodic drought stress. Baptisia, active under cooler, wetter conditions than Helianthus, had lower photosynthetic capacity, photosynthetic temperature optimum, stomatal conductance, and transpiration, and no stomatal response to shade, responses typifying species that experience little water stress. We suggest that environmental and physiological factors may combine to reinforce greatly different photosynthetic and stomatal responses to short-term shade in species with similar growth form, especially in habitats with long, seasonally varying growing conditions.
2995623|The spatial structure of allele frequencies for three polymorphic enzyme loci was examined in a gynodioecious population of Chionographis japonica var. kurohimensis. Spatial autocorrelation indices (Moran's I) were significantly larger in the shortest distance class than expected value, indicating that genetic similarity is shared among near-neighbor individuals. Because spatial patterns of the three loci examined showed a similar pattern, and significant linkage disequilibrium was not found among pairwise combinations of these loci, the population substructure detected in this study probably resulted from restricted gene flow because of predominant selfing in the hermaphrodites.
3691793|A longstanding perspective of many botanists has been that there is a unidirectional trend in the evolution of ovary position from superior to inferior and that reversals are rare if at all possible. Recent studies that formally investigate the problem of gynoecial diversification in a rigorous phylogenetic context demonstrate that the evolution of ovary position is more complex and dynamic than this traditional view suggested. It is well known that a hypogynous ground plan characterizes a vast majority of angiosperms having superior ovaries and that within a hypogynous ground plan, flowers with inferior ovaries can be produced by a developmental plan termed receptacular epigyny. However, most angiosperms with inferior ovaries have an appendicularepigynous ground plan in which a distinctive concavity appears in the center of the floral apex during perianth initiation. Recent investigations have shown that a diverse array of ovary positions ranging from completely inferior to what superficially appear to be superior ovaries, as well as intermediate ovary positions, can all develop from flowers having an appendicularepigynous ground plan. A wide range of ovary positions among closely related species can be produced by allometric shifts in development, entailing greater relative growth in either the superior or inferior regions of an ovary. We have termed those ovaries produced via appendicular epigyny that appear superior or nearly superior pseudosuperior ovaries. Such ovaries are not developmentally homologous with truly superior ovaries produced via a hypogynous ground plan. We have observed, however, that errors in homology assessment of apparently superior ovaries are not uncommon, such that a number of angiosperm lineages with ovaries that have been termed superior are actually pseudosuperior. Finally, recent studies have demonstrated that reversals from an appendicularepigynous to a hypogynous ground plan can occur but are rare.
3080167|
               
4619778|The objective of this study was to investigate patterns of surface features of leaves related to susceptibility to wetness for plants along a strong precipitation gradient. Leaf wettability and droplet retention were examined for leaves of 37 species (representing 28 families) occurring in steppe, ecotone, and temperate rain forest habitats along a steep moisture gradient in northwestern Patagonia, Argentina. Morphological and structural characteristics of leaves significantly affected leaf surface wetness, and these characteristics varied between habitats. Typically, leaves had more stomata on abaxial than adaxial leaf surfaces (
10.1086/657284|Blakeeae (Melastomataceae) are a Neotropical tribe of mostly hemiepiphytic woody plants that frequently form domatia harboring mites or ants in mutualistic associations. The tribe comprises 10 species in
2475013|This study investigated the role of genetic variation among host plants and fungal pathogen on disease prevalence and pathogen-induced phenotypic changes. Four different maternal sibships of Silene latifolia showed no difference in susceptibility to disease by the anther smut fungus Microbotryum violaceum after inoculation of an infectious mixture containing haploid sporidia of both mating types into the growing rosette. Three different combinations of sporidia were used. Two selfing combinations, one using fungus collected from the same population as the host plants, one from a second population, and one cross between strains from the two populations were generated. The three sporidia combinations did not differ in their success in infecting the host plant and sporulating in the flowers. However, this fungal disease altered host plant phenotype in several important ways. Disease retarded flowering in those male plants that initiated flowering in their first season, and it increased the number of flowers produced by both male and female plants. Different fungal strains differentially augmented flower production, indicating that there is genetic variability for important fitness-related life-history traits in natural populations of the fungus M. violaceum in Europe. Furthermore, in this short-lived perennial host plant, diseased plants were more likely than were healthy ones to initiate flowering in their first growing season. Since this shift from vegetative growth to reproduction should enhance fungal reproductive success, we interpret this as a manipulation of the host plant phenotype by the fungus. In addition we found a significantly female-biased sex ratio across the four maternal sibships in this study and higher infection rates for female plants than males.
2475243|Red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle) has shoot apices with a tunica-corpus organization; consequently somatic mutations are often manifested as complete or partial periclinal chimeras. Trees with branch systems exhibiting such chimeras for chlorophyll deficiency are rare in natural populations. Less than 0.1% of red mangroves in Puerto Rico exhibit such chimeras. The detailed analysis of one such chimera (R35) revealed a number of unique characteristics. The mutant exhibited cytoplasmic inheritance, a pattern consistent with a plastid genome mutation. On the basis of ultrastructural and confocal fluorescence analysis of the guard cells and histological patterns in the apices and leaves, the mutant is in the LI histogen of the shoot apex (outer tunica). The LI in red mangrove gives rise to cells that can divide periclinally; thus cell lineages of the LI develop into sporogenous tissues in the flowers and mesophyll cells along the leaf margins. In both of these characteristics, red mangrove appears similar to some monocot species.
10.1086/650158|The singlelocus rice blast resistance gene
3691573|The origin and evolution of the Japanese nocturnal
IJPS41071|The cuticle micromorphology of leaves of 13 species of
2475368|Elymus coreanus and Elymus californicus were studied to describe (1) their genomic composition and (2) correct taxonomic alignment based on genomic relationships. The hybrids E. coreanus x Psathyrostachys stoloniformis (NsNs), E. coreanus x Leymus ambiguus (NsNsXmXm), E. coreanus x Leymus salinus ssp. salmonis (NsNsXmXm), and E. coreanus x Leymus innovatus NsXmXm) averaged 5.80, 13.74, 13.15, and 13.58 bivalents per cell, respectively. Genome-specific RAPD assay results indicate that E. californicus and E. coreanus have the Ns genome but lack the St genome from the genus Pseudoroegneria and the E
3874607|Intersimple sequence repeat (ISSR) molecular markers were used to characterize inter and intrapopulation genetic diversity in populations of two contrasting species of
3080279|Understanding of the influence of groundwater depth on the physiology and growth of transplanted sedges is needed to improve revegetation efforts in degraded riparian meadows. In a greenhouse experiment, we exposed transplants of
10.1086/668228|The Carboniferous arborescent lycophyte genus
3080060|Early checking of the genetic stability of tissue culturederived plants is necessary to obtain all the potential benefits of clonal forestry. Previous work in
2995588| Heterotrimeric GTP-binding (G) proteins are important signaling molecules found in many eukaryotic organisms. In Arabidopsis thaliana, GPA1 is the only known gene that encodes a G protein  subunit. Results from previous experiments indicate that the GPA1 mRNA is found in both vegetative and floral organs of Arabidopsis. To gain insight into the function of GPA1, we sought to obtain detailed information about the distribution of the GPA1 gene product. To this end, we have constructed a translational fusion between the GPA1 genomic DNA and the bacterial reporter gene uidA, encoding -glucuronidase (GUS), and introduced it into Arabidopsis by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Histochemical analysis of the GPA1-uidA transgenic plants shows that GPA1 is expressed throughout development from early seedling to the mature flowering plant. During seedling development, GPA1 is first expressed in and near root tips, later also in cotyledons, developing leaves, and much of the roots. In adult plants, GPA1 continues to be expressed in rosette and cauline leaves, floral stems, and roots. The GPA1 expression in these vegetative organs is higher in the vascular tissues, as well as the newly formed portions of roots including root tips and elongation zone. In mature flowers, carpels exhibit strong GUS staining, whereas sepals and stamens have lower GPA1 expression, most of which is in the vascular tissues. Finally, GPA1 is also expressed in developing seeds, but the expression diminishes gradually to undetectable levels as the seeds mature. Our results on GPA1 expression indicate that it may be involved in a number of processes including cell growth, differentiation, and nutrient transport. 
10.1086/677948|
               
4122587|The infection process of
3080087|
               
IJPS41137|Structural changes in apical meristems accompany morphological specialization and adaptation of vascular-plant sporophytes to changing environments. Analysis of cell clones at the shoot apical meristem surface of a representative of the basal vascular plants made it possible to trace the dynamics of initial cells, which are recorded in cell wall arrangements. The cellular pattern at the summit of the
3079951|
               
3691561|Leaf epicuticular wax and cuticle ultrastructure were assessed in four eucalypt species
2475233|Relative amounts of photosynthetic tissues were quantified in C
10.1086/675577|
               
2475218|Theory predicts that plants should produce seeds of a single optimal size. Contrary to theory, seed mass varied fivefold in Banksia spinulosa from two populations over a 2-yr period. Population and year did not contribute to the variation in seed mass. Most of the variation was explained by differences occurring among plants (32.3%), among infructescences within plants (10.1%), and within infructescences (45.6%). Among plants, seed mass was unaffected by plant size and seed number per plant. Mean seed mass of plants, however, was positively correlated among years, which indicates that among-plant variation resulted in part from genetic and/or maternal effects. Among infructescences within plants, seed mass was unaffected by flowering time, inflorescence size, stem diameter, and seed number. Defoliation did not influence seed number but significantly reduced seed mass by 16% compared with undefoliated inflorescences. This indicates that plants have a limited capacity to maintain seed size when resource levels are reduced. Within infructescences, seed number and mass were influenced by the position of the seeds. Fewer and smaller seeds were produced in the apical third of infructescences compared with the mid- and basal thirds following cross- and open pollination. Seed number and mass within infructescences were also affected by pollen source. Fewer seeds were produced following self-pollination compared with cross-pollination. Mass of selfed seeds was less when infructescences had both selfed and crossed seeds compared with infructescences with selfed seeds only, but crossed seed mass did not differ from infructescences with crossed seeds only. The reduction in selfed seed mass probably resulted from inbreeding depression exacerbated by stress related to competition for maternal resources. Overall, resource limitation, developmental constraints, and inbreeding depression limit the ability of maternal plants to produce seeds of a uniform size in B. spinulosa.
2995778|
               
IJPS40878|Natural selection is an elegantly simple concept but one that can manifest in complex ways. I review how the basic model of single-trait viability selection has been extended to more complex forms of selection on multiple traits and on reaction norms. Fitness is defined as the expected lifetime reproductive success for individuals with a given genotype or phenotype over a given range of environments. Since the reproductive success realized by any individual will include a stochastic departure from this expectation, selection is therefore a consistent difference in fitness between organisms with different characteristics. A clear distinction is drawn between selection, which can act on any phenotypic difference, and the response to selection, which can occur only if phenotypic differences are heritable. This distinction separates the action of natural selection in filtering variation from the origin of the novel variants on which selection acts. Since selection frequently acts on standing genetic variation or on conditionally neutral variation, both of which accumulate in populations before the imposition of selection, such variation accumulates independently of its fitness effects under the subsequent selection regime. Recent discussions of Lamarckian inheritance must be carefully circumscribed to avoid the implication of directed mutation, for which there is no evidence.
3691696|
               
3691722|The widespread correspondence between phenotypic variation and environmental conditions, the fit of organisms to their environment, reflects the adaptive value of plant functional traits. Several processes contribute to these patterns: plasticity, ecological sorting, and adaptive evolution. This article addresses the importance of ecological sorting processes (community assembly, migration, habitat tracking, etc.) as primary causes of functional trait distributions at the local and landscape level. In relatively saturated communities, plants will establish and regenerate in environments to which they are well adapted, so their distributions, and the distributions of associated functional traits, will reflect the distribution of optimal or nearoptimal environmental conditions in space and time. The predicted evolutionary corollary of this process is that traits related to habitat occupancy, e.g., environmental tolerances, will be under stabilizing selection. This process contributes to the widely observed pattern of phylogenetic niche conservatism, i.e., ecological and phenotypic similarities of closely related species. Evidence for niche conservatism in plants is reviewed. Based on Jackson and Overpecks concept of the realized environment, I propose three scenarios in which a species distributional responses to environmental conditions will lead to a mismatch between its environmental tolerances and the environments it occupies, thus creating opportunities for adaptive evolution: (1) the colonization of environmental islands (habitats that are discontinuous in niche space) that require large adaptive shifts in tolerance of one or more environmental factors; (2) the persistence of trailingedge populations in species tracking changing climate, if barriers to dispersal of competitors prevent competitive exclusion in the deteriorating conditions; and (3) responses to changes in the realized environment in multidimensional niche space, in which species are predicted to track environmental factors for which they exhibit narrow tolerances and exhibit adaptive evolutionary response along axes where they exhibit greater niche breadth. These three scenarios provide a conceptual framework that emphasizes the role of ecological sorting processes and stabilizing selection as the context for understanding opportunities for adaptive evolution in heterogeneous and changing environments.
2995551|Ultrastructural studies were used to help resolve questions as to the recognition and limits of the heterogeneous family Otideaceae (Pezizales). Ascospore ontogeny was examined in species of Aleuria, Octospora, and Pulvinula and compared with that of other members of the order. Stages of ascosporogenesis, including primary wall formation, were similar to those found in other pezizalean genera. An accumulation of electron-dense globules appeared early in the perisporic sac of species of Aleuria and Octospora and contributes directly to formation of the epispore layer. In Pulvinula, there was a late accumulation of small electron-dense granules that was deposited onto the primary wall to form the epispore. A pronounced development of dense granules occurred in the perispore of Aleuria that condensed onto the epispore to form prominent ornaments. In Octospora, the granules degenerated and formed a loose secondary wall separated from the primary wall by an electron-translucent zone. A secondary wall did not develop in Pulvinula, and the epispore layer became the outer spore wall. We conclude that there was not a close correlation in spore ontogeny among the tribes of Otideaceae currently recognized on the basis of light-microscope data.
2995681|In a study of the flowering phenology of Petrocoptis grandiflora and its possible influence on fruit set in two populations of the northwestern Iberian Peninsula, none of the flowering variables investigated-flowering intensity, duration of flowering, number of flowers, flowering order, and flowering overlap-explained the observed interplant difference in fruit set. We suggest that, for this species, fruit set depends not on the above variables but on the degree of flowering overlap in the population when pollinators are active.
2475133|A floating aquatic dicot with leaves assignable to Trapago angulata has been characterized from Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) deposits of the St. Mary River Formation in southern Alberta, Canada. Reconstruction of the plant is based on nearly 500 specimens of various isolated and attached organs. Prominent floating rosettes of leaves were interconnected by submerged horizontal rhizomes with a distinct, crenulate surface and formed dense mats at the surfaces of small freshwater ponds. At least eight different leaf morphologies were produced. Rosettes bore opposite pairs of simple leaves and compound leaves with three, five, seven, nine, and possibly 11 leaflets. Highly dissected, submerged leaves of differing morphologies occur on rosette-bearing axes and rhizomes. Paired bud scales at the nodes of the crenulate rhizomes subtend both rhizome leaves and elongate, branched roots. Solitary flowers on long pedicels are attached in the axils of compound leaves. These remains are compared to those described as Quereuxia angulata (Newberry) Kryshtofovich from Russia, and extant Trapa L. Specimens from Russia, while showing leaves of morphology similar to that of T. angulata, differ in growth and branching pattern, supporting the interpretation that they are indeed different genera. Although Trapago has commonly been placed in the Trapaceae, the similarities between extant Trapa and Trapago could be attributed to convergence, and the familial affinities of the fossil remain uncertain.
2995584| The Early Devonian vascular land plant Bitelaria dubjanskii (Istchenko & Istchenko) Johnson & Gensel has a cuticle that is unusually thick (50-500 m) and structurally complex. The cuticle consists of cutinized layers and, on some axes (type A), an external humic layer. Although actual cells are not preserved, brown lamellae within the cuticle reflect not only patterns of cellular organization but also patterns of cell division of the surface layer, i.e., of the cells that produced the cuticle. It is demonstrated through observations of microtome thin-sections of the cuticle and comparison of these with external morphology that the three morphological types of Bitelaria axes (types A, B, and C) represent various developmental stages and that this barklike cuticle can be characterized as a cuticular epithelium. This type of cuticular structure in living plants, and probably in Bitelaria, reflects a prolonged period of lateral expansion of primary tissues. 
10.1086/668787|Flowers are reproductive shoots produced by determinate floral meristems. The role of
3691866|Hofmeister's rule is an empirical heuristic derived from the observation that new leaf primordia are formed in the largest space between the existing flanks of the older primordia. These observations have been repeatedly validated in studies of leaf arrangement, but there has been little attempt to extend them to inflorescence and floral organs. This investigation demonstrates the validity of Hofmeisters observations to cincinnus and early flower development in
3080327|An increase in floral display size may enhance fitness by increasing a plants attractiveness to pollinators. Alternatively, a larger display may reduce fitness by increasing pollen movement within an individual. In dichogamous species the frequency of this geitonogamy also depends on floral gender ratio and pollinator response to floral gender and to inflorescence architecture. We explored the relationships of floral display size and dichogamy to potential geitonogamy in
3691606|Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) plants, such as the cultivated
10.1086/673538|
               
10.1086/671806|
               
2995583|Cuticular studies of broad multiveined leafed conifers from the Victorian Lower Cretaceous using SEM and light microscopy confirm the presence of the Araucariaceae. The micromorphological features of the cuticle allow discrimination of six new species that show affinities to the extant sections of Araucaria. Araucaria actifoliatus, A. carinatus, A. falcatus, and A. otwayensis can be assigned to section Eutacta. Araucaria seorsum is similar to the sections Eutacta and Columbea, and A. lanceolatus appears most similar to section Columbea. Additional foliage is referred to the Araucariaceae on the basis of gross morphology and the abundance of associated seed cone scales and cone axes.
3080228|Ascosporogenesis in
10.1086/682148|
               
4124884|The grass spikelet contains floral organs such as stamens and carpels, as well as additional organs, glumes, lemma, palea, and lodicules that are unique to the angiosperms. Recent work is beginning to shed light onto the genes that regulate the development of spikelet organs. Many of these genes are members of multigene families. These multigene families have formed through gene duplications, some of which are specific to the grass family. I review the recent progress made in understanding the genetics of grass spikelet development. As many of these genes begin to be isolated, they will likely be compared with homologous genes from other angiosperms. Given that some of these genes will be duplicate genes, I provide a set of examples showing how orthologues and paralogues should be compared.
2995692|The morphology of the cryptogeal germination sequence of Araucaria bidwillii (bunya pine) was studied. Individual seeds were 5-6 cm in length and 2.5-3.5 cm in diameter and had an average fresh weight of ca. 16 g. In mature seeds the embryo consisted of a cotyledon tube, hypocotyl, and root cap that were 3-5 mm in diameter and 25-30, 3-4, and 5-7 mm in length, respectively. The embryo was surrounded by, but not fused into, a massive megagametophyte. Germination was rapid as a large diameter pseudoradicle emerged from the seed 48 h after the start of imbibition. At 1 wk the cotyledon tube had elongated to 3.5 times its original length. As cotyledon growth was positively geotropic the root and shoot meristems were forced out of the seed and buffed in the soil below the initial position of the seed. At week 3 the hypocotyl was 12-15 and 3-4 times its original diameter and length, respectively, and had developed into a parenchymatous tuber. It appeared that starch stored in the megagametophyte was being mobilized, translocated down the cotyledon tube, followed by resynthesis in the expanding tuber. At week 4 the tuber had developed a thin reticulate periderm and had also initiated numerous lateral roots from its lower third. At this stage a distinct abscission zone had developed at the base of the cotyledon tube and after a further 2-4 wk the cotyledon tube and megagametophyte were easily detached from the tuber at the abscission zone. In mature seed the epicotyl consisted of only a small apical dome, but at week 5 it was a small shoot that commenced its growth upward through the soil by either splitting or pushing away the cotyledon tube. Initially, the tubers possessed 4-6 pairs of strands of primary vascular tissue embedded in a parenchymatous matrix. With the commencement of secondary growth each pair of strands developed into a cylinder of secondary tissues, which are eventually incorporated into the normal secondary growth increments. While external evidence of the tuber is lost as secondary thickening of the root and stem progresses the unusual nature of the hypocotyl can be ascertained by internal examination. This germination sequence allows A. bidwillii to transform a large surface seed into a subterranean storage and perennation organ. Bunya pine is a rain forest emergent, and it appears that the carbohydrate reserve of the tuber allows seedlings to exist for several years under the low light levels of the forest floor, until a break in the canopy allows for rapid growth. The buffed bud reserve created as the plumule grew through the soil would allow for regeneration if shoot damage occurred.
2475028|Immunocytochemistry and EM were used to assess the relationship between the beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYVV) and its presumed vector Polymyxa betae in cortical parenchyma of sugarbeet lateral roots. Polyclonal antibodies raised against purified BNYVV were used to localize the virus antigens at the EM level. The spread of BNYVV from the initial P. betae infection site into the cortical parenchyma of lateral roots was very irregular, and no gradient was obvious. The BNYVV was not found in plasmodesmata. Virions appeared in the cytoplasm of host cells infected by P. betae, but always in low quantities. Inside fungi, virions were seen at the young zoosporangia stage, and labeling occurred in the resting spores. Strong labeling always occurred in cytoplasmic residues of cells containing cystosori. Our data support the view that P. betae is an internal carrier of BNYVV and that viral multiplication inside the fungus could occur at the young zoosporangia stage, i.e., just before the differentiation of zoospores which represent the infectious units.
2475108|Early events during the fusion process of sunflower protoplasts have been investigated using videoenhanced microscopy and fine structure analysis. Electrical pulses applied for membrane breakdown induced an immediate cessation of cytoplasmic streaming, which resumed 0.5-5 min after pulsing. This observation may provide a marker for fusion product viability and an indicator to optimize fusion parameters. Correlated with the cessation of cytoplasmic streaming, internal vesicles formed probably from the ER. Two types of fusion events were observed: (1) protoplasts interconnected by cytoplasmic bridges showing no rounding up and subsequent individual cell divisions and (2) protoplasts connected by a broad fusion plane rounding up in ca. 1 h. This process was accompanied by accumulation of cytoplasm in the fusion plane, formation of cytoplasmic strands connecting the fused protoplasts, and dislocation of the nuclei. The creation of viable fusion products required not only membrane fusion but also complete reorganization of the cytoplasmic material.
2995557|Constructing characters to reflect homology accurately remains a critical problem in systematic analysis of vascular plants, especially where evidence consists primarily of heterogeneous position-related subunits making up an overall complex pattern, which we term "biological fabric." Ideally, accurate assessment of homology lies at the developmental level rather than at the level of mature structure. However, elucidating developmental patterns requires appropriate analytic methods. As an example of a useful approach to analysis of plant tissue fabrics, we present a model of ontogeny in the Calamopityaceae, a family of early seed plants. Members of this group have an unusually thick cortex with complex patterns of cell size and shape. Adopting the methodological assumption that physical stress is the primary causal agent in patterning these tissues, we utilize cell size, shape, and orientation to infer a likely sequence of developmental events. We have employed Fry analysis, a technique of strain analysis derived from structural geology, in order to measure and compare cell shape and orientation in various tissue regions, and from this to infer patterns of tissue strain and cell division. Our analysis indicates that tissue patterning in the mature calamopityacean cortex is a consequence of differential cell growth and proliferation of different cell types and tissue regions, which establish regions of local and regional tissue strain. Increased diameter of the stem takes place by a combination of vascular cambial activity and diffuse secondary growth in the cortex, especially around petiole bases. Whereas most regions of the cortex accommodate expansion of secondary tissues through cell division, inner cortex and tissues immediately surrounding outer fiber bundles retain a surprising degree of primary architecture. The inner cortex displays a complex pattern of strain as a consequence of low cell division rates and complex forces exerted by expansion of secondary vascular tissues and emission of leaf traces. The hypodermis of fiber strands, limited vascular cambial development, and a cortex that remains largely intact through development indicate that at least lateral growth of calamopityacean shoots was determinate. Preliminary observations indicate that the ontogenetic model derived here from Calamopitys is applicable to other members of the Calamopityaceae, and in part to other early seed plants as well. However, the massive and complex calamopityacean cortex is unique among early seed plants and is probably a consequence of the production of large compound leaves in these plants. In assessing functional, ecological, and evolutionary significance of these features, it is necessary to consider them as manifestations of the same developmental process in the plant as a whole rather than as isolated functional units.
2474896|In peach, which is self-compatible, the stigma was found to actively secrete RNase. This stigmatic RNase was developmentally regulated, reaching maximum activity at the beginning of anthesis. A major 21-kD stigmatic RNase was detected by SDS-PAGE. Both this 21-kD stigmatic RNase and pancreatic RNaseA significantly inhibited pollen germination and pollen tube length in vitro. Pollen tube length was fully recovered in the presence of RNA as a competitive inhibitor of the 21-kD stigmatic RNase. These in vitro studies appear to indicate that in peach, the 21-kD RNase plays a role in the pollination process.
40072492|A cell system of two
10.1086/667230|We present the first ultrastructural study of stomatal development in the living fossil gymnosperm species
20533032|As seed and fruit size can influence the success of later life history stages, it is important to understand their sources of variation. In this study, we examined the effects of pollen load and donor diversity on variation in seed and fruit mass of outcrossing senita cacti (
2995782|This article documents the differentiation among populations for quantitative traits and for achene morph proportions in the heterocarpic species
2995610|Development of capitate glands on the leaves of annual wormwood (Artemisia annua L.) was monitored with scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Differentiation of foliar cells into gland cells began in the youngest leaf primordia. After differentiation into a 10-celled biseriate structure of two stalk cells, two basal cells, and three pairs of secretory cells, the cuticle of the six secretory cells separated from the cell walls to form a bilobed sac that eventually splits to release its contents. At every developmental stage, the cells of the the gland contained relatively little vacuolar volume. The secretory cells contained extensive endoplasmic reticulum. The plastids of each cell pair were different. At maturity, the apical cells contained proplastids or leucoplasts with only occasional thylakoids. The cell pair below the apical cell pair contained amorphous chloroplasts without starch grains. The basal cell pair contained proplastids or leucoplasts and the stalk cells contained chloroplasts. The stroma to thylakoid ratio in the secretory cell chloroplasts was high. Initially, osmiophilic product was observed most frequently associated with stacked thylakoids, plastid envelopes, and smooth endoplasmic reticulum, although it was associated with all cell membranes. Near the plasma membrane adjacent to cell walls bordering the subcuticular space, the cytoplasm was enriched in smooth endoplasmic reticulum containing osmiophilic material. The apical cell wall of the apical secretory cell pair was reticulated on the inner cytoplasmic side and contained osmiophilic staining on the cuticular side. During early senescence, osmiophilic product was commonly associated with outer mitochondrial membranes.
IJPS41258|Petrified woods from the Eocene Bridger Formation of Big Sandy Reservoir, southwestern Wyoming, were examined to assess their diversity and systematic affinities. They are assigned to
10.1086/648991|The earliest known Asian records of
2475301|The meiotic chromosome pairing behavior of hybrids between diploid (2n = 2x = 20) and tetraploid (2n = 4x = 40) cytotypes of weeping, boer, and lehmann lovegrasses was analyzed to better understand relationships within and between the Eragrostis curvula and Eragrostis lehmanniana complexes. Within the E. curvula complex, the mean chromosome pairing behavior of the diploid weeping x tetraploid weeping hybrid was 8.68 I + 8.60 II + 1.37 III; diploid boer x diploid weeping hybrids was 0.36 I + 9.82 II; and diploid boer x tetraploid weeping hybrids was 7.05 I + 6.83 II + 3.10 III. Thus boer and weeping lovegrasses are closely related and have similar genomes. Boer lovegrass appears to be correctly classified as a botanical variety of E. curvula. In comparing the two complexes, tetraploid boer was crossed with diploid lehmann and a tetraploid cold-hardy lehmann (CHL) type. The mean pairing behavior of the tetraploid boer x diploid lehmann hybrids was 9.16 I + 9.03 II + 0.92 III and of the tetraploid boer x CHL hybrids was 1.50 I + 18.24 II + 0.01 III + 0.51 IV. Lehmann, particularly the CHL type, and boer lovegrasses appear to have similar genomes and thus a common ancestry. Although members of these two complexes have the same genomic constitution and could be considered one complex, data from other research indicate that they are genetically isolated and are best treated as separate species. Those hybrids with an apomictic male parent were facultative diplosporous apomicts. However, there was evidence of aposporous development in some ovules of the diploid boer x tetraploid weeping hybrid.
10.1086/677680|
               
2995643|The organization and morphogenesis of the ovarian transmitting tissue in Lilium regale, as seen with the light microscope, is presented. The cells in the uppermost part of the ovary form a transition region possessing a structure intermediate between that of the stylar canal and the epithelial cells of the placenta. Placental cells have a typical papillose shape with a dense cytoplasm and large nucleus. Characteristic cell wall ingrowths appear in the epithelium of the transition region shortly before anthesis, in cells of the upper ovary on the day of anthesis, and in the mid-ovary on the day after anthesis. These wall ingrowths increase in depth and complexity, forming a distinct and intricate pattern similar to the "secretion zone" characterizing the transfer cells of Lilium stylar canals. At maturity a prominent zone of vesicles appears in these cells just below the cell wall thickenings. Prismatic crystals, which give a positive reaction for protein with Coomassie blue, are present in some secretory cells but more frequently in parenchyma cells. The epithelial cells in the ovary follow a basipetal order of maturation. Pollination is not required for the maturation.
2475014|Morphological and anatomical responses of Lythrum salicaria L. to an imposed water gradient were assessed under greenhouse conditions. Nine-week-old seedlings were exposed to three levels of water availability for an 8-wk period. Fresh and dry mass of the shoot, root, and entire plant, shoot fresh:dry mass ratios, root:shoot fresh mass ratios, and root:shoot dry mass ratios were not significantly affected by water availability. Total fresh:dry mass ratios were significantly lower in the dry treatment compared with the wet, while root fresh:dry mass ratios were significantly greater in the intermediate and wet treatments. Total stem diameter and porosity was generally higher in submersed portions of flooded stems and roots, while tissue density was generally lower under these conditions. Stem diameter excluding the phellem did not differ among treatments. The total root diameter to diameter excluding phellem showed significant increases with increasing water availability. Adventitious and lateral roots in primary growth from all plants possessed an endodermis with Casparian bands and subsequently suberin lamellae and a modified, uniseriate hypodermis. Submerged stems and roots in secondary growth possessed a multilayered, lacunate polyderm, while nonsubmerged stems and roots had a compact, multilayered polyderm. Fluorescent properties of walls of some cells in the root and stem polyderm indicate that these cells share features with endodermal cells.
10.1086/650157|In many insectpollinated angiosperms, stamens are grown with anthers cohered, which might affect pollination processes, but the ecological significance of this fusion of anthers remains unexplored. We studied the breeding system and pollination process of didynamous
3691721|Variation in plant functional traits results from evolutionary and environmental drivers that operate at a variety of different scales, which makes it a challenge to differentiate among them. In this article we describe patterns of functional trait variation and trait correlations within and among habitats in relation to several environmental and tradeoff axes. We then ask whether such patterns reflect natural selection and can be considered plant strategies. In so doing we highlight evidence that demonstrates that (1) patterns of trait variation across resource and environmental gradients (light, water, nutrients, and temperature) probably reflect adaptation, (2) plant trait variation typically involves multiplecorrelated traits that arise because of inevitable tradeoffs among traits and across levels of wholeplant integration and that must be understood from a wholeplant perspective, and (3) such adaptation may be globally generalizable for like conditions; i.e., the set of traits (collections of traits in syndromes) of taxa can be considered as plant strategies.
IJPS41114|We describe three members of the pantropical family Icacinaceae from the Eocene Claiborne Group of Tennessee and Mississippi, providing the first recognition of this family from the Mississippi Embayment of southeastern North America.
10.1086/664710|Polyploidy belongs to the most striking factors in plant evolution. To address the role of allo- versus autopolyploid speciation in natural polyploids, we studied species of the oatlike genus
3691539|
               
3691839|Rhizomes and stipe bases of dennstaedtiaceous ferns occur within a rich assemblage of permineralized plant fossils in the Upper Cretaceous Horseshoe Canyon Formation of southern Alberta, Canada. Two dennstaedtiaceous species are represented by procumbent rhizomes that branch frequently and produce closely spaced fronds. The dorsiventral rhizomes produce fronds from the top and sides and produce adventitious roots from the lower surface. Both species are assigned to the morphogenus
10.1086/657649|The Eocene Princeton Chert locality of southern British Columbia, Canada, provides data to develop organismal concepts for several species of fossil plants, including the first extinct species of Pinaceae,
10.1086/664715|
               
2995589|Ustilago hordei is a fungal pathogen of barley that causes covered smut disease. During asexual growth, this fungus reproduces as haploid uninucleate budding yeastlike cells (sporidia) that are nonpathogenic. Mating of sporidia, which is controlled by a single mating-type locus with two alleles, results in the formation of pathogenic dikaryotic mycelia. When sporidia of the opposite mating type with nonallelic auxotrophic mutations were plated together on minimal medium, yeastlike colonies grew at a frequency of 1 x 10<sup>-6</sup>. These cultures formed mycelia on charcoal agar, confirming the presence of both mating-type genes. These cells had a single nucleus, as determined by fluorescence microscopy, and protoplasts had a volume approximately twice that of protoplasts derived from haploid cells. Flow cytometry of haploid and suspected diploid cells treated with the fluorescent DNA stain propidium iodide showed that the diploids had roughly twice the DNA content of haploid cells. Pulsed field gel electrophoresis confirmed the presence in the putative diploid cells of chromosomes with unique sizes from both parental haploid strains. Diploids grown under nonselective conditions for six to 23 generations remained stable. Diploid strain W-7 was solopathogenic, i.e., capable of infecting the host when used as the sole inoculum. Sporidia isolated from teliospores from barley infected with strain W-7 contained all possible combinations of auxotrophic markers and mating-type genes. Taken together, our results confirm that stable diploids of U. hordei were formed.
2995809|Tracheary elements from macerations of roots and rhizomes of
3691814|We compared the floral biology of female, male, and cosexual plants in sympatric populations of
2995762|Plants are ideal organisms for studying genotypic and environmental influences on developmental stability. Because they may have numerous leaves, flowers, and stems, one can study variation in developmental stability in a single individual. Moreover, one often has sufficient degrees of freedom to test for differences in developmental stability among individuals. Nevertheless, withinplant variation in developmental stability can be a potential problem. Leaf size and asymmetry in the common fig,
10.1086/666660|A novel coniferous tree trunk,
3691641|The Early Devonian herbaceous plant
3691748|We examined clinal variation in flowering time in a series of
3080081|Some models of sex allocation predict that if male fitness gains decelerate faster than female fitness gains with increasing size, then plants should increase allocation to female function with increasing plant size. We tested this prediction in a gynodioecious (females and hermaphrodites) wild strawberry by manipulating plant size in clonally replicated genotypes, by handpollinating with pollen from unrelated donors, and by measuring sex allocation response at two levels: among flowers and within flowers. These methods avoided potential confounding factors that can occur in studies of sizebased allocation under natural conditions, such as genotypebased variation in size, and sizebased variation in pollen limitation or selfpollination. They also allow us to determine if inflorescence architecture represented a constraint on the response to plant size. We found that a 75% increase in the vegetative size of hermaphrodites resulted in 78% more flowers, 91% more fruits, 10% more pollen per flower, and 16% more ovules per flower. These responses to plant size represent a significant modification of phenotypic gender at the withinflower level (pollen:ovule ratio) but not at the amongflower level (fruit:flower ratio). We also found that while female plants enhanced flower and fruit allocation with plant size to the same degree as hermaphrodites, they increased ovule number per flower to a greater degree. Sex differential effects of plant size such as those just described could influence breeding system evolution if they alter the relative seed fertility of the sex morphs. We also found that inflorescence architecture modified the response to plant size. Specifically, the effect of plant size on ovule number was strongest in basal positions and was absent at the most distal position. This, combined with a trend in the opposite direction for pollen production, resulted in positiondependent pollen:ovule ratios. Small plants had higher pollen:ovule ratios than large plants at the primary (basal) position, equivalent ratios at intermediate positions, and lower ratios at the quaternary (distal) position. We suggest that this architectural variation in response to plant size may result from structural limitations or physiological tradeoffs within the inflorescence.
2475325|The development of the peristomial region of the capsule in the Funariales was investigated for species of the genera Funaria, Physcomitrium, Aphanorrhegma, Ephemerum, Splachnum, and Tetraplodon. A six-layer amphithecium is formed in Funaria, and the peristome differentiates from the three innermost layers. In Physcomitrium, Aphanorrhegma, and Ephemerum, the amphithecium is composed of five, four, and three layers, respectively, but no peristome is formed. The developmental pattern is nearly identical among all taxa examined. The cell-division sequence appears to be truncated in the more reduced taxa, Ephemerum and Aphanorrhegma. In the more distal regions of the capsule the entire division sequence is not completed, demonstrating the need to make comparisons at the level of the annulus. At the completion of development, cells of the primary peristomial layer swell slightly, but insufficiently to cause displacement of aligned cell walls. In all of the taxa examined, excluding Aphanorrhegma, a 4:2:4 aligned peristomial formula was observed at some point in development. These data support the systematic placement of the Ephemeraceae and Splachnaceae within the Funariales.
10.1086/667233|Seeds of Vitaceae and Leeaceae are recognized from the late Early Oligocene of Beln, near Talara, northern coastal Peru. Reexamination of fossils described by Berry in the 1920s, supplemented by newly collected specimens, leads us to accept his identifications of
3080323|We measured resorption of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), copper (Cu), manganese (Mn), and zinc (Zn) in the fronds and trophopods of 12 populations of a winterdeciduous fern,
10.1086/658152|Two alien
3080042|The genus
3080245|Somatic embryos of hybrid larch (
10.1086/671796|
               
3080269|Plantinsect interactions are readily identifiable in the fossil record when insect activities cause damage to plant tissues, for example, leaf mining, piercing, galls. However, the inference of insect pollination of extinct plants usually must be based on comparative morphology of plants and insects or based on phylogenetic relationships and pollination habits of extant taxa. The presence of insect coprolites can provide additional evidence supporting the inference of plantinsect interactions based on the morphology and composition of the fossilized feces. In this article, we describe
3080119|Multiple isoforms of  and tubulin accumulate in higher plant cells, including cotton (
10.1086/649023|Colonization may favor selfcompatibility (SC) in invasive plants, a process consistent with Bakers law. We investigated this hypothesis in invasive eastern North American populations of tristylous
3691661|EndPermian palynological assemblages worldwide are characterized by large numbers of unseparated tetrads of lycopsid microspores and occasional megaspore tetrads. These spores are assignable to the form genera
3691816|Nucleotide sequences of six regions from three plant genomes
3691860|A new species of the extinct genus
2995689|It has been hypothesized that within agamic complexes, apomixis acts to preserve fertility in wide crosses. Through hybridization studies with two facultative (partially sexual) Pennisetum species (P. flaccidum and P. mezianum), n + n (B<sub>II</sub>) and 2n + n (B<sub>III</sub>) sexual, facultative, and obligate apomictic hybrids were obtained. The objectives of this study were to determine the frequency for wide-cross B<sub>III</sub> hybrids in an agamic complex and to compare fertility of B<sub>II</sub> and B<sub>III</sub> hybrids. Sexual all hybrids derived from hybridization of P. flaccidum with P. mezianum were always highly sterile because of male and female abortion, while obligate apomictic B<sub>II</sub> hybrids obtained through pseudogamy were fertile when supplied with viable pollen. All B<sub>III</sub> hybrids from fertilization of 2n apomictic eggs were highly fertile regardless of mode of reproduction. The ability to recover obligate apomictic B<sub>III</sub> hybrids allowed for transfer of whole genomes to the female chromosome complement and to synthesize new, fertile, true breeding 2n + n genotypes.
30113534|Four natural populations of
2995612|Biotic interactions between plants and microorganisms have the potential to be affected by acidic precipitation. I examined the effect of simulated sulfuric acid rain on the mutualism between a perennial forage grass (Festuca arundinacea) and a fungal endophyte (Acremonium coenophialum). Acid water was supplied as mists sprayed onto leaf surfaces or as water added to the soil for two groups in a greenhouse: one group had high levels of endophyte infection, while the other was predominantly noninfected. Control plants received distilled water (pH 6), while others received sulfuric acid water at pH 4.5 or pH 3. Plants were harvested after 4, 6, 8, and 23 wk. Leaf endophyte infection intensity as measured by hyphal counts was not affected by acid water treatment. Root mass and root: shoot ratios generally decreased with increasing acidity of both foliar sprays and soil water, but shoot mass was mostly not affected. There was a significant pH x infection interaction for plants exposed to acidic foliar sprays for 4 wk; root and shoot mass decreased with acidity, but only for infected plants. In the acidic water experiment, noninfected plants often had fewer tillers and lower mass than infected plants. It was found that acid rain may be deleterious to tall fescue growth at specific stages of development, but biomass production in response to acid rain is not likely to be influenced by fungal endophytes within mature plants.
10.1086/647918|The arctic biome is a relatively young ecosystem with 2300 species of vascular plants. We studied the genus
3080117|The genus
3691656|Clonal plants may translocate photosynthates, water, and nutrients from established (source) ramets to developing (sink) ramets. The sink/source hypothesis states that photosynthesis may be regulated, at least in part, by the balance between source and sink tissues. We investigated the influence of physiological integration on photosynthetic efficiencies to test predictions based on the sink/source hypothesis that photosynthetic efficiencies in parent ramets may be increased by the assimilate demand made by connected offspring ramets. We grew parent ramets of
2475039|Procambial development has been followed in serial transections of spikelet primordia of Muhlenbergia torreyana. An isolated procambial strand differentiates in the node subjacent to the site of the median region of the lemma primordium. Distal to the lemma median procambial strand, two pairs of procambial lemma laterals differentiate to join it. Acropetal differentiation of the lemma lateral procambia is distracted from the lemma toward other floret organs by the latters' procambial strands. The actual connection of the lemma marginal lateral traces with the margins of the lemma is achieved by capturing bundles originating near the lemma margins. The procambial lemma intermediate lateral traces never reach the lemma. Therefore, a developmental explanation is furnished for the three-nerved lemma characteristic of many chloridoid and arundinoid genera. Comparisons of procambial development among genera of the subfamilies of grasses may help reveal phylogenetic relationships.
3080281|The formation of stem strips through partial cambial dieback occurs in a number of longlived woody species and appears to be associated with old age, slow growth, and habitat adversity. The reason for this association is unknown, and investigations of the cause of stem stripping have been impeded by the strong correlation among the associated factors themselves. Hydraulic sectoring of the xylem is thought to be necessary for stem stripping to occur, and we hypothesize that loss of hydraulic conductance by permanent cavitation of tracheids in parts of the xylem is the first step in stem strip formation. The aim of this study was to identify characteristics of
3691810|A single variegated mutant tree of
3691795|Numerous phylogenetic analyses and recent paleobotanical findings continue to support the inclusion of Nymphaeales as basal or nearbasal extant angiosperms. The distinctive differences in floral morphology and habit between nonNymphaealian taxa of the ANITA grade compared with water lilies, nevertheless, remain perplexing. In this investigation, scanning electron microscope observations on
10.1086/662030|In common with the single extant species of the water fern
40072562|Cross, or commissural, veins (cveins) of
2474955|The organogenesis of inflorescences, flowers, and fruits was followed for 2 yr in a male and a female tree of eastern cottonwood, Populus deltoides. Soon after anthesis, an inflorescence for the next year is initiated as a continuation of the apical meristem in most axillary buds of the extension shoot of the current year. Bract and then floral primordia arise helically, and by the end of summer all floral appendages are evident. Individual perianth parts are evident early in ontogeny but not at anthesis; they are vascularized independently by distal traces of discrete vascular strands that also serve the androecium or gynoecium. The stamens arise and are vascularized in centrifugal order, the first- and last-formed stamens receiving their traces from the proximal and subdistal divisions, respectively, of the discrete vascular strands serving groups of stamens. There is no external evidence of stamen fascicles. Centrifugal polyandry is interpreted as a derived state in Populus. The usual number of carpels in P. deltoides is three, but two and four are not rare, and two is probably the plesiomorphic state for the genus.
2475200|An Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system, based on the neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPTII) gene, is described for the apomictic plant Hieracium aurantiacum. Integration of forcign DNA was confirmed by Southern analysis and its expression demonstrated by assaying for NPTII enzymatic activity. NPTII activity, which confers kanamycin resistance, was inherited by clonal seedlings of transformed plants. Growth of untransformed seedlings was inhibited by 20 mg/L kanamycin, while transformants continued to grow at 300 mg/L. The clarity of the response, together with the convenience of screening at the seedling stage, makes kanamycin resistance a valuable tool for quantifying reproductive mechanisms in facultatively apomictic plants of this species.
10.1086/657279|Gender-dimorphic species often display a degree of sexual dimorphism in terms of life-history traits, yet little is known about dimorphism in androdioecious plants. Here we investigate sexual dimorphism in an androdioecious population of the wind-pollinated herb
2475025|Tubular epicuticular wax (EW) filaments on Sorghum bicolor were shown to be secreted from smooth conical papillae within the apical walls of epidermal cork cells. Ultrastructural changes during light-induced EW secretion were examined in wild-type plants and near-isogenic mutants with reduced total EW deposition. Our results indicated that cork cell ER membranes were involved in the production of epicuticular wax precursors (EWPs). The density of ER increased during light exposure and preceded EW synthesis. The increase in ER was directly related to total EW deposition on wild-type and mutant abaxial sheaths. The orientation of ER membranes toward papillae secretion sites indicated that EWP may undergo ER-mediated directional transport. The high vesicle density in cytoplasmic extensions under papillae indicated that EWPs were vesiculated for exocytosis at the papillar secretion sites. Osmiophilic globules did not appear to be direct EWPs as previously reported. Osmiophilic globules in cork cells were never present in cell walls, cuticles, vesicles, or preferentially associated with ER; globules were randomly dispersed in the cytoplasm and rarely present during the EW-induction period. Distinct microchannels or pores were not evident in the cell wall or cuticle layers, indicating that EWPs diffused to the surface. Wall swellings near the base of papillae where a dense-staining wall modification first contacts the cuticle and where EW filaments emerge indicate a potential preferred pathway for EWP transport. An osmiophilic layer within apical cork cell walls appears to function in EW secretion; however, its exact role is yet unclear.
2995767|
               
2475092|The influence of shoot growth on the pattern of axillary development was investigated in apple (Malus domestica Borkh. cv. Braeburn) long shoots, either monopodial (all the metamers are produced by the same meristem) or sympodial (composed by a proximal inflorescence, the bourse, and a relay-axis, the bourse-shoot). All of the studied shoots were characterized by the formation of two growth flushes during the same year. The study first involved measuring primary growth components of individual metamers (leaf size and length of the internode below) in the year of shoot growth. Then, for each metamer, the type of related axillary structure was noted, either during the same year (anticipated axillary shoots) or during the next one after budbreak. In the latter case, five types of axillary structures were distinguished: vegetative axis, inflorescences from which fruit was set, inflorescences from which fruit was not set, aborted bud, and blind node. The first analysis compared the two growth flushes. It showed that the distribution of types of axillary structure in the first flush of growth differed considerably between monopodial and sympodial shoots in that monopodial shoots tended to have more inflorescence buds and anticipated laterals than sympodial shoots, which had more blind nodes. The distribution of types of axillary structure was rather similar in the second growth flushes of both monopodial and sympodial shoots. The second analysis substantiated the significant role of the parent metamer in determining the absence, if under a minimal size, or the presence of vegetative or generative branching. The third analysis showed a high dependence between the types of axillary structure of adjacent metamers along a given growth flush. This spatial analysis revealed the following order between types of axillary structure: blind node, vegetative bud, inflorescence bud that did not set fruit later in the season, and finally, inflorescence bud that set fruit. When proceeding from the proximal to the distal part of a growth flush, axillary structures were ranked as described above and then in the reverse sense. Since these axillary structures are known to correspond to various numbers of preformed appendages, these results suggested that the location of a metamer on a shoot strongly conditioned the axillary organogenetic activity. The shoot growth characteristics, notably the presence of successive growth flushes in the same annual increment, not only conditioned the location of vegetative side branches but also influenced the distribution of blind nodes and inflorescences.
3874609|The nectary of
10.1086/678086|
               
3080301|Evolutionary variation for accumulation of small heat shock protein (sHsp) may contribute to thermal niche differentiation between species. Here we examine temperature and timecoursedependent variation for sHsp accumulation in a recently diverged pair of
10.1086/676972|
               
2475130| The floral ontogeny of four species of Phytolacca (P. acinosa, P. clavigera, P. dodecandra, and P. americana) shows major differences in the number and position of stamens and carpels. Five sepals are always formed in a 2/5 sequence. The number of stamens is mostly eight, with a sequential initiation: six outer stamens are arranged in three pairs opposite sepals 1-3; single stamens stand opposite sepals 4-5, except for P. americana, where all antesepalous stamens are positioned in pairs (10 stamens rather than eight). The stamens of the first, second, and third pair arise simultaneously as independent entities. The stamens of the third pair occasionally arise sequentially and are displaced in relation to the third sepal. Stamens opposite sepals 4 and 5 follow sequentially. The delayed plastochron of the stamens opposite sepal 3 indicates that the pentamerous flower has been derived from a trimerous precursor. Phytolacca dodecandra has 10 stamens arising in a different sequence: the five inner stamens are alternisepalous and the five outer, antesepalous, thus resembling diplostemony. The alternisepalous stamens correspond positionally to the two pairs opposite sepals 1-2 in other species, plus one stamen between sepals 3 and 5. The outer antesepalous stamens appear later and correspond to single stamens opposite sepals 3-4-5 in the other species, with two extra stamens opposite sepals 1-2. In other species a variable number of outer stamens may arise centrifugally in alternate whorls. The number of carpels corresponds with the number of stamens in the inner androecial whorl. Each carpel consists of a free abaxial part and an adaxial, continuous ovule-bearing part. Our data of the androecial ontogeny refute the existence of diplostemony in the Phytolaccaceae, with P. dodecandra occupying a pivotal position. It is suggested that the paired arrangement of stamens in Phytolacca is a basic condition in the family and is not the result of ddoublement. The centrifugal initiation of outer stamens is believed to reflect a reversal in the direction of stamen initiation and is not linked with a secondary stamen multiplication. 
2995641|Chloroplast structure in mesophyll cells from the high-level abscisic acid (ABA) line of maize (Zea mays L.), ZPBL 1304, and the low-level ABA line, ZPL 389, was studied in response to leaf dehydration and high temperature (45 C). Thirteen-day-old seedlings were exposed to 7-d soil drying followed by either 6-h or 24-h heat stress. Seven-day soil drying followed by 6-h high-temperature stress did not affect chloroplasts in line ZPBL 1304 but damaged many chloroplasts of line ZPL 389; chloroplast-envelope membranes were broken and not distinct, and many thylakoids were swollen. Seven-day soil drying followed by 24-h heat stress affected chloroplasts in both lines, but changes in chloroplast structure were greater in ZPL 389 than in ZPBL 1304. The main damage to the chloroplasts in ZPBL 1304 included thylakoid swelling, disruption of the chloroplast envelope, and distortion of chloroplast shape. Chloroplasts in ZPL 389 suffered severe damage: their shape was irregular, envelope membranes were not visible, grana were barely recognizable, and many lipid droplets were visible inside the chloroplast. Modifications in chloroplast structure were reversible in ZPBL 1304. Chloroplasts in ZPL 389 were irreversibly damaged after heating for 24 h. Chloroplast structure differences between lines under stress conditions were likely the result of genotypic differences in leaf dehydration, and possibly the result of genotypic differences in thermal stability of chloroplast membranes. The results support the hypothesis that higher levels of endogenous ABA can indicate drought and heat resistance in maize.
10.1086/670237|
               
10.1086/667612|By using microsatellite markers, we investigated the population genetic structure of three mainly clonally propagating bryophyte speciesthe hepatic
3691842|The early flowering lines of flax (
3691762|Polyploid plants are typically geographically separated from their diploid progenitors, but it is rarely known whether this segregation is maintained by habitat differentiation or by selection against triploid hybrids. We tested for habitat differentiation between diploid and tetraploid populations of
IJPS41278|In the Melastomataceae, flowers with superior ovaries usually develop into capsular fruits, while flowers with inferior or partially inferior ovaries develop into berries. The phylogenetic position and affinities of four enigmatic genera with inferior ovaries and capsular fruits,
20533015|The seed of the parasitic angiosperm
2474889|Cytological and morphological characteristics of a proposed new species, Elymus hoffmanni Jensen & Asay, are described. This species is cytologically stable and is genomically similar to Elymus repens (L.) Gould (SSSSHH) (= Agropyron repens [L.] P. Beauv and Elytrigia repens [L.] Nevski) and the cultivar NewHy (SSSSHH), but morphologically different from E. repens. Elymus hoffmanni has longer leaves, shorter awns on the glumes, and less rhizome development, and it is taller than the cultivar NewHy. Elymus hoffmanni was crossed with E. repens and the cultivar NewHy hybrid wheatgrass (2n = 6x = 42). A natural hybrid between E. hoffmanni and the cultivar Hycrest crested wheatgrass (2n = 4x = 28, PPPP) was identified from open-pollinated progeny of E. hoffmanni. Meiosis of E. hoffmanni was characterized as an autoallohexaploids with a mean chromosome association of 1.63 I + 17.87 II + 0.35 III + 0.67 IV + 0.04 V per cell. Mean chromosome associations were 1.88 I + 19.12 II + 0.16 III 0.46 + IV per cell in the hybrids of E. repens x E. hoffmanni, 1.63 I + 19.43 II + 0.22 III + 0.31 IV + 0.01 V per cell in NewHy x E. hoffmanni hybrids, and 9.22 I + 12.74 II + 0.40 III + 0.02 IV in E. hoffmanni x Hycrest hybrids. Based on chromosome pairing in hybrids with E. repens and NewHy and its morphological uniqueness from E. repens, we propose E. hoffmanni as a new species originating from a primitive hybrid between E. repens and the bluebunch wheatgrasses (Pseudoroegneria spp.) of Turkey.
3080161|The reality of the eastern Asianeastern North American disjunct biogeographic pattern is supported by (1) the occurrence of closely related species in many plant genera in these two widely distributed areas, (2) the high level of morphological similarities of species within these disjunct genera, and (3) the degree of morphological similarity between some corresponding species in more widely distributed genera of the Northern Hemisphere. Most disjunct genera are supported to be monophyletic, although some are found to be paraphyletic and, less commonly, polyphyletic. The disjunct pattern shown by many genera largely represents relict distributions of the Tertiary and is the product of complex processes such as migration/dispersal, extinction, speciation, vicariance, and stasis. The retention of morphological similarities among the many corresponding disjunct taxa may have arisen by morphological stasis and/or low rates of morphological evolution. Furthermore, accelerated rates of morphological evolution may have occurred in close relatives living in subtropical/tropical regions as well as in western North America. This may have highlighted plesiomorphic morphological similarities between eastern Asia and eastern North America, making them more detectable and more heavily emphasized by systematists in the past. Molecular and phylogenetic results support the importance of the Middle to Late Tertiary in the formation of the disjunct pattern for many temperate taxa. There is phylogenetic and molecular evidence that thermophilic and/or evergreen groups may have diverged earlier, corresponding to the Early Eocene pattern that has been inferred based on fossil evidence.
2474933|Localization of proteins to chloroplasts is thought to be unaffected by heat stress, and this idea has influenced the interpretation of heat stress effects on photosynthesis. Here we show that a nuclear-encoded plastid heat-shock protein (Hsp) accumulated in the cytosol of plants that were grown at 27
IJPS41185|Phylogenetic relationships of
4124882|Homology assessments are critical to comparative biological studies. Although gene expression data have been proposed as instrumental for defining homologous relationships, several lines of evidence suggest that this type of data can be misleading if used in isolation. The correspondence between the homology of genes and that of structures is not simple, and conclusions can be derived only after careful examination of all available data. For instance, the MADSbox gene family is one of the beststudied families of transcription factors, and it provides several examples of dissociation between genetic and morphological homology. In this regard, we examine the role of
4124880|Current phylogenetic studies indicate that the closest relatives to land plants are among the charophycean green algae, which have a gametophytedominant life cycle and lack a multicellular sporophyte generation. Land plants evolved a multicellular sporophyte generation and organs with complex tissue and cell differentiation. A number of genes in nonflowering plants homologous to the developmental genes in flowering plants have been isolated, and their roles during evolution have been hypothesized from expression patterns. Genetic manipulation is necessary to show the gene function implicated by expression patterns. In addition to studies in established model organisms, such as
3691623|The gametophytic generation of the allotetraploid
3691706|The floral ontogeny of
2474973|The possible involvement of cytoskeletal elements in fiber initiation was examined using cotton (Gossypium hirsutum, variety MD 51) ovules grown in culture. Ovules cultured in the presence of 1 x 10
2475225|A new genus and species (Eopolytrichum antiquum) of the moss family Polytrichaceae are described for fossil sporophyte capsules and associated gametophytes from the early Campanian (Late Cretaceous) Buffalo Creek Member of the Gaillard Formation in central Georgia, U.S.A. The capsules show diagnostic features of the Polytrichaceae but differ from those of all extant genera. The capsules are terete in cross section, somewhat dorsiventrally flattened, and have a swollen, asymmetrical apophysis and mammillose exothecium. Stomatal complexes, each surrounded by a ring of subsidiary cells, are confined to the apophysis. The operculum is tall and dome shaped, but the calyptra and beak of the operculum are not preserved. The remains of a peristomial membrane are present around the rim of the capsule after the operculum has dehisced, but peristome teeth are absent, and the epiphragm is retained in the operculum. Spores are alete, spherical, and echinulate. Associated sterile and fertile gametophytes have leaves with adaxial, presumed photosynthetic, lamellae on the blade surface in addition to other anatomical structures comparable to extant Polytrichaceae. Inadequacies in the moss fossil record have led to contrasting interpretations as to the age of the origin of mosses and the extent of evolutionary change in the group since the Paleozoic. These fossils, which represent the first unequivocal polytrichaceous sporophytes known from the fossil record, along with other fossil mosses from this early Campanian locality, provide the first definitive evidence of modern families of mosses in the Cretaceous and demonstrate that mosses were already diverse by approximately 80 million years before present.
3691650|Analysis of annual rings in the secondary root xylem is a relatively new approach to gain a posteriori insight into individual and population life history of perennial dicotyledonous herbs (herbchronology). Until now, herbchronology has involved manual analysis, which is limited by low reproducibility and comparability and which requires considerable time and expertise from the researcher. We have therefore developed an automated image analysis system (Root Xylem Analysis System [ROXAS]) to improve the standardization and efficiency of conventional herbchronological analysis. Digital images of stained root cross sections are used by ROXAS to automatically extract xylem vessels according to morphometric criteria. Annual rings are detected by pattern algorithms that analyze the local anatomical context of each vessel. Besides growth parameters, such as annual ring width and area, parameters related to functional root anatomy, such as vessel area or vessel density, are automatically calculated. We evaluated the results produced by ROXAS, using six individuals from each of five perennial plant species representing a variety of taxonomic groups and anatomical root patterns. All species were conducive to automated analysis, which was six times faster than the manual method. Overall, 95% of all annual rings and 98% of all vessels were correctly identified. Accuracy of automated ring width measurements tended to be slightly higher than that of manual analysis, ranging from 2.1% to 5.3% deviation from reference data for all species. Further anatomical parameters, such as vessel area or vessel density, varied substantially between species, indicating anatomical adaptations of these perennial forbs to the constraints of their specific habitats. Automated herbchronology using ROXAS may therefore prove to be useful for efficient and reproducible analysis of annual growth increments in the roots of forbs and for investigations into their functional root anatomy.
10.1086/667235|
               
10.1086/671808|Evolutionary radiations in growth forms represented key events in the rise of early angiosperm success. However, understanding the directions of early angiosperm growth lability and the traits determining growth form innovations remain unclear. Lianescence appears to represent an early evolved direction of early angiosperm growth form experimentation, owing to occurrence of lianas in the extant, early diverging clade Austrobaileyales. Here we examine biomechanical and hydraulic ecophysiology of
2475067|The effect of the growth regulators naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and gibberellic acid (GA
3691754|Bruniaceae are subendemic to the Cape Floristic Region and represent a characteristic element of the prevalent fynbos vegetation. Their position in the angiosperm system, as well as the intergeneric and infrageneric relationships, has remained unclear. In this study, the phylogeny of Bruniaceae has been reconstructed on the basis of
10.1086/668869|The pollen genus
2995706|Under a modification of the nutrient diversion hypothesis, we propose that an inequality in carbohydrate and nitrogen translocation to the apical meristem may be a controlling factor in floral transition. Experiments were conducted in controlled-environment chambers to determine the associations between microscopic characteristics of the transition from vegetative to floral stages of the apical meristem of fluecured tobacco and to assimilate concentrations in the plant and apical meristem. Low temperature, nitrogen withdrawal, and restriction of nitrogen uptake were used as treatment variables. In all of these stress treatments, flowering occurred at a lesser number of leaves than in control treatments. Low temperature stress accelerated the time of transition to the floral stage as compared with a high temperature control; however, nitrogen stress did not accelerate the time of transition. All stress treatments affected the levels of nitrogen and carbohydrate in whole plants. Most notable was an increase in the percentage of starch and a decrease in the percentage of total soluble carbohydrate induced by the stress treatments. These data indicate that tobacco plants under stress accumulate excess carbohydrate in the form of starch. An apparent inequality in the relative concentrations of carbohydrate and nitrogen in the apical meristem was observed in all treatments at the time of floral transition and is in support of the nutrient diversion hypothesis.
4619842|Dryopteridaceae are a large family of leptosporangiate ferns exhibiting a rich diversity of morphological characteristics and generating many taxonomical controversies. Previous efforts to systematize this large group without a cladistic phylogenetic framework have not reached a consensus on circumscription of the family. In order to circumscribe the family and identify major groups within it, a broadscale phylogenetic analysis was conducted on these ferns plus representatives of putatively related families within the Eupolypods I clade. Two chloroplast loci,
2475283|The specialized leaf anatomy for species of Dendrobium within section Aporum is similar to that of species in section Rhizobium. In both sections leaves are characterized by a unifacial or nearly unifacial surface where the exposed surface is abaxial. However, leaves in section Rhizobium also feature a lacuna submerged in the mesophyll and surrounded by an adaxial epidermis. In contrast, leaves in section Aporum merely present an internal suture that divides the leaf into bilateral halves. These two sections of Dendrobium are hypothesized to be sister taxa because of synapomorphies in their foliar anatomy. A cladistic analysis performed with various anatomical characters of the leaf demonstrates that both groups are monophyletic. Little resolution was found within the anatomically and morphologically distinctive Aporum clade.
40072488|Two types of coniferous ovulate cones borne on leafy twigs are described from the Lower Cretaceous Kachaike Formation in Santa Cruz Province, Argentina. The fossils are impressions and compressions with wellpreserved cuticles. Morphology, anatomy, and ultrastructure were studied using LM, SEM, and TEM. Ovulate cones were assigned to
20533048|
               
3080296|It has been proposed that the diversification of the MADSbox gene family of transcription factors has played a major role in the radiation of land plants. This suggestion is based on the critical roles that these genes play in plant development and the apparent coincidence of key duplication events with major radiations, such as the establishment of the B and C lineages concurrent with the evolution of the seed plants. On a more recent scale, it is also possible that subsequent duplication events have contributed to later morphological diversifications. In order to investigate this possibility, we are studying the evolution of homologs of the petal and stamen identity genes
2475275|The purpose of this study was to investigate pollination, fertilization, and embryogenesis in teak to ascertain possible causes of low fruit and seed set. Three clones representing low, intermediate, and high fruit-production capacity were selected from a clonal seed orchard in East Java. In general, low fruit and seed set were the major constraints in fruit production. The highest percentage of pollinated pistils (45%) occurred 24 h after flower opening (AFO). Most teak pollen germinated and pollen tubes reached the ovary or micropyle 24 h AFO. Some abnormalities in pollen-tube growth were observed. Fertilization occurred within 24 h AFO. Thus, flowers that aborted after 24 h AFO were considered to be fertilized. Entry of the pollen tube was through one of the synergids. The zygote developed into a proembryo 3 d AFO and into a club-shaped embryo 1-2 wk AFO. A heart-shaped embryo developed 4-5 wk AFO and the seed matured 14-16 wk AFO. Fertilized pistils may abort during fruit development and maturation. The major cause of fruit abortion is abnormal development of the endosperm. During early stages of development this caused the zygote to abort, whereas in later stages, it restricted embryo development, resulting in seed abortion. Failure in endosperm development may result from a high incidence of self-pollination.
3691538|The pathogen
40072543|Liverworts are probably the earliestdiverging group of green land plants, but in contrast to mosses and vascular plants, there has been only limited information on the physiology of desiccation tolerance and none on the cytological consequences of de and rehydration in this group. We explore the physiological and cytological effects of drying and rewetting in several desiccationtolerant liverworts and examine parallels with and differences from vascular plants and mosses. Observations were made of waterstress responses and recovery using infrared gas analysis and modulated chlorophyll fluorescence, and structural and ultrastructural changes were observed with light and electron microscopy. Dehydration elicits profound cytological changes: fragmentation of the vacuole, rounding of the chloroplasts and mitochondria with thylakoids, and cristae becoming rearranged but remaining undamaged. These changes closely parallel those seen in mosses and desiccationtolerant vascular plants, as does recovery of the chlorophyllfluorescence parameter
30139305|Evolutionary transitions from outcrossing to selfing are expected to cause a reduction in the effective population size and a corresponding increase in fixation rates of slightly deleterious mutations and decrease in fixation of advantageous mutations. Despite these predictions, evidence from genomic data does not suggest a significant reduction in the efficacy of selection associated with high levels of selffertilization. Here, we discuss opportunities for selfing populations to avoid an irreversible decline in fitness toward extinction and the implications forgenome evolution. Most directly, large population sizes and the purging of deleterious recessive mutations can reduce genetic loads and slow the effects of genetic drift. Theory suggests that recombination rates may also evolve in response to the evolution of mating system, which can offset the harmful effects of inbreeding. Cytological data supporting the evolution of higher recombination rates in selfing species should be supplemented with genetic and molecular methods for estimating this parameter. Mutation rates may also evolve to be higher in selfing plants as a result of hitchhiking with advantageous mutations, although this is unlikely to lead to increased fitness. Finally, the abundance and activity of selfish genetic elements may also be reduced in selfing lineages, reducing theaccumulation of transposable elements, B chromosomes, biased gene conversion, and the spread of cytoplasmic male sterility mutations. This reduction in genomic conflict can increase mean fitness, reduce deleterious mutation rates, and reduce genome size. We show, using comparative data, that highly selfing plants have genomes significantly smaller than those of outcrossing relatives, consistent with reduced activity and spread of repetitive elements in inbred plants. We discuss opportunities for tests of theory as plant genomic data accumulate and argue that a genomic perspective on reproductive transitions in a phylogenetic context should provide importantinsights into the diversity of reproductive systems in flowering plants.
2995562|The influence of maternal environment on plant development and seed germination of early- and late-flowering strains of Thlaspi arvense L. was studied. Compared to plants grown at 30<sup></sup>/10<sup></sup>C, those grown at 15<sup></sup>/10<sup></sup>C and 20<sup></sup>/10<sup></sup>C flowered more slowly, were shorter, and grew fewer leaves; seed production, however, was greatest at 20<sup></sup>/10<sup></sup>C. Plants of the late-flowering strain produced more leaves than those of the early-flowering strain, but there were no differences between strains in vegetative dry weight or height at harvest. On average, fresh seeds from plants of the late-flowering strain germinated at a faster rate than those from plants of the early-flowering strain. Seed dormancy increased with increasing temperature in which they developed, thus explaining some of the differences reported in the literature regarding germination of fresh seeds of T. arvense. The evolutionary implications of these results are discussed in relation to the single gene differences between the two strains.
3691615|The phylogeny of Rosoideae was investigated using 44 species. Here we report new sequence data from the chloroplast
30130561|In addition to resource competition, allelopathy is believed to contribute to the invasiveness and impact of several plant invaders of North America. In this study, we examined whether aqueous leaf extracts of
3691612|
               
30139309|In theory, females that reproduce asexually should enjoy a twofold advantage in fitness over sexual females, yet sex remains the predominant mode of reproduction in virtually all eukaryotes. The evolutionary maintenance of sex is especially puzzling in clonal plants because the transition from sexual to exclusively asexual reproduction is an everpresent possibility in these species. In this article, I use published data on the genotypic diversity ofpopulations of clonal plants to test five hypotheses about the ecological situations that limit or favor clonalreproduction in vascular plants. The data were drawn from 248 studies covering 69,000 individuals in >2000 populations of 218 species in 74 plant families. The tests showed the following: (1) the frequency of clonality increases with population age, indicating that clonal reproduction is limited by disturbance; (2) clonal reproduction is limited by dispersal; clones are more frequent in aquatic and apomictic species in which the dispersal of clonally produced propagules is less limiting; (3) clones are more frequent in populations of rare or endangered species; (4) populations of alien plants have higher frequencies of clonality; and (5) clones are more frequent at the edges of species geographical ranges. Thus, it appears that the ultimately successful clonal plant would be a rare, aquatic, alien apomict living in an undisturbed, geographically marginal habitat. Since this combination ofcircumstances is so restrictive, it is perhaps better regarded as a sign of sexual failure than as a recipe for clonal success.
3691531|Disparate sex ratios are a widespread pattern in dioecious bryophytes, with femalebiased ratios especially prevalent in arid environments. The absence of male plants in environments experiencing high desiccation pressure prompted the hypothesis that male plants may be less desiccation tolerant than female plants in the desert moss
3080130|A small permineralized osmundaceous stem has been collected from marine sediments of the Early Cretaceous (Aptian), Upper Chickabally Member of the Budden Canyon Formation near Ono, California. The specimen, 8.5 cm long and 5.4 cm wide, represents a stem surrounded by a mantle of stipular leaf bases and adventitious roots. A large number of sections were studied through the use of the cellulose acetate peel technique. The stem was erect,
3079997|Liquidcultured primary roots of
10.1086/648988|The genus
10.1086/673537|
               
2475272|In Arabidopsis thaliana (Brassicaceae), time to flowering was followed by counting the number of rosette leaves produced before bolting in both wildtype and late-flowering mutant luminidependens-2 plants. Crowding and nutrient and water deprivation decreased the number of rosette leaves produced before bolting. Transplanting whole seedlings, rooting seedlings, rooting shoot tips, and growing plants from seed in enclosed containers also decreased the rosette-leaf number before flowering, with the most drastic reduction being observed for plants grown from seed in enclosed containers. Wildtype strains went from ca. 20 to five rosette leaves, while luminidependens-2 went from ca. 40 to five. In contrast, the number of rosette leaves was not affected when intact seedlings were transplanted to soil or peat pellets in open pots or when leaves were removed. These results indicate that the number of nodes produced before flowering in Arabidopsis is an easily perturbed trait. This documentation of stress-induced node number variation, especially in those transplanting techniques typically used to assay floral determination, indicates that floral developmental states will not be easily assessed in Arabidopsis.
10.1086/679016|
               
3080086|The distribution of tapetal types in basal angiosperms is reviewed both from the literature and new observations in the context of recent phylogenetic analyses. Secretory tapeta predominate among land plants. The majority of basal angiosperms share a secretory tapetum with their anthophyte ancestors. Plasmodial and invasive tapeta are relatively rare in eudicots but have evolved several times among earlybranching angiosperms, especially in monocotyledons, in which they have evolved three or more times. The invasive tapetum has evolved at least four other times independently in basal angiosperms: in Nymphaeaceae, Annonaceae, Monimiaceae, and Winteraceae. Plasmodial tapeta are mostly found in monocotyledons but have evolved at least twice in basal angiosperms, in Annonaceae, and in Hernandiaceae/Lauraceae. This apparent plasticity for a relatively brief but critical time in angiosperm evolution may reflect the early evolution of highly specific pollination syndromes.
2475072|This is a comparative study of variation and growth rates between the widespread grasses Achnatherum (Stipa) lemmonii, Achnatherum (Stipa) thurberiana, and Achnatherum (Stipa) occidentale and their rare relative Achnatherum (Oryzopsis) hendersonii growing in shallow, frost-disturbed soils in central Washington. We assess two hypotheses: rare plants are less variable and do not compete as well as widespread plants. The former thesis will manifest itself in lower variation and more highly constrained integration; the latter by lower growth rates. The rare species usually has a lower growth rate and level of variation, especially in vegetative shoots, which are those most likely to affect survival. For reproductive shoots, A. hendersonii shows weaker integration in terms of the absolute level assessed, but integration appears stronger when relative levels are examined; the results for vegetative shoots are inconsistent. The lower growth rate of A. hendersonii may preclude its survival away from its typical habitat. The lower levels of variation may reflect selection at the native sites of A. hendersonii and thus contribute to its rarity. The lower level of variation in A. hendersonii contrasts with its local abundance at the study site, as compared with the more variable A. lemmonii, A. thurberiana, and A. occidentale. Local abundance combined with a low level of morphological variation may indicate A. hendersonii is genetically depauperate.
3080012|The larval stages of the cynipid wasp
40344027|Maize employs complex mechanisms of gene regulation in response to drought stress. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as a novel regulatory mechanism of gene expression. Drought induces upregulation and downregulation of numerous genes. However, little is known about the role of miRNAs in maize drought response. In this research, miRNA microarray hybridization showed that 34 miRNAs from 13 plant miRNA families had significantly altered expression after drought treatment. Most of the miRNAmediated target genes contained a
2475121|The fossil record of Pseudolarix (Pinaceae) reveals wide distribution in North America and Eurasia from at least the Early Cretaceous (Berriasian) and possibly the Late Jurassic (Portlandian) to the Plio-Pleistocene. Several hundred reproductive and vegetative remains, representing two species of Pseudolarix, were recovered from sediments of Eocene age on Axel Heiberg and Ellesmere Islands, Canadian Arctic Archipelago. These specimens form the basis for reassessment of the fossil record of the genus and evaluation of morphology and variability of seed-cone scales, winged seeds, leaves, and brachioblasts. Unfortunately, most reports of Pseudolarix lack sufficient details of the character traits of the cone scales, particularly those of the bracts, that are required for identification at the species level. Following review of the known fossil record, only two species are recognized, discrimination being based on differences in length and morphology of the bract subtending the cone scale. One species, the short-bracted form, possesses anatomical and morphological features that conform entirely to the living species P. amabilis (Nelson) Rehder. On the basis of the now considerable data available for both living and fossil material, segregation of the fossil as a distinct species cannot be justified. As interpreted, P. amabilis is an extraordinary example of evolutionary stasis. The second species, P wehrii Gooch, a long-bracted form, appears to represent an extinct lineage of limited range. The spatial and temporal distribution pattern of fossil Pseudolarix indicates that displacement between Eurasia and North America from the Late Jurassic/Early Cretaceous to the Plio-Pleistocene occurred through Beringia and the newly defined Spitsbergen Corridor; the North Atlantic routes were apparently not used by Pseudolarix. Displacement into Europe from eastern Asia was delayed until regression of the Turgai Strait and late Tertiary, after significant global climatic deterioration.
3691798|In the flower of the monogeneric family Cyphiaceae, distributed in tropical and southern Africa, a pollen box is formed by the five connivent anthers and the headlike style tip as bottom. Pollen with abundant pollenkitt is released into this box just before anthesis. The flowers either have a salverform shape or are bilabiate with three petals forming the upper lip; transitions between these flower types can also be observed. On the flower biology, we only can speculate the following: (1) Flowers with the pollen box represent the (perhaps longlasting) male phase of anthesis. (2) In the female phase, the anthers are spreading and the mouth of the stylar channel opens presumably by disintegration of closing hairs. A mucilaginous secretion coming out of the mouth may receive the pollen from pollinators. (3) Pollinators of the salverform flowers are presumably butterflies, whereas pollinators of bilabiate flowers are bees. (4) Pollen is presumably applied at the proboscis of the butterflies that comes in contact with the pollen mass between the anthers. If pollinators are bees, pollen may be loaded on the ventral side of the insect (sternotribic pollen loading). The insects may press the pollen box downwith flower orientation more or less horizontalso that pollen comes out of the pollen box between the upper two anthers. The less elaborate pollen presentation in Cyphiaceae is in agreement with a basal position of the family within the Campanulales as indicated by recent molecular studies.
10.1086/655770|The mating environment hypothesis predicts that during a flowering season, dichogamy can result in temporal variation in the number of pollen donors, selecting for variation in allocation to pollen and ovules in flowers at different positions. However, asynchronous flowering changes the probability of pollen transfer, with laterflowering plants having a higher probability of pollen transfer in their firstproduced flowers. We examined the flowering phenology of protandrous
40072509|Dormant axillary buds allow plants to repair minor damage to their canopies. In woody plants, these buds subsequently develop into epicormic structures that may allow vegetative recovery after major disturbances. They are an essential but littlestudied part of the persistence niche. We wondered what bud reserves were present in the leaf axils of northern Australian myrtaceous species, what levels of protection they have, and how this relates to the ecology of these species. Axillary buds of 21 species from 10 genera of northern Australian Myrtaceae were examined anatomically. All species possessed axillary buds in all axils examined, and accessory buds were recorded in 86% of species. The species exhibited an extremely wide range of variationfrom axillary buds that consisted of only an apical dome with no leaf primordia (
3080207|To study the relationship between growth, lignification, and peroxidase (POD) activity, we grew tobacco (
40072486|Bakers law posits that selfcompatible (SC) plants will be more successful than selfincompatible (SI) plants in longdistance colonization because a single propagule can establish a viable population. Oceanic islands represent ideal systems to test Bakers law because insular lineages have, without question, originated from longdistance dispersal. The dilemma of Bakers law is that one propagule of an SC plant would establish a population with low genetic diversity, which could limit subsequent evolution. By contrast, a single propagule from an SI ancestor, having originated from an outcrossing source population, would provide more diversity but could not undergo sexual reproduction. We examined this issue by studying the breeding system of members of the flowering plant genus
3080302|Most parasitic dwarf mistletoes (
40344026|WXP1 is an ethyleneresponsive elementbinding transcription factor that has been shown to lead to improved drought tolerance and increased wax accumulation when overexpressed in transgenic alfalfa under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. In this study, alfalfa was transformed with the
10.1086/667234|A combined genetic and morphometric approach was used to study leaf shape and size variability among three sympatric and interfertile white oak species (
2475328|It is widely thought that the absence of asexuality in the gymnosperms results from difficulties in evolving asexual reproduction. These difficulties have now been overcome under artificially controlled conditions. Specialized cells from suspension cultures of early embryos are shown to combine aposporous diploid parthenogenesis with cleavage. These latent and plastic sequential ontogenetic pathways are traced from isolated embryonal tubes that become initiated as putative central cells and produce binucleate egg-equivalents. In the absence of fertilization or fusion, egg-equivalent nuclei undergo parthenogenesis by forming a neocytoplasm and a thin cell wall. These are released as numerous diploid parthenotic leader cells into the culture medium. Parthenote (early embryo) development from leader cells occurs with a variable free-nuclear stage characteristic of zygotic and somatic proembryos. Parthenote development comprises a cleavage process that reconstitutes new individuals to further multiply a clonal population. The multiplication of free nuclei in egg-equivalents is stimulated by colchicine and directly contributes, through a homokaryotic advantage, to increased numbers of parthenotes and to parthenoclonal variations. The division and multiplication of free nuclei represents an early and latent form of classical cleavage polyembryony in Norway spruce.
2995743|Habitat fragmentation can markedly influence the levels of pollen deposition and seed production in natural populations, and rare plants may be especially susceptible to any associated reductions in pollen quantity and quality. In order to ascertain the potential for pollen limitation of maternal fitness in a rare plant,
IJPS40906|Conflicting selection by pollinators and herbivores is thought to be an important mechanism maintaining variation in flower color within plant populations. However, evidence for this mechanism is lacking because selection and the agents of selection on flower color have rarely been estimated. We estimated selection by pollinators and a predispersal seed predator on the three fundamental components of color (brightness, chroma, and hue) of
10.1086/681050|
               
4619822|Permineralized cycad petioles and/or rachides with associated pinnae are described from two Triassiclocalities in the Queen Alexandria Range, central Transantarctic Mountains, Antarctica. Petiolerachides display an invertedomegashaped arrangement of vascular bundles typical of most genera of extant Cycadales and exarch primary xylem that link them to the modern order. Pinnae associated with the Antarctic petiolerachides are thin, with regularly spaced vascular bundles. They are similar to those of extant
3080049|The signals involved in floral induction and the time frame from induction to flowering are not known in the tree
2475049|Vaccinium macrocarpon Aiton (cranberry) exhibits phalanx and guerilla growth patterns. Phalanx modules (uprights) bear fruit, while guerilla modules (runners) are important in vegetative spread. Although cranberry is known to respond to edaphic variation through altered phenotypes (phenotypic plasticity), patterns in natural populations, especially southern marginal populations, are enigmatic. The objectives of this study were to characterize spatial clonal patterns and phenotypic plasticity patterns within two isolated V. macrocarpon populations in the Appalachian mountains. We used RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA) profiling to examine spatial clonal patterns and genetic heterogeneity. The Tennessee (TN) population was genetically homogeneous, as shown by nearly monomorphic RAPD profiles, where only five clones were detected. In contrast, there were over four times more clones discernible and higher molecular diversity in the West Virginia (WV) population. Clonal spatial patterns indicated that one clone was at least 350 years old. Nitrogen and phosphorus were manipulated at the two sites and reaction norms of predominant and infrequent clones within each population were compared to characterize plastic responses. Cranberries in TN were apparently more plastic than WV, although direct statistical comparisons could not be made. The TN population was plastic for more guerilla growth traits and the WV population for more phalanx traits in response to edaphic variation. Within WV, the predominant clone and infrequent clonal reaction norms of several traits to nutrients differed as revealed using a linear analysis of covariance/heterogeneous slopes model.
3080150|To evaluate the levels of allozyme diversity within and genetic differentiation among populations of
10.1086/663165|A detailed understanding of how the climate models the hydraulic system of trees is still lacking, in spite of the need to understand tree response to the ongoing process of climatic change. A systematic correlation of tracheid anatomical features with climate has not been implemented in Mediterranean ecosystems, where climatic change is expected to be particularly intense. We measured ring width and cell numberin addition to intraring position, lumen size, and wall thickness of tracheidsin 10
10.1086/678087|
               
3080211|Pollen tube growth was examined following self, intramorph, and intermorph pollinations in three distylous species of Rubiaceae, the angiosperm family containing the greatest number of distylous taxa. Hand pollinations of
40344018|A few generalizations have been made about the amount of genetic diversity and lifehistory traits in plants, and a number of studies have reported contrasting results, indicating that these generalizations are not necessarily reliable. Six
2475338|We describe a new well-preserved fossil flower, Virginianthus calycanthoides gen. et sp. nov., from the Early Cretaceous (Early or Middle Albian) of Virginia. The flower is multipartite and has a distinct, deep floral cup. The perianth and androecium are borne on the rim of the floral cup and arranged in several crowded series. Reconstruction of the flower indicates that the perianth is composed of about 12 closely spaced tepals with apically directed hairs on the abaxial surface. The androecium consists of approximately 30-40 closely spaced, sessile stamens. The anthers are dithecate and tetrasporangiate, with the pollen sacs borne toward the abaxial surface. Dehiscence is extrorse through laterally hinged valves. Pollen grains are monocolpate and reticulate and resemble the previously described pollen species Clavatipollenites minutus Brenner. Sterile structures in the transition zone between androecium and gynoecium are interpreted as inner staminodes. The gynoecium is composed of approximately 18-26 carpels borne in several series on the inner surface of the hypanthium. The flower is closely comparable to extant members of the family Calycanthaceae (including Idiospermum) and constitutes the earliest documentation of calycanthoid features in the fossil record. Differences from extant Calycanthaceae are mainly in details of the pollen sacs, anther dehiscence, and pollen morphology.
2475279|Models on seed size/number trade-off predict a uniform size of seeds and a decrease in seed size with an increase in seed number. However, substantial between- and within-plant variation in seed size has been found. This study examined the accommodation of Arum italicum to predictions of models. Seed mass variation at population, plant, fruit and within-fruit levels and the existence of a size/number trade-off were examined. Considerable within-plant variation was found in seed mass. Seeds in upper fruits were smaller than seeds in lower fruits and caused variation in seed size. An unequal mass partition between seeds in multiseeded fruits was another source of within-plant variation in seed size. Seed number per fruit is likely to be determined by resource or pollen limitation, not by seed-packaging costs. No size/number trade-off was found at the single plant level. Seedling performance was positively related to seed size. Nevertheless, a maximum seed size seems to exist in this species, instead of a minimum size.
2475088| Color and carotenoid content are important characters both for identification of species and as indicators of taxonomic relationships within the chanterelles. High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was used to compare pigment profiles of carotenoid pigments extracted from basidiocarps of Cantharellus cibarius, Cantharellus cibarius var. amethysteus, Cantharellus lateritius, and Cantharellus tabernensis. -carotene was the main carotenoid detected in all four species. 
3691831|The extraordinarily wide distributional ranges of aquatic flowering plants have long stimulated phytogeographical discussion. Although aquatic plants occur rarely among the angiosperms, they represent a disproportionately large number of taxa with broad distributions including various intercontinental disjunctions that are manifest even at the species level. Throughout the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, longrange dispersal by waterfowl was the prevailing explanation for widespread aquatic plant distributions. This explanation gradually fell into disfavor as biologists raised doubts as to the ability of waterfowl to transport propagules across the extensive transoceanic distances between the continents on which an assortment of aquatic taxa now reside. During the twentieth century, the development of biogeographical displacement theory, i.e., continental drift, steadily began to supplant dispersal as the preferred explanation for discontinuous angiosperm distributions. Our study assesses the dispersal/displacement hypotheses from a temporal standpoint using molecular estimates of divergence time for a diverse sample of phylogenetically related aquatic taxa that exhibit discontinuous intercontinental distributions. With few exceptions, we found divergence times that are far too recent to implicate continental drift as a major determinant of discontinuous distributions in aquatic plants. We suggest that longdistance dispersal by birds should continue to be regarded as a viable explanation for widely disjunct aquatic plant distributions, although such dispersal is likely to have involved a combination of overland as well as transoceanic migratory routes.
2995650|In a survey of nearly all extant taxa of Cercocarpus (Rosaceae), the observed patterns of leaf architectural variation have resulted in new proposals of possible relationships within the genus. Leaf architectural data indicate that the monospecific montanus complex is polyphyletic. Cercocarpus montanus var. traskiae belongs to the fothergilloides complex at specific rank. Cercocarpus montanus var. blancheae, C. montanus var. glaber, and C. montanus var. macrourus belong in a single species as three varieties. Cercocarpus montanus var. montanus and C. montanus var. argenteus should be placed in a single species as two varieties. Cercocarpus montanus var. paucidentatus has affinities to C. montanus var. montanus and C. montanus var. argenteus and should be raised to specific rank. Cercocarpus montanus var. minutiflorus displays a set of character states that place it between C. montanus var. glaber and C. montanus var. traskiae; it should be treated at specific rank. In the fothergilloides complex, C. macrophyllus and C. mojadensis appear to be closely related; the affinities of C. fothergilloides and C. pringlei are unclear. In the ledifolius complex, C. ledifolius var. intercedens is architecturally intermediate between C. ledifolius var. ledifolius and C. ledifolius var. intricatus.
10.1086/665818|A broad perspective of seed plant reproductive biology, including information from both living and fossil gymnosperm groups, is crucial in order to understand the evolution of angiosperm reproductive innovations. Within this context, angiosperms are unique in the degree to which they have shifted reproductive functions away from their ovules to associated tissues and organs. This is particularly true in regard to the carpel, which has assumed roles in pollination, seed protection, and seed dispersal previously restricted to the ovule itself. Perhaps as a consequence, angiosperm ovule development is more efficient than in nearly all other groups of living and extinct seed plants, where reproductive functions often constrain both patterns of development and the allocation of resources. For example, many living gymnosperm species are as efficient as angiosperms in minimizing ovule development prior to pollination, but they require a megagametophyte for embryo provisioning that constrains their efficiency in minimizing investment prior to fertilization. By decoupling ovules from pollination, the carpel also fundamentally altered the way in which pollination occurs in angiosperms relative to other seed plants. In particular, this change gave angiosperms greater control over the spatial positioning of their reproductive organs and may have therefore expanded the types of reproductive structures angiosperms could develop and the specificity with which these structures could interact with pollinators.
2995755|The pollination biology involving floral thermogenicity of
IJPS40962|A comprehensive morphological and anatomical analysis was carried out on seeds of all 15 species currently recognized in the genus
2474942|Photosynthesis was studied in relation to leaf development in leaves of the tropical C
2995857|Floral symmetry is the product of organogeny plus subsequent organ development. In terms of floral apical meristem activity, radial symmetry results from equilateral organ initiation on a radially symmetrical apical meristem followed by equilateral development among like organs. Bilateral symmetry results from restriction of organ initiation to two planes that are perpendicular to one another. Zygomorphy can result either from zygomorphic organogeny (successive from one side of the flower) or from differential enlargement among like organs in a flower that has radial symmetry in earlier stages. Asymmetry results in rare instances when (a) the floral apex is asymmetric and initiates organs in asymmetric order or (b) when the floral apex is radially symmetrical but when differentiation among the organs of a whorl produces unlike structures. Evolutionary lability in symmetry has usually not involved the shape of the floral apex, except in a few examples, such as
4122594|A developmental and anatomical study of the staminate flowers of
3079954|Seeds and fruits of Early Cretaceous (BarremianAptian) angiosperms from the Famalico locality in Portugal were analyzed to establish seed and fruit size (volume) distributions and to infer the proportion of animaldispersed fruits. On the basis of a sample of 106 angiosperm fruit and seed taxa, the average seed size was 0.78 mm
3874621|A permineralized gleicheniaceous rhizome with an attached stipe base has been identified from the Appian Way locality on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. The specimens are preserved in Middle Eocene marine calcareous concretions that are studied using the cellulose acetate peel technique. The marginally mesarch rhizome has a vitalized protostele, protoxylem elements with helical wall thickenings, and scalariform metaxylem tracheids that occur in clusters. A continuous band of phloem and pericycle surrounds the xylem. The inner cortex consists of a layer of smalldiameter sclerenchyma fibers, and the outer cortex is composed of larger parenchyma cells. A nodal island of sclerenchyma is present between the leaf trace and protostele at the level of frondtrace divergence. Long metaxylem tracheids in the frond trace show septa in longitudinal section that likely represent tyloses. Roots diverge from all sides of the rhizome with traces that run obliquely through the cortex. Numerous associated but isolated frond segments are found in the Appian Way nodules that show a pinched and inrolled Cshaped vascular trace and pseudodichotomous bifurcation. The frond traces have numerous protoxylem strands, and the general anatomy is comparable to that of gleicheniaceous stipes. The rhizome is described as a new species of
10.1086/668226|Coprolite-filled borings in fragments of nondecayed wood showing affinity with the mesquite-like morphogenus
2995708|The parasexual cycle has been demonstrated in Ustilago scabiosae, a fungal pathogen for species in the Dipsaceae. Wild strains of this species were auxotrophic, and the colonies were pink (+), orange (o) or yellow (y). Conjugated sporidia of a-1 y and a-2 o strains gave pink, smooth colonies on a complex medium and had diploid auxotrophic sporidia. The colonies from diploid sporidia on a complex medium were smaller by one-third to one-fourth than colonies from haploid sporidia, but the diploid sporidia were conspicuously longer and wider than the haploid sporidia. Diploid sporidia are stable, not yielding y or o segregants. After incubation on a complex medium containing thiabendazole, diploid sporidia gave uniformly yellow and orange colonies and colonies with yellow or orange sectors. Of nine yellow haploid segregants on this medium, eight were a-2 and one a-1, and of the 40 orange segregants, 39 were a-2 and one a-1. Segregants from UV-irradiated diploid sporidia gave large, uniformly yellow or orange colonies and had the a-2 mating type allele. Numerous pink colonies with one segregant color sector were also observed. The majority of the small to very small (< 1 mm) colony segregants were uniformly pink and stable or had a yellow or orange sector. The uniformly pink colonies had a-2 sporidia.
3079977|As an older and more established discipline, plant morphology is an important but relatively underutilized resource for the interpretation of mutants. Plant morphology has the potential to provide the context for molecular genetic investigations, especially those concerned with leaf morphogenesis. This article first reviews the basic organization of vascular plants and the relationship of anatomy to morphology in interpreting gene expression. It demonstrates that these two levels of organization are relatively independent of one another and that anatomy cannot be substituted for morphology in analyzing the effects of genes on leaf development. Morphological principles are then applied to two aspects of leaf development, transectional symmetry and leaf dissection. According to this perspective, socalled organs in plants are simply regional expansions that carry specific cell and tissue types in a particular orientation in space. Rather than considering specific genes as determining particular organ types, it is more likely that gene expression itself is dependent on the morphological, developmental context in which the genes are expressed.
3080249|Competition among pollen grains to fertilize ovules is expected to lead to increased vigor of the resulting progeny. Tests of this pollencompetition hypothesis, however, have been equivocal, and this may, in part, result from the levels of pollen competition (pollen load sizes) and/or progeny growth environment chosen. Our study of
30139306|The loss of morphological and physiological mechanisms that prevent selffertilization is perhaps the most common evolutionary trend in the flowering plants. It is generally acknowledged that selffertilization may often be favored by selection at the individual level, principally by providing reproductive assurance when conditions for vectormediated pollination are poor and also because mating system modifiers that reduce the rate of outcrossing bias their own transmission. Inbreeding depression is accepted as the principal factoropposing the selection of selfing at the individual level, though this barrier may be transient because of purging of inbreeding load from natural populations. Here we explore the possibility that the selection of selfing mayoccur not only at the individual level but also at the group level. Accordingly, we model the selection of mating system modifier genes within and among populations and suggest that both levels of selection play a role in the evolution of the mating system. We find that selection among populations can maintain outcrossing through higher extinction rates of selfing groups and through reduced transition rates from outcrossing to selfing.
3874657|Allocation to current reproduction is expected to lead to tradeoffs in allocation to other lifehistory roles. We attempted to experimentally decrease the sourcesink ratio in females of the dioecious plant species
3874598|The first detailed structural description of the sporophyte of a Neotropical hornwort is presented herein. The morphology and ultrastructure of the placenta, basal meristem, and aerial sporophyte are described in populations of
2475229|Floral development from initiation of primordia through anthesis was studied for three closely related species of Agalinis. Objectives were to determine the developmental basis for the mixed mating system in Agalinis neoscotica, to compare its ontogeny with that of Agalinis paupercula var. borealis, which may also have a mixed mating system, and with that of Agalilnis purpurea. The latter taxon has large, showy, herkogamous flowers and probably has a mating system dominated by outcrossing. Several developmental events differ among the taxa, and some of these are related to differences in mating system. Closure of the calyx of A. paupercula var. borealis is delayed relative to other Agalinis. Taxa differ in relative time of appearance of petal and stamen primordia and production of cilia and trichomes on corollas. A number of developmental features characterize A. neoscotica, a small-flowered taxon known to self-pollinate. Onset of meiosis and ovule initiation are precocious. Few or no trichomes develop along the stomia of precociously opening anthers in A. neoscotica, unlike other Agalinis, allowing pollen to fall on the stigma. The style is straight, and the short stigma is positioned among the anthers before anthesis. The stigma splits into two lobes with stigmatic papillae on the exposed surfaces in A. neoscotica, a feature unknown in other Agalinis and related genera. Anthers dehisce in bud. In other Agalinis the style elongates and bends over the anthers so the stigma is held behind the anthers next to the corolla wall before anthesis. The sharply bent style straightens and elongates as the corolla opens; thus the stigma is kept above and in front of the dehiscent anthers in herkogamous species such as A. purpurea. The evolution of self-pollination and mixed mating in A. neoscotica from a herkogamous ancestor would have necessitated addition and deletion of characters and heterochronic changes during ontogeny. Differences in the ontogenies of the three taxa support the view that the taxa are separate species.
3080019|The purpose of this study was to examine and compare the kinetics of ascorbic acid (ASC) and dehydroascorbate (DHA) levels and the ASC:DHA redox status in leaflets of fieldgrown ozone (O
4619777|We tested the prediction that the main stems of four common deciduous tree species grow phototropically as saplings in the forest understory in response to variable canopy structure. Our predictions were confirmed for
3691755|Two developmental trajectories are hypothesized for growth of the aerial stem and branch system in
2995768|A new genus of Cornales is recognized based on infructescences and foliage from the Paleocene of Wyoming, Montana, and North Dakota in the United States; southern Alberta, Canada; Heilongjiang, northeastern China; and Kamchatka and the Koryak Upland, northeastern Russia.
40072539|Bees are frequent visitors to plants that, on the basis of floral traits, would be expected to be specialized for bird pollination. We conducted bird exclusion experiments to establish the contribution that bees make to the female component of pollination success of five ornithophilous
2995887|Variation of leaf morphology in Papaveraceae s.l. (including Fumariaceae and
10.1086/672369|
               
4619802|Heterospecific effects from neighboring plants on fruit removal are rarely examined. In this study we recorded removal of fruits of four species from experimental plots. The main study species, the forest herb
2995679| Mutation rates for chlorophyll deficiency in Florida and San Salvador Island red mangroves, Rhizophora mangle, are essentially identical; the average rate is 0.0058  0.0018 chlorophyll-deficiency mutations per genome per generation. Segregation ratios for marker genes in the progeny of heterozygous trees support the hypothesis that selfing is very common in the populations studied. If inbreeding turns out to be prevalent throughout the range of red mangrove, mangrove forests may be essentially single-species "natural monocultures" with little geneticdiversity. 
3080118|Growth and development of darkgrown
2995864|Flowering phenologies have rarely been examined from a developmental perspective. The production of a flower or inflorescence, however, is an integral part of the ontogeny and architecture of an organism. As a result, basic features of plant developmental morphology have the potential to define options for variation in phenology and to determine, in part, the consequences of this variation for other lifehistory traits. Two interrelated models of morphological evolution are applied to the analysis of variation in phenology. These models identify the developmental processes of dissociation and addition/deletion as potentially powerful mechanisms of change in the timing of flower production. As a consequence of heteroblasty and architectural features of plant shoots, however, changes in flowering time that occur via dissociation and addition/deletion result inevitably in altered vegetative morphology. If these vegetative characters influence fitness, then response to selection for earlier or later flowering is potentially constrained. A review of the available literature shows that dissociation and addition/deletion do occur in association with changes in flowering phenology. Additional studies that integrate developmental and evolutionary approaches are required to determine the extent to which wholeplant or shootlevel developmental and morphological properties may enhance or constrain phenological evolution.
2475354|Antheridiogens are water-soluble pheromones found in many species of homosporous ferns. They are produced by female gametophytes bearing notch meristems and induce precocious maleness as well as retard growth in ameristic neighbors. A natural soil substrate was used to examine the horizontal range of antheridiogen effects (i.e., antheridiogen neighborhood) on the gender and morphological structure of gametophyte populations of Polystichum acrostichoides on soil. In general, patterns of gender and morphology were consistent with known antheridiogen effects described previously on agar-based substrates; i.e., percentages of male and ameristic gametophytes decreased with distance. However, the decrease in males was more linear than the decrease in ameristic morphology because of a peak in meristic males at the periphery of the antheridiogen neighborhood. We suggest that the adaptive value of antheridiogen may change with distance from its source, favoring the source gametophyte (female) at short distances and a subset of males (i.e., meristic males) at the periphery of the antheridiogen neighborhood. We present three hypotheses regarding the unexpected peak in meristic males.
2474994|We analyzed cytological aspects of fiber attachment and the effect of hand and saw ginning with transmission and low-temperature electron microscopy At the junction of the lint fiber to the seed coat surface there is an angular region or elbow, containing thick primary cell-wall material that apparently adds to the strength of fiber attachment to the seed coat. A protective wax layer covers the entire seed coat surface and is continuous along the surface of all fibers. Removal of full-length lint fibers during saw ginning results in a clean separation from the wax layer and primary wall just above the elbow junction, as occurs with hand ginning. Separation can be by cutting, in which case secondary cell wall is severed at the seed coat surface, or by pulling away of the intact fiber along with secondary cell-wall material present in the shank region of the fiber cell. These findings indicate that improving the yield of full-length lint fibers during saw ginning may require pretreatments to loosen the cell-wall structure at the neck region. This may involve partial dissolution of the cuticular wax layer on the fiber to improve penetration of any aqueous pretreatment(s).
3691743|Leaf teeth are conspicuous and often diagnostic features of many plant species. In mesic environments with sufficient nutrient resources, the percentage of toothed species in extant floras generally correlates negatively with temperature; consequently, fossil leaf teeth are widely used to estimate continental paleotemperatures. However, the function of leaf teeth with respect to climate is poorly understood. Here, we test the hypothesis that teeth enhance rates of carbon uptake at the beginning of the growing season when temperatures are limiting. We measure the seasonal patterns of leafmargin photosynthesis and transpiration for 60 woody species from two temperate regions with differing climates (Pennsylvania and North Carolina). Three significant results are, first, physiological activity at leaf margins is greatest early in the growing season (first 30 d); second, toothed margins are more active with respect to photosynthesis and transpiration than untoothedmargins; finally, leaf margins are more active in species native to colder Pennsylvania. The toothed species increase transpiration and photosynthate production early in the growing season relative to untoothed species and do so more in the Pennsylvania sample, maximizing carbon gain when temperature is limiting but moisture and nutrient availability are not. This mechanism may provide a proportionally increasing selective advantage to toothed species with decreasing temperature that is reflected in empirical correlations used for paleotemperature estimation.
2474963|The age, size, and reproductive status were determined for plants in three populations of the dioecious Borderea pyrenaica, an endemic geophyte of the Pyrenees. Age determination showed that this small alpine plant spends at least 10-20 yr in the juvenile phase. The oldest plant was 305 yr old, which represents one of the longest life spans recorded for any herbaceous plant. Simple mathematical models were fitted to describe survivorship curves. In general, the negative exponential function described age structure better than the power function. Age and size distributions showed markedly different profiles in two of the three populations, indicating that the size structure cannot be used to infer the age structure of these populations. Female plants began flowering at a larger size than males, whereas males were, on average, larger than females among old adults. Therefore, age structure will influence the relative size of adult male and female plants in a population.
2475197|Serial transections of developing pistils of Phragmites show stages of procambial initiation. Initially the pistil is a residual meristem isolated by intervening parenchyma from procambia elsewhere in the floret. Procambia of the placental bundle and the two stylar bundles simultaneously differentiate from the proximal portion of the residual meristem. As these three procambial traces differentiate acropetally, the procambial pistil prong develops to link them, by differentiating basipetally through the parenchyma of the rachilla, with the other procambia of the floret. The stylar procambia differentiate acropetally into the styles, and the placental bundle differentiates more slowly into the placenta of the ovule. This pattern of procambial development in Phragmites of the subfamily Arundinoideae, which is quite different from that in the subfamily Pooideae, may be a characteristic of the other grass subfamilies as well.
3691856|Increased selfing and inbreeding and, consequently, depauperate genetic diversities are commonly expected for alien colonies. We compared RAPDs data for native (southern Europe) and alien (British Isles) populations of hoary mustard (
2995776|
               
4619781|An understanding of how selfing occurs and whether selfing incurs costs relative to outcrossing is necessary for an evolutionary analysis of selffertilization. We used glasshouse and field experiments to address these questions in the perennial herb
4122598|Seed dispersal and predation are key processes affecting the colonization and extinction of populations in fireprone environments. If these processes influence distribution and abundance, rare species may be expected to have less seed removal and/or greater seed predation than common congeners. I compared seed removal and predation under plants in two closely related pairs of firesensitive common and rare
3691812|PsSat5, a cDNA clone from
3691879|The identification of clones and their spatial distribution is necessary to study the dynamics and evolution of clonal plant populations. Therefore, clonal structure of a
2995639|Pollen-cone and seed-cone production in 7-8-yr-old rooted and grafted propagules of western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla) was increased with weekly foliar sprays of gibberellin A<sub>4/7</sub> between March 17 and July 27. In a second study, timed fortnightly applications made over the same interval showed that GA<sub>4/7</sub> had its greatest promotive effect on pollen- and seed-cone bud production when applied shortly before the onset of cone-bud differentiation. However, treatments made during axillary bud initiation also seemed to promote pollen-cone production. The following year, two GA<sub>4/7</sub> stem injections timed to cone-bud differentiation led to increased pollen- and seed-cone production in almost all clones.
30113533|The genetic structure of a broad hybrid zone involving three hybridizing
2474924|This article identifies and discusses the critical characters in the systematics of Acorus, a significant taxon among "basal" angiosperms. New data are presented on tapetum development and ovule structure, and old characters are revisited to establish their homologies. Many of the character states found in Acorus (such as trimerous flowers, successive microsporogenesis, orthotropous ovules, secretory anther tapetum, ethereal oil cells, and lack of raphides) occur both in other monocotyledons and "primitive" dicotyledons. Several characters indicate close monocot affinities but provide little further evidence of relationships: P2-subtype sieve-element plastids (Behnke 1995), seedling structure (Tillich 1995), and ensiform leaves. Two characters that potentially link Acorus with palaeoherb outgroups, anther wall formation and cellular endosperm, both require further review. Apart from the strong signal from molecular data, there is still virtually no nonmolecular evidence to confirm a taxonomic placement for Acorus as the sister taxon to all other monocotyledons.
10.1086/666667|
               
3691844|Inflorescence and floral morphology and development were investigated in
2475044|Differential development of seeds and their abortion in multi-ovulated fruits is explained by a process of self-organized movement of resource units into the developing ovules. This process involves movement of resource units would be autocatalytically favored and hence dominate over others at a rate defined by the sink-drawing ability of the ovules of a species. Such a process leads to varying levels of seed abortion that are independent of resource or pollen limitation and also predicts a positive relationship between the sink-drawing ability of a species and the extent of seed abortion in its fruits. We tested this prediction by (1) manipulating the sink-drawing ability of ovules in phaseolus vulgaris Linn., Vigna unguiculata Walp., Crotolaria medicaginea Lam., and Solanum seaforthianum Andr.; (2) analyzing the relationship between the in vivo sink-drawing ability and seed abortion in 15 species; and (3) using data from the literature. Our results seem to indicate that, as sink-drawing ability of ovules in a fruit or of a species increases, seed abortion also increases, supporting the self-organization model.
2995693|Nine species of the permineralized stems of Tempskya were investigated from the upper Lower Cretaceous Cedar Mountain and Burro Canyon Formations, and the lower Upper Cretaceous Dakota Formation in central and southeastern Utah. Tempskya jonesii, T. stichkae, and T. readii are new and are differentiated on the basis of the radial orientation of their dorsiventral stems, their internodal lengths, the lack of sclerenchyma in the inner cortex of T. jonesii, the three nearly continuous zones of sclerenchyma in the inner cortex of T. stichkae, and the completely sclerotic inner cortex of T. readii. Specimens of T. jonesii and T. minor were collected in growth position near Castle Dale, Utah, which is the first time Tempskya has been collected in this position in North America. Thin leaves were also observed for the first time in Tempskya in specimens of T. wyomingense. Tunnels containing three sizes of fecal pellets are common in tissues of stems, roots, petioles, and epidermal hairs of the false trunks of Tempskya, indicating that three different grazers fed upon these plants. Arbuscules of vesicular-arbuscular (V-A) mycorrhizal fungi occur in some roots of the false trunks of T. jonesii. Specific characters of Tempskya and possible environmental circumstances under which these plants grew are reviewed, and we conclude that they grew under relatively humid conditions in swamps on flood plains.
3079980|Genetic mosaics with phenotypic markers can be used to study the development of normal leaves. Mosaics synthesized between normal cells and cells possessing developmental mutations can be used to determine whether or not a mutation acts cell autonomously or if celltocell interactions occur. This article reviews the use of cytochimeras, plastid chimeras, radiationinduced chimeras, and graft chimeras to analyze leaf development in angiosperms and to gain insight into the cell lineage, celltocell communication, and the control of morphology. New data are also presented. Leaves of plastid chimeras and graft chimeras were analyzed to determine the level of cell autonomy in different regions of the leaf blade. Evidence that small populations of leaf cells can act out developmental programs is presented. The relationship of these leaves to concepts such as developmental compartments, organismal theory, and pattern formation is discussed.
2475276|Plant life in high alpine or arctic areas is strongly limited by abiotic rather than biotic environmental factors. In climate warming, invading plants from lower altitudes may outcompete indigenous alpine species, which might only survive by colonizing new habitats. Because diaspores are most effective for long-distance dispersal, colonizing species mostly depend on reproduction by seeds. The breeding systems of Saxifraga oppositifolia and Saxifraga biflora were investigated in the field. Saxifraga oppositifolia was found to be mostly cross-pollinated, and S. biflora showed a mixed mating system. Relative seed set (seed: ovule ratio) was higher in S. biflora than in S. oppositifolia. Saxifraga biflora also showed a higher relative reproductive success (RRS) in naturally cross-pollinated plants, because of high fruit set, and in geitonogamous selfing compared with S. oppositifolia. Germination percentage was lower in S. biflora than in S. oppositifolia, but only a few seeds germinated in both species. Variation of germinability could not be attributed to the pollen source of the various pollination treatments. Saxifraga oppositifolia is among the earliest plants to flower in spring, at a time when low temperatures limit pollinator activities. Since pollen transfer is essential in this preferentially outbreeding species, S. oppositifolia is a typical "pollen risker." Late-flowering species such as S. biflora have numerous pollinators at their disposition and usually display a high selfing rate. Early snowfall, however, can destroy the whole seed crop. In this context, S. biflora resembles a "seed risker." Because of a high outcrossing rate, "pollen riskers" are expected to have a high genetic variability, which is regarded as preadaptation to stochasticity in tundra habitats and to climate fluctuations. A possible future climate warming will reduce the chances that "seed riskers" lose their whole seed yield, which could be advantageous for colonizing new habitats. This demonstrates the need of learning about species-specific reproductive strategies in order to make predictions on the vulnerability of tundra plants in a changing climate.
4619797|
               
3080105|The Cactaceae are a diverse group of plants with a wide variety of morphologies. Many species of
2995753|Podostemaceae live in swiftrunning rivers with stony beds, mainly in the Tropics. This article is a comparative study of three
3080183|The family Fagaceae includes nine currently recognized genera and ca. 1000 species, making it one of the largest and most economically important groups within the order Fagales. In addition to wide variation in cupule and fruit morphology, polymorphism in pollination syndrome (wind vs. generalistic insect) also contributes to the uniqueness of the family. Phylogenetic relationships were examined using 179 accessions spanning the taxonomic breadth of the family, emphasizing tropical, subtropical, and relictual taxa. Nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences encoding the
3080182|DNA sequence data from the internal and external transcribed spacers of 18S26S nuclear ribosomal DNA and the 3
3079983|The tropical African genera
2475277|The reproductive biology of two closely related Ajuga (Lamiaceae) species, Ajuga iva (L.) Schreber and Ajuga chamaepitys (L.) Schreber, was compared. Ajuga iva is a perennial, cleistogamous species that occurs relatively frequently in the southwest of the Iberian Peninsula, while A. chamaepitys is an annual, chasmogamous species that is rarely encountered in the same region. Flowers from the two species are homogamous and self-compatible. However, they exhibit substantial differences in their reproductive behavior. Ajuga iva produces two types of flowers: cleistogamous (CL) flowers that are obligately selfed, and chasmogamous (CH) flowers that are potentially outcrossed. CH flowers are produced in small numbers relative to CL flowers. Ajuga chamaepitys produces chasmogamous flowers only. However, if the flowers are not visited by insects within 1-2 d after anthesis, some changes in the relative disposition of the anthers and stigma lead to self-pollination, a rare occurrence in the Lamiaceae. The fruits produced by the two species are morphologically almost identical and are dispersed by ants. However, they differ significantly in germination, characteristics. Ajuga chamaepitys nutlets germinate under a wide range of conditions and in high proportions; A. iva nutlets, however, only germinate under highly restrictive conditions and at a very low percentage. There are no differences in nutlet dispersion or viability between the two species. These differences in germination characteristics may account for the qualitative and quantitative differences observed between populations of the two species in the southwest Iberian Peninsula.
3080258|Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) are reported and described in the fine roots of two federally listed endangered plant species:
3691825|Johnsongrass (
2475219|A study was undertaken to determine whether leaves of nitrogen-limited (N-Lim) spinach simultaneously accumulated starch, sucrose, and orthophosphate (Pi) in a similar mode as leaves of N-Lim soybean plants (Robinson 1997, Int J Plant Sci 158:32-43). Pi is a physiological inhibitor of key regulatory enzymes associated with the syntheses of both starch and sucrose in spinach leaves, and during the daily light period, Pi levels in N-Lim spinach plant leaves were 2.4-3 times higher than in leaves of N-sufficient (N-Suff) spinach plants. However, during the light period, foliar starch and sucrose levels and net accumulation rates were approximately two times higher in the mature leaves of inorganic N-Lim spinach plants than in mature leaves of inorganic N-Suff spinach plants. Elevated leaf Pi did not appear to repress net starch and sucrose accumulation in N-Lim spinach leaves. Controlled compartmentalization of Pi in the vacuoles or other compartments of the leaf mesophyll cells appears to be a possible explanation for these observations.
3080090|Bulk sieving of sedimentary samples from upper Coniacian to lower Santonian (Upper Cretaceous) of the Tamagawa Formation (Kuji Group) in northeastern Japan has yielded more than 600 fossil megaspores, which comprise the first megaspore assemblage to be described from the Cretaceous of Japan. Megaspores were studied in detail with scanning electron microscopy, including fractures that allow examination of the wall structure.
10.1086/679492|
               
3691638|Questions of tribal and generic circumscriptions and relationships in Loasaceae subfamily Loasoideae are addressed in phylogenetic analyses that apply four plastid regions in parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses. As circumscribed in the influential monograph of Urban and Gilg, Loaseae are paraphyletic to the sister clades Klaprothieae (
3691809|Antibodies directed against chloroplast aldolase and chloroplast fructose bisphosphatase and against cytosolic fructose bisphosphatase, cytosolic Pglycerate kinase, and cytosolic glyceraldehyde3P dehydrogenase recognize antigens in the secondary cell wall thickenings in the developing xylem tracheary elements in pea (
2475351|In all seeds of the Pinaceae, after germination is complete, the radicle is ensheathed in a translucent tissue of elongated cells that it eventually penetrates. When germinated seeds of white spruce (Picea glauca [Moench.] Voss.) are bisected and the embryo is removed, these elongated cells adhere to the micropylar end of the megagametophyte. These same cells are present at the chalazal end of the megagametophyte in seeds with inverted embryos. The cells adhering to the micropylar end of the megagametophyte after radicle protrusion are histochemically similar to the cells of the embryo root cap but not to those of the radicle, megagametophyte, or nucellus. The elongated cells are diploid, as determined by fluorographic intensity after DNA staining with 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole dihydrochloride and flow cytometry, indicating embryonic origin. They are not part of the megagametophyte in mature ungerminated seeds, in seeds that have not completed germination, or in seeds that have had their testae removed in liquid nitrogen and the micropylar end of the nucellus and megagametophyte excised surgically prior to imbibition. Excised embryos grown on Murashige and Skoog minimum organics media supplemented with 6% w/v sucrose grow and produce elongated cells that sheath the radicle. We conclude that the elongated cells ensheathing the radicle are derived from the embryonic root cap.
2475024|Changes in gene expression followed the application of exogenous gibberellin (GA) to dwarf peas, as demonstrated by increases in abundance of a small population of mRNAs. The nature of these changes was investigated by isolating two cDNA clones. The clones were selected by differential screening of a lambda gt 10 cDNA library derived from mRNA that had been extracted from GA-treated dwarf peas. Characterization of the two clones included sequencing and Northern blot hybridizations to compare dwarf and tall pea RNAs. Transcripts with homology to these clones were expressed in both dwarf and tall peas. Northern blotting of mRNAs isolated from 1 to 48 h after GA application revealed a differential expression of the relevant genes. Differences in amounts of RNA at several sampling times between 1 and 48 h were also observed in the dwarf and tall plants. Southern blot hybridizations, using genomic DNA digests with three restriction enzymes, indicated the likelihood that a single gene is represented by one of the cDNAs, and one or more genes by the other cDNA. The hybridizations with the genomic DNA fragments were identical in the dwarf and tall phenotypes for each of the cDNAs.
10.1086/662656|Although the flower is the unit of sexual reproduction in angiosperms, a plants reproductive success is determined by its entire floral display. A trade-off between the size and number of flowers produced is an assumption of models of floral display evolution, but this trade-off is often not observed. We tested three hypotheses for why a trade-off between flower size and number is not observed, using 32 populations of
2475362|The ability to identify genetic regulation of quantitative traits is often complicated by environmentally induced variation. The purpose of this study was to determine if the variance in biomass and physiological traits is larger for populations of genetically distinct individuals (genets) compared with populations of genetically identical individuals (ramets) of the same species. Spartium junceum L. was used for this study because it is a weedy species, and variation in quantitative traits is important for its invasive characteristic. Several mean growth traits were significantly different between ramet and genet populations. The variance in biomass traits was higher for genet populations in 26 of 30 comparisons with ramet populations. In contrast, few mean physiological traits differed between ramet and genet populations, and trait variance was equal between the two population types in 23 out of 30 comparisons. Thus, even under uniform growth conditions in a greenhouse, environmental variance accounts for a large proportion of population variance in physiological traits. Environmental variance also accounted for ca. 33% of phenotypic variance in biomass traits. The results of this study have important implications for common garden and reaction norm studies of genetic determination of quantitative physiological traits.
2995532|The operation of the C<sub>4</sub> pathway requires the cooperation of two distinct tissue types--mesophyll andbundle sheath--which differ in enzyme complement and structural features. Both tissues are organized in relation to leaf vasculature during development. The characteristic vein spacing, tissue-volume relationships, and timing of developmental events indicate that the formation of leaf vein procambia is crucial in determining the overall pattern of bundle sheath and mesophyll differentiation. Analysis of structural changes during tissue differentiation and of the pattern of C<sub>4</sub> gene expression show that these events are coordinated and that the C<sub>4</sub> pathway is not fully functional until Kranz anatomy is developed. Detailed studies using developmental mutants, heteroblastic variation in leaf anatomy, and light-shift experiments indicate that the C<sub>3</sub> pattern of photosynthetic gene expression is the "default" scheme and that the C<sub>4</sub> pattern of gene expression develops secondarily in response to positional signals and illumination. Although many fundamental questions remain, the integration of the anatomical and molecular approaches should permit progress toward understanding the influences that guide differentiation of bundle sheath and mesophyll tissues in C<sub>4</sub> species.
3691702|
               
3079942|Fluctuating asymmetry (FA) is considered to be a good measure of developmental stability. We measured the asymmetry of leaves and flowers of 16 different genotypes of
2475311|Rhizophores arise from angle meristems located at shoot branch points in many species of Selaginella and produce roots at their distal ends. We reinvestigated the origin and development of rhizophores and roots in Selaginella martensii using a nondestructive sequential replica technique for scanning electron microscopy and anatomical studies of sectioned material. We followed development in excised branch systems containing undetermined ventral angle meristems Analysis of patterns of division and expansion of cells on the surface of apical meristems and in transverse and longitudinal sections showed that the outgrowth from a ventral angle meristem had three distinct developmental phases: rhizophore, aerial root, and subterranean root, each with a distinctive apical meristem structure and activity. Rhizophore formation involved division of all cells in the angle meristem and establishment of multiple surface initial cells from which rhizophore growth ensued. The aerial root phase began with formation of two internal root meristems, each with a single prominent apical cell, replacing the multiple surface initials. From these meristems, dichotomously branched aerial roots formed, which continued to grow and branch internally. Eventually, subterranean roots formed, bearing root hairs and root caps. Formation of subterranean roots was induced at any time after aerial roots reached 0.5-1 cm in length when the tip of the organ touched a substrate. Our data provided support for the original concept of the rhizophore as a unique root-bearing organ in S. martensii, as well as for a developmental succession of apical meristem structure and activity, specific forms of which characterized the rhizophore and true root stages of angle meristem outgrowth.
40072479|The reproductive structure of the disk florets of
3080299|The monotypic genus
3080232|This is a combination of a review and original data on floral structure, development, and biology of representatives of all families of the ANITA grade and, in addition, Chloranthaceae and Ceratophyllaceae. Since the ANITA grade has been identified as the basalmost grade of extant angiosperms based on molecular studies by a number of authors, it has become possible to search for potential plesiomorphies among flowers of extant basal angiosperms. They may include the following traits: flowers small, pollination by small insects (dipters, thrips, moths); flowers with moderate or low number of floral organs, in spiral (or whorled) arrangement, with a tendency to form organ series in Fibonacci numbers (3, 5, 8); flowers bisexual (but easily becoming unisexual because of low level of synorganization between organs), protogynous; tepals (in spiral flowers) with gradual transitions between bractlike, sepallike, and petallike forms; stamens with short filaments, anthers with a connective tip, with more or less bulging disporangiate thecae; thecae opening by a longitudinal slit and not by valves. Carpels free, styleless, extremely ascidiate, with one or only few anatropous ovules, sealed by secretion and not by postgenital fusion; stigmas wet, with multicellular protrusions. Among members of the ANITA grade, there is a trend to form extragynoecial compita. In those taxa with the relatively most complicated gynoecium architecture (including an extragynoecial compitum), there is a concomitant trend to have less strongly ascidate to almost plicate carpels (Nymphaeaceae, Schisandraceae, Illiciaceae).
10.1086/653131|Pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) fluorometer techniques provide unique information on photosynthetic activity of CAM (crassulacean acid metabolism) plants such as the orchid
3080000|Pollen tubes grow more rapidly in plants from an outcrossing population of
10.1086/681586|
               
3691770|An investigation of the fossil plant
2475289|Immunolocalization indicates that the largest part of the P-glycerate kinase and sedoheptulose bisphosphatase in the pea (Pisum sativum L.) chloroplast, about half of the glyceraldehyde-3-P dehydrogenase and P-ribulokinase, and a smaller fraction of the triose-P isomerase, aldolase, and carbonic anhydrase are thylakoid-bound. There are probably metabolic advantages to be gained from this distribution. Rubisco and Rubisco activase appear to be restricted to the stroma.
10.1086/678984|
               
20533024|From a single Early Permian locality in the Taiyuan Formation of northern China, a new wholeplant cordaitalean is reconstructed and named
2475156|Mature seed cone and seed production were studied in six populations of Juniperus oxycedrus (three of subspecies oxycedrus and three of subspecies macrocarpa). In both subspecies, seed cone abortion took place mainly just after the pollination period, and most of the remaining seed cones reached full size. Percentage of mature cones was significantly higher in subspecies oxycedrus than in macrocarpa. In both taxa, seed cones developed fully in the absence of filled seeds. Both the number of full-sized seeds per cone and the seed viability were low, and they were similar in both subspecies. However, seed potential was markedly higher in subsp. macrocarpa (mean 4.1 ovules/cone) than in subspecies oxycedrus (mean 2.8 ovules/cone), indicating a lower seed efficiency in subspecies macrocarpa. Results indicate that deficient pollination and site quality can be causes of low seed cone production and low seed viability in both subspecies of J. oxycedrus.
3080324|Conductivity was significantly increased by aging and decreased by osmopriming of maize (
3691828|
               
10.1086/675977|
               
40072482|The Marantaceae have one of the most spectacular pollination mechanisms, including proterandry, secondary pollen presentation, and an explosive style movement. Because the flower has only a single chance to become pollinated, floral structures and processes have to be precisely synorganized and synchronized. In this article,
3691617|A study of phylogenetic relationships of
2475232|Floral anatomy and development were studied in Wachendorfia thyrsiflora and Lachnanthes caroliniana of the monocot family Haemodoraceae in order to evaluate the hypothesis that a superior-ovary position arose from an ancestral inferior-ovaried condition. In Wachendorfia three conduplicate carpel primordia develop at the floral apex, followed by postgenital fusion forming a superior ovary. The lower receptacular tissue at the central floral axis elongates at about the same extent as the peripheral receptacular tissue. In the extended receptacular region, two lateral commissures develop by differential tissue growth, followed by differentiation of inner epithelial cells to form septal nectaries. The receptacular commissures and nectaries are continuous with carpellary commissures of the superior ovary. Junction of the median outer tepal vein and dorsal carpellary vein occurs well below the septal nectaries at the base of the receptacle. In Lachnanthes three small, conduplicate carpel primordia develop at the floral apex. Growth of the lower receptacular tissue at the central floral axis is relatively retarded, such that the peripheral tissues elongate differentially, surrounding the now laterally positioned carpels. Subsequent postgenital fusion results in an inferiorovary position, relative to perianth insertion. Incomplete postgenital fusion of intercarpellary spaces results in the formation of septal commissures. These commissures later mature into septal nectaries, which extend to the apex of the inferior ovary. Junction of the median outer tepal vein and dorsal carpellary vein occurs just beneath the ovary locules. It is proposed that the floral receptacular region of Wachendorfia and of other superior-ovaried Haemodoraceae is homologous with an ancestral inferior ovary with regard to position, development, and vasculature. A superior ovary in the Haemodoraceae arose by the co-option of an ancestral inferior ovary into an elongated receptacle, along with extension of the intercarpellary commissures to the periphery of the receptacular tissue, and modification of those peripheral commissures to nectaries The adaptive significance of this evolutionary event is unclear but apparently related to a shift in pollination mechanism
2995524|We evaluate here whether the mechanisms regulating cellular morphogenesis in planar structures are also responsible for dictating their overall shapes. A comparative survey of 15 multicellular algae and land plants was performed in order to identify the common features associated with cellular morphogenesis in their immature planar structures. The superficial layers of all such structures are partitioned into polygonal cellular arrays that are characterized by specific mean numbers of walls per cell, narrow ranges of cell sizes, and regular cell shapes. The ability to generate these polygonal arrays is independent of overall shape, evolutionary lineage, cell layer number, cell division pattern, and cell wall composition. Instead, geometric principles dictate that the superficial layers of plant structures exhibit mean numbers of ca. 6.0 walls per cell, which result from the tendency of cell plates in most dividing plant cells to avoid existing three-way vertices. In contrast, the superficial layers of algal structures exhibit mean numbers between 5.5 and 5.6 walls per cell, which depend on the ability of cleavage furrows in dividing algal cells to arise at existing three-way vertices. Sequential observations of developing prothalli of the fern Onoclea sensibilis were used to characterize the regulation of cell size and cell shape in this representative planar structure. Cell biological mechanisms appear to dictate cell size via the control over the symmetry, timing, and orientation of cell division. Biomechanical mechanisms regulate cell shape in a remarkable manner. Cell walls in the region of isodiametrical expansion pivot around their vertices so that the observed angles approach the ideal angles calculated for equiangular polygons. Additional divisions alter the wall numbers of the three cells around each vertex, but the observed angles continue to adjust so that they parallel the predicted ideal angles. Angle rotation is accompanied by differential amounts of relative wall expansion, which are inversely dependent on wall length. It appears as if the vertices of dividing cells undergoing isodiametrical expansion are attempting to reach the condition of local mechanical equilibrium. But the vertices in older cells undergoing preferential elongation along one axis tend to revert to the original rightangle configuration in the attempt to accommodate to global growth stresses. Thus, biomechanical mechanisms regulating cell shape allow the prothallus to approach mechanical stability. Last, the polygonal cellular array in planar structures is viewed as the morphogenetic equivalent of a ground state; i.e., it is generated without any evident input of specific genetic instructions. We conclude that the local regulation of cellular morphogenesis is completely independent of the global regulation of the overall form of planar structures.
3691858|As currently circumscribed,
10.1086/683060|
               
2995691|Testa patterns in Physalis (13 species), Margaranthus (one species), Chaenactis (four species), Acnistus (one species), Athenaea (one species), Exodeconus (four species), Oryctes (one species), Withania (four species), Solanum (three species), Jaltomata (two species), and Jaborosa (two species) (tribe Jaboroseae) are presented and illustrated by SEM pictures. Seeds were treated by an enzyme-etching method to reveal the testa structures. The anticlinal wall thickenings and the fibrils or fringes that sometimes could be found on top of them were of different origin and structure. In Physalis, 12 of the 13 species studied had a testa with round to oblong holes in the bottom thickenings, a character apparently unique to Physalis and the closely related Margaranthus, while smaller holes were found in Chamaesaracha, also close to Physalis. A different type of irregular holes was found in one species of Withania. Chamaesaracha showed unique "wings" on the testa that originated from different heights of the anticlinal walls. Athenaea had pillars in the comer of the testa cells that were prolonged wall thickenings, a character not observed until now. Other hairs or fringes found, for instance in Solanum, were continuations of the wall edge. In Jaborosa, Driselase-digestible fibrils were found on top of the anticlinal walls. One new combination is proposed: E. pusillus (Bitter) Axelius comb. nov.
2475327|Somatic embryos were initiated directly from the young inflorescence axis of Freesia refracta cultured on N
3874631|Recent phylogenetic analyses have yielded conflicting results regarding relationships among ferns and other major groups of vascular plants and have prompted some authors to propose novel patterns of tracheophyte phylogeny based on analyses that include only living taxa. The results of one such study resolve seed plants as the sister group to all nonlycophyte pteridophytes and place equisetophytes and psilotophytes within a clade that also includes all of the living ferns. That hypothesis of phylogeny differs markedly from the results of a recent analysis that utilizes morphological data from both living and extinct taxa, which resolves ferns as a polyphyletic assemblage. To evaluate these competing hypotheses and to increase our understanding of the differing results, several tests were performed. Tests identify a high level of character conflict among the various gene sequence data matrices used in the analysis of living taxa. Contrary to the expectations of some, inclusion of extinct taxa in analyses of morphological characters produces striking changes in the topology of the resulting vascular plant tree when compared with the analysis of living taxa only. Together, these tests reveal that relationships among major groups of vascular plants are far less completely understood than claimed by some and that ferns s.l. are probably a polyphyletic assemblage. They also suggest that the impressive successes of gene sequence data in resolving relationships within smaller clades may not be easily duplicated when addressing deep internal nodes of the polysporangiophyte tree. Additional refinement of morphological characters for a combination of living and wellreconstructed extinct taxa, improved character/taxon ratios, fuller sampling of extinct clades, and tests that utilize rare genetic markers and developmental pathways may hold the greatest promise for ultimately resolving the overall pattern of vascular plant phylogeny.
3874608|Tentative evidence indicates that a discrete tussock may not be genetically uniform, especially if its vitality is reduced. Using molecular markers, we studied the genetic composition of eight vigorous and eight weak tussocks of
30130562|Difficulties with obtaining complete specieslevel phylogenies include (1) the accurate identification and sampling of species, (2) obtaining a complete species sampling, and (3) resolving relationships among closely related species. We addressed these in a study of 317 species and subspecies of the African Restionaceae. Accurate species identification and collection in the field was facilitated by a morphologybased interactive key to all species. Despite intensive fieldwork, however, material for DNA extraction could not be obtained for 20 of the 292 species of the focal
2995812|The occurrence of numerous anatomically preserved specimens of an extinct filicalean fern in the middle Eocene Princeton chert from southern British Columbia, Canada, provides the basis for characterizing a new genus and species of the Athyriaceae. Fossils include narrow horizontal rhizomes with a radial amphiphloic dictyostele and internodes up to 1.5 cm long. Fronds are monomorphic. Adventitious roots are diarch and display a parenchymatous cortex. Stipes diverge in a radial fashion and display two hippocampiform bundles at the base. Distally, the bundles unite into a single trace, and pinnules are produced in an opposite to subopposite arrangement. The stipe, rachis, and pinnules display a continuous
3691671|Explanations of tropical intercontinental disjunctions involving South America and Africa typically invoke vicariance of western Gondwanan biotas or longdistance dispersal. However, many plant groups originated and diversified well after the last direct connection between Africa and South America (ca. 105 million years before the present [mybp]), and it is unlikely that longdistance dispersal accounts for the distribution of all of these. A less commonly invoked explanation, the boreotropics hypothesis, indicates that some tropical disjunctions arose during the Tertiary via highlatitude land connections when northern forests supported tropical vegetation. Malpighiaceae are widely distributed across Africa and South America and have been explained as ancient Gondwanian aborigines (i.e., vicariants of western Gondwanan biotas) or more recent American colonists (i.e., longdistance dispersalists from South America into the Old World). Fossil and phylogenetic evidence from clockindependent estimates of molecular divergence times indicate that Malpighiaceae originated in South America during the latest Cretaceous (ca. 68 mybp), in isolation from Africa, and that six amphiAtlantic disjunctions within the family occurred during three major episodes: late Paleocene (ca. 60 mybp), latest Eoceneearliest Oligocene (ca. 3431 mybp), and early Miocene (ca. 2117 mybp). These age estimates reject a Gondwanan origin for Malpighiaceae, and strict dispersal scenarios ignore paleoclimate, paleoland configurations, and fossil evidence that indicates that the family once inhabited northern latitudes. Instead, these data suggest that PaleoceneOligocene amphiAtlantic disjunct groups in Malpighiaceae moved into North America from South America via the Caribbean Basin, crossed the North Atlantic into Eurasia, and subsequently reached the Old World Tropics during warm intervals when land configurations would have facilitated this migration. Whether Miocene migrations of evergreen thermophilic Malpighiaceae proceeded via northern latitudes or longdistance dispersal is less clear.
10.1086/663966|Floral organ number is often fixed within families, and the basic floral ground plan of Brassicaceae is well conserved.
10.1086/680553|
               
3080191|Seed wings of 20 species of Bignoniaceae, representing five of the eight tribes, were cleared and stained in order to reveal cell wall patterns of the tracheoids. Tracheoids of some species lacked ornamented secondary walls; others had annular, helical, reticulate, or pitted walls. Some species had all one type of tracheoid wall pattern; others exhibited an array of wall patterns. Wall patterns were not correlated with seed or wing size, which was quite variable.
3080262|Life history theory predicts that tradeoffs between size and reproductive traits should increase when resources are more limited. This prediction is commonly tested by using plant size as a surrogate for resource status or by comparing tradeoffs across treatments that experimentally manipulate size or environmental resources. In this study, we take a novel and potentially effective approach and compare two wellcharacterized genotypes of
3080227|Young open carpels with developing ovules exposed to view are a regularly observed stage in development in 25 caesalpinioid species and one papilionoid legume studied. In all, the carpel margins later become appressed and sealed. A literature survey revealed examples of open, ovulate carpel primordia in 42 species in 19 additional angiosperm families. The feature of angiospermy, or enclosed ovules, is achieved gradually during ontogeny in the taxa studied, rather than being present ab initio. This heterochronic lag of carpel closure may be viewed as either precocious timing of ovule initiation or as delayed timing of carpel closure, compared to other legumes with closed carpels at ovule initiation.
20533031|Hand sections of root and stem xylem of diverse species of
10.1086/665588|We examined the morphology, distribution, and ultrastructure of the salt glands of Rhodes grass (
2475023|Ultrastructural studies on sexual embryo sacs in angiosperms are widespread, but hardly any information is available at this level for asexual (apomictic) embryo sacs. Sexual and asexual embryo sacs of Pennisetum are compared in detail to reveal similarities and/or differences in cell number, their cytoplasmic content, in the distribution of wall projections and the embryo sac boundaries. At this level, the two types of embryo sac are remarkably similar, and, apart from small differences in wall structure, this confirms the view that the chief contrasts concern nuclear number and function. We note the "plasticity" of nucellar cells that generate the asexual embryo sacs and consider the likely usefulness of bringing together different approaches (ultrastructural, physiological, and genetic) in the study of important rangeland grasses.
4122597|The Random Forests multiple-regression tree was used to model climate profiles of 25 biotic communities of the western United States and nine of their constituent species. Analyses of the communities were based on a gridded sample of ca. 140,000 points, while those for the species used presenceabsence data from ca. 120,000 locations. Independent variables included 35 simple expressions of temperature and precipitation and their interactions. Classification errors for community models averaged 19%, but the errors were reduced by half when adjusted for misalignment between geographic data sets. Errors of omission for speciesspecific models approached 0, while errors of commission were less than 9%. Mapped climate profiles of the species were in solid agreement with range maps. Climate variables of most importance for segregating the communities were those that generally differentiate maritime, continental, and monsoonal climates, while those of importance for predicting the occurrence of species varied among species but consistently implicated the periodicity of precipitation and temperatureprecipitation interactions. Projections showed that unmitigated global warming should increase the abundance primarily of the montane forest and grassland community profiles at the expense largely of those of the subalpine, alpine, and tundra communities but also that of the arid woodlands. However, the climate of 47% of the future landscape may be extramural to contemporary community profiles. Effects projected on the spatial distribution of speciesspecific profiles were varied, but shifts in space and altitude would be extensive. Speciesspecific projections were not necessarily consistent with those of their communities.
2475253|A segregating hybrid population of Crepis tectorum was established at an outcrop site occupied by a short-stemmed population (ssp. pumila) to determine whether selection still favors a prostrate habit in this dry, exposed, and nutrient-poor habitat. Despite extensive variation in the experimental population, there was no apparent trade-off between plant height and head number. Plant stature was positively correlated with intensity of herbivore damage and showed a negative relationship with the rate of flowering. These associations might translate into selection for reduced height in years when the risk of grazing is high or when the water availability decreases too fast to allow all flowers to produce seeds. Hence, there is some congruence between past and current selection pressures when the phenotypic range is expanded and when performance variables other than head number are considered.
IJPS41425|Reexamination of fossilized plant material from the westernmost Pennsylvanian-age wetland flora in North America reveals that material of
10.1086/669928|Factors influencing invasive taxa may change during the course of an invasion. For example, intraspecific competition is predicted to be more important in areas with older stands of dense monospecific invaders than at the margins of an invaded range. We evaluated evolution in response to predicted changes in competition by comparing the intraspecific competitive ability of North American populations of Japanese honeysuckle (
2475310| Growth patterns, water relations, and photosynthetic traits in Scaevola sericea plants grown under different levels of substrate salinity and salt spray were studied. Scaevola sericea is a dominant shrub species in coastal strand ecosystems throughout the tropical and subtropical Pacific and Indian Oceans. Seventy-two cuttings from two coastal sites on the island of Oahu (Hawaii) were grown in a greenhouse under six treatments that resulted from the combination of three levels of substrate salinity (0, 100, and
2995786|In the understory perennial
3080104|Purified rubber particles from
2475364|Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco) seedlings were flooded in a controlled environment. Roots rapidly synthesized ethanol with the highest rates during the first 6 h. Ethanol readily diffused into the flooding solution and moved into the stem. Ethanol concentrations in the flooding solution (normalized g
3080154|Phylogeography posits that the sequence of speciation events within a clade should parallel the geographic migration and isolation of members of the clade through time. The primary historical features that govern migration and allopatry in land plants are changes in physical geography (e.g., oceans, mountains, and deserts) and in climate (e.g., moisture, temperature, and day length), features that are often interrelated. If we assume that living genera retain physiological stability through time, much as they retain the morphological features that allow their identification, then these environmental features of the geologic past may be used to test phylogeographic hypotheses of living genera based on phylogenetic analysis. The history of the climatic and geographic features of the Tertiary of the Northern Hemisphere agrees with many phylogenetically based phylogeographic hypotheses of living angiosperm genera but indicates that some hypotheses require reanalysis. While the parallel comparison of phylogenetic hypotheses and historical biogeographic evidence is in its infancy, the reciprocal illumination of the two approaches shows great promise for future application.
2995538|Numerous steps occur between the mutual recognition of host and Rhizobium and the establishment of a nitrogen-fixing indeterminate nodule: root hair curling and infection thread formation, cortical cell divisions and initiation of a nodule primordium, nodule meristem formation, differentiation of specific cell types and tissues, and induction of nitrogen fixation. Rhizobia with defined mutations or Agrobacterium tumefaciens transconjugants carrying R. meliloti symbiotic genes have been used to interrupt these steps. Using this approach, we have detected transcripts of the early nodulin MsENOD2 in alfalfa nodules induced by A. tumefaciens transconjugants carrying one or both symbiotic plasmids of R. meliloti. We have also specifically localized MsENOD2 transcripts by in situ hybridization to nodule parenchyma cells in nodules that form spontaneously on alfalfa roots. These bacteria-free nodules differentiate a discrete nodule meristem and other tissues that are typical of normal nodules. Transcripts for MsENOD12, a proline-rich protein normally found in the invasion zone of wildtype R. meliloti-induced nodules, were not detected in nodules induced by the Agrobacterium transconjugants or in the spontaneously formed nodules. However, we have detected MsENOD12 mRNAs in nodules formed in response to R. meliloti exoH mutants. The exoH mutants, which induce nodules without a persistent nodule meristem, infect host cells at a reduced frequency compared with wildtype or with fix or nif mutant R. meliloti. These results indicate that infection rather than the formation of a persistent nodule meristem is correlated with MsENOD12 gene expression.
2475189|A quantitative analysis of the patterns of intra- and interspecific variance of fleshy fruit traits (length, width, pulp mass, seed mass, percent pulp mass) in eight species of southeastern Spanish vertebrate-dispersed plants, Berberis hispanica, Crataegus monogyna, Daphne laureola, Hedera helix, Juniperus communis, Juniperus phoenicea, Juniperus sabina, and Rosa canina, shows a statistically significant individual variability in the five fruit traits considered. Individual variability tended to be largest for pulp mass and seed mass (coefficient of variation of individual means between 20% and 30%) and smallest for fruit width and length and for proportion of pulp (CV of 5%-12%). Most variance in fruit traits (67%-88%) was accounted for by taxonomic affiliation, while the remainder of the variance was partitioned in roughly similar proportions among and within plants of individual species. There were some differences between fruit traits in the relative proportion of variance contributed by within and among individual variation, but all fruits traits in all species consistently exhibited a remarkably high proportion of within-individual variance, roughly comparable to the variance among individuals. The potential ecological and evolutionary implications of observed patterns of fruit variability are discussed in relation to the foraging behavior of seed-dispersing frugivores.
4122583|We used parametric bootstrapping to assess the performance of maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood phylogenetic analyses of a 12locus seed plant data set. Evidence of biases in maximum parsimony analyses of singlelocus data sets may explain some of the locusspecific variation among DNAbased hypotheses of seed plant phylogeny. In particular, there is strong evidence of bias in maximum parsimony analyses, especially of plastid loci, that favors placing Gnetales sister to other seed plants. We concatenated simulated singlelocus data sets to examine biases in analyses of a 12locus data set in which each locus is simulated with different substitution parameters and branch lengths. Maximum parsimony analyses of thesimulated 12locus data set also show evidence of biases in favor of recovering trees with Gnetales sister to other seed plants and against recovering anthophyte, gnepine, and gnetifer trees. These biases are most evident in analyses that include the fastestevolving characters. In the maximum likelihood analyses of the simulated 12locus data sets, there is evidence of a bias against recovering the anthophyte hypothesis. Otherwise, there is little evidence that the heterogeneous branch lengths and substitution processes among loci influence the results from maximum likelihood phylogenetic analyses.
3080313|Three natural populations of
IJPS41118|Floral morphology and vascular anatomy in members of the Asian
3080224|
               
10.1086/666098|Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) and C
3079991|A single cylindrical, abraded cone specimen has been found associated with ammonites of the Lower Cretaceous Budden Canyon Formation near Ono, California. The specimen was embedded in bioplastic and sectioned using the cellulose acetate peel technique. The pith is composed of parenchyma and scattered sclereids and is bounded by a ring of resin canals. The secondary xylem of the cone axis, with a ring of smalldiameter resin canals, is continuous. The cortex is composed primarily of parenchyma with an outer sclerotic zone 1016 cells thick and has 2730 dilating resin canals. Vascular traces to the ovuliferous scale and bract diverge separately from the vascular cylinder and are accompanied by a single resin canal from the pith that is positioned between the arms of the horseshoeshaped ovuliferous scale trace. The bract trace is terete, accompanied by two lateral resin canals from the cortical axial system, and enters the free part of the bract. The ovuliferous scale is almost completely sclerotic, with resin canals both abaxial and adaxial to the vascular strands. A large interseminal ridge is present between the two winged seeds on each scale. This cone represents a new species of
2995672|Pyrrosia piloselloides, a common epiphytic CAM fern, was subjected to water stress for 2 wk. Sample fronds from the well-watered (control) and water-stressed populations were fixed and examined with a scanning electron microscope. Scanning electron micrographs showed well-watered fronds with smooth cell walls. In contrast, cell walls of water-stressed fronds were folded in a regular, wavelike pattern. The degree of folding increased with the severity of water stress. The folding of the cell wall may be a survival mechanism by which the fern maintains cellular structural integrity, so that when water again becomes available, cells can resume normal metabolism immediately.
10.1086/669910|
               
40344029|This study is to examine the effect of stem architecture on biomass allocation between leaf and stem and between leaf size and number in plant twigs of woody species. We investigated leaf size, leaf number, stem length, stem diameter, and mass for 282 woody species of subtropical evergreen broadleaved forests in southwest China. Both stem diameter and stem length were positively correlated with individual leaf mass and area but were negatively associated with leaf number per unit stem mass and leaf number per stem length. This suggests that these stem architecture traits can be a physiological mechanism underlying the leaf size versus leaf number tradeoff. The ratio of stem length to stem diameter (LDR) was negatively correlated with leaf size and leaf number per stem length, due to the difference in the strength of the effects of stem length and stem diameter on leaf size and leaf number. Similarly, both stem diameter and stem length were positively correlated with leaf mass and stem mass. LDR was negatively correlated with leaf biomass fraction (the ratio of leaf mass to twig mass), due to the difference in the strength of the effect of stem length and stem diameter on leaf mass and stem mass. This indicates that stem architecture can significantly influence biomass allocation between leaf and stem. These relationships were generally strong when expressed as correlated evolutionary divergences. In addition, LDR was generally larger in the highrainfall habitat than in the lowrainfall site. Accordingly, LDR can be regarded as a functional trait and an important component of the leading dimension of leaf sizetwig size spectrum in plants.
3079987|Plants having experienced previous exposure to a stress are expected to be more resistant to further stress than those not having been exposed. While the assessment of stress in plants is a difficult task, particularly for stressadapted plants, developmental instability has proven a useful tool for assessing stress in organisms. We examined the effect of water availability on developmental instability (translational asymmetry and fluctuating asymmetry) and growth of
3080085|Previous studies have shown that the mitochondrial
3691728|We used comparative developmental morphology to study the evolution of nonpapilionaceous corollas in the amorphoid clade of the tribe Amorpheae (Papilionoideae). This clade consists of five genera in which there are no papilionaceous corollas (five petals differentiated into one banner, two wing, and two keel petals). We studied the ontogenies of three nonpapilionaceous forms: corollas consisting of one petal (exemplified by
40072558|Fossil flowers and fruits of
3691581|Osmotinlike proteins from the fifth class of pathogenesisrelated proteins (PR5), including linusitin that we isolated from flax seeds, have been characterized in many plant species. A cDNA library has been constructed from flax (
2475206|Most phylogenetic analyses of morphological data agree that Gnetales are a monophyletic group related to angiosperms and Bennettitales. However, they disagree on whether these groups (anthophytes) are related to coniferopsids or to Mesozoic seed ferns, and thus on whether the flowers of Gnetales are primitively simple or reduced. Molecular analyses indicate that both Gnetales and angiosperms are monophyletic but disagree on their relationship. The conclusion of Nixon et al. (1994) that Gnetales are paraphyletic, with angiosperms nested within them, is weakly supported; when several questionable embryological characters are redefined in a neutral manner, Gnetales are inferred to be monophyletic Jurassic reproductive structures associated with linear leaves and ephedroid pollen (Piroconites) consist of a bract and a scalelike sporophyll covered with Welwitschia-like microsynangia or ovules, recalling the bractsporophyll complex of glossopterids. An analysis of seed plants incorporating these fossils and other new data links Gnetales with Piroconites, angiosperms with Caytonia, and both groups (plus Bennettitales and Pentoxylon) with glossopterids, making up a clade called the glossophytes. These results imply that glossophytes originally had glossopterid-like leaves and bract-sporophyll complexes, which were transformed into carpels with bitegmic ovules in angiosperms, but reduced to single, terminal ovules in Gnetales; flowers arose independently in the two lines. The common ancestor of angiosperms and Gnetales may be as old as Permian, and some of their shared advances, such as double fertilization (without endosperm formation), may have arisen as adaptations to seasonal temperate climates in Gondwana.
10.1086/674450|
               
3691605|Plastic responses of plants to one factor may alter their response to others, placing limits on the benefits of phenotypic plasticity. To examine interactions between two phenotypically plastic responses, I studied the effects of lateral shading and jasmonic acid treatment of
3080274|Recent phylogenetic analyses of angiosperms based on molecular and combined molecular and morphological data recognize a grade of basal eudicots situated between the ranunculids and the core eudicots. Buxaceae together with Didymelaceae form a wellsupported clade within this grade. Flowers of representatives of this grade are characterized by a considerable variability in organ number and organ differentiation. In particular, perianth evolution of basal eudicots has been difficult to interpret because of a high diversity in number and form of perianth organs. In this investigation, development and structure of inflorescences and flowers of representatives of all buxaceous genera were studied comparatively to gain a better understanding of flower structure in Buxaceae and their relationships to basal eudicots. Inflorescences of
10.1086/660188|A new Triassic seed fern is described on the basis of a large collection of well-preserved plant compressions from the Upper Triassic of Mt. Falla, Queen Alexandra Range, central Transantarctic Mountains. The foliage is simple entire-margined to pinnatifid to partly pinnate and is assigned to
30113536|It has been argued that polyploids are better adapted than diploids for longdistance dispersal to and establishment on oceanic islands. To address this issue in a molecular phylogenetic framework, the extensive history of auto and allopolyploidization in
IJPS40868|The evolution of flower shape has attracted the attention of biologists for at least two hundred years. Although much information is accumulating on the genetic architecture of flower shape, information on its adaptive significance is much scarcer. Using geometric morphometrics, we have explored the microevolution of corolla shape in
3691659|The leaf cuticular morphology of extant species of
3079988|Seeds of
2475109|Previous work has shown that microtubule (MT) reorientation follows the onset of growth inhibition on the lower side of graviresponding roots, indicating that growth reduction can occur independently of MT reorientation. To test this observation further, we examined whether the reduction in growth in response to osmotic stress is correlated with MT reorientation. The distribution and rate of growth in maize roots exposed to 350 mOsm sorbitol and KCl or 5 mM Mes/Tris buffer were measured with a digitizer. After various times roots were processed for indirect immunofluorescence microscopy. Application of sorbitol or KCl had no effect on the organization of MTs in the apical 2 mm of the root but resulted in striking and different effects in the basal region of the root. Sorbitol treatment caused rapid appearance of oval to circular holes in the microtubular array that persisted for at least 9 h. Between 30 min and 4 h of submersion in KCl, MTs in cortical cells 4 mm and farther from the quiescent center began to reorient oblique to the longitudinal axis. After 9 h, the alignment of MTs had shifted to parallel to the root axis but MTs of the epidermal cells remained transverse. In KCl-treated roots MT reorientation appeared to follow a pattern of development similar to that in controls but without elongation. Our data provide additional evidence that MT reorientation is not the cause but a consequence of growth inhibition.
3079969|The floral development of
10.1086/668251|
               
3080059|Genetic diversity studies of wetland plants are scarce, but estimates of genetic diversity are useful for learning about plant biology or developing appropriate management strategies. We used allozymes to examine patterns of genetic diversity in
3080256|The plasma membraneassociated NADH oxidase (NOX) of spinach leaf disks is characterized by oscillations in activity with a regular period length of ca. 24 min. Within a single population of plants exposed to light at the same time, NOX activities of all plants function synchronously. Exposure of plants transferred from darkness to blue light (495 nm, 2 min, 50 mol m
30117486|Quinoa (
3080255|The evolution of inbreeding is common throughout the angiosperms, although little is known about the developmental and genetic processes involved.
3691610|The family limits of the Lythraceae and relationships among the ca. 31 genera remain poorly known in spite of previous phylogenetic studies. We use morphology and DNA sequences from the
3691570|In the inflorescence of
10.1086/648986|To provide insights into the floral developmental genetics of Nymphaeales (water lilies), we investigated theexpression patterns of floral organ identity genes in three genera:
2474969|Deviations from a symmetrical state (developmental instability) are often used as biomonitors of stress and are reportedly impacted at concentrations less than those required to impact life history features. Here, we evaluate the use of fluctuating asymmetry (deviations from bilateral symmetry) of soybean leaves across a gradient of salinity ranging from 0 to 9 g NaCl/L. We used a broad gradient to determine if measures of fluctuating asymmetry were more sensitive than survivorship, growth, and reproduction. All plants receiving less than 3 g NaCl/L survived, and reproduced, with no differences among these treatments for any life history feature. In contrast, all plants receiving more than 3 g NaCl/L produced no offspring and died. Thus, we clearly examined the response of plants subjected to sublethal doses. Estimates of fluctuating asymmetry did not differ among the 0 to 900 mg NaCl/L treatments. However, the standard error about the regression coefficients of the cumulative internode length vs. node number, an alternative measure of developmental instability, increased significantly under stress. Leaf shape also changed; however, this is not a measure of developmental instability because it does not represent deviations from a developmental invariant. Thus, fluctuating asymmetry failed to identify stress before life history parameters were affected, although alternative measures of developmental instability proved more sensitive in soybean.
3691827|The floral biology of nightblooming
2475177|Mathematical models have been used as evidence concerning the mechanisms of stomatal patterning. The details of epidermal development, however, provide direct evidence that has been often ignored. Lineages account for at least part of the distance between neighboring stomata. Interactions are also indicated by developmental observations, which show that interactions modify stomatal development rather than inhibit stomatal initiation. Models are useful when constrained by the available facts and when they indicate new concepts that account for unexplained phenomena. An example of such phenomena is the remarkable variability of the processes of epidermal development.
3080222|The contents of mineral elements in phloem vary among trees, and this variation is often associated with host choice by diverse parasites and herbivores. The relative importance of genotype and environment was analyzed in order to determine the broadsense heritability (
3080077|Taiwan lily (
IJPS41234|The products of the
10.1086/667228|This study describes a specimen that extends the oldest fossil evidence of
4122586|A detailed study of floral ontogeny, anatomy, and embryology in two (of six) species of
40072556|A new species of the extinct genus
2475235|Estimates of relative net charge and apparent molecular weight were obtained, using Ferguson plots, for each of the peroxidase isozymes in four completely inbred flax (Linum usitatissimum) plant types. The six anionic and the three cationic isozymes that are normally seen in various seedling tissues were examined. Four anionic isozymes that are seen in stressed seedlings were also included in the study. Charge and molecular weight comparisons detected plant-type differences that apparently resulted from two different forms of posttranslational modification. Plant-type differences in molecular weight for the normal anionic and cationic isozymes were attributable to differences in the degree of glycosylation. However, all of the normal anionic isozymes of one plant type had lower net negative charges than the corresponding isozymes of the other plant types. Therefore, both glycosylation and a second form of common modification, which affects charge but not molecular weight, determine the final structure of these isozymes The stress-induced isozymes did not display the plant-type differences seen in the normal isozymes and, based on charge and weight, none of the induced isozymes appeared to relate to any of the normal isozymes Some stress-induced isozymes seemed to be present in some plant types but not in others. Isozyme interactions that can cause this appearance are described and discussed.
3691718|Woody plants may be killed by severe disturbance or resprout from vegetative tissue. Sprouters can persist at a site through several generations of nonsprouters. Differences in sprouting behavior are therefore important for understanding vegetation dynamics, extinction risks, and woody plant management. Although sprouting appears not to be uniquely correlated with many other intrinsic attributes, such as specific leaf area or breeding systems, a clear correlate is reduced seedling aboveground growth rates from sprouters allocating more to belowground structures. Consequently, sprouters tend to have low seedling recruitment rates, and saplings take longer to reach maturity. Sprouters also tend to have lower seed output than nonsprouters, but comparative studies have seldom taken other trait differences such as plant size into account. Added to these tradeoffs between persistence and recruitment, sprouters are often multistemmed and shorter than related nonsprouters and may be outcompeted by them when disturbances are rare. Since sprouters tend to have long generation times, damped demographic trends, and gene flow across generations, it has been suggested that their speciation rates would be low. The available data, primarily from fireprone Gondwanan shrublands in South Africa, show no strong differences in speciation rates of related sprouters versus seeders. This indicates that ecological factors are important determinants of the evolution of fire life histories. Analysis of disturbance regimes indicates a fundamental ecological correlate: sprouters are favored where disturbance regimes are frequent and severe in comparison to regrowth rates. To bridge the gap between ecology and evolution, data are needed on the genetical differences between related species with contrasting sprouter life histories.
2995663|Aspects of the life history of a hysteranthous geophyte, Haemanthus pubescens ssp. pubescens, were examined in the fire-prone Mediterranean climate zone of South Africa. A population age profile was constructed after determining the actual age of 783 plants by using leaf-base counts. Subsets were also examined so that developmental stages, phenology, and flowering patterns could be analyzed and used to determine age states for the population. The juvenile period of the species spans 9 yr. The young reproductive period includes ages 10-13. Reproductive maturity peaked at 16 yr. Plants older than 17 yr showed a marked reduction in reproductive potential. These age states indicated that the life-history strategy in terms of age states was similar to that of other fynbos plants and showed remarkable synchronization with the suggested fire frequency of ca. 15-20 yr for this area. The phenological study indicated that the species is well adapted to the putative fire season. Flowers are only produced toward the end of the fire season, and leaves appear only in the cooler, wetter months when fires are unlikely to occur. Seeds are not dormant and germinate on the soil surface at the start of the cool, wet season.
3691593|This work reports the molecular characterization of high molecular weight (HMW) glutenin subunits belonging to the diploid species
2475006|Patterns of Fagopyrum esculentum embryo, endosperm, and ovule development were studied from two-celled embryo to torpedo-shaped embryo stages, using ultrathin sections of ovules 1-5 d after pollination (DAP) with a transmission electron microscope. At 1 DAP, the zygote had divided and formed a two- to eight-celled embryo, which was separated from the free nuclear endosperm by a thin wall developed from plasm membrane in the chalazal end of the egg cell. At this early stage, the cytoplasm contains extensive RER, active dictyosomes, polymorphic mitochondria, and plastids. The globular-shaped embryo, 3 DAP, consists of a completely developed vacuolated suspensor and an embryo proper that contains cells with denser cytoplasm than the endosperm. Wall ingrowths are completely formed on the parietal cell layer of the endosperm and cover the whole embryo. After this stage, the endosperm become cellularized and the embryo is changed from globular to heart-shaped at 4 DAP. Axis and cotyledon elongation as well as enlargement occur at 5 DAP. By this time the embryo appears torpedo-shaped and the suspensor begins to degenerate. The nucellus in the micropylar region still consist of a single cell layer of cells containing abundant cytoplasm. However, in the chalazal end the outer cell layers of the nucellus undergo repeated cell divisions to form several cell layers, which appear to provide a nutrient source for the developing embryo.
2475268|In this study, I examined the effects of achene heteromorphism within the infructescence on the dispersal capacity of Bidens pilosa. I found that central achenes are longer (94.4 vs. 71.8 mm) and heavier (2.10 vs. 1.73 g) than peripheral achenes. In addition, the germination of seeds from freshly collected central achenes was higher than that of peripheral achenes (88% vs. 52%); however, after 6 mo of storage there was no significant difference in the germination of seeds from achenes of the two positions (54% vs. 64%). Moreover, after 9 and 14 mo of storage, the germination of seeds from central achenes was lower than that of peripheral achenes (30% vs 58% and 4.6% vs. 14%, respectively). The viability of freshly collected seeds was independent of the position of the achene within the infructescence (88% vs. 83% for central and peripheral achenes, respectively). In general, the viability of the seed declined, for both central and peripheral achenes, as time of storage increased, but the loss of viability was faster for central than for peripheral achenes. I also found that infructescences are more likely to lose their central achenes before their peripheral ones. I found many infructescences (69%) bearing achenes only in the peripheral positions and very few infructescences (1.4%) bearing achenes only in the central position. This finding indicated that central achenes dispersed earlier than peripheral achenes. Finally, central achenes are more likely to be removed from the infructescence when tested with an artificial dispersal agent, as 40.4% of the infructescences tested had achenes removed from the central positions. In contrast, only 6.4% of the infructescences tested with an artificial disperser had achenes removed from the peripheral positions. These results demonstrated that central achenes were more likely to attach to potential dispersers than peripheral ones.
10.1086/678469|
               
10.1086/657276|The gigantopterids are a poorly understood group of plants defined primarily on the basis of a particular type of reticulate leaf venation in combination with stratigraphic distribution. It is generally agreed that many, if not all, are seed plants. A new genus of gigantopterid,
3080002|We examined genetic differentiation of intrinsic wateruse efficiency (WUE) and the relationship between WUE and phyllode morphological and nutritional traits in the native Hawaiian tree koa (
2475294|Morphometric analyses performed on vegetative shoots of Equisetum telmateia Ehrh. in southern France indicate that the leading axis of the vegetative shoots consists of two growth units. The long nonchlorophyllous portion bears branches and is entirely preformed; the second is represented by a slender chlorophyllous part (with six to eight internodes) that terminates the axis and comprises both preformed and neoformed elements. Lateral branches are slender and chlorophyllous and comprise several neoformed elements. The length of each growth unit is significantly correlated with the capacity for elongation of its internodes (estimated from the length of the longest). The determinate pattern of growth in vegetative shoots is marked by a synchronous decrease of the outer diameter of the main axis, the number of branches, and the number and size of leaves. The initiation of morphogenetic components is presumably adjusted in relation to functional constraints, notably structural support and photosynthesis. Two types of allometric change have been identified in mature vegetative shoots: vegetative stems in long shoots are more slender than short ones and have proportionally more nodes that produce branches. Finally, we hypothesize that fertile shoots consist of only a single preformed growth unit and that the stem portion below the cone is homologous to the proximal part of the preformed portion of the stem in vegetative shoots.
2474867|A chlorophyll-deficient mutant of Nicotiana plumbaginifolia Viv. has been regenerated from a pale green sector on a leaf of a plant transgenic for a neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPTII) gene conferring kanamycin resistance. Reciprocal backcrosses with green wildtype plants established a cytoplasmic basis for the mutation to chlorophyll deficiency. In vitro shoots cultured either in darkness or light grew as well as wildtype shoots in darkness, although substantially less than wildtype shoots in light. These shoots are deficient in both chlorophylls a and b, and retained the kanamycin resistance phenotype. The transgenic status of the chlorophyll-deficient, kanamycin-resistant plants was confirmed using the polymerase chain reaction to detect the presence of the NPTII gene and a dot blot assay for the NPTII enzyme activity. The combination of chlorophyll deficiency and kanamycin resistance offers a valuable phenotype for plant cell genetics, e.g., as a universal hybridizer for somatic cell fusion to any wildtype plant cell, especially for chloroplast transfers.
2474991|The response of red mangrove, Rhizophora mangle L., to wounding was studied Young mangrove seedling hypocotyls were wounded. Wound periderm development was documented with both light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The separation of necrotic tissue from the living tissue by a closing layer occurred in 17 d, and the development of wound periderm enclosing the wound was observed in 52 d. Brachysclereids developed in the wound periderm, and vascular tissue proliferated near the wound. Wound periderm development compartmentalized wounds and thus may prevent the spread of pathogens from the wounded tissues to the adjacent living tissues.
4619776|Leaf development in the palm family (Arecaceae) is unique and unlike any observed in other angiosperms. The objectives of this study were to follow leaf ontogeny in
20533061|Dilleniaceae are an angiosperm family consisting of 1014 genera and 500 described species, with a pantropical distribution extending into temperate Australia. This study addresses the infrafamilial relationships of Dilleniaceae with nucleotide sequence data from the plastid loci
IJPS40891|The ability of a population to respond to natural selection will be determined by the patterns of genetic variation and covariation in traits under selection. In the quantitative genetic framework, these patterns of genetic variation and covariation are described by the
2475313|The floral ontogeny of five representative species (Lonicera periclymenum, Symphoricarpos albus, Centranthus ruber, Dipsacus sylvestris, and Knautia arvensis) of Dipsacales has been studied and compared with existing floral ontogenies in order to examine the unresolved systematic position of Dipsacales. The floral ontogeny of the species studied differs only in minor aspects. All inflorescences share a basic dichotomous branching pattern initiated in an acropetal direction. The flowers of Dipsacus and Knautia (Dipsacaceae) arise successively in contact parastichies and are grouped in heads. However, the earliest flowers in the heads of Dipsacus are initiated in pairs, making a connection with the other dipsacalean families possible. In Dipsacaceae an epicalyx with a mixed bract and bracteolar origin arises. The sepals arise as individual primordia in Lonicera and Symphoricarpos (Caprifoliaceae). In the other genera individual sepal primordia are not observed, but a sepaloid meristematic ring is formed instead. The petal primordia are initiated on a meristematic ringlike zone on the floral apex. A reductive trend is seen in the androecium. The number of stamens and/or their fertility is reduced from the adaxial to the abaxial part of the flower; however, the direction of the reduction can be reversed. The first step in gynoecium development is the initiation of a central depression in the floral apex. Individual carpel primordia are never observed. The gynoecia of Centranthus (Valerianaceae), Dipsacus, and Knautia are extremely reduced. Comparison of the floral ontogenies of Apiales, Asterales-Campanulales, and Dipsacales reveals a high degree of similarity.
2475093|Light and electron microscope studies of Wolffia columbiana Karsten and Wolffia borealis (Engelmann ex Hegelmaier) Landolt & O. Wildi vegetative stages were undertaken. Asexual reproduction in both species involves the budding of daughter fronds from a meristematic region in the reproductive pouch of a mother frond. A single Wolffia plant (mother plus daughter plus granddaughter fronds) is composed of six to seven individuals at various developmental stages. The mesophyll of W. columbiana (especially in older fronds) is composed of thin-walled cells with few organelles; chloroplasts are concentrated instead in the epidermis and have a normal ultrastructure consisting of both appressed and unappressed thylakoids. Anticlinal cell walls of adjacent W. columbiana epidermal cells have elaborate cell wall ingrowths characteristic of transfer cells. Wolffia borealis mesophyll cells vary in size from small cells toward the dorsum to large cells toward the ventrum. Chloroplasts are concentrated in the small dorsal mesophyll cells and lack significant thylakoid appression. Transfer cells are absent in W. borealis. X-ray microanalysis indicated high levels of calcium on the W. borealis surface, with even higher concentrations in the punctae cells. Calcium oxalate was not detected. The W. columbiana transfer cells and the agranal W. borealis chloroplasts are features not previously reported in the Lemnaceae.
IJPS41192|High diversity and endemism in the California Floristic Province (CFP) are an alleged response to the late Cenozoic advent of Mediterranean-type climate in this region.
3079944|
               
3691607|Local plant density can vary dramatically within populations and may modify both the quantity and effectiveness of pollinator activity and thus the reproductive output of plants. We tested the effects of local plant density and plant size on pollinator activity on the endangered plant
3691618|A reinvestigation of more than 200 new specimens of
3080252|Spores of the aquatic heterosporous fern family Marsileaceae differ markedly from spores of Salviniaceae, the only other family of heterosporous ferns and sister group to Marsileaceae, and from spores of all homosporous ferns. The marsileaceous outer spore wall (perine) is modified above the aperture into a structure, the acrolamella, and the perine and acrolamella are further modified into a remarkable gelatinous layer that envelops the spore. Observations with light and scanning electron microscopy indicate that the three living marsileaceous fern genera (
3691759|
               
10.1086/678085|
               
2995656|Seeds of two mistletoe species, Amyema preissii and Lysiana exocarpi, were inoculated onto host and nonhost species, and haustorial development was examined. Resistance to haustorial penetration was observed in the bark and xylem. Bark resistance took one or all of three forms: (1) mechanical resistance; (2) production of wound periderm; and (3) abnormal changes in host tissues surrounding the mistletoe haustorium. Xylem resistance included physical constraints on haustorial growth and abnormal changes in host tissues surrounding the haustorium. Bark resistance to A. preissii occurred on all nonhost species, and mistletoe haustoria failed to penetrate the bark of all nonhost species except Geijera linearifolia. In the latter case, A. preissii haustoria reached host xylem, but further development was hindered by xylem resistance. No resistance was recorded on Acacia nyssophylla, the host species of A. preissii. Bark resistance to L. exocarpi was observed in haustoria growing on the two major host species, Heterodendrum oleifolium and Myoporum platycarpum, and haustorial development on these two species was delayed for up to 3 mo compared with other host species. While no bark resistance was observed in haustoria growing on the three nonhost species, Exocarpos aphyllus, Eucalyptus oleosa, and G. linearifolia, all three species showed resistance by the xylem to haustorial development. No xylem resistance, however, was recorded on the three host species, A. nyssophylla, H. oleifolium, and M. platycarpum.
40072564|
               
3691707|Gene flow was estimated in the tropical tree
3080239|Phylogenetic relationships of Lythraceae
10.1086/670154|
               
2995537|To investigate whether lateral roots of Agave deserti and Ferocactus acanthodes exhibit rectifier-like behavior facilitating water uptake from wet soil but restricting water loss to dry soil, root hydraulic conductivity (L<sub>p</sub>) was determined under wet conditions, at various times during drought, and after rewetting. Also, accompanying changes in root morphology and anatomy were examined. For A. deserti, L<sub>p</sub> was lower for longer lateral roots and decreased about sixfold during 35 d of drought, whereas for F. acanthodes L<sub>p</sub> was higher for longer roots and decreased twofold during drought. The drought-induced decreases in L<sub>p</sub> were caused primarily by dehydration of cortical cells and increased suberization of the endodermis and the hypodermis for A. deserti and increased suberization of the periderm for F. acanthodes. After 18 d of drought, some of the decrease in La was reversible upon rewetting. Moreover, water loss during drought for A. deserti was reduced by abscission of most of the lateral roots, and water uptake after rewetting was enhanced by the induction of secondary lateral roots. Thus, just as for main roots of both species, the lateral roots also undergo structural changes that increase water uptake from wet soil and reduce water loss to dry soil, which is in addition to the rectification of water movement for the soil and root-soil air gaps accompanying changes in soil water status.
40072499|The genus
3080052|Morphology, xylem anatomy, and axial hydraulic conductivity were studied in mature leaves of
2475261|We studied the anatomical and ultrastructural changes accompanying sink-to-source transition in developing maize (Zea mays L. cv. W273) leaves, in which sink, transition, and source regions had been identified by whole-leaf autoradiography. In the leaves examined, a complete structural gradient existed from nonimporting to importing regions of the blade. Although all components, except metaxylem elements. of the large (transport) bundles reach maturity before their counterparts in intermediate and small (loading) bundles, the final events in structural maturation are uniform for all bundle types across the blade. Among the very last structures to mature are the plasmodesmata at the interfaces between mesophyll cells and between mesophyll cells and bundle sheath cells. Maturation of the plasmodesmata coincides with maturation of the thick-walled sieve tubes, the last components of the vascular bundles to mature. Significantly, the vasculature reaches structural maturity in advance of cessation of import, and maturation of bundles involved with phloem loading is not closely correlated with initiation of export from the blade. Deposition of suberin lamellae in the walls of the bundle sheath cells coincides with the deposition of secondary walls in the metaxylem vessels. It is suggested that a primary role of the suberin lamellae may be to prevent leakage of sucrose from the bundles.
2474996|The effect of salt (sodium sulfate) on carbohydrate metabolism was studied in a salt-tolerant (Kharchia-65) variety and a salt-susceptible (Fielder) variety of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) by comparing their responses under control and stress conditions. Leaf segments of Kharchia-65 showed increased activity through both the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) and the glycolytic pathway of glucose oxidation, with the former being comparatively more active in response to salt. In Fielder, there was an increase in PPP activity at the expense of glycolytic pathway activity. Label from glucose was found in the lipid, neutral sugar, amino acid, organic acid, and phosphate ester fractions in all treatments. On the basis of the label distribution patterns, it appears that Fielder leaves incubated with [
3691704|
               
3691622|The exine stratification of the pollen grains in
10.1086/653135|Pollen limitation (PL) in plant populations is supposed to be particularly strong in variable pollinator environments. Here, we examined the extent of PL in the coastal Atacama Desert, where low and unpredictable rainfall drives large interannual variation in plant cover and pollinator abundances. We estimated PL levels and the capacity for autonomous selfing (autofertility) in 16 annual and perennial species. In addition, we compared fruit set of emasculated and intact flowers to test whether selfing provides reproductive assurance. We also examined the relationships between autofertility and life forms, between PL and autofertility, and between PL and flower size. We found a low level of PL (
10.1086/657646|Morphology, ultrastructure, and histochemistry of the peltate trichomes on the pericarp surface in
4619773|Newly recognized fossil infructescences and leaves of the Trochodendraceae are described from the Early/Middle Eocene McAbee and One Mile Creek sites of British Columbia, Canada, and Republic, eastern Washington State, United States.
2475160|A new fossil fern is described from the early Albian age (early Cretaceous) Silty Beds of Bedfordshire, England, and assigned to the extant genus Gleichenia of the Gleicheniaceae. The pinnules and rachis fragments are three-dimensionally preserved as charcoal. The rachis is 2-4 mm in diameter with a C-shaped vascular bundle and appears to grow from a previously arrested bud that is surrounded by fimbriate or lacerate scales Pinnules are opposite on the rachis, 1-2 mm long, thick, with inrolled margins and an extended basal lobe. Pinnules have a single midvein, 0.03 mm in diameter, and once to twice dichotomizing lateral veins. The guard cells of the stomata are sunken with overarching cuticular protrusions from the subsidiary cells. The sorus is composed of five sporangia with an oblique annulus; spores are unknown. A cladistic phylogenetic analysis yielded a single most parsimonious tree with the fossil resolved as sister to extant Gleichenia glauca. Although the fossils described here are similar to the older Wealden material of Gleichenites nordenskioeldii, study of three-dimensionally preserved pinnule and rachis specimens using SEM techniques has revealed additional structural details on which to base a new species. This information also facilitates comparisons with previously known extant and extinct taxa. The new species has morphological characters that may be indicative of an environment with arid conditions and periodic fire.
2474892|In Spirogyra, cytokinesis is initiated by a cleavage furrow. When the furrow contacts the elongating interzonal fibers of the telophase spindle, a small phragmoplast appears at the zone of contact, inside of which a cell-plate appears to complete cytokinesis. The use of two sequential mechanisms for achieving cytokinesis may be an intermediate, and possibly a transitional, state in the evolution of the phragmoplast found in higher plants. We tested the relative contribution of the two types of cytokinetic mechanisms by observing the effects of certain drugs on living cells, recorded in time-lapse. The antimicrotubule drug oryzalin causes the spindle to break down rapidly. When applied during early to midcytokinesis, the interzonal spindle collapses onto the cleavage furrow, which continues to grow inward. However, cytokinesis is not complete; examination of such cells 8-12 h later, after the nuclei separate, reveals a small aperture in the center of the cross-wall. This result shows that the phragmoplast/cell-plate is essential for complete cytokinesis, which apparently cannot be accomplished by cleavage alone, and that inward growth of the cleavage furrow is not dependent on microtubules. The antiactin drug cytochalasin D stops cleavage quite rapidly, and the eventual consequences of treatment depend on the stage reached in cleavage. If the cytochalasin is applied early in cytokinesis, cell division is unable to proceed further. Between telophase nuclei the cell does generate a large mass of cytoplasm that contains typical proliferating phragmoplast fibers; cell-plate formation is initiated in this mass but is never able to proceed further, and no coalescence of material into a cross-wall has been recorded. If cytochalasin is applied later, after the cleavage furrow has contacted the interzonal spindle fibers, cleavage stops but now cell-plate formation proceeds and cytokinesis is completed, albeit slowly. This result demonstrates that an interaction between the cleavage furrow and the forming phragmoplast is necessary for the latter to operate normally. These results support our suggestion that Spirogyra illustrates an intermediate stage in the evolution of the phragmoplast, since both cleavage and cell-plate formation are required for cytokinesis. (This suggestion does not require Spirogyra to be on the line of evolution leading to higher plants; rather, Spirogyra appears to be undergoing an evolutionary process similar to what might have occurred in their progenitors.) Furthermore, interaction of the cleavage furrow with the forming cell-plate/phragmoplast is required for cross-wall completion. These results may have significance in considering mechanisms by which higher plants locate their cellplates properly, an ability associated with the evolution and possible function(s) of the preprophase band of microtubules.
10.1086/654849|Two anatomically preserved gymnosperm trunks with clusters of epicormic shoots are described from the Late Permian of Antarctica. The bestpreserved trunk is 14 cm long. It has a small circular parenchymatous pith and 9 cm of secondary xylem that contains at least 50 growth rings. The second specimen is slightly smaller (
2995644|Rheophytes are characterized by habitat specificity to streambeds and unique morphology including narrow leaves or leaflets. A broad-leaved form that occurs in regularly flooded streambeds in Borneo was identified as a variant of the rheophytic Tectaria lobbii. It differs from the typical rheophytic form of the species in having broader pinnae, wider angles of lateral pinnae to rachises and of main lateral veins to costae, longer-lobed mesophyll cells, greater intercellular spaces in mesophyll, lower frequency of stomata but similar frequency per epidermal cell, thinner cuticular layers, and fewer epicuticular wax deposits. In all these features the broad-leaved form is similar to other dryland species rather than to rheophytes. Potential usefulness of the form for investigating the evolution of rheophytic stenophylls is noted.
10.1086/673240|
               
10.1086/662650|Changes in hydratase and dehydratase activity of thylakoid-associated carbonic anhydrase (tCA) was examined and compared with the changes in photosynthetic electron transport in pea seedlings exposed to drought and salinity stresses (for 24 h and for 48 h) in combination with additional nonstressed (recovery) time (48 h). It was established that drought and salinity stresses provoked different effects on tCA activity. The hydratase reaction increased by 2.5 times in plants exposed to 24 h of dehydration, while the salt treatment caused a sharp increase in hydratase reaction only after 48 h of exposure. There was a decrease in dehydratase activity in drought-stressed plants, while in salt-stressed plants it increased after 48 h of exposure. As for recovery, all CA activities returned to control levels after 48 h except hydratase activity after the salinity treatment, where 25% higher values were observed. Electron-transfer rates through the whole electron-transport chain displayed constant behavior under both stress treatments, while photosystem II (PSII) activity decreased by 35%. During the recovery period, whole electron-transport chain rate did not change, while PSII recovered to some extent. We observed that, after subjecting pea plants to drought or salt stress (for 24 h and for 48 h), inhibition of carbon fixation on illumination showed no correlation between changes in measured tCA (hydratase and dehydratase activity) and PSII activity. We nevertheless argue that under our low-CO
4122601|Specialized pollination systems in flowers with exposed nectar are difficult to explain because there are usually no morphological traits, such as long spurs, that could function to exclude particular flower visitors. Observations of the milkweed
2474936|The floral ground plan in the Brassicaceae is highly conserved. However, organ reduction is common in the genus Lepidium (pepper cresses). In many cases, petals are reportedly reduced or absent, and stamen numbers are reduced from six to either four or two in more than half of all species. To gain an understanding of possible mechanisms of reduction, we have observed flower organ development by SEM in six Australian species showing a range of reduction patterns. We conclude that reduction occurs by three independent mechanisms. Petal primordia are always formed, but their growth is suppressed in species in which they are reduced. This occurs at different times in the different species, although all except Lepidium oxytrichum show some differentiation of mature tissues. On the other hand, stamens are reduced either by apparent loss of primordia (in the two lateral positions) or by fusion of two primordia into one (in the two medial positions). Overall, Lepidium species show one of four different stamen ground plans: no reduction (six stamens), lateral loss alone (four stamens), medial fusion alone (four stamens), or both reductions (two stamens), suggesting that the two mechanisms of stamen reduction are different. Petal suppression is limited to species lacking lateral stamens, although it does not occur in all such species. Nectaries also vary between species, but they arise late in flower development and are not part of the floral ground plan. The possible involvement of homologues of genes known from Arabidopsis thaliana, also in the Brassicaceae, in the three mechanisms of floral organ reduction is discussed.
IJPS40959|A plant species that occupies a large geographic range must survive in a variety of environments.
2995659|I compared median lifespan of exogenously unpollinated, hand self-, and hand cross-pollinated flowers of partially autogamous Portulaca umbraticola. Self-pollination consistently shortened flower lifespan in comparison with either cross-pollination or absence of hand-pollination. Median flower lifespan of cross-pollinated flowers did not differ from the median lifespan of unpollinated flowers. Seed set was greatly increased following hand-pollination but did not show significant differences between self- and cross-pollination treatments. Nevertheless, early self-pollination in natural populations of this species could lead to pollen limitation, a decrease in opportunities for outcrossing, and/or a decrease in pollen export by causing premature flower senescence of already short-lived flowers.
4122608|A new genus and species,
2475005|The ultrastructure of ray and fusiform cells within the active vascular cambial zone of taproots of Aesculus hippocastanum L. is described. Both cell types are uninucleate and highly vacuolate and contain perinuclear and parietal populations of plastids and mitochondria, abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum, numerous dictyosomes and associated smooth vesicles, coated vesicles, numerous free ribosomes and polysomes, axially oriented microfilament bundles, and randomly oriented cortical microtubules, and they bear unlignified primary cell walls. Oleosomes, microbodies, and amyloplasts are more common within ray cells than in the fusiform cells and provide the main ultrastructural difference between the two. Generally, the ultrastructure of root cambial tissue is similar to the shoot cambium of this species and to the shoot cambia of other hardwood species. On the basis of ultrastructure, it has not been possible to identify true cambial initials in this tissue. Aspects of wall biosynthesis and chemistry were studied with light microscopy, conventional transmission electron microscopy, periodic acid-thiocarbohydrazide-silver proteinate staining (PATAg, Thiery reaction), and indirect immunolocalization, using the monoclonal antibodies JIM5 and JIM7 at the optical and ultrastructural levels. The presence of coated vesicles attached to a membranous structure is reported and discussed in relation to its identification as partially coated reticulum or trans-Golgi network. The results are discussed in relation to the endomembrane system, cell walls, and cytoskeleton of this tissue.
2474993|The development, ultrastructure, and histochemical composition of the nacreous sieve-element wall were studied in axial and petiolar phloem of young shoots of healthy and mycoplasma-like organism (MLO)-infected apple trees, Malus domestica Borkh. In the protophloem, the sieve-element walls are single-layered and consist of transversely oriented fibrils. In the first-formed sieve elements of the metaphloem, a segregation of the fibrils that constitute the cell wall leads to the formation of a middle wall layer of uneven thickness. The sieve-element walls now appear three-layered, with a thin inner, a thick middle, and a thin outer layer. The outer and the inner layers are rich in cellulose and pectin and consist of densely packed fibrils arranged perpendicular to the cell axis. The middle layer is cellulose- and pectin-poor and consists of an electron-translucent matrix with few, loosely embedded fibrils of variable orientation. The three-layered wall reaches its maximum thickness at sieve-element maturity but diminishes as the sieve element ages. The sieve elements of the axial phloem lose their wall thickenings faster than the sieve elements of the petiolar phloem. In healthy trees, only the youngest sieve tubes of the axial phloem have wall thickenings in autumn, and collapsed sieve tubes never have wall thickenings. In MLO-infected apple trees, however, the shoots that develop during the second flush (witches' brooms) show wall thickenings in autumn in most living sieve tubes, and in some collapsed sieve elements, of the axial phloem. This is a result of the younger developmental stage of the second flush shoots and of disease-related premature sieve-tube collapse, respectively. No differences in the ultrastructure or in the staining properties of the sieve-element wall were found between healthy and diseased apple trees. Therefore, we conclude that MLOs do not influence the sieve-element wall in M. domestica.
10.1086/651946|Salinity poses a major threat to crop productivity. Our earlier work has used the halophytic plant
10.1086/650161|Floral development and anatomy were investigated in the monotypic Aextoxicaceae (one species:
40072547|
               
2995760|High rates of hybridization and introgression have been reported between the cultivated sunflower and its wild progenitor (both
40344042|Analyses of molecular and quantitative genetic data demonstrate the existence of congruent climaterelated patterns in western white pine (
40344044|Changes in chromosome number and structure are important contributors to plant evolution and speciation. An excellent system in which to investigate the role of chromosomal changes, especially dysploidy and polyploidy, in species diversification is
2995756|The pollination biology and breeding system of
30139298|The tremendous diversity in flower color among angiosperms implies that there have been numerous evolutionary transitions in this character. The conventional wisdom is that a large proportion of these transitions reflect adaptation to novel pollinator regimes. By contrast, recent research suggests that many of these transitions may instead have been driven by selection imposed by nonpollinator agents of selection acting onpleiotropic effects of flower color genes. I evaluate the evidence for these alternative hypotheses and find that while there is circumstantial evidence consistent with each hypothesis, there are no definitive examples of flower color evolution conforming to either hypothesis. I also document four macroevolutionary trends in flower color evolution: color transitions rates are often asymmetrical; biases favoring loss of pigmentation or favoring gain of pigmentation are both observed, but bias favoring transition from blue to red flowers seems more common than the reverse bias; transitions from blue to red often involve inactivation of branches of the anthocyanin pathway; and color transitions often involve lossoffunction mutations. Finally, I discuss how these trends may be related to one another.
20533025|The subcosmopolitan and aquatic monocot family Potamogetonaceae Berch. and J. Presl 1823 comprises extant and fossil genera. Its known fossil record is composed mainly of fruit remains, and it comes only from Eocene to Pliocene sediments of the Northern Hemisphere (Europe, Saudi Arabia, and China). Recently, several fruits sharing characters with living and fossil Potamogetonaceae genera have been found within the Paleogene Baibin Beds, Chubut, Patagonia, Argentina. Fossils were collected at the Puesto Baibin locality, which outcrops at the eastern sector of the Sierra de La Colonia. Fossils are impressions/compressions of infructescences and isolated fruits and seeds preserved as molds and casts. The infructescences are probably racemes bearing fruits placed most likely in whorls of four each. Isolated fruits are small oneseeded bisymmetrical endocarps. Palynological studies of the beds show the presence of an assemblage similar to those found in sediments of the Northern Hemisphere where Potamogetonaceae fossil fruits were previously recorded. This report constitutes the first fossil record of Potamogetonaceae for the Southern Hemisphere.
10.1086/665974|The Cretaceous period saw dramatic shifts in the functional plant biology of the Earths flora. This was an episode of explosive plant radiations that produced our modern angiosperm-dominated world. This period was also a time of great Pteridophytic diversification and experimentation and saw the rise of most extant fern lineages. Prominent among these was the widespread appearance of epiphytic species. In modern tropical forest canopies, epiphytic ferns often represent some of the most abundant taxa and can dominate epiphyte biomass. Yet from most perspectives, the epiphytic habitat is vastly different from the forest floor. What happened during the Cretaceous that led to such widespread epiphyte fern diversification? What are the traits that allow extant ferns to flourish in this dry, nutrient-poor, bright habitat? How did terrestrial ferns cope with this new habitat? We review a number of functional aspects of fern biology to include both gametophytic and sporophytic physiology. It is possible that angiosperms engineered conditions that lead to aseasonal tropical forests. Data suggest that ferns may have reduced water use efficiency. If so, then wetter forests may have facilitated fern diversification. Successful epiphytic species would have required major modification in the gametophyte generation to include indeterminate growth, extreme stress tolerance, and an outcrossing breeding system. Terrestrial species also radiated at this time and may have relied on unique aspects of photobiology to take advantage of low-light terrestrial habitats. The study of fern ecology has reached a fevered pitch. Continued investigation will no doubt reveal some of the most exciting changes in our understanding of this remarkable lineage.
2995597|A whole frond reconstruction of Triphyllopteris collombiana Schimper is presented based on specimens from Kossberg bei Plauen, Saxony, Germany. New information is derived from fragments of a frond apex, a basal portion of the rachis, and a medial fragment that demonstrate the transition in pinnule shapes from base to apex. Because Schimper's original material was lost in a fire without being refigured, and because this material clearly exhibits a spatial arrangement of pinnule shape variation that conforms precisely to Schimper's diagnosis, I have designated the largest of the Kossberg specimens as a neotype. An emended generic diagnosis clarifies the overall frond shape and architecture and defines precisely the range and spatial pattern to pinnule shape variation. With this clarification of the intent of Schimper's original diagnosis, it is now possible to assess whether specimens that subsequent workers have assigned to Triphyllopteris do in fact conform to Schimper's original concept of the genus. Specimens from the Appalachian Basin of North America do not conform to either Schimper's original diagnosis or the emended generic diagnosis. The North American material is reassigned to Genselia gen. nov. It is now clear that T. collombiana was an unusual and perhaps fairly rare plant, confined in its geographic range to central Europe and Spain, and that the several species of Genselia were confined to the Appalachian Basin of North American.
10.1086/675695|
               
40072493|Seedlings of dodder are unique among dicotyledonous plants in that they emerge as a leafless, cotyledonless shoot with only a small swollen rootlike structure at the base of the tissue. Although growth of the shoot end of the dodder seedling is dramatic, no change in root length occurs, and the root tip is withered and senescent within 7d of germination. Unlike most roots, the dodder root has neither recognizable root cap nor apical meristem. Astrand of vascular tissue extends all the way to the root apex and is already differentiated into vascular elements on germination. Cortical cells swell dramatically and contain large vacuoles with a small rim of cytoplasm. Nuclei in these cortical cells are extensively lobed and are much larger than nuclei in shoot tips, indicating endopolyploidy. Microtubules are detected, although they are much less abundant than in shoot tissue of dodder or roots of other dicots, especially in roots older than 1 d postgermination. Similarly, tubulin protein, as detected by immunoblots, appear as faint bands in root extracts; both are easily detectable in extracts of shoot tissue. Cell walls of 12dold roots are normal in morphology and contain welldefined cellulose microfibrils and welldeveloped middle lamellae. In contrast, later stages of development reveal cellwallloosening complexes and the degradation of wall structure and loss of polysaccharides, especially those of pectin side chains, which also are lost in other senescent tissues. By 57 d postgermination, all of the cortical cells have degenerated, leaving the vascular strand as the last remnant of intact tissue in these roots. From these data, we conclude that the swollen appearance of the dodder root is due to the low level of microtubules, so that neither mitotic divisions nor cell elongation can occur, and the loosening/senescence of the cell wall allows for expansion, resulting in a swollen root phenotype. It is speculated that the degeneration of the root end of the dodder may allow a flow of carbon from this organ to sustain the continued growth of the shoot. Although the tuberous end is clearly differentiated from the shoot tissue, it probably should be considered a highly modified basal portion of stem tissue used as a food reserve and basal support rather than a root.
3874601|Basil (
2475117|Ultrastructural studies of septa in ascogenous hyphae, asci, and vegetative cells were conducted on three species of Tuber and compared with results obtained from several epigeous Pezizales. Septal pore organelles in the asci and ascogenous hyphae of Tuber californicum and Tuber maculatum were similar to those in taxa of Otideaceae, while those of Tuber n.sp. J&T 6003 were like those of Helvellaceae, Morchellaceae, and Sarcosomataceae. The types of Woronin bodies associated with septa of vegetative cells were also similar to those of some Helvellaceae and Morchellaceae. These data indicate that Tuber may be a biological rather than a phylogenetic taxon.
3079949|We examined the influence of water stress (water deficit) induced by drought on the steady state levels of ascorbic acid (ASC), dehydroascorbate (DHA), and the ASC:DHA redox status in leaflets of
4619750|The evolutionary pathway of monophylly characterized by a sole conspicuous leaf (macrocotyledon) and a cotyledonary inflorescence in Gesneriaceae is uncertain. This article describes the developmental anatomy of the caulescent species
2995558|The development of the vascular system in the leaf of barley, Hordeum vulgare L., was studied from its inception to maturity. Young primordia were examined with the scanning electron microscope, and distinctive early morphological stages of primordium development were correlated with the initiation of the longitudinal procambial strands. All longitudinal procambial strands originate in isolation, without continuity with the previously existing stem vasculature. The first-formed strands, which have large-bundle anatomy in both blade and sheath of the mature leaf, arise in the disk of insertion (the stem segment associated with the primordium) and from there develop acropetally into the free portion of the primordium and basipetally into the stem below. Subsequently formed strands arise in the primordium. These strands are interpolated between older strands across the width of the primordium in a precise order, and they appear to develop both acropetally and basipetally. By the time the young leaf is 4 mm long, all of its longitudinal procambial strands have been initiated; in addition, the ligule has been initiated, delimiting blade from sheath. The first protophloem and protoxylem elements of the large strands arise in the disk of insertion near the site of initiation of each strand, the protophloem in advance of the protoxylem. From the site of initiation, the protophloem and protoxylem develop acropetally into the primordium and basipetally into the stem, where, at a later stage of development, they interconnect with phloem and xylem in the nodal region of the leaf two nodes below. During further leaf growth, three successive regions can be identified within the blade: (1) a distal, mature region in which elongation has ceased and metaphloem and metaxylem elements are differentiating basipetally in all strands, (2) a region in which elongation is occurring and protophloem and protoxylem elements are mature or nearly mature but in which metaphloem and metaxylem elements have not yet begun to differentiate, (3) a region in which cell division is occurring and some protophloem and protoxylem elements are still differentiating.
2995802|Perfruit components of fecundity (ovules per ovary, seeds per fruit, seed:ovule ratio, and patterns of seed maturation within pods) were studied in 33 species of the Genisteae, a legume tribe of mostly Mediterranean shrubs, e.g.,
2995872|A dimensional model of Douglasfir (
3691800|Chloranthaceae have extremely simple flowers of three distinct types: unisexual and naked (
3691549|In some studies of ecosystem responses to elevated carbon dioxide, supplemental carbon dioxide is supplied only during the daytime, while in others it is supplied continuously. The purpose of my work was to determine for several species whether seedling growth differed depending on whether carbon dioxide was elevated only during the daytime or continuously.
2995637|Effects of gibberellin (GA<sub>4</sub>) and abscisic acid (ABA) on the orientation of cortical microtubules (MTs) in the epidermal and cortex cells of light-grown cucumber (Cucumis sativus L. cv Aonagajibai) hypocotyls were examined by immunofluorescence microscopy. MTs were observed in the 0-1 mm region (region A) and 3-4 mm region (region D) below the cotyledonary node. GA<sub>4</sub> promoted and ABA inhibited hypocotyl elongation. In the control, the predominant pattern of MT arrangement in the tangential surface of epidermal cells (Ep-t) was oblique in region A and oblique/longitudinal in region D, while in the radial surface of epidermal cells (Ep-r), the MT arrangement was mostly transverse in both regions. The MT arrangement in the radial surface of cortex cells (C-r) was all transverse in both regions. GA<sub>4</sub> increased transversely oriented MTs and decreased obliquely and longitudinally oriented MTs, whereas ABA increased obliquely and longitudinally oriented MTs and decreased transversely oriented MTs in Ep-t and Ep-r in both regions. ABA counteracted GA<sub>4</sub>-induced effects on MT orientation as well as elongation. The frequency of the occurrence of transverse MTs in Ep-t but not in Ep-r and C-r was found to be highly correlated to the growth rate of the hypocotyl, suggesting that the epidermis is the essential tissue that limits the growth of the hypocotyl.
3080095|In cork oak (
10.1086/676817|
               
2474887|Explosive anther dehiscence in Ricinus communis L. (castor bean) was analyzed with regard to changes in anther wall cell structure and to shifts in relative humidity. The single cell layer of the anther was made up of four cell types based on shape and wall thickening. The major type present, except at the site of the stomium and connective tissue, was isodiametric cells with lignified inner tangential and lateral walls. Another type situated near the stomium had five to 10 rings of lignin. Cells at the stomium and connective tissue, the third and fourth types, had no lignin and were covered with a thicker exterior cuticle than other sites. Explosive dehiscence may be triggered by a rapid dehydration of thin cuticle cells, which generates structural changes in these cells, forcing separation of the anther at the stomium. Pressure released by the stomium opening causes the anther walls nearest the filament to snap together, forcing pollen to be launched. Relative humidity inhibited anther opening and decreased the distance pollen was launched. Thus, patterns of cell differentiation in the single-layered anther wall of R. communis L. appear to be responsible for explosive pollen release. Both anther opening and distance pollen is launched are influenced by relative humidity.
2995787|A cladistic analysis based on
4619794|Understanding how plant biomass is distributed between roots, stems, and leaves is central to many questions in lifehistory evolution, ecology, and ecosystem studies. Current ecological dogma states that patterns of biomass partitioning result from environmental differences. However, there are methodological issues associated with the role of plant size. In addition, the importance of evolutionary history in biomass distribution is unclear. Here, we assess the relative importance of evolutionary history and growth form on how biomass not accounted for by plant size is partitioned between plant organs. Our analyses indicate that while growth form was significantly correlated with variation in biomass distribution and partitioning, phylogeny appears to be the strongest factor. Variation in biomass distribution is phylogenetically conserved for leaf mass but not for stems, roots, and annual production, suggesting that these factors may be more plastic. Leaf mass was the only organ with a considerable portion of the residual variation from growth form, which appears to be largely the result of differences in leaf traits. Our results have important implications for ecological studies because partitioning studies must first assess the role of plant size and evolutionary history in order to fully understand variability in biomass partitioning and distribution.
2995808|Spiraeoideae, as traditionally circumscribed, contain the greatest diversity of floral organ morphology of any of the four subfamilies in the Rosaceae. Comparisons of mature floral morphology in 10 spiraeoid genera demonstrate that genera in this subfamily exhibit many floral character states present in the other three subfamilies. Inflorescence development, gynoecium initiation and development, ovule development and morphology, and obturator position all exhibit considerable variation in these taxa. Inflorescences vary from simple and racemose to multibranched and cymose. Gynoecial appendages can be initiated as independent primordia or from a shallow gynoecial ring primordium. Placentation occurs on the ventral margin of the ovary locule and includes apotropic ovules inserted near the base (
2995552|Phylogenetic relationships among species of Besseya (Scrophulariaceae) were examined using cladistic analysis of morphological characters. A single most parsimonious tree was discovered on which B. bullii, located in central North America, was placed as the sister species of the rest of the genus, making up taxa of the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific Northwest. Among the species in the Rocky Mountain and Pacific Northwest group are B. rubra and B. wyomingensis, both of which have flowers that are characterized by extreme corolla diminution. Besseya rubra and B. wyomingensis did not form a monophyletic group on the most parsimonious cladogram. Topologies on which B. rubra and B. wyomingensis were placed as a monophyletic group required at least two character state changes more than the most parsimonious cladogram. Alternative scenarios for corolla evolution were possible based on the most parsimonious cladogram. One scenario indicated that the extreme corolla diminution characteristic of B. rubra and B. wyomingensis occurred once and that an evolutionary reversal reestablished the full-size corolla of southern Rocky Mountain species. A second scenario, for which the hypothesis of an evolutionary reversal was not required to explain the full-size corolla of the southern Rocky Mountain species, indicated that extreme corolla diminution occurred separately in the evolution of both B. rubra and B. wyomingensis. Sympetaly, generally considered a highly conserved attribute among angiosperms, was diminished within Besseya through the loss of a corolla tube in the southern Rocky Mountain species. In the evolution of Besseya, especially in association with the origin of the monophyletic group consisting of B. oblongifolia, B. plantaginea, and B. ritteriana, leaf lamina length/width ratios greatly increased, lamina bases became less cordate, and basal secondary vein diameter/midvein diameter ratios decreased.
2995851|The nutritional requirements of haploid a1 and/or a2 sporidial strains from 34 collections were determined by transferring sporidia on complex medium to minimal medium for 710 d of incubation before transfer to diagnostic media. By depleting stored compounds, it was possible to determine the nutritional requirements of the auxotrophic collections. Except for a1 and a2 sporidia from collections C420 and C449, which had mutable thiamine (
2995631|We studied the effects of artificial removal of leaf area and seeds on the performance of three annual grass species, Hordeum vulgare, Setaria italica, and Setaria viridis, grown in two densities. The value of a particular leaf to a plant in relation to its defense status was assessed using food preference trials. The results obtained for H. vulgare in the first study year were in accordance with the hypothesis that the flag leaf is important in ensuring the proper development of the ear and is thus better defended against herbivores. Removal of the flag leaf in an early developmental phase decreased significantly the number and total dry mass of grains per plant. The flag leaf was preferred by the test herbivore less often than the lower leaf of the same plant, which may reflect the stronger defense status of the flag leaf. In the second study year, however, when the same treatments were performed at a later developmental phase, leaf or seed removal had no significant effects on reproduction. In Setaria spp., we could not detect significant effects of leaf or seed removal on the reproductive traits studied. Unlike the cultivated S. italica, S. viridis produced tillers. Tiller production was promoted by both low density and seed removal, whereas flag leaf removal after the appearance of the ear decreased tillering significantly. The importance of plant developmental stage and cultivation history for damage responses is discussed.
3080048|Flowers within a tree of
3080062|Floral development, structure, and pollination biology of species of
2995686| Photons in the UV region of the spectrum are important for organisms since they are energy-rich and strongly absorbed by biological molecules having the potential to react with membranes, enzymes, and nucleic acids. These wavelengths can also be absorbed by specific molecules that undergo conversion to a more reactive state (light activation) which can then cause damage to molecules of critical physiological function (phototoxicity). The importance of pigments in two genera of the Citrus pathogens, Fusarium and Penicillium, was assessed for ability to protect against inactivation by UV-A, B, and C and two phototoxins activated by UV-A. Pigment-deficient mutants of both genera were isolated following UV-C mutagenesis. Direct exposure of fungal spores in suspension of wild type and pigment-deficient mutants was carried out under the appropriate light source. The UV-A activated phototoxins investigated were: -terthienyl (-T), which produces predominantly singlet oxygen <tex-math>$({}^{1}{\rm O}{}_{2})$</tex-math>, an excited state of oxygen, which causes chiefly membrane damage; and 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP), which induces cycloadduct formation in DNA. For both genera, UV-A and UV-B alone were ineffective in causing inactivation of conidia at the fluences tested. Using appropriate Escherichia coli tester strains, it was demonstrated that the UV-B source was capable of inducing DNA lesions leading to lethality, presumably cyclobutane dimers in large measure. The carotenoids in one of the Fusarium species did not appreciably protect against lethal damage induced by UV-C, but the pigments of both Penicillium species were presumably able to screen UV-C and offer protection. It is assumed that the carotenoids in the wild type Fusarium species protected against UV-A activated -T damage by quenching singlet oxygen. The blue-green pigment(s) in P. italicum prevent DNA damage caused by 8-MOP most probably by screening the UV-A wavelengths necessary to activate the phototoxin. 
2995739|The localization of pectin, cellulose, xyloglucan, and callose was compared in kiwifruit (
3691694|A fructification
10.1086/662679|Plant fossils recently recovered from the Pride Mountain Formation (Mississippian/Serpukhovian) of northern Alabama include a single type of rooting base preserved as casts and permineralizations, a single stem type preserved as compressions and permineralizations, and compressions of a single type of leaf, sporophyll, and megaspore, suggesting that this was a monospecific assemblage and facilitating whole-plant reconstruction. Permineralized specimens were analyzed by means of cellulose acetate peels, and compressions were analyzed as hand samples with selected macerations. These heterosporous, ligulate, cormose, isoetalean lycopsids are semiherbaceous with frequent variable branching. The lobed base produces forking rootlets and a small amount of secondary xylem. Internal anatomy transitions into external morphology, conforming to known isoetalean lycopsid characters from both compression and permineralized specimens with sufficient variation to suggest that this plant constitutes a new genus and species that should be known as
2995565|Using differences between the alpine and prairie ecotypes of Stellaria longipes, we investigated whether characteristic levels of phenotypic plasticity could be explained in terms of either Grime's C-S-R model or Taylor and Aarssen's specialization hypothesis. Seven populations of S longipes were located along an elevational gradient, and fine-scale differentiation between the alpine and prairie forms was quantified genetically and morphologically. Analysis of eight enzyme systems revealed two distinct clusters separating high-elevation populations from low-elevation populations. Morphologically, means and plasticities of traits previously used to describe the tundra ecotype showed parallel population grouping to that of the isozyme analysis. Analysis of environmental parameters showed that growth change and amount of phenotypic plasticity had significant associations with increased wind and temperature stress at high elevations and high interspecific competition at low elevations. This is consistent with the idea that the parallel patterns of separation observed for isozymes, morphology, and plasticity are a result of selection pressures consistent with the C-S-R model. In reciprocal transplants, tundra plants with low plasticity were selected against in a prairie environment. However, no clear advantage was observed for either ecotype in the alpine environment. The high plasticity of the prairie ecotype is likely adaptive for competitive habitats and does not bear a cost of low performance in the unfavorable alpine habitat, as predicted by the specialization hypothesis. The relatively poor performance of the alpine ecotype may reflect a restriction rather than specialization to stressful alpine environments. However, selection for the tundra ecotype in its native habitat may have been detected in experiments carried out over a longer period than those of this study.
2474975| Asexual reproduction is extremely common among arctic and alpine species, and successful sexual reproduction may be rare. In asexual populations, the absence of segregation and recombination predicts reduced levels of genetic variation. Thus, genetic diversity within arctic and alpine plant populations may be quite low. Allozyme analysis of three alpine populations of Polygonum viviparum, a common herbaceous perennial with no observed sexual reproduction, revealed surprising levels of genetic diversity. There were 23 unique clones within a sample of 150 ramets. Few clones were large or distributed among all three sample populations; the majority of clones was rare (n  5) and unique to a single population. Genotypic diversity differed among the three sample populations. The number of clones and measures of diversity and evenness were much lower in the fell-field population than in wet meadow and dry meadow populations. Overall, genotypic diversity and structure of alpine P. viviparum are similar to other clonal species in which sexual reproduction is rare, and they are similar to the average for clonal species in general. 
IJPS41081|
               
30130565|The endemic southern South American genus
2475237|A new genus of Betulaceae, Cranea, is recognized from the Paleocene of central and northern Wyoming based on infructescences with associated leaves, staminate inflorescences, and in situ pollen The elongate infructescences bear numerous closely spaced sessile, persistent, obconical involucres that each envelope an elliptical nut with an epigynous perianth. Although some aspects of the infructescence morphology remain unknown, the involucres and nuts are similar to those of extant Ostryopsis of eastern Asia. The fossil infructescences are more elongate than those of Ostryopsis, and the involucres at the apical and basal ends of the infructescence are small and apparently infertile. Staminate catkins found in association with Cranea bear triporate pollen resembling that of Coryloideae. Associated leaves have compound teeth, closely spaced parallel secondary veins, and closely spaced, percurrent tertiary veins and are similar to the leaves of extant Carpinus and Ostrya. The reconstructed plant conforms to the subfamily Coryloideae but cannot be placed in a modern genus. Cranea and Palaeocarpinus are two examples of extinct coryleoid genera that appear in the fossil record prior to the earliest confirmed fossil records of extant coryleoid genera.
4619821|A new permineralized specimen of
10.1086/655856|The perispores of 48 species of bolbitidoid ferns (
3080144|Patterns of 24h CO
30113527|Thermal energy dissipation protects the photosynthetic apparatus against excess light and requires deepoxidized xanthophyll cycle carotenoids, a low thylakoid lumen pH, and PsbS, an integral membrane subunit of photosystem II. Here, we examine photoprotection, photosynthesis, and growth in
2474909|In pollinated flowers, the number of pollen tubes observed in the style often decreases from the stigma to the base of the style, an effect known as pollen tube attrition. Rates of pollen tube attrition were measured and compared in hand-pollinations of plants derived from an outcrossing and a selfing population of Clarkia tembloriensis. The rate of pollen tube attrition from the stigma to the upper style was very high for both populations. In the style, pollen tube attrition occurred only in plants from the outcrossing population and not in plants of the selfing population. The structure of the style and relative amounts of transmitting tissue differed between plants of the two populations. However, there was no correlation between style structure and the rate of pollen tube attrition in plants of either population.
2995873|Triacylglycerols (TAGs) comprised 59% of the total storage reserve in mature loblolly pine (
10.1086/668249|
               
2474910|Stems of Cercis canadensis L. were pruned to three differently aged segments at three different times during the summer of 1992 to determine the effects of treatment on bud fates (vegetative or reproductive). In addition, the development of vegetative and reproductive buds was microscopically examined on untreated stems. In C. canadensis, multiple axillary buds are produced in a linear series at each node. The distal-most buds on the distal-most nodes become vegetative, and the remaining buds sequentially mature into reproductive buds over a 1-5-yr period. Microscopic buds elongate and become macroscopic in the summer prior to maturing the next spring. The number of inflorescences that elongated in 1992 was not affected by the pruning treatment, but of those, the number of inflorescences that aborted in 1993 increased with the number of nodes pruned. Deeper pruning thus reduced the number of mature inflorescences per node. Some buds that would have normally developed into reproductive shoots became vegetative shoots after stems were pruned. Microscopic observations of buds from nontreated stems indicated that in all of the buds, initial leaf primordia had an orthodistichous phyllotaxy, but in those buds that become inflorescences, the phyllotaxy changed to helical during floral initiation. Although a reversal in eventual bud fate occurred in pruned stems, phyllotaxy indicated that the buds are initiated in the vegetative state; therefore, a reversion from the floral to the vegetative state did not occur. Intermediate shoots produced on some experimental stems developed four foliage leaves instead of four bracteose leaves, but the flowers on the inflorescence appeared normal.
3080326|Mating in plants is usually mediated by animals, yet few studies have determined whether the mating system of plant populations changes in response to variation in the taxonomic composition or to the foraging behavior of animal pollinators. Here, I investigate covariation between striking geographic variation in pollinator fauna and the mating system of a widespread selfcompatible wetland plant,
10.1086/671804|Ochnaceae are members of the recently recircumscribed and extremely diverse rosid order Malpighiales. They consist of three lineages, Ochnoideae, Quiinoideae, and
3080132|
               
2475169|Nucleotide sequences for two chloroplast genome regions, the rbcL gene and the trnL-trnF spacer region, were obtained for 22 genera and 30 species representing all major lineages of Laurales, with a special sampling effort being made in the phylogenetically problematic Monimiaceae sensu lato. Magnoliaceae, Winteraceae, Austrobaileyaceae, and Saururaceae were used as outgroups. A morphological character matrix for the same taxa was compiled and includes new floral-anatomical data for Siparunaceae, a lineage traditionally placed in Monimiaceae. Phylogenetic analyses of the molecular and morphological data based on maximum parsimony reveal that Siparuna and its sister taxon, the monotypic West African genus Glossocalyx, are not closely related to the remaining Monimiaceae, supporting the view that the Monimiaceae in the wide sense are polyphyletic. Based on morphology and chromosome numbers, Siparuna forms a clade with Atherospermataceae and Gomortegaceae, while based on rcbL sequences, it is in a clade with Hernandiaceae, Atherospermataceae, and Gomortegaceae. The trnL-trnF sequences provide no resolution for basal nodes in Laurales but agree with the rbcL and morphological analyses in strongly supporting a placement of Siparunaceae away from Monimiaceae s.str. Based on the phylogenetic hypotheses, we analyze some of the reported floral-morphological trends noted in Monimiaceae and Laurales, such as miniaturization of ovules, increasingly complete enclosure of reproductive organs, and aquisition of functional syncarpy. Both Siparuna and Glossocalyx have polycarpellate gynoecia embedded in massive receptacles covered by a membrane and uniovulate carpels with unitegmic ovules. The membrane, or floral roof, has a small, central pore for the styles or anthers to emerge at anthesis. It is more developed and thicker in female flowers than in male ones. Consequently, the styles in particular are forced into close physical contact. Flowers are pollinated by gall midges that oviposit into them through the pore in the floral roof, whereby they contact stamens or styles. Anatomical studies of flowers representing eight species show that styles fuse postgenitally at the height where they emerge through the pore, resulting in a joint transmission track for pollen tubes that originally landed on different stigmas. Lateral growth of pollen tubes, which results in switching between carpels, was observed in an experimentally pollinated species that had received large pollen loads.
4122588|In natural populations of the annual plant
10.1086/652191|We performed a phylogenetic analysis of the traditionally recognized genera of bolbitidoid ferns (i.e.,
10.1086/677228|
               
3080303|New fossils of the early Devonian plant
40072496|Saccate pollen is present in many ancient seed plants and in two families of extant conifers. In living conifers, saccate pollen occurs in taxa that combine erect ovulate cones at the time of pollination, inverted ovules, and pollination drops. Sacci function primarily to float pollen grains through a liquid pollination drop and concentrate them near the nucellus of the ovule. The morphology and anatomy of sacci are crucial to the proper operation of this pollination mechanism, and similar size proportions in fossil and modern saccate grains suggest that ancient pollen may have functioned in the same way as modern forms. Multivariate analysis of discrete pollen characters performed on data from in situ grains of several groups of fossil seed plants indicates that modern saccus morphology and structure appear as early as the Upper Carboniferous in some nonconiferous seed plants but later in the evolutionary history of the conifer lineage. Combined evidence from pollen morphology suggests that sacci may have functioned in their modern capacity by the Upper Carboniferous in at least some groups of seed plants, which is consistent with the occurrence of potentially inverted ovules in many extinct groups producing saccate pollen. This study also suggests that modern saccus morphology has evolved independently several times over the course of seed plant evolution.
2995738|We characterized the gravitactic behavior of
4619808|Phylogenetic analysis suggests that the conifer families Majonicaceae and Ullmanniaceae (voltzian Voltziales), known from the equatorial Late Permian EuroAmerican flora province, arose from a member of a paraphyletic group of walchian Voltziales commonly referred to as walchian conifers. The Majonicaceae and Ullmanniaceae are more derived in that they have fused female reproduction organs and a more advanced reproduction strategy that involves a pollen tube. Until recently, it has not been possible to establish with accuracy when these conifers originated or when they started their rise to dominance over the walchian conifers. Findings from late Early to early Middle Permian localities in northcentral Texas prove that radiation in these conifer lineages occurred significantly earlier than previously thought. The natural genus
2475329|Studies were conducted to determine the morphology and ultrastructure of spores of Glomus intraradices, a species of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus that usually produces its spores inside the host root. Different wall structures are observed and wall development is described with both light microscopy and TEM. In mature spores the wall is formed by two zones: an outer, disintegrating zone and an inner zone with several layers. Mature spores have large centrally located lipid droplets and a peripheral layer of cytoplasm containing numerous nuclei, mitochondria, polyphosphate granules, and small lipid droplets.
2475210|The coupled processes of double fertilization and postfertilization endosperm formation have long been viewed as important and synapomorphic features of flowering plants. Recent developmental studies of fertilization in the nonflowering seed plants Ephedra and Gnetum clearly document a regular process of double fertilization. The condition for Welwitschia remains unknown. Unlike angiosperms, the product of the second fertilization event in Ephedra and Gnetum is diploid and expresses the developmental program of an embryo. Explicit criteria for the evaluation of evolutionary homology indicate that the processes of double fertilization in Gnetales and angiosperms are homologous, having first evolved in a common ancestor of these two lineages. It is hypothesized that the second fertilization product initially yielded a supernumerary embryo genetically identical to the normal embryo. This rudimentary process is expressed in relatively unmodified form in Ephedra. Other reproductive features of Ephedra that are conserved from the common ancestor of angiosperms and Gnetales are a monosporic female gametophyte with two or more eggs and the partial allocation of maternal resources, for subsequent embryo nourishment, to a large cellular female gametophyte in advance of fertilization. In Gnetum, evolutionary modification of reproduction resulted in a paedomorphic female gametophyte that is fertilized at a "juvenilized" free nuclear stage of development. In Gnetum gnemon, egg cells are not formed and maternal provisioning of the embryo-nourishing female gametophyte takes place entirely after fertilization. The biological significance of double fertilization that does not form endosperm, in Ephedra and Gnetum, is currently unknown. This process may be biologically neutral. However, due consideration must be given to the hypothesis that the second fertilization product in Ephedra and Gnetum, while expressing a structural/developmental program of an embryo, may "behave" as a rudimentary and cryptic endosperm and assist with the development of the normal embryo.
3691872|Morphological traits and sequences from two chloroplast genes,
10.1086/667610|Definitions of the cells that constitute the exocarp or exterior tissue of fleshy fruits are often vague, sometimes providing contradictory descriptions of the epidermis plus none or varying numbers of underlying cell layers for the same species. This study uses a morphometric approach to investigate how cell dimensions, cell number, and their relation with genetically based fruit size differences can contribute to a characterization of tissue organization in the external fruit region, using the olive drupe as an example. We determined cell area, radial and tangential widths, and cell number in the epidermis and 20 subepidermal cell layers of mature fruits of four olive cultivars that range in fruit size. Variation of these measurements among cell layers and the implied cellular contributions to fruit expansion revealed two different subepidermal regions, but with constant widths and layer numbers for all cultivars: (1) the first four cell layers (14), which have similar behavior to the epidermis; and (2) the following five cell layers (59), which are more similar to the mesocarp. The results provide new insights about cell patterns in the external region of the olive fruit and suggest that layers 14 together with the epidermis may act as a multiseriate exocarp and layers 59 may act as an outer mesocarp.
2475034|Anatomical studies of several thousand specimens of Eorhiza arnoldii Robison and Person rhizomes and their attached organs have added significantly to our knowledge of these Middle Eocene, semiaquatic dicotyledonous plants from the Princeton chert. Anatomical structure of Eorhiza was studied through serial sections on cellulose acetate peels. In order to establish the growth habit for these plants, individual axes were mapped as to their three-dimensional positions in the chert matrix. Plants grew from an extensive sympodial rhizome system similar to many living monocots and exhibited subopposite branching. Branches gave rise to rhizome sympodia or to branches bearing small scale-leaves. The architecture of Eorhizaconforms to the Tomlinson Model proposed by Halle, Oldeman, and Tomlinson. Leaves are ensiform, equitant, unifacial (isobilateral), and monocot-like with a large central lacuna. Rhizomes show typical dicot stelar anatomy. The presence of an aerenchymatous cortex and the plants' association with freshwater animal remains and representatives of known aquatic plant families, such as Nymphaeaceae, support an aquatic habitat for Eorhiza. The presence of rhizomes that produce roots bearing secondary and tertiary roots indicates in situ preservation of extensive rhizome systems at least 41 cm in length. A reconstruction of the vegetative body of Eorhiza is presented and a hypothesis offered concerning the attachment of reproductive structures to these plants.
10.1086/677947|
               
2475046|The supply of taxol, a valuable anticancer compound, depends completely on the extraction of taxol from Taxus brevifolia (Pacific yew) plants. Although taxol is found in virtually all parts of the plant, nothing is known about the localization of taxol within the cells or tissues of the plant. Portions of T. cuspidata stems were chemically fixed, dehydrated in ethanol, and then embedded in standard resins. In these tissues, immunolocalization using polyclonal antitaxol antiserum indicates that taxol is associated with vacuolar tannin inclusions in axial phloem parenchyma cells. Little or no label is bound over the cell walls of any cell type. However, chemical preparation causes diffusion of taxol, which results in an erroneous localization of taxol. In contrast, using cryotechniques and a water-soluble melamine resin (Nanoplast), taxol is localized almost exclusively in the cell walls of phloem, vascular cambium, and xylem. Our method yields insight into the problems associated with the intra- and extracellular localization of lipophilic plant secondary compounds. It also offers an alternative tissue-preparation protocol that could be useful for the localization of other plant metabolites.
10.1086/668612|The discovery of 16 cylindrical conifer seed cones at the Estancia Viln locality in the Late Jurassic Caadn Calcreo Formation of Chubut Province, Patagonia, Argentina, provides anatomically preserved specimens, allowing for the description of a second species of
2475131|Ecological studies on salt tolerance in plants have focused mainly on population differentiation with limited information on the timescale and genetic basis of this adaptation. This study reports on rapid adaptation of the littoral grass Leymus arenarius (lymegrass) to low salinity that has been found since 1967 to colonize the roadsides studied in Finland. Roadsides offer an open microenvironment similar to that of the beach. Thirty-four roadside and littoral populations were differentiated by germinating seeds at 300 mM NaCl, ca. half-strength seawater. Seeds of inland and sub-maritime populations had significantly (P < .001) less salt tolerance than littoral populations. The shortest distances of the habitats from the seashores showed significant (P < .001) negative correlation with the germination ability at 300 mM NaCl. Electrophoretic patterns of endospermal glycosylated proteins of high-molar-mass leymins were significantly (P < .01) correlated to total germination at 300 mM NaCl. Inland populations usually had three bands of the high-molar-mass leymins, but six bands of leymins were found in seeds of the most salt tolerant population. The rapid adaptation of lymegrass seed germination to low salinity indicates that only a few genes are involved in its salt tolerance and that the activity of such genes provides a load where salt tolerance is unnecessary. Alternatively, salinity in the habitat may control the expression of some genes.
4619815|For cleistogamous species, herbivory can affect a plant's mating system by altering the total amount of resources allocated to selfed (e.g., cleistogamous) and outcrossed (e.g., chasmogamous) seeds. Because exotic species are hypothesized to experience lower amounts of herbivory (enemy release), their mating system expression may differ from their native congeners. I examine the effect of herbivory on the mating systems of two cooccurring congeneric species,
3691794|In angiosperm reproduction, pollen tubes elongate from the stigma through the stylar transmitting tissue to the ovary to deliver the male gametes for fertilization. This article reviews different forms of pollen tube transmitting tracts within the style as well as possibilities for bridging the gap from the transmitting tissue to the ovule. The pollen tube transmitting tissue is the place of possible pollen tube competition. Often the number of pollen grains deposited onto the stigma or stigmata of a flower exceeds the number of ovules in the ovary of the pollinated flower. In the styles of most taxa investigated, a reduction in number of the pollen tubes occurs from the stigma to the ovary (pollen tube attrition): the pollen tubes compete for entry into the embryo sac of the ovules within the ovary. A prediction of the extent of pollen tube competition can be partially equated to the PS/O ratio. This ratio relates the total number of pollen grains (P) deposited onto the stigmata (S) at the end of the female phase of anthesis (stigma receptivity) to the number of ovules (O) present in the ovary. Some quantitative data on pollen load on the stigma or stigmata and resulting pollen tube competition will be demonstrated especially in the choricarpous gynoecium of
3080063|Living species of
3691867|Levels of fluctuating asymmetry (random variation in size among sides) may be partly determined by compensational growth, and the efficiency of such compensation may be affected by stress. Here we provide the first test of this hypothesis by studying the effect of saline stress on the ontogeny of size and symmetry of leaf width in broadleaved elms
IJPS41038|Hybridization between
3691563|Developmental instability, as assessed by leaf fluctuating asymmetry and stem internode allometry, was examined at nine sites, representing three levels of disturbance, over multiple years. Site selection was based on landuse disturbance classes related to training of mechanized infantry and other land management activities at Fort Benning, Georgia. Developmental instability varied among sites and years, and there was a strong sitebyyear interaction for many traits. Indeed, depending on the year, the same site could be ranked as having the greatest and least amount of leaf fluctuating asymmetry. Burning a site the year prior to collecting the leaves profoundly influenced measures of leaf fluctuating asymmetry. In the absence of recent burning, leaf fluctuating asymmetry declined with increasing disturbance, but burning the year prior to collecting the leaves reversed this trend. Total plant cover, proportion of bare ground, and amount of plant litter influenced the amount of leaf asymmetry in a sitedependent manner. Overall, burning influenced the levels of developmental instability more than either disturbance or microhabitat variables such as total plant cover, which should reflect competition in a plants immediate neighborhood.
3080044|Palynological studies of the Eocene Buchanan Lake Formation, Axel Heiberg Island, Canadian High Arctic, have yielded pollen grains closely comparable to those of extant
4619756|In order to elucidate the threedimensional genetic structure of
3080234|Abundant fossils of a single conifer species occur in a Pennsylvanianage deposit of eastern North America, providing the opportunity to describe a biological taxon of primitive conifers as well as to clarify the uncertain taxonomy and systematics of walchian conifers.
10.1086/669721|Chitosan oligosaccharides (collectively, oligochitosan, or COS) are considered to be potent plant immunity elicitors. In this article, the induction of resistance to
2475269|Fossils of Cupressus macrocapra Gordon, Pinus muricata Don, Pinus radiata Don, Pinus remorata Mason, and Quercus macdonaldii Greene have been recovered from an early Pleistocene deposit (ca, 1 Ma) from Costa Mesa, coastal southern California. All these species have very restricted distributions today but were more widely distributed during the late Cenozoic. The paleoclimate at Costa Mesa probably was similar to that now at Monterey 560 km north. Colder climate is indicated by the record of Pleistocene marine megafossils and by the composition of the early Pleistocene fossil floras in coastal and interior southern California.
2995843|We studied the general features of the reproductive system of two sympatric species
IJPS41029|This study examined the effect of host species identity on the structure of
4122610|Casuarinaceae, today restricted to the Australasian region, has an extensive fossil record. In this article, we evaluate previous records and recent findings from Patagonia, where Casuarinaceae are known from the Tufolitas Laguna del Hunco (early Eocene) in northwestern Chubut, Argentina. Based on characters found in numerous branchlets, infructescences, and male inflorescences with pollen of the
IJPS40944|Reconstructing the phylogeny of the western North American
2475280|Investigations of two different temperature regimes on vegetative and reproductive organs of Japanese morning glory (Pharbitis nil) revealed different patterns of development. Plants were grown at an optimal temperature of 27
2995687|A repeated sequence of monocultures and mixtures of oats (Avena sativa L.) and wild mustard (Brassica kaber (DC.) Wheeler) was grown along a daytime gradient of CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations ([ CO<sub>2</sub>]) from near 330 to a minimum of <tex-math>$150\ \mu {\rm mol}\ {\rm mol}^{-1}$</tex-math>. The objectives were to determine effects of subambient [ CO<sub>2</sub>] on leaf gas exchange, biomass production, and competitive interactions of these C<sub>3</sub> species. A decrease in stomatal conductance did not prevent a nearly linear increase in leaf internal [ CO<sub>2</sub>] and net assimilation of oat leaves as [ CO<sub>2</sub>] increased. Net assimilation of oats and wild mustard increased from 5.0 and <tex-math>$2.5\ \mu {\rm mol}\ {\rm m}^{-2}\ {\rm s}^{-1}$</tex-math> at <tex-math>$150\ \mu {\rm mol}\ {\rm mol}^{-1}$</tex-math>, respectively, to 16.1 and <tex-math>$15.9\ \mu {\rm mol}\ {\rm m}^{-2}\ {\rm s}^{-1}$</tex-math> at <tex-math>$330\ \mu {\rm mol}\ {\rm mol}^{-1}$</tex-math> CO<sub>2</sub>, respectively, when measured at <tex-math>$1,200-1,500\ \mu {\rm mol}\ {\rm m}^{-2}\ {\rm s}^{-1}$</tex-math> incident light. Aboveground biomass per plant of wild mustard and oats increased 106% and 198%, respectively, and leaf area rose more than two- and threefold, respectively, from 154 to <tex-math>$331\ \mu {\rm mol}\ {\rm mol}^{-1}$</tex-math> CO<sub>2</sub>. The CO<sub>2</sub>-induced increase in aboveground biomass of plants of each species did not vary among monocultures and mixtures. Responses of oats and wild mustard to higher subambient [ CO<sub>2</sub>] were large relative to reported responses of C<sub>3</sub> species to comparable increases above the current atmospheric [ CO<sub>2</sub>]. This suggests that past changes in atmospheric [ CO<sub>2</sub>], including the 27% rise since the beginning of the nineteenth century, may have profoundly altered the productivity of C<sub>3</sub> plants.
4619838|Data on the reproductive biology of the Annonaceae are rather fragmentary, particularly for paleotropical species. The pollination ecology and breeding system of the Sri Lankan endemic
3080148|Male and female reproductive output of
2995680| Echinomastus erectrocentrus var. acunensis initiates flowering in early March and is the first cactus species to bloom in Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona. Flowering is correlated with plant size; the smallest plant to flower in the study area was 24 mm tall, and thereafter the percentage of plants that produced flowers increased to near 100%, at  90 mm in height. For flower-bearing plants, the number of flowers produced increased with plant height but was better correlated with plant volume. Number of flowers produced varied among years when controlling for plant volume and was positively associated with annual rainfall. Echinomastus is self-incompatible and thus requires insect vectors for pollination. Flower visitors are mostly solitary, polylectic bee species, largely Andrenidae, Anthophoridae, Halictidae, and Megachilidae, but the primary pollinators in each of 2 yr were Megachile palmensis (Megachilidae) and Diadasia rinconis (Anthophoridae). These same two species also accounted for ca. 90% of the pollinators captured on Echinocereus engelmannii var. acicularis, a potential competitor that began to flower near the peak of the Echinomastus flowering period. Insect visitation rates to Echinocereus were higher than those to Echinomastus throughout the period of concurrent flowering; however, visitation rate to both species decreased near the end of the Echinomastus flowering period. Both fruit-set and seed-set by Echinomastus approached 100% and thus were not affected by temporal variation in pollinator effectiveness, abundance, or both. Number of seeds per fruit did vary temporally, however, and was lower for flowers that bloomed late in the flowering season because there were fewer ovules in these buds. Seed-set per fruit and ovule number per bud also varied among plants. Fruits and seeds were eaten by larvae of the pyralid moth Yosemitia graciella. 
2995575|At least three types of surface fibrils or fimbriae were observed in shadowed and negatively stained sporidia of Ustilago maydis examined with the electron microscope. "Type A" fimbriae were more than 10 m in length and 7 nm in diameter, "type B" fimbriae were similar in length but narrower (3-4 nm); and "type C" fimbriae were also narrow at 3-4 nm but were short (< 1 m) and frequently aggregated into loose "cables" containing two or three fibrils. SDS-PAGE analysis of the surface proteins showed four major bands with molecular masses of 76, 72, 50, and 31 kDa. The three bands of higher molecular mass gave positive results in Western blots when immunoprobed with polyclonal antiserum against the fimbriae from Microbotryum violaceum. The 31-kDa band was not probed. Similarly, an antiserum against the 31-kDa protein of U. maydis did not react with the 74-kDa protein of M. violaceum or the 76-, 72-, and 50-kDa proteins of U. maydis. All four bands were positive indicating glycoproteins; the 31-kDa band was weakly stained. Treatment with trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, which removed carbohydrate units, resulted in the replacement of these proteins by three new bands with molecular masses of 66, 47, and 30 kDa. The 66-kDa band may be a common protein moiety in the 76- and 72-kDa glycoproteins, the 47-kDa band the core protein of the 50-kDa glycoprotein, and the 30-kDa band the core protein portion of the 31-kDa glycoprotein. All four glycoprotein bands assembled spontaneously into fibrils following electroelution from the gel and dialysis. Morphological comparisons of the reassembled and intact fibrils on cells of U. maydis showed the fibrils formed by the 50-kDa band to be very similar to type A fibrils, while the 76- and 72-kDa bands formed fibrils that were similar to type B fimbriae, and the fibrils formed by the 31-kDa band resembled type C fimbriae. All isolates (including a<sub>1</sub>b<sub>1</sub>, a<sub>2</sub>b<sub>2</sub>, and a diploid) of a second strain of U. maydis produced fimbrial proteins of 76, 72, and 31 kDa but lacked the 50-kDa fimbrial protein. These strains produced fimbriae of types B and C but lacked the type A form.
IJPS41021|Plants rely on phenotypic plasticity to maintain performance and survive in changing environments. Stress such as herbivory has the potential to cause short- and long-term changes to a plants phenotype. In response to simulated herbivory by clipping, plants either may show lower growth and fecundity or may overcompensate and exceed the size and fecundity of undamaged individuals. This study examined the short- and long-term responses to the timing and frequency of clipping in
3691874|The phylogeny of the Australian legume genus
10.1086/665973|A recent controversy concerns whether plant traits that are assumed to be adaptations to fire originally evolved in response to selective factors other than fire. We contribute to this debate by investigating the evolution of the endemic woody flora of the fire-prone Cerrado of central Brazil, the most species-rich savanna in the world. We review evidence from dated phylogenies and show that Cerrado lineages started to diversify less than 10 million years ago. These Cerrado lineages are characterized by fire-resistant traits such as thick, corky bark and root sprouting, which have been considered to have evolved as adaptations to drought or nutrient-deficient soils. However, the fact that the lineages carrying these features arose coincident with the rise to dominance of flammable C
2475065| Kiwifruit were examined at harvest and during postharvest ripening to quantify structural changes to starch granules as net starch degradation occurred. The changes were compared with those found in in vitro studies utilizing granules prepared from fruit at harvest. In in vitro studies starch granules were incubated with various cocktails of starch-degrading enzymes and examined by scanning and transmission electron microscope (TEM) at sequential points during enzyme incubation. Only -amylase, or -amylase in combination with other enzymes, was able to degrade the native granules. A combination of -amylase and -glucosidase resulted in less degradation than with -amylase alone. Crude extracts from kiwifruit or pea leaf resulted in minimal degradation under the conditions tested. In all experiments -amylase attack began by creating channels to the center of the granule, which was then followed by radial degradation from the center outward. An external shell was generally all that remained. This pattern was not detected in vivo. Here degradation appeared to be from the outside in. Often individual granules within a plastid appeared to resist degradation when adjacent ones were being hydrolyzed. Measurements of granule diameter, both in vivo and with extracted granules, also indicated that large granules may be preferentially degraded after fruit harvest. These results are discussed in relation to control of starch degradation. 
3874630|An apparently exindusiate filicalean fern with radial sori, sporangia with a vertical annulus, and monolete spores occurs in Paleocene sediments ca. 57 million years old of central Alberta, Canada. Specimens are preserved as coalified compressions and show features of frond morphology and venation, sporangium morphology and dehiscence mechanism, number of spores per sporangium, and spore fine structure. Fronds have a deltoid blade region and are
3691895|Genetic variation of agamospecies might originate from mutations, facultative sexuality, and from hybridization of genetically divergent sexual taxa. Genetic variation and distance of sexual species of the apomictic
3691585|Semiarid steppe communities in North America appear particularly vulnerable to persistent infestations by exotic, taprooted forbs, such as European spotted knapweed (
2474986|Ontogenetically programmed cell death or apoptosis was initiated in individual nuclei by endonucleases and by the ubiquitin-mediated turnover of proteins. The salvage of degradation products ensured that a nutrient supply was available for survival of the developing embryos. In diploid parthenogenesis, the egg-equivalent nucleus underwent parthenogenesis and released proembryos from the egg cytoplasm as the egg cell was eliminated. Immunochemical evidence for the ubiquination of proteins was found mainly in nucleoli of viable cells in the proembryo, embryonal group of the early embryo, and throughout nuclei of abortive cells. During development of the axial tier of early embryos. the differentiation of embryonal suspensors was characterized by enucleation, nucleolar release, and by the processing of ubiquinated nuclear fragments by proteasome-like associations. Abortive early embryos, which comprised less than 5% of the population, underwent massive apoptosis giving a strong ubiquitin reactivity with degrading nuclei and chromatin fibers. Proteins were color-coded by Stains-all as to their location in the axial tier and on SDS-PAGE gels for correlation with Western blots. Regulatory proteins from all cells along the tier were programmed for turnover. Ubiquinated, high-molecular-weight proteins in suspensors were released as mucilage into the culture medium. For viable early embryos, peroxisomes, which encode genes for the ubiquitin-conjugating protein family, accounted for the characteristic acetocarmine staining of the cytoplasm in the embryonal group.
4619836|Ovule development in
2475307| Intact caryopses of dormant AN265 and M73 wild oat (Avena fatua L.) lines did not germinate when imbibed in water at 14C, but germinated after exposure to ethylene during imbibition. Embryos excised from dormant caryopses and imbibed in water germinated readily. However, inhibitors of ethylene synthesis ([aminooxy]acetic acid and 2-[aminoethoxyvinyl] glycine) and ethylene action (2,5-norbornadiene and silver thiosulfate) delayed or almost completely inhibited germination of excised embryos. Embryos removed from inhibitor treatments after 15 d and incubated in water germinated normally. Except for 2,5-norbornadiene, inhibitors did not reduce germination of intact nondormant (afterripened) caryopses or embryos excised from nondormant caryopses. Reduced germination rates of embryos excised from dormant caryopses and incubated in 2,5-norbornadiene and 2-(aminoethoxyvinyl) glycine were reversed by applications of 0.05 L/L ethylene. The results indicate that wound-induced ethylene synthesis may be responsible for germination of embryos excised from dormant wild oat caryopses. 
3080176|Specialist beetles (Insecta, Coleoptera) have generally been considered to be the sole pollinators of cycads that have been studied. The possible pollination role of members of the thrips genus
40344030|The pattern of cell division at shoot apices of
3691564|Recent studies indicate that, especially in epiphytes, plant size has a strong influence on the ecophysiology of individual leaves of a plant. Extensive data sets that address this phenomenon, however, are limited to a few taxa of flowering plants. It was the purpose of this study to examine numerous physiological parameters in individuals of varying sizes of
10.1086/669907|
               
10.1086/681669|
               
3079941|Plant reproduction under spaceflight conditions has been problematic in the past. In order to determine what aspect of reproductive development is affected by microgravity, we studied pollination and embryo development in
40072518|Although the phylogeny of the filmy fern family (Hymenophyllaceae) is rapidly coming into focus, much remains tobe uncovered concerning the evolutionary history of this clade. In this study, we use two data sets (108taxon
2995657| -Amylases were purified from germinating starchy (Su) maize kernels (Funks G4646) using glycogen precipitation and preparative SDS-PAGE. Antiserum to the purified -amylases was produced in rabbits. Isozymes of -amylase from the scutellum and aleurone tissues of kernels of five Su lines were compared with a sweet corn (su-1) and two high-sugar sweet corn (su-1 se and sh-2) inbred lines in the same genetic background, using isoelectric focusing gels, starch zymograms, and immunoblotting analyses. The most notable differences were found in the high-sugar sweet corn kernels. In the sh-2 aleurone, there were no -amylase isozymes detected on the zymogram and immunoblot, indicating a lack of enzyme accumulation. In the su-1 se scutellum, there were fewer isozymes compared with most of the lines examined, but the significance of this is not clear. Comparison of the five Su lines revealed several isozymes common to all the kernels examined, but there were considerable tissue-specific differences in the number of isozymes between the aleurone and scutellum tissues. The Funks G4646 (Su) and RB-4 (Su) had similar scutellar and aleurone isozyme patterns, with the aleurone having one more isozyme than the scutellum. In OH43 (Su) kernels, the scutellum had one to two more isozymes with -amylase activity than the aleurone, while the IL451b (Su) scutellum had fewer isozymes (seven to eight) than the aleurone (14-16). Both high- and low-pI isozymes of wheat and barley, and the low-pI isozymes of rice, were recognized by the antibodies to maize -amylases developed in this study. These data indicate a complex relationship between the carbohydrate and sugar composition of the kernel and the synthesis of -amylase isozymes during germination. 
20533062|Pteridosperms are common in the Permian floras of China and are known from both vegetative and fertile organs in adpression assemblages and as dispersed ovules and seeds in permineralized assemblages. In contrast, reports of vegetative organs from permineralized assemblages are limited, and in all cases, accounts have not been verified by detailed descriptions nor illustration. Here we report four taxa of pteridosperm stem or rachis from the Permian permineralized floras of China. Coal balls from the AsselianSakmarian (Cisuralian) Taiyuan Formation are shown to contain specimens of a medullosan and a lyginopterid pteridosperm. The medullosan rachis has a distinctive collateral organization of vascular bundles interspersed within a crushed parenchymatous ground tissue that also has scattered resin ducts, and it is identified as
4122609|
               
10.1086/666665|The prevalence and functional relevance of heteroblasty, i.e., abrupt morphological changes in ontogeny in many angiosperms, remain obscure. To obtain a first estimate of the number of heteroblastic bromeliads, we used a simple metric to distinguish unambiguously heteroblastic from homoblastic species. We addressed ecological relevance by determining the time for transition between ontogenetic stages (atmospheric and tank) and by comparing the prevalence of heteroblasty in different habitats. Epiphytic Tillandsioideae were studied in a lowland and a montane forest in Panama. Repeated censuses allowed estimates of relative growth rates and the construction of ontogenetic trajectories for 14 species. Data on leaf index (leaf length/width) were taken for 23 species. Ontogenetic changes in leaf index reliably separate homoblastic and heteroblastic species. The early atmospheric stage in heteroblastic species lasts, on average, 3 yr, equivalent to 20% of the average generation time. Heteroblastic species are as common in the understory as at exposed growing sites. This finding challenges the notion of heteroblasty as an adaptation to drought, because there are no differences in the proportion of heteroblastic species in wet and dry habitats. An alternative hypothesis is proposed.
2474957|Distribution of
2475087|Parasites induce changes in their hosts that can be viewed either as pathological effects of infection (i.e., symptoms), adaptive defense by the host, or adaptive manipulation on the part of the parasite. The pollinator-borne anther-smut fungus Microbotryum violaceum is a prevalent parasite of the common roadside weed Silene latifolia (Caryophyllaceae). The fungal disease alters the phenotype of the host plant in several important ways. In a greenhouse experiment, we show that the disease accelerated flowering and that diseased plants invested relatively less in root biomass than did healthy plants. In a second experiment, diseased plants also produced smaller, more irregularly shaped flowers with different nectar-sugar production than did healthy plants. The magnitude of some of these effects of the disease differed for different fungal crosses. Differential alteration of host phenotype may result in pollinator-mediated selection on this pathogen. Whereas some of these changes in host phenotype may represent parasite adaptations, others may represent side effects of disease. It also appears that although the parasite modifies host phenotypes, trade-offs become evident, such as those between flower size and flower number and investment to vegetative compared with storage biomass. This indicates that this fungus cannot produce a plant phenotype optimal for pollinator attraction and disease transmission.
40072541|
               
30130569|Lignitized seeds from the Early to Middle Miocene of Yunnan Province, southwestern China, are assigned to the genus
3874623|Anatomically preserved schizaeaceous vegetative and fertile organs have been identified from the Apple Bay locality (Lower Cretaceous) of Vancouver Island, British Columbia. Specimens are permineralized in calcareous nodules that contain numerous plants and marine invertebrates. Fertile pinnules are pinnately lobed, with abaxial sporangia and abaxially reflexed laminae. The pyriform sporangia have an apical annulus and occur in two rows on each pinnule lobe. Laminar tissue has wavy, thickwalled, adaxial epidermal cells. Spores are tetrahedral to globose with three sets of obliquely arranged parallel muri and correspond to the
2474981|A new species of the fossil genus Mauldinia Drinnan et al. (Lauraceae) is described from the Cenomanian of Bohemia, Czech Republic, central Europe. This constitutes the first well-documented report of Lauraceae from the European Cretaceous, and a new species, M. bohemica, is based on a large assemblage of compression fossils as well as three-dimensionally preserved specimens. Inflorescences are of the same unique organization as in the type species, with distinctly bilobed lateral inflorescence units attached on elongated central axes in a helical arrangement Lateral inflorescence units are dorsiventrally flattened and composed of small leaflike scales that are closely attached in a distichous arrangement on each lobe. Flowers are borne in the axils of the leaflike scales on the adaxial surface of each lobe. Flowers are trimerous with two perianth whorls, nine fertile and bivalvate stamens in three whorls, three staminodes in an inner fourth whorl, and a single carpel. A pair of staminal appendages with glandular heads is associated with the filaments of the third staminal whorl. A hypothesis concerning the derivation of the peculiar Mauldinia inflorescence is discussed and includes reduction and condensation of proliferating dichasia through a process called "syndesmy." A survey of the fossil record showed that Mauldinia had a wide geographic distribution and was an important element in many floras during the Cenomanian.
IJPS41022|Hybrid species provide a unique opportunity to examine trait evolution. We previously demonstrated that the hybrid species
3691801|Evidence from the fossil record, comparative morphology, and molecular phylogenetic analyses indicates that Chloranthaceae are among the oldest lineages of flowering plants alive today. Their four genera (ca. 65 species) today are disjunctly distributed in the Neotropics, China, tropical Asia, and Australasia, with a single species in Madagascar but none in mainland Africa. In the Cretaceous, Chloranthaceae occurred in much of Laurasia as well as Africa, Australia, and southern South America. We used DNA sequence data from the plastid
2995688|Nuclear mutations resulting in the chlorophyll-deficient or albino phenotype are the most commonly used end point of mutation in higher plants. Mutation rates per generation for albinism are remarkably similar in a variety of species of annuals even though these species vary greatly in their DNA levels, chromosome numbers, and apical ontogenies. These data prompt the hypothesis that the nuclear genes for chlorophyll deficiency or albinism, on the average, degrade at relatively constant rates regardless of many biological, ecological, and evolutionary parameters.
10.1086/651243|Recent molecular investigations have greatly improved our understanding of the phylogenetic relationships of the
3080319|Recently published molecular phylogenetic studies indicate a sister taxon relationship between Caricaceae and Moringaceae; such a relationship was not identified in nearly 250 yr of morphological studies because the families share few obvious similarities. This study tests the monophyly of both families and attempts to identify morphological synapomorphies of the twofamily clade and of each family. Parsimony analysis of DNA sequence variation in the chloroplast gene
10.1086/677651|
               
3691713|We surveyed the literature published since 1985 for evidence of natural selection and heritability in vegetative functional traits and performance. Our goals were to (1) review patterns of selection on specific functional traits and (2) assess general evolutionary questions about selection and heritability for broad classes of traits. While generalizations about the functional significance of specific traits are premature, several functional hypotheses are supported. For example, herbivores can exert strong selection on secondary chemistry and mechanical defenses, but costs of resistance and negative correlations between defense traits may constrain their evolution. Competitive interactions select for early germination and favor stem elongation and shifts in flowering time where such responses actually minimize competitive effects. In the very few studies of physiology, selection on gas exchange and leaf size is clearly environment dependent. More generally, in reciprocal transplant experiments, populations often are locally adapted, and selection favors the native phenotype. These results suggest that selection is important in functional trait evolution and population differentiation. At the same time, selection often varies in space and time and across lifehistory episodes. This variation could slow the rate of evolutionary change, maintain genetic variation within populations, and select for plasticity. Analyses of general questions revealed that indirect selection through correlated characters accounts for a substantial portion of total selection on traits and often appears to reinforce the pattern of direct selection. This could be due to environmental effects on multiple phenotypic traits and fitness. Alternatively, indirect selection could contribute to the rapid evolution of suites of traits. We found only weak evidence that traits under strong selection have low heritability, a pattern that has been reported for animals and predicted by some theory. Thus, the rate of evolutionary change may well differ among traits. The strength of selection also depended on the fitness measure, being stronger selection through cumulative fitness than fertility or vegetative performance. Attributes of species' biology and experimental design affected selection and heritability estimates. Heritability was lower in inbreeding species relative to outbreeders, as expected. Heritabilities in controlled environments substantially overestimate estimates from the wild and should not be used as reliable predictors of the rate of adaptive evolutionary change in natural populations. Likewise, broadsense heritability overestimates narrowsense heritability and is thus unreliable for predicting evolutionary change in outbreeding species. Future studies of functional trait evolution should focus on physiology and a broader array of phenological and developmental traits. Longlived species are severely underrepresented in microevolutionary studies, no doubt for practical reasons. Finally, an emphasis should be placed on exploring the nature and effect of trait interactions on fitness, since these are likely to be very important in shaping the course of evolution.
10.1086/650317|We tested the effects of hybridization and introgression on the levels of leaf fluctuating asymmetry (FA) in a hybrid zone between
IJPS41428|Crop wild relatives are important components of agroecosystems and have over the years been exploited in breeding programs as sources of genes for novel traits. Information on the extent and patterns of variability is important in formulating effective conservation and utilization strategies for existing crop wild relative populations. We conducted surveys and collections of wild and weedy accessions of
3691900|A single mummified angiosperm seed is described from a middle Eocene clay lens deposit at the Monier East Yatala Sand Pit, Golden Grove, South Australia. The seed is small (0.7 mm long and 0.45 mm wide), elliptical, black, and shows complex raised reticulate honeycomb sculpturing with deeply excavated cell floors and verrucate sculpturing on the anticlinal ridges. The fossil was compared against extant species of
40072542|Available information on seed dormancy for various members of the Saxifragales and phylogenetic relationships within this order allowed us to accurately predict that
2475129|Vessels are demonstrated in metaxylem of both roots and rhizomes of both species of Acorus (Acoraceae) by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The end walls of vessel elements are characterized by perforations that retain porose pit membranes; the pores sometimes coalesce into larger openings. Lateral walls lack pores in primary walls as detectable by our SEM. Striations in pit membranes, as in Nymphaeaceae, were observed. Although vessel elements, as defined by porose pit membranes in end walls, occur in both roots and rhizomes, the long scalariform nature of end walls of vessel elements and the porose nature of the membranes are interpreted as primitive. Thus, the nature of vessels in Acorus is compatible with the recent idea that Acorus (Acoraceae) is the sister group to the remainder of the monocotyledons. Cheadle's (1942) view that presence of vessels only in roots is primitive in monocotyledons was based on light microscopy. The addition of SEM data has revealed new vessel distributions. The pores in pit membranes in end walls of vessels of Acorus are larger than pores in pit membranes in end walls of tracheids in vessel-less dicotyledons. The difference between vessel elements and tracheids in groups such as Acorus may be not the absence of pit membranes in perforation plates but the size of pores in the membranes of the perforation plates. The conductive capabilities and air bubble transmission capacities of pores of various sizes in pit membranes need physiological analysis in view of SEM findings on porosity in pit membranes of vessel perforation plates.
10.1086/647917|Wind is a powerful abiotic influence on plants that is predicted to increase with global warming. The resulting changes to plant function and interaction with herbivores are likely to have significant ecological, forestry, and agricultural consequences. We used a glasshouse manipulative study to test the effects of wind exposure on a range of morphological, functional, and chemical characteristics of seedlings of
4619843|Members of Simaroubaceae comprise a clade of 22 genera and ca. 100 species in the Sapindales. Previous phylogenetic analyses of the family were limited to a single gene and seven genera, and relationships among the genera remain poorly understood. Molecular data from three plastid genes (
2474988|The cytophysiology of the caruncle of Ricinus communis was studied from the fifth day after pollination until seed maturity. The caruncle consists of epidermal and parenchyma cells. The surface area of the epidermal cells increased between 10 and 15 d after pollination (DAP) but does not change significantly after 15 DAP, whereas the size of the parenchyma cells increases and their walls thicken during seed development. The inner tangential and radial walls of epidermal and parenchyma cells have numerous pits. During development many starch grains appear and gradually decrease in number, being almost completely absent at maturity, when reserves consist mostly of lipids. The epidermis of the caruncle does not have cuticle, unlike the rest of the seed. The role of the caruncle during dehydration, rehydration, and germination was tested experimentally using whole seeds and seeds from which the caruncles had been removed. All processes were facilitated by the presence of the caruncle, which absorbed and temporarily retained water, passing it to the rest of the seed. This enabled seeds with caruncles to germinate under conditions that were too dry for seeds without caruncles.
2475079|The study of fungal fimbriae began with their serendipitous discovery on the surface of a pathogenic fungus, Microbotryum violaceum, which infects the Caryophylaceae. Since their initial description, fimbriae have been detected on a wide range of eumycota; for some fungi, several types of fimbriae have been described. The type of fimbriae found on M. violaceum has been studied most extensively. Originally thought to be simple appendages analogous to bacterial pili, fimbriae from M. violaceum are actually complex structures composed of fungal collagen, carbohydrate, and RNA. Analysis of each of the fimbrial components has provided insight into the potential roles of fimbriae in adhesion, mating, and pathogenesis.
3080036|Shoot development in three duckweed (Lemnaceae) species (
40072548|
               
10.1086/664712|Most members of the Menispermaceae, a family of predominantly dioecious climbers, are characterized by having seeds that are diverse in form, many of which have an adaxial intrusion of the endocarp known as the condyle. The condyle is a distinctive feature of variable shape that has historically played a prominent role in the taxonomy and classification of the family. To understand the morphological basis of the condyle, I undertook a developmental study of carpels and fruits in selected lineages in Menispermaceae and in related families in the Ranunculales. The results indicated that the condyle is the outcome of differential development of the adaxial portion of the ovary wall, which corresponds to the placentary region. Condyles can be grouped into two general types. In the
10.1086/668791|Tissue pressure is of vital importance for the stability and stiffness as well as metabolic functions of herbaceous plants and has been studied for more than a century. Several measurement methods have been established but require either sophisticated equipment at a fixed workplace or being applicable only to flat structures. We were looking for a mobile system that can be used under greenhouse conditions for long-term measurement of parenchymatous tissue pressure. The mobile sensor system used consists of a micro-optic-mechanical system with a silicon sensor at the tip of a glass fiber and a control unit (Samba 202) for data logging. The sensors were inserted and became ingrown in succulent leaves of
2995819|A scanning electron microscope (SEM) developmental study of tendrils of both conventional (Improved Laxton's Progress) and semileafless (Curly) cultivars of
20533020|Leaves of
IJPS41138|An introduced species propagule pressure strongly influences the genetic diversity and evolutionary potential of its descendants and even the likelihood of biological invasion. We examined population genetic consequences arising from introduction of the invasive annual grass
2995545|The invertase (EC 3.2.1.26) purified from cell walls of dwarf pea stems to homogeneity has a molecular mass of 64 kilodaltons (kD). Poly(A)+RNA was isolated from shoots of dwarf pea plants, and a cDNA library was constructed using gt11 as an expression vector. The expression cDNA library was screened with polyclonal antibodies against pea cell wall invertase. One invertase cDNA clone was characterized as a full-length cDNA with 1,863 base pairs. Compared with other known invertases, one homologous region in the amino acid sequence was found. The conserved motif, Asn-Asp-Pro-Asn-Gly, is located near the N-terminal end of invertase. Northern blot analysis showed that the amount of invertase mRNA (1.86 kb) was rapidly induced to a maximal level 4 h after GA<sub>3</sub> treatment, then gradually decreased to the control level. The mRNA level at 4 h in GA<sub>3</sub>-treated peas was fivefold higher than that of the control group. The maximal increase in activity of pea cell wall invertase elicited by GA<sub>3</sub> occurred at 8 h after GA<sub>3</sub> treatment. This invertase isoform was shown immunocytochemically to be localized in the cell walls, where a 10-fold higher accumulation occurred in GA<sub>3</sub>-treated tissue compared with control tissue. This study indicates that the expression of the pea shoot cell-wall invertase gene could be regulated by GA<sub>3</sub> at transcriptional and/or translational levels.
2995576|We analyzed structures produced by the germinated spores of Glomus mosseae. Freshly isolated spores germinated (0%-80%) within 14 d at 22 C on sterile, Hoagland's agar-coated coverslips and produced branching intrahyphal proliferation with occasional septa and secondary spores. Hyphae contained mitochondria, lipid droplets, and numerous elongated nuclei with nucleoli. Hyphal walls represented multiple wall layering from invasion of old empty walls by new hyphae. Direct germination was seen in spores incubated near corn roots growing in sand/liquid nutrient culture. This is the first report of intrahyphal proliferation occurring in non-host-associated vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizae (VAM) and of direct germination occurring in G. mosseae. Bacterium-like organelles (BLOs) were present in two other VAM species analyzed ultrastructurally. Occasional imperforate septa were observed. Secondary spores, produced by hyphal branches most proximal to the primary spore, contained nuclei, mitochondria, BLOs, lipid droplets, and vacuoles and had walls similar to that of the hypha. Unlike the two previous ultrastructural studies of VAM, no membrane-bound crystals were seen in 14-d-old G. mosseae hyphae or secondary spores.
2475356|Flower, fruit, and seed production were compared for two varieties of Yucca whipplei, Y. whipplei whipplei (which reproduces semelparously) and Y. whipplei caespitosa (which is iteroparous), to determine differences in fecundity with respect to leaf surface area. Vegetative characteristics such as leaf surface area and leaf area index, which are related to the potential for gas exchange and photosynthate production in these plants, and reproductive characteristics such as inflorescence size, total flowers, mature fruit, and seed production as well as seed viability were determined for individuals of each variety. There was no significant difference in leaf surface area between varieties, but the number of viable seeds produced per unit leaf surface area was greater for Y w. whipplei than for Y. w. caespitosa. There was a significant difference in seed quality between varieties; Y. w. whipplei had seeds that were 1.5 times more viable and germinated twice as fast as Y. w. caespitosa. The total number of viable seeds per plant increased with leaf surface area for Y. w. whipplei, but for Y. w. caespitosa the total number of viable seeds per plant increased with increasing rosette number per individual. For Y. w. whipplei, the percentage of viable seeds per plant decreased as inflorescence size increased. However, the total number of viable seeds produced was positively correlated with inflorescence size, indicating that for a greater investment in flowers and ultimately fruit, the plant received diminishing returns in terms of seed number. There was no such relationship for Y. w. caespitosa, indicating that attached rosettes may provide resources for producing viable seeds. These reproductive patterns are consistent with observed patterns of resource use in semelparous and iteroparous plants but allow new insight on size/fecundity patterns in closely related plants.
4619839|Grasses infected with endosymbiotic ascomyceteous fungi (family Clavicipitaceae) often show increased growth and vigor; however, when resources are limited, the costs of being infected may outweigh the advantages. We grew multiple genotypes of two grasses species (
3691559|In an investigation of succulence as an adaptation to waterstressed desert environments, we studied the anatomy of photosynthetic succulent stems in 28 species from Apocynaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Asteraceae, Crassulaceae, Didieriaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Geraniaceae, and Vitaceae. Only species with enlarged pith or cortex were examined, not species with enlarged parenchymatous wood. The numbers of species with particular characters are as follows: pith is the most voluminous tissue5 species; cortex is the most voluminous tissue22; cortical bundles present0; medullary bundles present4; palisade cortex present16; epidermis with thick or lignified walls0; epidermis outer wall somewhat thickened6; multiple epidermis present0; cuticle >2 m thick4; cuticle <1 m thick3; hypodermis cells with very thick walls0. These species lack many features typically considered xeromorphic and associated with desertadapted plants; they also lack many features present in most cacti. Absence of cortical bundles in all these noncactus succulents may be especially important: none has a particularly thick cortex (most are <5 mm thick), all are relatively small plants, and absence of cortex vascularization may prevent them from evolving to be truly voluminous. Also, none has truly large shoot apical meristems such as occur in cacti with broad shoots.
3080069|Previous reports of
3080034|In
2995829|
               
3080325|Plant response to variation in the surrounding biotic and abiotic environment often involves mechanisms that promote reproductive assurance. The goal of this study was to determine whether production of chasmogamous (CH) and cleistogamous (CL) flowers as well as delayed CH selfing in the perennial herb
2475116|Several phylogenetic schemes for the relationship of Sarcoscyphaceae and Sarcosomataceae to the other Pezizales have been suggested. These schemes, however, have used traditional macroscopic and light microscope data. Ultrastructural works on septal structures of reproductive and vegetative hyphae have been shown useful in studying phylogenetic relationships at the familial level in the Pezizales. Septal structures of vegetative hyphae of Sarcoscyphaceae are similar to those of most other Pezizales, but septal pore plugs associated with asci and ascogenous hyphae are similar to those of epigeous and hypogeous Otideaceae. Septal structures of vegetative hyphae in the Sarcosomataceae display various organelles identical to those of Sarcoscyphaceae, Otideaceae, Morchellaceae, and Helvellaceae. The septal structures of reproductive hyphae in the Sarcosomataceae are intermediate between the Aleurieae (Otideaceae) and the Morchellaceae. Based on septal structures, the Sarcoscyphaceae and Sarcosomataceae appear more closely related to the families in which ascospores are multinucleate, the Morchellaceae and Helvellaceae. The four families are possibly derived from the Otideaceae, especially Geopyxis and members of the Aleuria-Otidea complex.
3691871|We obtained two most parsimonious cladograms using a data set of 100 characters derived from morphology, anatomy, embryology, chemistry, and karyology, combined with three nucleotide sequence data sets (the chloroplast genes
2475183|In studying the early anatomical events of bud differentiation we found that the production of pollen cones and seed cones in 7-8-yr-old ramets of cloned Tsuga heterophylla was promoted by weekly foliar sprays of gibberellin A
3691620|A new lycopsid is described from the Upper Devonian (Famennian) of Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China. It has isodichotomous branches and long leaves with spiny margins. Two types of fertile structures are present. Megasporangiabearing conelike structures are found at dichotomies of the branches, having large, densely inserted leaves with enlarged bases, bearing adaxial sporangia containing large megaspores. The other type are terminal cones, having slender, closely inserted leaves, and dark carbonaceous areas adjacent to the axis are interpreted as the remains of microsporangia. The new plant closely resembles lycopsids previously reported from the Middle and lower Upper Devonian of China, but the reproductive characters are more advanced. It demonstrates that the early history of large lycopsids is more complex than has been recognized. We name the new plant
10.1086/666005|Angiosperm radiation in the Cretaceous is thought to have profoundly diminished the success of the conifers, the other major woody plant group present at the time. However, today the conifers persist and often thrive despite their supposed inferiority in vegetative and reproductive function. By exploring this apparent conflict for global tree dominance, we seek here to reveal patterns that explain not only how the allegedly inferior conifers persist among angiosperms but also why some conifer groups became extinct in the Cretaceous. We find that despite the profound contrast between the dominant conifer families in the Southern and Northern Hemispheres, all conifers can be characterized by a common set of functional attributes that allow them to exist in an important group of niches, from high latitudes to the equator. In these environments, conifers are often highly efficient at outcompeting, outliving, or outsurviving angiosperms. Hence, we conclude that conifer success cannot be dismissed as being uniquely associated with habitats that are unfavorable for angiosperms.
3874650|Simple visiblelight digital cameras offer a potential for expanded forms of plant ecological research. The moss
3080298|Three
10.1086/667608|Using plants as phytosensors could allow for large-scale detection of explosives and other anthropogenic contamination. Quantifying physiological, photosynthetic, and hyperspectral responses of plants to hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX) contamination provides the basis for understanding plant signals for remote detection. Plants of the woody shrub
40072516|Mashua (
4122602|Predispersal characteristics that affect the reproductive success in plants may influence their colonizing ability. We evaluated this hypothesis in two sympatric epiphytic bromeliads in Costa Rica,
3080254|The effect of altering the auxin supply on the development and function of the vascular cambium and the differentiation of interfascicular extraxylary fibers was investigated in the inflorescence stem of
3080214|The tight globose inflorescences of
2475330|The distribution of saccate and nonsaccate pollen in modern conifers (nomenclature after Page 1990) shows a correlation with the method of pollen capture by the micropyle, although this has been little emphasized. Saccate pollen is restricted to, but not ubiquitous in, Phyllocladaceae, Pinaceae, and Podocarpaceae and is associated with the development of an inverted pollination drop, except in Phyllocladus. Saccate pollen is also nonwettable, in the sense that it floats on water, and it functions as a distinctive antigravity device. Pollen entry into the micropyle is dependent on resorption of the pollination drop and selectively excludes foreign particles. Nonsaccate pollen is wettable and sinks in water, but with two contrasted behaviors that discriminate two types of pollen reception. In Cephalotaxaceae, Cupressaceae, Sciadopityaceae, Taxaceae, and Taxodiaceae there is a pollination drop without preferred orientation. Pollen swells and bursts in water, shedding the exine by a mechanism determined by the apparently simple wall structure. In the remaining conifers with nonsaccate pollen-Agathis, Araucaria, i.e., Araucariaceae, together with Larix, Pseudotsuga, and Tsuga (Pinaceae) and Saxegothaea (Podocarpaceae)-there is no pollination drop, pollen is wettable but does not burst in water, and there is either extended siphonogamy or micropylar invagination. These observations show the adaptive features of pollen structure and ultrastructure. Despite their ubiquitous wind pollination, conifers thus have some diversity of pollination syndromes with reference to water and the introduction of pollen into the pollen chamber of the ovule, at which time pollination is complete.
2475016|Ascospores and septal structures of both vegetative and reproductive hyphae of Leucangium carthusianum were studied ultrastructurally. The apiculate ascospores contain a couple of large guttules and multiple nuclei (more than four). Early spore wall development is similar to that of most epigeous and hypogeous Pezizales studied. The mature spore wall has a very thick primary wall with a bricklike arrangement of wall fibers and a three layered epispore. Septal structures of vegetative hyphae are constructed of laminate pore plugs and globose, hexagonal, and cylindrical Woronin bodies, which are typically found in the Pezizales. In reproductive hyphae. septal pore plugs are dome shaped with central laminations. Cylindrical Woronin bodies are found around the septal pore in ascal bases. Using ultrastructural data, we find that L. carthusianum is closely related to the Morchellaceae and Helvellaceae. However, the placement of L. carthusianum in either family is not certain.
2474941| Conversion of total thylakoid surface area in a sun-acclimated chloroplast to that typical of a shade-acclimated chloroplast, and vice versa, occurs quickly. Since the mechanisms by which chloroplasts detect and respond to changes in light levels are not clearly understood, we wanted to establish whether the light detection mechanism was based on total photon flux or was wavelength specific. Leaf tissues were first acclimated to
10.1086/653130|Paleobotanical data, with emphasis on anatomical characters in ferns and seed plants, confirm that the megaphyllous leaf evolved independently several times from the Middle Devonian to the Early Carboniferous. Fernlike cladoxylaleans and aneurophytalean progymnosperms possessed only megaphyll precursors homologous with the small megaphylls of archaeopteridalean progymnosperms. Different trends toward developing a large megaphyll, from the modification of lateral branch systems of some basal euphyllophytes, are shown by the fernlike rhacophytaleans and by the zygopterid and tedelean ferns. Zygopterids, with their tridimensional frond, petiole of the phyllophore type, and annulate sporangia, must be considered as the earliest undisputable ferns while the probably derived tedeleans have evolved toward a convergent filicaleantype of frond. The leaf of other early ferns certainly derived through a minimal change in anatomy from other Devonian euphyllophytes. Early seed plant leaves probably evolved through the modification of an entire lateral branch system of aneurophytalean or stenokolean ancestors. In contrast to ferns, the seed plants early developed broad laminate pinnules with dichotomous nervation. The leaves of ferns and seed plants are not homologous, and fundamental differences in their petiole anatomy support the early divergence of the two groups.
2475089|The recessive f mutation in soybean results in a ridgelike apical meristem that completely dominates plant ontogeny and causes virtually complete inhibition of leaf axillary buds and restriction of floral induction. For the first time, the process of formation of the ridgelike meristem (also the meristematic phenotype of CLAVATA1-1 and CLAVATA3-1 Arabidopsis mutants) is shown with scanning electron microscopy. Immediately after seed imbibition, the fasciation mutation was manifested by meristem enlargement and hastened differentiation of the second trifoliolate leaf primordium. The early meristematic phenotype of the mutant indicates that the f gene functions upstream of other developmental genes. Decussate and later semiwhorled leaf arrangements, combined with continuous meristem enlargement and shortened plastochron, replaced the wild-type distichous phyllotaxy. A dome-shaped meristem, the most energy-efficient configuration of the apical meristem, persisted during 11-12 plastochrons attaining a size four to five times that of the wild-type meristem. Meristem zonation triggered shape alteration from rectangular to round, to triangular, to oval, and finally to a ridgelike form. The stable ridgelike meristem presumably resulted from attaining a new balance between cell division and differentiation. The elevated level of endogenous IAA (two- to threefold increases over the wild-type) in meristematic tissues, hypocotyl, and leaves could be a secondary consequence of auxin overproduction by the proliferating meristem. The f gene product might affect cell divisions and the auxin metabolic pathway and might intervene in a multitude of developmental aspects.
10.1086/654902|
               
2995628|Genetically identical Ceratopteris gametophytes are either hermaphroditic or male. The determinant of sex type is antheridiogen (A<sub>CE</sub>), a pheromone that is secreted by the hermaphrodite and promotes male development of sexually undetermined gametophytes. The hormone abscisic acid (ABA) blocks the A<sub>CE</sub> response. The morphological and physiological changes in developing wildtype and mutant hermaphroditic1 (her1) gametophytes have been characterized and used to define six discrete stages of gametophyte development. Stage 1 begins when the spore is inoculated on culture medium. During this stage, the spore imbibes water but the spore wall remains intact and exposure to A<sub>CE</sub> will not promote male development, probably because of levels of ABA in the spore that are sufficiently high to block the A<sub>CE</sub> response. During stage 2, 3-4 d after spore inoculation, the spore wall cracks. Exposure of the two- to three-celled gametophyte to A<sub>CE</sub> during stage 2 is necessary for initiating a male program of expression. If not exposed to A<sub>CE</sub> at stage 2, the gametophyte initiates a hermaphroditic program of expression that cannot be reversed by exposure to A<sub>CE</sub> at later stages. During stage 3, 4-5 d after inoculation, the gametophyte consists of a uniserate protonema of three to five cells with one to three rhizoids. Gametophytes must be continuously exposed to exogenous A<sub>CE</sub> from stage 2 through stage 3 to develop as males. At stage 4, 5-6 d after inoculation, bidimensional growth of the prothallus begins. Although the male and hermaphroditic prothalli are morphologically indistinguishable at this stage, gametophytes begin to secrete A<sub>CE</sub>. At stage 5, beginning 6-7 d after spore inoculation, the male and hermaphroditic morphologies become distinct and mature sexually by stage 6. While the hermaphroditic program of expression is stable once initiated, the male program of expression, if initiated at stage 2, is reversible by the withdrawal of A<sub>CE</sub> or by exposure to ABA, indicating that A<sub>CE</sub> is required for both the initiation and maintenance of the male program of expression in Ceratopteris.
10.1086/663276|Two fossil seed plants with cycadophyte foliage,
10.1086/647923|Various parts of the anther (walls, tapetum, locular fluid, meiocytes, microspores) cooperate for correct pollen development. To show the different types of relationships possible between these parts, we considered the following characteristics, alone and in combination: types of tapetum, types of pollendispersing unit, form of loculus, amount of locular space and fluid, number of pollen grains in transverse sections of the anther and in the loculus, and hydration status of pollen at dispersal. The different relationships between pollen, loculus, and tapetum should enable uniform nourishment of grains in the loculus and ensure a high percentage of viable grains. Two opposite modes were identified: direct and indirect nourishment of grains, the latter occurring when locular fluid is more or less abundant between the tapetum and the grains. The amount of space between developing grains determines different manners of grain nourishment and modes of pollen presentation for dispersal. Cyclosis, which is presumably related to production and release of nutrients into locular fluid, has been described in cytoplasm of all types of tapetum. In loculi containing many grains, we postulate the existence of mechanisms causing movement of locular fluid and pollen grains, enabling uniform nourishment of grains. When the tapetum degenerates, the grains begin to mature, consuming substances (usually starch) stored in the anther wall. This phase concludes with resorption and/or evaporation of locular fluid and partial dehydration of pollen to different degrees in different species. Dehydration may end before, during, or after opening of the anther or flower.
3874644|Because of differences in their foraging patterns, different herbivores are likely to have different effects on plant fitness. We compared the effects of two contrasting patterns of leaf damage on the growth and reproduction of the wild gourd
IJPS41180|A new herbaceous lycopsid species,
10.1086/682411|
               
2995752|To evaluate structural homology among streamlined, biflagellated male gametes of
30139299|In certain angiosperm genera, closely related species have diverged from one another to converge on different pollination syndromes, whereas species with intermediate phenotypes are rare or absent. Convergent conformity to syndromes implies the existence of evolutionary attractors toward which phenotypes are drawn; divergent breaks from conformity show that populations can escape one attractor and be drawn to another. We discuss how these two opposed processes can be reconciled for the special case of evolutionary transitions between bee pollination and hummingbird pollination. In this case, a third phenomenon, the directional bias in favor of transitions from melittophily to ornithophily, also needs explanation. Older treatments chiefly ascribed convergence to cognitive and morphological properties of pollinators and ascribed transitions to geographical differences in pollinator availability. Those treatments did not specifically address what factors would overcome and disrupt the stabilizing selection that would be expected to preserve the pollination syndrome of a plant species. Here, we focus on possible contributors to destabilization, especially considering the possible roles of (1) differences among pollinators in pollentransfer efficiency, (2) mutations with large effects on floral phenotypes, and (3) losses of function in the biochemical pathways that produce floral pigments. We conclude that all of these can influence the evolution of pollinator transitions but that the process usually needs to be initiated by external ecological factors that change the visitation rates of pollinators. We discuss the roles of particular floral characters in several plant genera that have undergone transitions. We expect that transitions reach completion through a centripetal process of selection that incrementally recruits changes in multiple characters.
3080307|To understand the association between leaf form and leaf optical properties, we examined light absorption variations in the leaves of
2995758|To help understand the environmental signals for flowerbud initiation, detached unrooted cladodes of the CAM species
2995640|Photosynthetic rates and allocation of dry matter, nitrogen, and nonstructural carbohydrates were determined during onset of and recovery from a nitrogen stress for reproductive soybean (Glycine max [L.] Merrill cv Ransom) plants. Until the beginning of seed fill, non-nodulated plants were grown in flowing solution culture with 1.0 mM NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> in a complete nutrient solution. One set of plants then was transferred to minus-nitrogen solution for 24 d of seed fill; a second set was transferred to a minus-nitrogen solution for 14 d followed by return to the complete solution with 1.0 mM NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> for the remaining 10 d of seed fill; and a third set was continued on the complete solution. Net CO<sub>2</sub> exchange rates of individual leaves, which remained nearly constant during seed fill for nonstressed plants, declined at an accelerated rate during onset of nitrogen stress as the specific content of reduced nitrogen in the leaves was decreased by remobilization of nitrogen to support pod growth. The rate of nitrogen remobilization out of leaves initially was relatively greater than the decrease in photosynthetic rate. While rate of pod growth declined in response to the developing nitrogen stress, photosynthetic assimilation of carbon exceeded reproductive demand and nonstructural carbohydrates accumulated within tissues. Following resupply of exogenous NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub>, specific rate of NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> uptake by roots was enhanced relative to nonstressed plants. While there was little increase in content of reduced nitrogen in leaves, net remobilization of nitrogen out of leaves ceased, and the decline in photosynthetic rate stabilized at about 51% of that for nonstressed plants. This level of photosynthesis, combined with the availability of elevated pools of carbohydrates accumulated during stress, was sufficient to support the increases in both the specific rates of NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> uptake and the rate of pod growth during recovery.
2995700|The ultrastructure of juice vesicle development and maturation was investigated in cv Star Ruby grapefruit. Juice vesicle primordia were initiated by divisions of epidermal and subepidermal cells on the adaxial surface of the carpel wall at least 2 d before anthesis. Development occurred in three distinct stages: cell division, cell elongation, and cell maturation. Development of juice vesicles in the first 3 wk postanthesis occurred by cell division of a subterminal meristem and resulted in the formation of a main juice vesicle body subtended by highly vacuolate stalk cells connected to the carpel wall. Cells of the main body were characteristic of meristematic cells. Between 4 and 10 wk postanthesis, oil gland/oil cavity development occurred in the center of the main juice vesicle body and began with a single electron-dense cell. Surrounding cells exhibited characteristics of intense metabolic and secretory activity, culminating in the synthesis of lipid and osmiophilic material. A schizogenous and/or lysigenous cavity developed in the central area of the main juice vesicle body, where fibrillar-oil material and lysed cell remnants were observed, respectively. Expansion of surrounding cells resulted in further lysigeny of the central electrondense cells. The mature juice vesicle body contained highly vacuolate central cells surrounded by a hypodermis and epidermal layer. The central cavity remained even after 12 mo of juice vesicle development.
10.1086/679617|Plant-pollinator mutualisms can be disrupted in fragmented and isolated populations. Isolated populations attract fewer and less diverse pollinators, but it is not generally known whether this is due to reductions in the abundance and/or diversity of flowers at a site or to the biogeography of pollinators (or both). Islands represent one system potentially suitable to analyze the effects of spatial isolation. Here, we examine the contribution that differences in visitor composition make to increased selfing and seed production by examining the major visitors to
10.1086/654850|The color of many animals matches that of their preferred habitats, making them difficult for predators tolocate. However, quantitative examples of crypsis in plants are comparatively rare. We conducted morphometric and spectrographic analyses of a heteroblastic tree species that is endemic to New Zealand (
3080178|This article presents the results of an experiment designed to examine the relative importance of plant architecture and resource limitation on offspring traits in the annual
2995525|Two principal theories have been advanced to explain the origin of multicellularity in higher organisms, the cell theory and the organismal theory. A brief review of the evidence indicates that plants express the organismal concept of multicellularity, i.e., they consist of a unified protoplast that is chambered into cells rather than being the product of cell aggregation. Moreover, it has been demonstrated that the mode of "multicellular" construction in plants is altogether different from that in animals. Instead of having complete protoplast separation at telophase, protoplast delimitation in plants is by internal wall insertion. It is because of these differences in cell delimitation that cell theory concepts rely on qualitative homology criteria rather than positional criteria. However, in plants positional criteria are of greater significance in judgments of cell and organism relationships. The aim of this article is to examine the implications of the organismal concept of plant multicellularity for a variety of structural phenomena, including root contraction, cuticular differentiation, ring cell development, and embryo sac divergence. From these analyses I conclude that the procrustean and artificial nature of past interpretations have resulted from either the misapplication of homology criteria or the attempt to force plant histogenesis into animal cell models that are inappropriate. Not only do these analyses support the validity of the organismal model for plant multicellularity but they also provide a holistic framework in which to carry out future studies of plant morphogenesis.
3691536|Pollen and seeds share a developmental sequence characterized by intense metabolic activity during reserve deposition before drying to a cryptobiotic form. Neither pollen nor seed development has been well studied in the absence of gravity, despite the importance of these structures in supporting future longduration manned habitation away from Earth. Using immature seeds (315 d postpollination) of
2475341| A new species of fossil reticulate-veined monocot, Petermanniopsis angleseansis gen. & sp. nov., is described from a mummified leaf base from the Anglesea Coal Deposit in Victoria, Australia. Cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling ordination of a range of leaf architectural and cuticular characters place it closest to the extant Australian monotypic and endemic Liliiflorae family Petermanniaceae from the temperate rain forests of southeastern Queensland and northeastern New South Wales. In contrast, a parsimony analysis of this same data set failed to resolve its position clearly within a clade representing the strongly net-veined Dioscorealean taxa. Although the presence of a fossil with affinities to the Petermanniaceae from Eocene Victoria supports the idea that the group represents an isolated member of the net-veined Liliiflorae autochthonous to Australia, this study also highlights the difficulty involved in assigning such fossils to modern monocot groups, or even distinguishing between these groups themselves, particularly in cladistic studies using leaf architecture. Therefore, although most similar phenetically to the Petermanniaceae, the fossil is maintained as incertae cedis affinis Petermanniaceae. Nevertheless, the presence of an Eocene Gondwanan net-veined monocot supports the thesis that the group is an early evolutionary development in the evolution of the Liliiflorae. 
2995811|Though the fossil genus
3691644|
               
3691843|Pea (
4619811|Analysis of the intraspecific patterns of variation in ecologically relevant traits is important for knowing the genetic potential of a species to adjust to the expected increase in the severity of drought in the Mediterranean region. In this study, we aim to know to what extent phenotypic variation in functional and structural attributes of three provenances of
3691894|We examined the reproductive biology of the hemiparasitic threatened prairie species,
3691672|Hypotheses on the origin of the current distribution patterns and bicontinental disjunctions of Cordiaceae, Ehretiaceae, and Heliotropiaceae (Primarily Woody Boraginales) are tested by pairwise comparison of Kimura twoparameter distances. Estimated absolute dates of fossils and geological events (plate tectonics, climate changes) were used to calibrate a molecular clock. A midCretaceous origin of the Primarily Woody Boraginales is proposed with an initial diversification in South America. Plate tectonics appear to play a minor role in their phylogeography. Most disjunctions are best explained by the rare events of longdistance dispersal because of the widespread occurrence of drupaceous fruits and their potential for endozoochoria. Furthermore, migrations and extinctions might have played a considerable role in the formation of the current distribution patterns.
2475084|Siderophore production is an integral component of high-affinity iron uptake by many microorganisms. We examined the extracellular production of the siderophore rhodotorulic acid (RA) in 16 field-collected and seven herbarium strains of Microbotryum violaceum. These strains were collected from a variety of caryophyllaceous host plant species, from many geographical locations, over a period of years. All of the tested strains, when starved for iron, produced detectable levels of RA, which is consistent with a critical function of the high-affinity iron uptake system. We found normal patterns of siderophore secretion accompanying iron starvation as well as repression of siderophore secretion when cells were grown in culture containing adequate levels of iron. We detected a fivefold variation in the extracellular siderophore level (0.33 mM-1.71 mM) among the 23 strains. Levels of extracellular siderophore accumulation correlated with cell density; strains that grew to a greater density (cells/mL) in liquid cultures had higher extracellular levels of RA. We also found a correlation between sporidial colony color and level of extracellular siderophore; pink strains accumulated higher levels of RA than did white strains. However, the correlation between cytochrome c that is responsible for the pink color and extracellular RA level was not statistically significant. The correlation with host species and both sporidial colony color and extracellular RA level was, however, significant. This suite of associated traits can be added to a growing body of evidence that details host-species specialization of M. violaceum strains.
2995701|The amount of nuclear DNA was determined microspectrophotometrically in cells of the vascular cambium and differentiating secondary xylem and phloem in Abies balsamea (L.) Mill. Feulgen-stained radial sections were prepared from 1-yr-old shoots of mature trees sampled during (May 21) and after (June 5) the period of high mitotic activity of the cambium. Differentiating xylem and phloem cells had an unreplicated DNA level, indicating that differentiation proceeded from the G<sub>1</sub> phase of the cell cycle. The DNA content did not change during differentiation, indicating a lack of endoreduplication, whereas the nuclear size increased during cell expansion and decreased during cell maturation until the nuclei broke down. The genome size in fusiform cambial cells and differentiating xylem and phloem elements decreased between the two sampling dates. This decrease agrees with our previous observation that the genome size in fusiform cambial cells decreases during the growing season and increases during dormancy, probably as a result of loss of amplified sequences followed by DNA amplification.
10.1086/655772|Theory suggests that matingsystem parameters in plants may be strongly influenced by pollinator type. We examined the outcrossing rate, biparental inbreeding, and inbreeding depression in two closely related species of
2995633|A large number of specimens including ovulate cones, pollen cones, pollen, and ovules assignable to the Upper Pennsylvanian shrubby cordaitean Cordaixylon dumusum Rothwell and Warner are described from the type locality for the species. Most specimens are isolated in the matrix, but a few are attached to stems. Some of the ovules are attached to cones, and pollen is preserved in the pollen sacs of other cones. This material provides the first evidence of cone attachment, pollen cone structure, and pollen for C. dumusum, and adds significant new data for the interpretation of ovule ontogeny, phenology, pollination biology, and ecological tolerances of the species. Together with newly developed quantitative data about the frequency of organs and associations of plants in the coal-forming peat, these data provide a basis for interpreting the growth ecology of C. dumusum and for developing an understanding of its role in plant community dynamics and in successional ecology of the peat-forming swamp.
10.1086/668613|
               
2475128|Observations on root pressure were made for 109 species in Costa Rica, Mexico, and Florida during the rainy season. Native and naturalized species, as well as a few outdoor cultivated specimens, were used. Predawn guttation was observed in 15 species. Predawn root pressure, as evidenced by xylem sap exudation from cut stems, was observed in 61 species. Root pressures, measured with a bubble manometer, ranged from 2 kPa to a maximum of 148 kPa in Cissus (Vitaceae). A broad range of climbing monocotyledons, dicotyledons, and one fern (Lygodium) displayed root pressure. Root pressures of selected shoots were followed over consecutive days and were highest in the nighttime, especially at sunrise. The maximum observed root pressure can raise a capillary water column, assuming no resistance, to a height of 14.8 m. Although root pressure alone could not refill embolized xylem vessels in tall trees and vines, the reduction of xylem sap tension would facilitate the dissolving of gas bubbles and the reestablishment of vessel function, at least in the lower parts of the plant or throughout shorter plants.
2474961|We scored the proportion of aborted pollen, age, and diameter at breast height of 78 male trees of the south-Andean dioecious conifer, Austrocedrus chilensis. Although the proportion of aborted pollen was low (range = 0.5%-7.8%), it increased significantly with tree age and size (r = .459 and .467, respectively). The independent effects of these two variables could not be evaluated, however, because of high colinearity between them. Tree reproductive effort and mean size of viable pollen grains, variables that could reflect resource availability and physiological stress, did not account for any significant part of the variation in the proportion of aborted pollen. Neither did these variables covary with tree age or size. To the extent that pollen abortion in this species is due to genetic causes, these results support a qualitative prediction of the "genetic load-with-age accumulation model," which asserts that pollen viability should decrease with aging.
10.1086/651244|
               
2474966| Acyl carrier protein is encoded by at least five genes in Arabidopsis. Isoforms encoded by genes Acl1.2 and Acl1.3 differ by a single amino acid. We have examined the expression patterns directed by the Acl1.2 and Acl1.3 gene promoters in transgenic Arabidopsis using the reporter gene coding for -glucuronidase (GUS). Fluorometric and histochemical analyses showed that the two promoters have overlapping yet distinct patterns of activity in both vegetative and reproductive tissues. In germinating seeds, the Acl1.2 promoter directed expression in all tissues at 2 days after imbibition (DAI) and then gradually became restricted to the elongation zone of the root apex, the root-hypocotyl transition zone, shoot apex, and cotyledon vasculature by 6 DAI. Acl1.3 promoter down-regulation was evident only in the basal hypocotyl region during this same time period. In young plants, Acl1.2 promoter activity was restricted to apical regions and within lateral root primordia. In anthesis-stage flowers, Acl1.2 was expressed predominantly in the stigmatic papillae and mature pollen. Distinct expression profiles were also observed during embryogeny, where Acl1.2 activity declined prior to stages associated with cotyledon cell expansion and storage reserve deposition, whereas Acl1.3 promoter activity increased during this time. Overall, the Acl1.3 promoter exhibited a more constitutive pattern of expression when contrasted with Acl1.2, which tended to be expressed in meristematic or expanding tissues, and specific reproductive structures. 
2475256|Interspecific competition between Agropyron spicatum (Pursh.) Scrib. & Smith bunchgrasses and naturally established seedlings of Pinus ponderosa was examined within a pine/bunchgrass community. A wire mesh was used to separate bunchgrass culms from pine seedling shoots to determine if the bunchgrass canopy influenced the survival of pine seedlings. In addition, two lengths of root exclusion tubes were used to determine the effects of bunchgrass root overlap on pine seedlings. The bunchgrass canopy did not significantly affect pine seedling survival. However, root competition, presumably for water, significantly decreased pine seedling survival. Exclusion of bunchgrass roots from a 0.15-m- and 0.30-m-deep root zone of pine seedlings resulted in 40% and 80% reductions in mortality, respectively. Root exclusion also significantly delayed mortality 2-3 wk. Pine seedlings developed taproots that reached below the zone of maximum bunchgrass root density within 4 wk of germination. The pine/bunchgrass community is dominated by two species that utilize similar resource zones in the soil during the establishment of pine germinants in the bunchgrass understory. Interspecific competition tends to be greatest during this establishment stage and becomes reduced as pine seedlings grow and explore the deeper regions of the soil profile. In areas with shallow soils and an established bunchgrass understory, establishment of pine seedlings may occur successfully only if soil moisture is available in deeper soil horizons during the summer.
3691548|Two edaphic races of
40072498|Most semiarid regions are facing an increasing scarcity of woody vegetation due mainly to anthropogenic deforestation aggravated by climate changes. However, there is insufficient information to reconstruct past changes in climate and to evaluate the implications of future climate changes on the vegetation. Treering analysis is a powerful tool for studying tree age, population dynamics, growth behavior, and climategrowth relationships among tropical tree species and for gaining information about the environmental forces driving growth change as well as for developing proxies for climate reconstruction. Wood anatomical and dendrochronological methods were used on
3691734|The production of seed by both selfing and outcrossing, or mixed mating, may be selected for under conditions of variable pollinator availability. Seed production was examined following experimental manipulations of perfect and pistillate flowers of the gynomonoecious plant
2995624|A better knowledge of the genetics and degree of variability of phenotypic plasticity is particularly important for the understanding of evolution in natural populations. Also, for agronomically significant plants, plasticity has implications for the yield in different conditions. Phenotypic response to three levels of nitrogen availability was investigated in Triticum aestivum var. Chinese Spring (CS). A CS pure line and seven chromosomal addition lines from a wild relative (Elytrigia elongata) were grown in a greenhouse. Two-way ANOVAs of 19 morphological traits were used to detect the presence of main line effects, main treatment effects, and line x treatment interactions. We found genetic variation for character means in 10 traits, and evidence for plasticity in six traits, but no significant genetic variation for plasticity. A multivariate approach allowed us to summarize the phenotypic variation using three principal factors: the first one relating to reproductive output, the second one to plant size, and the third one to shape of flag leaf and first spike. The first and third factors turned out to be significantly plastic according to the analysis of variance, while the first and second components presented genetic variation. Addition lines of T. aestivum lack genetic variation for plasticity. The mean phenotypic response, however, shows complex genetic effects, with more than one addition chromosome interfering in the control of the average across-treatments phenotype.
3079984|Many species of Cactaceae, a diverse group of plants with a wide variety of morphologies and reproductive strategies, have segmented stems in which terminal stem segments may be separated from main stem segments with varying amounts of resistance. Terminal stem segments that are removed with little resistance may easily form adventitious roots to produce new plants asexually, whereas other species with high resistances to stem segment removal may predominately reproduce sexually. The purposes of this study were (1) to quantitatively determine the stresses at joints between stem segments of two species of
10.1086/670400|Early angiosperms were minimally woody; increase in woodiness and changes in wood histology yielded trees, lianas, and shrubs in various clades. Many eudicot herbs have been derived from variously woody ancestors. Some of those derivatives have, at various stages, evolved secondary woodiness to various degrees. Categories of information by which we can trace these progressions are presented: length-on-age curves for vessel elements, perforation plate morphology, ray histology, DNA-based phylogenies, geological and ecological factors, dispersal capabilities, and speciation ability. Trajectories that angiosperms have followed are analyzed in terms of growth forms: sympodial habits, cane shrubs, lianas, trees, various herb-related forms, stem succulents, and plants with successive cambia. Phylogenetic modalities that are related to degree of woodiness are discussed: retention of and departure from juvenile wood features in basal angiosperms, overlay effects (additive or modifying effects of factors on woodiness), character independence and interdependence, and degrees and types of transitions between more woodiness and less woodiness. Production of procumbent ray cells (which excel at radial conduction) is the result of not just subdivision of ray initials but also infrequent tangential divisions in ray initial derivatives. In juvenilistic woods, this process runs in parallel with shortening of fusiform cambial initials, but in woodier species, fusiform cambial initials become longer over time whereas ray initials become vertically shorter. Examples and original information on eudicot woods are mostly from orders and families of the campanulid clade. Juvenile features are multiple, with each capable of being retained, modified, or lost independently. This article takes the form of an eclectic essay that includes original data and observations, hypotheses, and critiques as well as presenting questions and syntheses, and it supplements previous articles by the author.
3080027|Biogeographic interpretations sometimes depend on endemism. The diversity of endemic genera of vascular plants in different phylogenetic groups was compared between East Asia and North America. North America has a significantly higher diversity of endemic genera of vascular plants than East Asia (987 vs. 754 genera). However, East Asia holds greater diversity of endemic genera than North America in pteridophytes, gymnosperms, and ranunculids, which are in general evolutionarily old taxa. The two areas do not significantly differ in the numbers of endemic genera in magnoliids and monocots. The overall diversity bias of endemic genera in favor of North America primarily results from caryophyllids, rosids, and asterids, which are relatively advanced lineages. As a result, numbers of endemic genera within phylogenetic groups do not vary in parallel between East Asia and North America. Compared with the world total flora with respect to proportions of numbers of taxa among phylogenetic groups, East Asia and North America both have excesses of endemic genera in asterids and have deficits in magnoliids, monocots, and rosids. The most noticeable differences in diversity of endemic genera between the two continents were found in pteridophytes, gymnosperms, and ranunculids, for which East Asia shows a striking excess compared with the world flora; North America shows a conspicuous deficit in the first two groups with respect to the world flora. Caryophyllids exhibit a reversed pattern with disproportionately more genera in North America and fewer genera in East Asia compared with the world flora. Differences in diversity of endemic genera between the two continents have resulted from different rates of speciation, immigration, and extinction, which have been primarily influenced by land connection, continental drift, geological history, geomorphologic configuration, and climate in the past.
3691643|Two permineralized conifer pollen cones have been identified from the Appian Way locality on the east coast of Vancouver Island, British Columbia. These cones, found in marine calcareous nodules with invertebrates, are Eocene in age and have been studied with the cellulose acetate peel technique. Cones are small, terminal, and globose, with helically arranged subtending leaves, ensheathing leaves, microsporophylls, and pollen sacs with enclosed pollen grains. Peltate microsporophylls have a distal lamina with three abaxial pollen sacs. Pollen grains are small, subspherical, nonsaccate, and papillate, with a distal leptoma and proximal orbicules. Phyllotaxy of subtending leaves and microsporophylls, number of pollen sacs per microsporophyll, and ultrastructure of pollen grains are similar to those of the taxodiaceous Cupressaceae. These cones have closest similarities to
2474937|The lysigenous appearance of Citrus limon (L) Burm. f. secretory cavities is the result of fixation artifacts. The glandular epithelial cells of lemon glands undergo rapid destructive swelling when immersed in commonly used fixatives. The swelling is most evident with mature glands, causing a false impression that the epithelial cells undergo autolysis as they complete their development. Epithelial cells of secretory cavities sliced open during tissue preparation show more extensive swelling than those left intact during fixation, indicating a possible cause for inconsistencies among reports of Citrus gland development. Aqueous primary fixation of intact secretory cavities results in sufficient epithelial cell swelling to give a false impression of precocious senescence; osmium vapor-fixed glandular cells show less swelling, contain intact organelles, and appear living at gland maturity. Although the concept of lysigeny is very old, recent evidence for lysigeny is based on investigations that used standard aqueous fixatives. Since fixation requirements for glands from other species of plants could be similar to those for Citrus glands, we suggest that lysigeny, in general, could be a false category of gland development, representing misinterpretation of artifacts.
2995564|Ceratocapnos heterocarpa produces two types of fruits: the "short" fruit, which is monospermous, indehiscent, and only likely to achieve short-distance dispersal, and the "long" fruit, which is dispermous, dehiscent, and adapted to long-distance dispersal (epizoochore). The two types of propagules are produced in seasonally varying proportions. In January, 95% of the fruits are short and 5% long, whereas in May, only 51% are short and 49% long. The overall proportion for the growing period is roughly 75: 25, short/long, respectively. Three types of seeds are produced-the lower seed of the long fruit, the upper seed of the long fruit, and the seed of the short fruit. These differ in morphology and in germination patterns, the lower seed of the long fruit showing the greatest potential for germination. Light causes a reduction in the final percentage of germination of all three seed types and also reduces the temperature ranges in which germination can take place. The lower seeds from the long type are least affected by light. The pericarp of the short (indehiscent) fruits and the testa of the upper seeds of the long (dehiscent) fruits enforce dormancy, resulting in delayed, spread out germination. The testa of the lower seeds of the long fruits, which is usually split dorsally, does not hinder germination.
3079989|Two cytotypes, an apomictic triploid (2n=123) and an apomictic tetraploid (2n=164), were found in Japanese
3691603|Floral and inflorescence structure and ontogeny are described in detail in
3080089|Approximately 215 vascular plant species have been recorded at The Rock Nature Reserve, a small island of remnant vegetation in the subhumid South Western Slopes of New South Wales. Although rainfall (585 mm yr
2995800|Flower structure, attractants, breeding system, and visitors were studied in
10.1086/667229|The Gesneriaceae is a family known for convergent evolution of complex floral forms. As a result, defining genera and resolving evolutionary relationships among such genera using morphological data alone has been challenging and often does not accurately reflect monophyletic lineages. The tribe Episcieae is the most diverse within Neotropical Gesneriaceae in terms of its number of species and morphological diversity. As a result, defining genera using floral characters has been historically troublesome. Here we investigate relationships among genera of the tribe using an array of chloroplast DNA, nuclear ribosomal genes, and low-copy nuclear genes to provide resolution for the monophyly of the genera and relationships among the monophyletic groups. All known genera in the tribe (with the exception of the monospecific
3079962|A phylogenetically based comparative investigation of endosperm development was undertaken in a sample of 13 basal angiosperm taxa. The specific goals were to (1) provide a full developmental analysis of all aspects of endosperm in each species, (2) compare patterns among taxa to determine phylogenetic character distribution, (3) reconstruct the ancestral developmental pattern for angiosperms, and (4) explore scenarios of ontogenetic evolution that occurred during the early radiation of flowering plants. Five taxa,
2474987|The structural pattern of tissue and meristem formation during zygotic and microspore embryo development in canola was examined. A defined sequence of cell divisions could be found during zygotic embryogenesis. The tissue pattern was delineated at the globular stage. The shoot apical meristem began to initiate at the late heart stage of development and took on a dome shape by the torpedo stage. The root meristem was derived from hypophyseal derivatives and adjoining cells from the embryo proper. In the microspore embryo, a defined pattern of cell division was not observed during early development. A suspensor was not found in all microspore embryos. Tissue differentiation began with the formation of the protoderm after a globular mass of cells was formed. The organization of the root meristem was not as well defined as in its zygotic counterpart. The shoot meristem was derived from a group of cells located at the terminal end of the embryo. At the cotyledon stage, the shoot meristem organization was similar between the zygotic and microspore embryos. Upon prolonged culture, the tissue pattern began to deteriorate in the microspore embryo. This change corresponded to the lowering of conversion frequency upon transferring the embryos onto germination medium. Large intercellular spaces developed within the shoot pole. The cells of the procambium and the meristems differentiated into parenchyma cells with prominent starch grains. As a result, the procambium and the meristem organization were drastically altered. These observations indicated that the tissues of the microspore embryo were not fully determined
2474962|Paspalum dasypleurum has the southernmost distribution of the Paspalum species in South America. It is a sexual, self-fertile tetraploid with 40 chromosomes that pair as 20 bivalents at meiosis. This is the first report concerning its cytology and reproductive behavior. Morphologically, this species belongs to the Dilatata group and was crossed with two other tetraploid taxa of the same group: Paspalum urvillei (Vaseygrass) and Paspalum dilatatum ssp. flavescens (yellow-anthered Dallisgrass), both with the genome formula II JJ. Crossability between P dilatatum ssp. flavescens (female) and P. dasypleurum (male) was 0.8%, and their hybrids showed regular meiotic behavior with 20 bivalents. All hybrids were male-sterile, but approximately 8% of the spikelets set seed after backcrossing with pollen from either parent. Crossability between P. dasypleurum (female) and P. urvillei (male) was 53.9%, and their hybrids had regular meiotic behavior with 20 bivalent at diakinesis and metaphase I. All hybrids had indehiscent anthers, and none produced seed when selfed. Backcrosses to P. dasypleurum set a mean of 4.8% seed, and 18.6% (mean of five F
3691541|Based on sections from both macerated and unmacerated cuticles and, for the extant species, the leaf cuticles from male and female trees, we investigated the leaf cuticle ultrastructure of
10.1086/655867|Reproductive isolating mechanisms that are stronger for sympatric populations than for allopatric populations of a given species pair are indicative of reproductive character displacement, that is, selection for increased barriers to avoid the costly production of hybrid offspring. Evidence of reproductive character displacement in nature remains equivocal and requires further experimental studies. The genus
IJPS41229|Floral damage can reduce flower attractiveness for pollinator service. However, the reproductive impact of flower herbivory may be contingent on a petal that is damaged. Flowers having nectar guides are expected to suffer reduction in reproductive success when damage is concentrated on these structures compared to petals less involved in pollinator attraction. In this study, we recorded the reflectance pattern of distinctive yellow tepals of
3079992|The acceptable macrofossil record of
2995703|The central cell and egg apparatus of Solanum nigrum L. were examined to determine the location and extent of wall ingrowth (WI) development as well as the type and distribution of storage products. Wall ingrowths are not found along the embryo sac wall but do project as a single, although interrupted, band of varying thickness from the synergid/central cell and egg/central cell walls. Wall ingrowths projecting from the surface of the synergids extend from just above the hook region to the level of the nucleus. A narrower band projects from the surface of the egg cell and is located opposite the egg vacuole. Mitochondria are closely associated with the wall ingrowths in both the central cell and synergids. The ultrastructural characteristics of the central cell and egg apparatus are similar to those reported for other species. However, the chalazal end of the egg cell is covered only by its plasmalemma: no islands of wall material occur. The plasmalemma of the central cell is consistently withdrawn from the chalazal end of the egg cell, forming one or two small electron-lucent spaces filled with small amounts of fibrillar material. The mature synergids resemble secretory cells and possess abundant dilated cisternae of rough endoplasmic reticulum and numerous mitochondria. No degeneration of the synergid cytoplasm occurred. In longitudinal section the filiform apparatus is anchor shaped and stains intensely for carbohydrates with an outer layer staining for proteins. The major repository for storage products is the central cell where numerous starch-filled amyloplasts accumulate. Small amounts of starch and lipid are present in the egg cell, but the synergids contain only minor amounts of storage lipid in the form of osmiophilic droplets. A hypostase with extensive wall ingrowth development surrounds the antipodal cells.
10.1086/668250|Five species of seeds are described in four new genera that are broadly similar to seeds of the Bennettitales, Erdtmanithecales, and Gnetales (
3691803|Hypotheses of homology for staminodes of Loasaceae subfamily Loasoideae are evaluated and a new model for their evolutionary origin is presented. Grau and Weigend have suggested that staminodes of Loasoideae are homologous to stamens of
2475111|Fertilization of Agathis australis occurs in mid-October about 1 yr after pollination. Free nuclear proembryo development occurs for 2-3 wk, forming 32 free nuclei. Polarity is first recognized at the four free nucleate stage. Cell wall formation occurs in November and a three-tiered proembryo results. The distal tier consists of a large apical cell surrounded by four to five smaller adjacent cells. These form the central cap cells. The second tier consists of a large central cell surrounded by five to seven smaller cells. The central cell divides to form two to three tiers of central cells, which develop into the embryo. The surrounding cells divide transversely, forming distal and proximal cells that elongate and add to the cap. The third tier consists of two to three tiers of cells and free nuclei that form the embryonal suspensors. The cap cells are secretory and protective but collapse soon after the early embryo penetrates into the megagametophyte. Simple polyembryony is common, but cleavage polyembryony was not observed. Early embryogeny is similar to that of the Pinaceae. The central cells form the embryonal mass, which in turn forms embryonal tubes. In December a club-shaped embryo develops with a stele promeristem and a long rib meristem separated by a root generative meristem.
3080050|Vitaceous shoots can be classified into five distinct architectural patterns based on a threenode sequence of tendril and axillary bud presence. The relationship between two of the more commonly occurring patterns and their primary vasculature was examined.
20533049|Historically collected specimens of the Pennsylvanian pteridosperm
3691768|The phylogeny of the Sapotaceae was investigated by DNA sequence analysis of the chloroplast gene
2475009|In SDS-PAGE electrophoresis, the molecular masses of oleosin from oleosomes of peanut root nodules were 66 kD, 61.1 kD, 56.3 kD, and 10 kD. TLC analysis showed the presence of phospholipids and neutral lipids. The isolated oleosomes showed considerable variation in size, in electron density, and in the presence of a less electron-dense peripheral rim.
10.1086/650159|In the forest canopy, seeds of epiphytic plants encounter heterogeneous environments created by a combination of factors such as solar radiation, humidity, and host characteristics. Germination requirements may explain the species distribution in the canopy; however, more knowledge is essential. Germination of
3691818|
               
3079999|Greenhousegrown clones of
3691632|Transmission electron microscopy of highpressure frozen/freezesubstituted samples was used to study urediniospore development in
2475190|The extinct genus Cruciptera, formerly documented only from the Tertiary of western North America, is recognized on the basis of well-preserved four-winged samaras, and a new species is described: Cruciptera schaarschmidtii. Analysis of the cuticle reveals peltate scales that complement morphological data in confirming the position of this genus in the Juglandaceae. The Messel fruits, together with two specimens from the middle Eocene pipe clays of southern England, indicate that Cruciptera was distributed in Europe as well as North America during the Eocene. A survey of juglandaceous fruits from the Eocene of Messel, Germany, reveals two additional genera: Palaeocarya and Hooleya. The tribal affinities of the Messel fruit genera are compared with those of juglandaceous foliage and pollen previously described from the same sediments. Palaeocarya and Hooleya share a similar paleogeographic distribution to that of Cruciptera, suggesting exchange via the Eocene North Atlantic land bridge.
2475291|We examined the influence of plant nitrogen (N) status and vegetative development on the accumulation of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase large subunit (rubisco), phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (pepcase), and the heat-shock proteins Hsp24 and Hsp60 during and after heat stress in corn (Zea mays L.) to explore the possibility that much HSP-N may originate directly or indirectly from photosynthetic proteins in leaves. In general, rubisco and pepcase content decreased in response to a 45
2995847|Ligninases produced by white rot fungi degraded fungal and synthetic melanins. Ligninases, thus, function as melaninases. Microscopic and chemical evidence showed that this ligninase/melaninase activity was associated with extensive destruction of otherwise resistant melanized cells of the black yeast
2475167|Homoplasy, manifest as convergence, parallelism, or reversal, is an important aspect of floral diversity. Few studies have focused on the evolution of floral homoplasies, and the role of ontogenetic evolution in their origins has been largely ignored. Four clades of angiosperms, the genera Besseya (Scrophulariaceae) and Eucnide (Loasaceae), the family Hydrangeaceae, and the order Piperales, were used to examine the roles of ontogenetic evolution in creating floral homoplasies. The possible modes of ontogenetic evolution were found to contribute unequally to the origin of homoplasies. Juvenilizing terminal deletions were common in the origin of homoplastic states but only slightly more so than novel substitutions and repatternings. Few homoplastic states arose via additions. Comparative studies on the origins of homoplasies are currently limited by the absence of developmental data for groups on which cladistic analyses have been conducted, by multiple, equally parsimonious cladograms, and by the low number of homoplastic states that are often available in clades.
IJPS40965|Under natural conditions pollen vectors act stochastically, and the order in which pollen arrives can influence seed paternity. In a number of wind-pollinated taxa, however, fertilization does not occur immediately. It has been proposed that delayed fertilization promotes pollen competition by providing a fair start for pollen tubes. To test this hypothesis we compared paternity after simultaneous and consecutive pollinations with multiple donors in
3079950|This article reports the effect of growing conditions on the anatomical and ultrastructural changes associated with the development of photoautotrophy in
30130548|The distribution of sunflower (
3080287|The sex ratios of
10.1086/647924|Habitat differentiation is thought to play a role in polyploidy establishment and coexistence. Differences in morphology and microhabitat association could play a role in cytotype distribution, but random factors could also be important. Little work has been performed to examine mechanisms affecting localscale cytotype spatial distribution. Multiple cytotypes of
3080160|The dicotyledonous family Styracaceae is distributed among all the major Tertiary mixedmesophytic forest refugia of the Northern Hemisphere. To infer the biogeographical history of the family and its significance for models of Northern Hemisphere historical biogeography, the phylogeny of the Styracaceae was estimated from separate and combined analyses of three DNA sequence data sets (chloroplast
2475124|In leaves of typical C
IJPS40756|How can successful invaders overcome reduced genetic variation via small founder population sizes to persist, thrive, and successfully adapt to a new set of environmental conditions? An expanding body of literature posits hybridization, both inter- and intraspecific, as a driver of the evolution of invasiveness via genetic processes. We studied Brazilian peppertree (
2475208|The fossil record of dispersed pollen documents that the extant genera Ephedra, Welwitschia, and Gnetum are the relictual extant remnants of a group of plants that was once more widespread and much more diverse. Unfortunately, macrofossils corresponding to these dispersed palynomorphs remain sparse, and only scattered information on other organs of fossil Gnetales are available Late Triassic and Early Jurassic fossils provide the most radical additions to knowledge of morphological diversity among probable extinct Gnetales, but more detailed information is needed to reliably and accurately establish their systematic affinities. In the long term, detailed morphological data from such fossils will be crucial for understanding morphological homologies between the reproductive structures of Gnetales and those of other plants. However, in the short term, studies of well-preserved material from Cretaceous mesofloras may be more informative Among the recent results of such studies has been the identification of small dispersed seeds with ephedroid pollen in the micropyle, and increased knowledge of the plants that produced the widespread and distinctive Mesozoic pollen grains assigned to the genus Eucommiidites. These data indicate that Eucommiidites producers (Erdtmanithecaceae) comprise an extinct clade with probable close affinities to the Gnetales.
3874636|Amphicarpy is a rare phenomenon in angiosperms. There are few studies on the floral development of aerial and especially subterranean flowers of the amphicarpic species. In this study, we examine the floral ontogeny of
40072554|Perianth structure and behavior were studied comparatively in representatives of all families of the basalmost extant angiosperms (ANITA grade plus Chloranthaceae). In addition, data from the literature were reviewed. Tepal aestivation is spiral imbricate in
3079963|Microstructural changes in several very slowly evolving chloroplast introns and intergenic spacers were characterized across a broad range of angiosperms, including most of the major basal lineages. Insertion/deletion events (indels) in the surveyed noncoding regions of the large inverted repeat (IR) region were shown to be rarer than nucleotide substitutions and thus constitute one of the slowest and least homoplastic types of data available to plant systematists. In our study we scored 180 indels in noncoding regions, of which 36 were parsimony informative within the angiosperms. Because they are relatively few in number, their general utility is currently limited. However, they provide support for specific major taxa, including the angiosperms as a whole, the water lilies, and Illiciaceae and relatives. Support for the basalmost angiosperm split is largely inconclusive, but a single indel supported a basal placement of the water lilies, not
3691534|
               
2475147|The epicuticular waxes of vascular plants are both chemically and structurally diverse. This investigation attempts to clarify the poorly understood relationships between epicuticular wax chemicals and structures by correlating the diversity of chemical compositions and structures in wildtype and epicuticular wax mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana. An expanded classification of A. thaliana epicuticular wax structures was conducted preceding their quantification on 24 genotypes of A. thaliana. Correlations between all A. thaliana stem epicuticular wax chemical and structural categories showed that 19 of the 26 epicuticular wax compounds were significantly correlated to at least one of the six structural types. The chain-length distribution of an epicuticular wax profile was also found to be correlated to structural type: short chain-length compounds to dendritic structures and long chain-length compounds to umbrella structures. The 29-carbon-length alkane, ketone, and secondary alcohol are each correlated to the same four structures: horizontal structures, rods, tubes, and vertical plates. In addition, these three 29-carbon wax components and four structures make up a majority of the chemical and structural constituents on 19 of the 20 genotypes that possess structures.
40344046|The exine ultrastructure of
2475152|Dense patches of evergreen dwarf bamboo species (1-3 m), such as Sasa senanensis, often prevent forest tree regeneration, and they suppress competing grassland species in Japan. We hypothesized that its evergreen habit contributes to the dominance of S. senanensis through carbon gain during the "phenological gaps" of spring and late fall under the improved irradiance and moisture conditions in a deciduous forest. We monitored the seasonal patterns of gas exchange in S. senanensis growing in the forest understory and in the open. The timing of greatest carbon gain in shade leaves was during early spring and late fall under a leafless forest canopy compared with that of late spring and early summer for open-grown leaves. Compared to understory S. senanensis, those grown in the open attained high photosynthesis and chlorophyll (Chl) a/b but lower area-based total chlorophyll, specific leaf area, and leaf nitrogen. In understory plants, these leaf characters and lightfleck responses indicated that they retain shade-acclimated characters throughout the year. Vulnerability to leaf water stress appeared to be the cause for the seasonal decline in carbon gain and rapid senescence of open S. senanensis leaves. The extended (>2 yr) leaf longevity of understory S. senanensis agrees with cost-benefit expectations and is an important contributing factor to the dominance of this clonal, monocarpic plant in the Japanese forest.
10.1086/650153|This study tests the phylogenetic affinities of 11 South American species of
2474932|Glandular and nonglandular trichomes are spread over the vegetative and reproductive organs of Plectranthus madagascariensis. Two morphologically distinct types of glandular trichomes (capitate and peltate) are described. Capitate trichomes have an ovoid unicellular head and a short stalk cell or an elongated two- to three-celled stalk slightly enlarged at the base. Peltate trichomes, which show in vivo a characteristic orange-to-reddish color, are large, flattened-to-depressed in the center, and often appear as a ring of minute gems. They are composed of a large head with eight glandular cells arranged in a single layer. An unusual kind of capitate trichomes, reported for the first time in Lamiaceae, occurs typically restricted to the calyx. These trichomes possess a two- or three-celled stalk and a long, unicellular conical, glandular head. The several types of trichomes differ in the secretion process The essential oils of P. madagascariensis, isolated by hydrodistillation and by distillation-extraction separately from flowers and from leaves collected during the flowering and the vegetative phases of the plant were analyzed by gas chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC and GC-MS). The main component of the oils was a diterpene, 6,7-dehydroroyleanone, isolated as orange-to-reddish crystals, which represented 28%, 87%, and 41% of the oils from the flowers and from the leaves collected during the flowering and vegetative phases, respectively. The essential oils of P. madagascariensis showed bactericidal activity against Bacillus subtilis, Micrococcus sp., Staphylococcus aureus, and Yersinia enterocolitica, and revealed a modest antioxidant activity.
40344015|Evolution of plant form proceeds through sequential alterations in the development of plant organs. Leaves (or fronds) are organs that have diagnostic characteristics, including definite arrangement on a stem, bilateral symmetry (abaxial/adaxial identity), and determinate growth. Evolution of those diagnostic characteristics represents a series of critical steps in plant evolution that resulted from specific developmental alterations. The fossil record reveals a transformational series in leaf evolution that highlights steps that have occurred in parallel but independently in both leptosporangiate ferns and seed plants, resulting in superficially similar frond morphologies. In this study, the fronds of the most ancient fossil fern,
2995803|
               
2474911|Experiments to maximize the isolation and purification of viable protoplasts from shoot cultures of asparagus (Asparagus officinalis L.) were conducted. Important factors for high yield of viable protoplasts included: the use of in vitro etiolated shoots as source material; 0.6 M glucose as an osmoticum in a modified KM medium; a combination of pectinase, cellulase, and hemicellulase, each at 1% (w/v) for enzymatic digestion of cell walls; and physical factors such as the volume of enzyme solution and speed of gyratory shaking. Protoplasts were purified by suspending digested etiolated shoot tissue in 0.6 M sucrose, overlaid with KMG medium and centrifugation at 650 g. The asparagus genotype had a marked influence on protoplast yield, with some genotypes yielding up to 18.4 x 10
2995616|The nuclear 4C DNA content in 10 species of Aloe L. (Liliaceae), determined by Feulgen cytophotometry, was found to vary by 35.8%. Absorption measurements of the nucleus showed that this variation is positively correlated with changes in the amount of heterochromatin, although quantitative variations in euchromatin cannot be excluded. Buoyant density analyses of extracted DNA in CsCl gradients showed differences in DNA density among species and the possible presence of satellite DNA in some species. These variations might have played a role in Aloe speciation. In general, the experimental data are in agreement with the accepted taxonomic position of the examined species.
10.1086/683010|
               
10.1086/662651|The evolutionary history of
2475274|The histochemical characterization of the oleoresin produced by peltate trichomes of Leonotis leonurus revealed terpenoids and flavonoid aglycones. At the onset of secretion, glandular cells were more densely cytoplasmic than the other trichome cells. The lateral stalk wall underwent cutinization, and the cuticle over the glandular cells became thicker. During the active secretory stage, the most striking ultrastructural features of glandular cells were the hypertrophy of the leucoplastidome and the extensive proliferation of ER. The high development of these two cellular compartments was related with the biosynthesis and transport of the secretory product. A granulocrine secretion mechanism may operate alone or concurrently with an eccrine process. In the glandular head, the loosening of the outer wall fibrillar matrix, and the accumulation of secretion in the newly formed interfibrillar spaces led to a secretory cavity development by detachment of the cuticle and the outermost pectic layer of cell wall. Successive accumulation of secretion in the secretory cavity conferred the spherical shape, characteristic of a peltate gland, to the trichome. The interfibrillar spaces, initially small and elongated, enlarged, became roundish, and appeared as vesicles delimited by an electron-dense layer. These vesicle-like structures are interpreted as lipophilic secretion globules in a hydrophilic phase. It is suggested that pectic polysaccharide wall constituents may be the main components of this hydrophilic matrix. The dense layer around the vesicles may represent an interphase between lipophilic and hydrophilic compounds. The secretion seemed to remain trapped in the secretory cavity, since no cuticular disruption was observed.
2995865|Minor bilateral or radial asymmetry of leaves or flowers, the frequency of phenodeviants, intraindividual variation in repeated characters, and fractal dimensions of morphology are considered to represent measures of developmental instability since deviations from regularity of the phenotype constitute a measure of the inability to maintain developmental precision during ontogeny. First, we review patterns of fluctuating asymmetry in plants and show that levels of asymmetry are considerably greater than in animals. While petal asymmetry tends to decrease with petal size within species, leaf asymmetry tends to increase with leaf size. Intraspecific correlations of petal asymmetry and leaf asymmetry are weakly positive. Second, a metaanalysis of the effects of environmental factors hypothesized to increase asymmetry in leaves and flowers, such as radiation, ultraviolet light, excess artificial fertilizer, pollutants, extreme saline conditions, herbivory, and competition, showed intermediate (i.e., explaining 10% of the variance) to large (i.e., explaining 25% of the variance) effects. Third, a metaanalysis of the effects of genetic factors hypothesized to contribute to increased asymmetry in plants, such as homozygosity, hybridization, mutation, and quantitative genetic differences among individuals, showed variable but usually significant effects, although the number of studies generally was small. Controlled experimental studies of environmental and genetic effects on developmental instability of plants may increase our understanding of the mechanisms causing developmental instability.
3691857|Cladistic analyses using parsimony jackknifing and Bayesian inference were performed to elucidate phylogenetic relationships in the genus
2475179|The original features of cambial cells and their immediate derivatives are reviewed, with special focus on the recent progress resulting from cytological and biochemical approaches. In trees from the temperate zone, many seasonal changes can be correlated with cold acclimation and deacclimation, except those concerning the nuclei and cell walls. Detailed studies of nucleic acid metabolism during the seasonal cycle showed that the nuclei of dormant cells were blocked in the G
4619763|All procambial leaf traces were mapped through the seven disks of insertion constituting a shoot tip of
40344034|A new plant concept for the extinct conifer species
IJPS40983|Phylogenetic relationships in the order Ericales have been greatly resolved during the past years. Questions remain, however, about the monophyly and intrageneric relationships of several genera such as the mainly Southern Hemisphere genus
2995875|Brefeldin A (BFA) is an inhibitor that disrupts the organization and vesicle transport of the Golgi apparatus. The effects of BFA on the exocytotic pathway were tested on cells undergoing secondary cell wall synthesis. As a model system, isolated mesophyll cells of
3080282|The effects of predicted climatic changes on the physiological stress of bilberry (
2475323|Trichomes present on the leaf surface of catmint (Nepeta racemosa L.) were examined using both scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Three types of trichomes were observed: (a) multicellular, uniseriate, nonglandular hairs, (b) small capitate glands with two cells in the head, and (c) large, peltate glands with four secretory/head cells. Secretory cells of capitate glands exhibited typical transfer cell morphology, with an abundance of RER and Golgi bodies, indicative of secretion of mainly hydrophilic substances. Mature peltate glands exhibited a distended cuticle and large subcuticular cavity, presumably containing the essential oils. Morphologically well-developed peltate glands were observed on young leaf primordia, with development occurring earlier at the leaf apex and along the midvein than at the leaf margins or base. Four major stages in the development of the peltate gland secretory cells were identified. The first stage was marked by highly vacuolated cytoplasm and normal distribution of subcellular organelles. The second stage, during which there was substantial accumulation of material in the subcuticular cavity, was marked by an abundance of tubular endomembrane elements in proximity to plastids with little internal differentiation. Retraction from the cell wall and an unusual scalloped appearance to the plasmalemma characterized a third stage. Presence of a large subcuticular cavity, an exaggerated retraction of the plasmalemma, and a band of peripheral mitochondria were typical of a fourth, presumably mature stage.
2475309|Leaf gas exchange was measured on C
3874635|In
3691769|The Neotropical genus
40072540|
               
30130550|In this study, allozyme variation at 15 putative loci was analyzed in 11 populations of
10.1086/669909|Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) plays multiple roles in plant growth and responses to environmental stimuli. However, there is still little molecular information on
2475032|We used two approaches to examine the role of natural selection in the evolution of selfing in Mimulus. First, using cpDNA and isozyme variation we investigated the phylogenetic relationships among a number of populations of two selfing (M. micranthus and M laciniatus) and two outcrossing (M guttatus and M. nasutus) species to determine the frequency of evolution of selfing within the genus. We hypothesized that the independent evolution of selfing taxa from outcrossing taxa would be strong evidence that the mating system is under the influence of natural selection. Second, we used phenotypic selection analysis to measure the presence and intensity of selection on floral characters associated with the mating system in extant populations of the outcrossing species M. guttatus. An unrooted Wagner tree constructed from cpDNA variation and a dendrogram constructed from Nei's genetic distances at isozyme loci both indicated the independent origin of the two selfing taxa, M. micranthus and M. laciniatus, from different ancestral M. guttatus populations. Phenotypic selection analysis demonstrated that both direct and indirect directional selection intensities were variable between populations but could be high. Decreased stigmaanther separation was favored in the one population that was likely pollinator-limited. Our results indicated that natural selection was strong enough to cause the repeated evolution of selfing in Mimulus and that the selective agent may be inadequate pollinator service.
2475029|Species of Dicentra have diverse shoot systems, including a group with subterranean shoots that share the evolution of tuberous diaspores. We characterize the shoot architecture of D. cucullaria and compare it with related members of the genus. Ramets of D. cucullaria are sympodial and, at the time when foliage leaves are aboveground, generally consist of three orthotropic modules. The youngest of these three modules is the renewal module, the next oldest bears current foliage leaves and flowers, and the oldest flowered and had foliage leaves during the previous growing season. Renewal buds form 2 yr before their foliage leaves and flowers extend aboveground. Each orthotropic module bears dimorphic tuberous diaspores. We demonstrate that the tuberous diaspores of D. cucullaria are specialized leaf bases. Large tuberous bases are characteristic of foliage leaves and other nonfoliage leaves positioned on the axis distal to the foliage leaves. Smaller tuberous leaves with rudimentary, apiculate laminas are positioned on short branches that form in the axils of scale leaves subjacent to the portion of the module axis where the foliage leaves are located. Both forms of tuberous leaf bases bear multiple, epiphyllous buds. Although both forms of tuberous leaf bases may function in asexual reproduction if detached, only the small tuberous leaf bases borne on the short branches separate easily from the ramet. Some of the short branches that bear small tuberous leaves elongate distal to these leaf positions to form plagiotropic rhizomes that produce new ramets. The shoot architecture of D. cucullaria is very similar to that of its hypothesized sister taxon, D. canadensis. These two species appear to form a monophyletic group with D. pauciflora and D. uniflora based on their shared derivation of tuberous leaf bases. The relationship of this monophyletic group to other species of Dicentra is unclear.
10.1086/669929|
               
2475212|The female structures in Gnetales share the presence of an integument with a long, open micropylar tube that takes up the pollen grains via nucellar secretion presented at the micropylar apex. The micropylar tube is sheathed by one or two united pairs of outer envelopes that resemble the inflorescence bracts. Developmentally, Gnetales and angiosperms have in common a circular (inner) integument and its initiation at the time when the sporogenous cells become apparent, whereas the integument is two-lobed and its initiation precedes the differentiation of sporogenous cells in other gymnosperms. However, Gnetales differ from angiosperms in having an acropetal (and not basipetal) initiation sequence for the two inner envelopes, including the integument. The attachment of the two envelopes of the nucellus is at about the same level in most angiosperms, whereas the outer is much lower than the inner in Gnetales. The second or third envelope as counted from the nucellus (the carpel) is the receptive one in angiosperms, while it is always the innermost one (the integument) in Gnetales. In all three genera of the Gnetales bisexual organ complexes occur in various combinations but always with the female organs more apical than the male ones, in Ephedra at inflorescence (rarely flower) level, in Gnetum at partial inflorescence level, and in Welwitschia at flower level. The female organs in these bisexual complexes are often sterile but seem to be regularly functional by secreting a sweet pollination drop that serves as nectar for pollinating insects. In some species of Ephedra and Gnetum that lack female flowers, in the male inflorescences nectar may also be secreted by other parts of the inflorescence. Homologies of the female organ complexes with those of angiosperms are uncertain apart from the nucellus and the (inner) integument. The floral bracts (outer envelopes) may be apomorphic in Gnetales without direct correspondence in angiosperm flowers. The basipetal development of the bisexual complexes in Gnetum is compared with the basipetal development of the ovules in Bennettitales and a similar topology in conifers with several ovules on a seed scale.
3080096|
               
2475245|The ovule of Arundo formosana Hack. is tenuinucellate, the megasporocyte originating from a hypodermal cell of the ovule primordium. Embryo sac development is of the Polygonum type. At its inception, the megasporocyte appears to be identical to the surrounding nucellar cells except for its larger size and dominant nucleus. The onset of megasporogenesis is indicated by the expansion of the megasporocyte, which is accompanied by a decrease in cytoplasmic density. Callose deposition in the expanded megasporocyte originates from the micropylar end and extends laterally. During megasporocyte expansion, the nucleus retains the micropylar location. Meiosis results in the formation of a linear, T-shaped, or intermediate tetrad: the chalazal megaspore is functional; all others will degenerate. The functional megaspore appears least dense among the cells of the tetrad and seldom contains vacuoles. As the megaspore enlarges, the organelles and the cytoplasmic density increase, the callose wall is gradually digested, and a electron-dense wall appears. The vacuoles are randomly distributed and then gradually migrate to both poles of the megaspore. A well-developed megaspore shows organelle polarity such that most plastids and dictyosomes are distributed in the micropylar region. The polarized dictyosome and plastid distributions persist through the two- and four-nucleate stage of the embryo sac, respectively. The two- and four-nucleate embryo sac is characterized by the presence of large central and chalazal vacuoles. Plasmodesmata persist in the chalazal wall during megasporogenesis and megagametogenesis to the four-nucleate stage.
20533055|Figures from independent studies of 1941 suggested a similarity in the initiation of the vascular system of the arborescent palms and the unrelated and herbaceous lily turf,
4122606|We present a morphological phylogenetic analysis of selected members of the
2995793|Eighteen individuals of
20533014|A continuum of juvenile to reproductively mature ocotillos (
2475017|Cuticle micromorphology of leaves from all 10 species and one variety of the conifer genus Prumnopitys Philippi (Podocarpaceae) was studied with scanning electron microscopy. Both herbarium and preserved specimens were examined and showed no differences in micromorphology. External and internal features of abaxial and adaxial cuticles are characterized for all 10 species and compared to other known podocarps. External cuticles exhibit undulating surfaces that may reflect underlying epidermal cell outlines, Florin rings, and stomatal plugs. Stomata have two to seven subsidiary cells, often with polar subsidiary cells lacking. There is a crease in subsidiary cell cuticle near the guard cells that corresponds to the Florin ring externally. Cuticle on subsidiary cells usually shows an irregular outer wall flange, granular to pitted surface, and horizontal and/or vertical striations. Polar extensions occur in all species but are less pronounced in section Sundacarpus. A rolled flange of cuticle occurs between guard cells and subsidiary cells and can be extensive in some taxa. Epidermal cell outlines are sinuous in most species; however, this character is variable within the genus. Epidermal cell surfaces are generally granular and pitted. Cuticle micromorphology supports the separation of P. amara into a separate section (or even separate genus) from the other taxa in the genus and indicates' the reevaluation of P montana var. meridensis as a separate species of the genus.
2995561|The rate of NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> uptake by soybean (Glycine max [L.] Merrill) roots generally declines during the night in association with progressive depletion of the nonstructural carbohydrate pool in the shoot as well as the concentration of carbohydrates in roots. To determine if NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> uptake rate changes in response to variations in translocation rate of carbohydrates from shoot to roots per se or to carbohydrate status of the roots, the night period was interrupted with a low light level from incandescent lamps to alter the diurnal pattern of NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> uptake by roots and export of carbohydrate from shoots of nonnodulated soybean. Depletion of NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> from replenished, complete nutrient solutions containing 1 mM NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> was measured by ion chromatography and rates of NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> uptake were calculated. Changes in export of carbohydrates from shoot to roots during intervals of the night period were calculated as the differences between rates of disappearance in contents of nonstructural carbohydrates and their estimated rates of utilization in shoot respiration and growth. A positive, significant correlation occurred between changes in calculated rates of carbohydrate export from shoots and NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> uptake rates. Conversely, there was no significant correlation between concentrations of nonstructural carbohydrates in roots and NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub> uptake rates. These results support the hypothesis that carbohydrate flux from shoot to roots has a direct role in regulation of nitrogen uptake by the whole plant.
2995682|Trees of Anacardium occidentale L. have secretory tissues in the hermaphrodite and male flowers, at the junctions of the panicle branches, on the adaxial leaf surface at the proximal end of the midrib, and on the young developing fruit at the site of abscission of the style. The structure of the floral and panicle nectaries was investigated in detail, as well as the nectar volumes and sugar and amino acid contents. Nectar was secreted by multicellular trichomes, apparently by diffusion through the cuticle. The panicle nectary secreted the largest volume, followed by the nectary of the hermaphrodite flower and then the nectary of the male flower, and the sugar concentration of all nectar types was high, at over 70%. All nectar types contained glucose, fructose, and sucrose, with glucose and fructose predominating in roughly equal amounts. The nectar of the male hermaphrodite flower contained the highest amount of sucrose, but the panicle nectar had the highest total sugar content. Fifteen amino acids were present in the panicle nectar and 14 in the floral nectars. All were present in low amounts, but the floral nectar had a higher amino acid content than that of the panicle. There was no significant variation in nectar volume or composition between trees or between time of collection. We suggest that the primary function of the floral and panicle nectars is to attract foraging insects for pollination, whereas a secondary function of the floral and panicle nectars, and the primary function of the leaf and fruit nectars, may be the attraction of protective ants.
2995591|The development of greenhouse-grown red beet plants (Beta vulgaris L.) was examined from ages 35 to 98 d after planting. In the storage organ, at the center of the second intervascular ring, large parenchyma cells were observed to have lower osmolarity than smaller cells next to them. We obtained estimates of net flux into the parenchyma storage cells for sucrose as 7.91 x 10<sup>-14</sup> mol/cm<sup>2</sup>/s, and for osmotica as 1.98 x 10<sup>-13</sup> osmol/cm<sup>2</sup>/s. From these flux estimates, and the width of the intervascular ring, a concentration gradient from the vasculature to the center of the ring was calculated. Our results imply that transport properties of the storage parenchyma cells may limit sugar accumulation to a greater extent than the distance of the cells from the phloem. Modeling of parenchyma cells spherically gave higher estimates of osmolarity than did modeling cells ellipsoidally, but both models gave similar changes in osmolarity with changes in cell size. The growth of red beet storage organs was similar to that previously reported for sugar beets, making it a useful model system.
4619766|In this study, we quantify how reproduction and allocation to male and female functions vary in relation to plant size during two consecutive but contrasting reproductive seasons in the hermaphroditic perennial herb
2995602|The benefits of a mutant-based approach to the examination of elongation growth are outlined. In Pisum sativum L. 15 mutants have been isolated that modify elongation and multiple alleles have been identified at nine of these loci. Using appropriate screening techniques these mutants have been shown to modify growth in a wide range of ways. Four mutants, le, na, lh, and ls, block the synthesis of GA<sub>1</sub> while sln increases GA<sub>1</sub> levels by blocking GA-catabolism. Two mutants, lv and lw, are classified as photomorphogenic mutants. While lv lacks responses attributable to phytochrome B, lw displays an enhanced response to phytochrome. Several mutants lacking a normal response to GA<sub>1</sub> have been identified and include lk, lka, lkb, lkc, lkd, and la cry<sup>s</sup>. The mutations lka and lkb alter the chemorheological properties of the cell wall and result in increases in the wall-yield threshold and turgor pressure while la and cry<sup>s</sup> may act at, or close to, the point of reception of the GA<sub>1</sub> signal. The role of auxin in elongation of intact plants is currently being examined using these mutants since some modify IAA levels (e.g., lkb, lv). Other growth processes are also influenced by many of these mutants. Leaf growth is examined as an example of how mutants of known effect (e.g., dwarf, GA biosynthesis mutants) may be used to determine the role of hormones in other related developmental processes.
2474863|Some C
4619817|Our aim was to assess the conservation status of the cactus
IJPS40911|Theory suggests that the contemporary evolution of local adaptation may increase the rate of biological invasion, yet natural selection has rarely been measured in invasive species. A recently published model predicted that latitudinal variation in the strength of stabilizing selection on two correlated traitsflowering time and sizecan result in local adaptation during plant invasion but implicitly assumed that population  environment interactions are weak. We tested for stabilizing selection and the effect of growing environment on 13 populations of the invasive plant
20533045|Eleven highly polymorphic microsatellite markers were used to determine the genetic structure and levels ofdiversity in 51 natural populations of
4619804|The main features of microsporogenesis, or male meiosis (cytokinesis, intersporal wall formation, and tetrad form), are described in 24 species of palms (Arecaceae). The species examined belong to two of the five subfamilies recognized in the latest classification of the family. To reconstruct the evolution of microsporogenesis features within the palms, recently published phylogenies of the family are used as a historical framework. Although the ancestral sequence of microsporogenesis in palms could not be inferred without ambiguities, our results show that the cooccurrence of both simultaneous and successive cytokinesis within the same species has evolved independently several times. Tetrad forms and the intersporal wall formation are highly labile features.
10.1086/663166|
               
4619846|There is currently intense interest in the radiation of the scleromorphic groups that dominate the Australian flora, but at present, only Proteaceae and Casuarinaceae have fossil records detailed enough to provide usefulevidence on the timing of these radiations. This article records a diverse assemblage of fossil leaves of another major scleromorphic group, the epacrids (subfamily Styphelioideae of Ericaceae, formerly known as Epacridaceae). The fossils are from Stony Creek Basin, in the western uplands of Victoria, Australia, and are of earliest Pleistocene age (ca. 1.6 million years old). They include 19 forms sufficiently distinct as to constitute different species. This diversity is considerably greater than the extant diversity of epacrids in the region. Published taphonomic data are used to argue that the actual diversity of the source vegetation of the fossil flora may have been significantly greater and comparable to the current local species richness of the centers of diversity. Ten of the fossil species are assigned to the largest extant tribe (Styphelieae), eight are assigned to Epacrideae or Archerieae, and one is assigned to Cosmelieae. This evidence is used to argue that substantial radiation of the epacrids had occurred by the beginning of the Pleistocene.
3080017|The effects of enhanced UVB radiation were evaluated in
2474883|The effect of jasmonic acid (JA) on growth, morphology, and development of roots and the possible interaction of JA with ethylene were investigated using isolated tomato roots (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. cv Bush Beefsteak) cultured in vitro. JA had a number a direct effects on the growth and development of these isolated root tissues. Lower concentrations of JA (10
30130559|Every procambial strand was mapped in the apical six disks of insertion comprising the shoot tip of
2474915|Somaclonal variation in Quercus suber L. somatic embryos during recurrent embryogenesis was tested by developing Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) profiles. Forty arbitrary 10-mer primers were used to amplify DNA from isolated embryos of 12 genotypes, some of them belonging to two half-sib families. One of the genotypes was also analyzed after several generations of recurrent embryogenesis. RAPD patterns were identical within genotypes and with time in culture. The technique also allowed us to differentiate all the genotypes. The grouping of genotypes, based on their genetic distances using different similarity indexes, was consistent with the known provenance of the embryogenic lines. The absence of detection of somaclonal variation is discussed in terms of the origin of somatic embryos.
3691813|Very young seedlings of wild barley
10.1086/653439|In order to scrutinize the floral development of the unisexual
IJPS41121|Anatomically preserved wood collected from coal seam no. 1 of the Naluozhai coal mine in the Lopingian (Late Permian) Wangjiazhai Formation in western Guizhou Province, China, is documented and interpreted. The wood belonged to a trunk with an inferred diameter of 25 cm or more and consists of axial tracheids and horizontal rays. Tracheids vary greatly in size, and small ones are usually irregularly arranged. Tracheid walls are 510 m thick and usually bilayered. There are usually biseriate araucarioides-type bordered pits on the radial tracheid walls. Two to five oval bordered pits are in each cross-field. Ray cells are thin walled, although thick-walled cells exist in some rays. Rays are quite variable in width and height. Uni- and partly biseriate rays are usually 220 cells high, while bi- and partly tri- to tetraseriate ones are 579 cells high. The cell size of rays is also quite variable and is usually larger than that of tracheids in the tangential direction. There are numerous leaf traces in the wood, and each of them extends horizontally through the wood within a broader ray. The last character is unique in known Paleozoic woods and leads to the establishment of
2475185|The structure and development of mucilage-crystal idioblasts in the roots of five Actinidia species, A. hemsleyana, A. eriantha, A. rufa, A. deliciosa, and A. chinensis, are comparable. Idioblasts are present in the cortex of primary roots and in both the cortex and phloem of secondary thickened roots. Idioblasts are first visible immediately behind the root apex. Young idioblasts are characterized by an absence of starch grains, large amounts of ER, and dense cytoplasm relative to that of adjacent parenchyma. Raphide crystals are formed in individual vacuoles at an early stage in idioblast development. These small vacuoles subsequently fuse into the central vacuole, and mucilage accumulates around raphide bundles. As idioblasts enlarge, they accumulate more mucilage. Mucilage exhibits variable numbers of strata, which stain differentially with toluidine blue O. Large, empty cells observed in outer regions of phloem in substantially thickened roots may represent a late stage in idioblast development.
IJPS40964|Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) data were generated for most of the 12 species and subspecies of endemic New Zealand
2474995|The putative existence of Crassulacean acid metabolism was investigated in three succulent species of the C
2474968|Formation of panicles and flower primordia in wild-rice, Zizania palustris L., was investigated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Floral development involved the formation of both staminate and pistillate floral primordia in the wild-rice spikelet. The SEM study indicated that wild-rice shared a similar developmental process in panicle formation with that of cultivated white rice (Oryza sativa L.). Variations of hermaphroditic floret formation and sex expression were observed in the transition zone between the male and female portions of the panicles in several different wild-rice populations. The frequencies of plants with hermaphroditic floret formation ranged from 27% in the Pistillate population (Z. palustris L.) to 70% in the Peterson Pond (Zizania aquatica L.) population. There was a high degree of phenotypic variation in sex expression in the transition zone of panicles from different wild-rice populations.
2995806|Recent phylogenetic studies have provided compelling evidence that confirms the once disputed hypothesis of monophyly for heterosporous leptosporangiate ferns (Marsileaceae and Salviniaceae). Hypotheses for relationships among the three genera of Marsileaceae (
2475102|A new genus and species (Antiquacupula sulcata) is established for fossil staminate flowers, bisexual flowers, fruits, and cupules from the late Santonian (Late Cretaceous) Buffalo Creek Member of the Gaillard Formation in central Georgia, U.S.A. Together with Protofagacea, recently described from the same locality, these remains constitute the earliest fossil evidence of the Fagaceae sensu lato. Staminate flowers of the new genus are pedicellate, with six free tepals in two cycles of three, 12 free stamens, and a vestigial gynoecium with three styles. Bisexual flowers are epigynous and actinomorphic, with six free tepals in two whorls, 12 free stamens, and a syncarpous gynoecium with three styles. The ovary is trilocular, with two anatropous, apically pendulous ovules per locule. The styles are partially connate below, with trichomes around and between the style bases. Fruits are triangular in cross section, with nearly equal sides, and contain a single seed. Cupules comprising multiple series of bracts contain at least six fruits. The staminate and bisexual flowers both have slender, thin-walled nectary lobes between the filament bases and distinctive, multicellular glandular structures on the surface of the gynoecium. Pollen grains found in the anthers and on the surface of the flowers and fruits are small and tricolporate, with a finely perforate tectum. Comparison of these fossils to extant and fossil taxa clearly indicates a relationship to extant Fagaceae sensu lato, based on the presence of the cupule and flower and fruit morphology. The discovery of Antiquacupula, in addition to Protofagacea, indicates an early divergence of at least two lineages within the Fagaceae, both with cupules, by the Santonian. In addition, Antiquacupula shares several characters with extant rosids and hamamelids and may be a key taxon for clarifying the relationships among these groups as well as within the Fagaceae.
3691767|In order to estimate evolutionary relationships within the filmy fern genus
4619787|
               
3080138|Leaf development of wheat largely determines the rate of plant growth in the early growth stages and is most sensitive to salinity. The objectives were to investigate the shoot growth, area of leaves, and kinetics of leaf elongation of wheat seedlings (
2474997| Using an indirect immunofluorescence technique, we have provided further evidence on the subcellular localization of the NADP-dependent malic enzyme (EC 1.1.1.40) in the bundle sheath chloroplasts of some C
3691837|The first permineralized cycad pollen cone is described from the lower Middle Triassic of Antarctica. The cone is characterized by helically arranged, wedgeshaped microsporophylls, each with five or more spinelike projections extending from the rhomboid distal face. The vascular cylinder is dissected and produces paired traces to each microsporophyll. Three vascular bundles enter the base of the microsporophyll and divide to produce at least five vascular strands in the sporophyll lamina. Pollen sacs occur in two radial clusters near the lateral margins on the abaxial surface of the microsporophyll. Each cluster bears up to eight elongate pollen sacs that are fused for approximately half their length and display longitudinal dehiscence. Pollen sacs are sessile and attached to a vascularized, receptaclelike pad of tissue that is raised from the surface of the microsporophyll. Pollen is ovoid, psilate, and monosulcate. Although the affinities of this cone with the Cycadales are obvious, the complement of characters in the fossil is unique and thus does not permit assignment to an extant family. Features of the cone are evaluated against reproductive aspects of living cycads.
3691845|Floral initiation and development in
2474998|Field measurements of gas exchange parameters, water relations, carbon isotope discrimination
2995827|The spatial distribution of sexual morphs of the subdioecious shrub
3691765|The effects of geitonogamy on the seed set of a protogynous hermaphroditic tree,
3080185|
               
4122596|CaspACE fluoroisothiocyanatevalylalanylaspartyl[
2475030|Thuja occidentalis shows slow growth, strip-bark morphology, and extreme longevity when growing on cliffs of the Niagara Escarpment, Ontario, Canada. To test whether these features could result from sectored radial architecture, dye-infusion experiments were performed on trees in four different age/size categories. Safranin and/or crystal violet were infused for up to 2 wk into young lateral roots. Plants were then harvested, serial-sectioned, and photographed. When two dyes were infused simultaneously, different lateral roots were used. Trees were also infused with dye, wounded, and then resupplied with dye to determine whether hydraulic pathways were altered as predicted by commonly accepted models. The results showed rapid radially sectored dye uptake in trees older than 1 yr. Individual roots tended to supply dye to only part of the crown. Wounding had no influence on the pattern of dye distribution. Stem segments with opposing, overlapping, and adjacent saw cuts had hydraulic conductance values near zero. The results indicate that T. occidentalis has sectored radial architecture that almost completely isolates the hydraulic pathways to particular parts of the stem and crown. The results indicate that the survival, morphology, and longevity of this species are related to the capacity of this species to sector productivity and mortality in resource-patchy environments.
10.1086/682054|
               
10.1086/664716|Angiosperm microspores are grouped into tetrads before they mature into functional pollen grains. This tetrad stage is an important step in microsporogenesis. Tetrad shapes are diverse across angiosperms, with high levels of variation sometimes occurring within species, reflecting variation in early developmental events of nuclear and cell division (i.e., meiosis and cytokinesis). Among these developmental influences, the shape of the microsporocyte (pollen mother cell; hereafter PMC) is likely to influence tetrad shape. This article presents a test of this hypothesis in 19 species of higher Asparagales with a successive cytokinesis by inferring PMC shape from tetrads observed with epifluorescence microscopy. Sampled species show differences in PMC shape between groups of regular or irregular tetrads at the species level, and there is a strong component of PMC shape variation at the onset of meiosis on resulting tetrad shape, with more elongated PMCs yielding significantly more irregular tetrads.
IJPS41018|Comparisons of floral symmetry have important implications for understanding ecological, evolutionary, and molecular mechanisms driving the diversification of angiosperms. Examination of symmetry in Cleomaceae provides an opportunity to compare monosymmetric flowers with the polysymmetric (disymmetric) flowers generated by its sister family, Brassicaceae. In order to better understand the origins of monosymmetry, we studied floral development in 11 species of Cleomaceae. Although all flowers were monosymmetric due to upward curvature of the petal bases near anthesis, two distinct patterns of early development were identified: early monosymmetry and early disymmetry. An enlarged abaxial sepal relative to the other three and petals that remain small in the bud characterize species exhibiting early monosymmetry, while four equally sized sepals throughout development and petals that grow rapidly are found in species with early disymmetry. When these pathways were compared to a phylogeny of the family, a single, derived origin of the disymmetric pathway was observed. Although these interpretations are based on limited sampling and lability exists in early development, we hypothesize that the early monosymmetric developmental pathway is shared with Brassicaceae. These studies also indicate that early and late development are disassociated in Cleomaceae and reveal that dynamic developmental patterns underlie seemingly similar mature morphologies.
10.1086/666662|
               
3080064|A new species,
2475202|Meiotic behavior of polyhaploids (2n = 4x = 32) of Astragalus cicer was strongly diploid-like. Bivalent frequencies exceeded 95% in the four plants studied, and a majority of meiotic configurations comprised exclusively bivalents. Meiosis was highly regular in polyhaploids 37B and 38B, but plants C17 and 353B produced a greater diversity of configurations reflecting their markedly higher frequencies of univalents. Optimization analysis revealed close correspondence to the 2: 2 pattern of chromosome pairing expected of amphidiploids, and estimates of relative genomic affinity indicated that chromosome pairing was almost exclusively intragenomic. Polyhaploids of A. cicer evidently comprised two pairs of distinct genomes (AABB) that paired preferentially (homologously). Natural octaploids of A. cicer are therefore autoallooctaploids with genomic formula AAAABBBB. Diploid-like meiotic behavior of octaploid A. cicer, despite the autotetraploid nature of constituent genomes, indicated that multivalent formation was suppressed and bivalent frequencies thereby enhanced by a bivalentizing system.
30130567|The pollen morphology and ultrastructure of the subtribe Salviinae were investigated with light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopy. In addition, cladistic analyses of the obtained morphological data, supplemented with
40072519|The pantropical genus
IJPS41354|There is no standardized method to detect silica depositions in plant tissues. Therefore, we compared current methods to reveal their advantages and disadvantages for selecting the most suitable method. We studied three plant species (
2475300|The effects of nutrient levels and salinity on prezygotic components of gender (number of ovules and of anthers per flower), on secondary accessory structures (number and size of petals), and on possible indicators of normal development (number of abnormal anthers and staminodes) were investigated for six maternal families of the highly autogamous Spergularia marina, cultivated under controlled conditions in hydroponic tubs. Mean ovule number and mean staminode number per flower were not affected by changes in nutrient levels and salinity, while mean anther number per flower decreased and mean petal size increased under the harsher growing conditions (low-nutrient level or salinity). Mean petal and abnormal anther numbers per flower were affected by nutrient levels but not by the salinity treatment. We observed few significant phenotypic correlations among the seven studied traits but observed strong phenotypic correlations between petal number and abnormal anther number under all growing conditions. The overall lack of treatment-specific correlations indicates that evolutionary trajectories in this species may not be strongly affected by the environmental conditions under which natural selection occurs. In contrast to other studies, we report that, for traits expressed prior to pollination, male reproductive traits (number of normal and abnormal anthers per flower) were more sensitive to growing conditions than were traits related to female reproduction (ovule number per flower). Finally, in partial opposition to our initial prediction, we found that the anther/ovule ratio was highly sensitive to salinity but not to nutrient level.
2995655|The histological events associated with shoot primordia formation from mature embryos and in vitro cultured shoots of eastern white cedar, Thuja occidentalis, were examined. Axillary meristems were not present in the axils of the cotyledons. Embryos cultured on N<sup>6</sup>-benzyladenine medium developed two shoot buds from the apical position. The two shoot primordia arose from the peripheral region of the main shoot apex. Concomitant with the shoot bud initiation, the cells at the summit of the shoot apex began to accumulate phenolic substances. This region did not grow further and the apex was divided into two domes giving rise to two shoot buds. In the original shoot explants, small groups of cells with dense cytoplasm and large nuclei could be found in the axils of the leaves. These axillary meristems were initiated during leaf primordia differentiation. Little further development occurred in these meristems in the controls; as they remained as a small group of meristematic cells separated by vacuolated cells, they became "detached meristems." In the presence of zeatin, cell division in these detached meristems was initiated after 2-3 d of culture. Axillary buds became visible after about 25 d of culture.
10.1086/651227|Immunocytochemistry, comprehensive microarray polymer profiling (CoMPP), and biochemical analysis were used to elucidate the distribution of polymers in the cell walls of seven distinct parts of the shoot region of the thallus of the charophycean green alga
3691753|We demonstrate the occurrence of allelic variation at the
4619784|In the past decade, field manipulation and pollinator choice experiments utilizing arrays of natural and artificial flowers have yielded mixed results with respect to whether symmetric flowers receive higher visitation rates or produce more seeds compared to asymmetric flowers. In this article, we test the hypothesis that deviations from perfect floral symmetry result in decreased seed production and reduced rates of insect visitation. We performed a floral manipulation experiment in two concurrent years with
3874600|The development of fibrillartype chromoplasts, with particular emphasis on the morphogenesis and structural characteristics of the fibrils, was studied in
2475126| Apical cells of dark-grown protonemata of the moss Ceratodon purpureus are negatively gravitropic. Previous light microscopy has shown that reorientation to the horizontal induces amyloplast sedimentation and redistribution of microtubules. To determine whether other components become redistributed laterally or axially, the apical 35 m of both vertical and horizontal apical cells were compared stereologically using transmission electron microscopy. Reorientation to the horizontal changed the longitudinal distributions of tubular ER, Golgi stacks, and vesicles but not cisternal ER, mitochondria, and plastids. Only plastids showed a statistically significant lateral redistribution after horizontal placement. Qualitative examination of the sedimentation zone showed plastids sedimented close to peripherally located ER with vacuoles displaced above plastids. These results argue against a model where differential tip growth results from a redistribution of Golgi stacks or exocytic vesicles. 
2475125|We studied the development of adaxial pouch galls caused by Eriophyes laevis (Nalepa 1891) (Acari: Eriophyoidea) on the leaves of two European alder species, Alnus glutinosa and Alnus incana. Standard histochemical techniques were used to analyze morphology, anatomy, developmental timing, and histochemistry. Our results demonstrated that galls on both host species were similar in development of internal structure. The adaxial pouches of all galls at maturity were composed of several undifferentiated cell layers penetrated by vascular bundles and a layer lining the interior of the cavity consisting of dark-staining, presumably nutritive tissue and papillae. The abaxial ostioles opposite the pouches were constricted by the growth of labiate ostiolar protrusions. Tannins were found in bundle sheath and bundle sheath extension derivatives. Although the galls on both host species were structurally similar, they diverged in the timing of development: gall development on A. incana lagged behind that on A. glutinosa by approximately 10 d, and tanniniferous cells appeared earlier in galls on A. incana. This difference in the timing of gall development resulted from an earlier onset of gall development in A. glutinosa; the total time course of development was similar on both hosts. We hypothesize that differences in developmental phenology could lead to temporal divergence in the completion of the mite life cycle on different hosts, therefore restricting interbreeding between mite populations and creating the potential for host-specific differentiation.
10.1086/659461|Styphelioideae (Ericaceae) is noted for producing tetrad pollen with various patterns of microspore abortion, and the existence of other pollen units such as polyads and true monads has been understudied. This study compared the development of putatively monadinous pollen in
20533056|We conducted a paternity analysis within a population of the Neotropical tree
40072532|
               
40072560|There have been many recent advances in angiosperm paleobotany based on studies of reproductive organs, but it remains important that wholeplant concepts not be neglected. Reconstructions of whole fossil plants based on foliage, fruits, seeds, flowers, pollen in situ, and wood are not always easy, but where done well they often yield important new insights. The most convincing wholeplant reconstructions are accomplished when organs that are normally found separately are found attached. Such occurrences are relatively rare. The repeated cooccurrence of dispersed organs that share anatomical features provides another acceptable line of evidence for reconstructions. However, mere cooccurrence, particularly in the case of extinct lineages, provides lessconvincing evidence. An important way to connect dispersed pollen and macrofossils is the study of pollen in situ. Several examples from Platanaceae, Fagaceae, Cercidiphyllaceae, Malvaceae s.l., and Cucurbitaceae show the importance of wholeplant approaches for evolutionary and other interpretations.
3080221|Recent phylogenetic analyses place
2474984|A remarkable feature of megasporogenesis, as seen in the heterosporous fern Marsilea and almost all seed plants, is the regular death of three of the products of meiosis. A general cause of this phenomenon has been hard to identify. Theories invoking causal gradients in the megasporangium or tetrad lack experimental support and could not be applicable universally. However, megaspore death can be regarded as an example of apoptosis (programmed cell death), a phenomenon becoming well established as an essential element in the development of both animals and plants. The genes controlling apoptotic phenomena in animals are now being identified and their products characterized. If megaspore death in seed plants is correctly interpreted as apoptotic, a comparable genetic control can be expected. A hypothesis is presented that illustrates how such a control could have come about. Experiments by Correns on the reproduction of Mirabilis, an autogamous plant with a single ovule in each ovary, have indicated that only 75% of the ovules contain embryo sacs and that only 25% of the pollen is capable of effecting fertilization. These results are in agreement with the kind of control proposed in my hypothesis.
3079978|We examined leaf morphology, anatomy, and margin development in wildtype and mutant leaves in order to define the genetic pathways controlling the different stages of leaf development in tomato. Tomato mutants were placed into four categories based on the degree of leaf complexity and margin development. Mutant phenotypes ranged from little or no blade expansion (Type I mutant
10.1086/668218|Repeated measures are widely used in a variety of aspects related to plant research, such as the assessment of genotypes subjected to stressing agents. Analysis of variance is routinely employed in split-plot experimental designs with repeated measurements on the subplots. However, this is not the best approach, as measurements cannot be randomly taken and so the H-F condition is rarely met. In this study, procedures of multivariate analysis of profiles (MAP) are presented as statistically advantageous options for solving similar analytical problems. We used data from trials with 10 clonal genotypes of cacao (
3691635|In arid ecosystems, variation in precipitation causes broadscale spatial heterogeneity in soil moisture, but differences in soil texture, development, and plant cover can also create substantial local soil moisture heterogeneity. The boundary between inland desert sand dunes and adjacent desert habitats exhibits abrupt changes in soil and vegetation characteristics that may be associated with differences in plantavailable water and nutrients. We hypothesized that differences in plant water status between habitats would mirror changes in soil texture and vegetation cover. Because the dunes have higher water availability, we predicted that plants on dunes would have higher plant water potential () and be less water use efficient than plants off dunes. We tested these predictions for three species
40072500|Uncertainties in the age and phylogenetic position of Pinaceae fossils present significant obstacles to our understanding of the timing of diversification in the family. We demonstrate that simultaneous phylogenetic analyses of chloroplast DNA (
10.1086/673243|
               
20533042|Allocation tradeoffs are predicted to affect evolutionary dynamics, including the evolution of sexual dimorphism. In gynodioecious species, where populations have both females and hermaphrodites, selection may result in sexual dimorphism in individual traits or trait correlations because, in contrast to females, hermaphrodites acquire fitness through both male and female function. Using the gynodioecious species
3080139|There are three leaf types in the Cercideae tribe (Caesalpinioideae, Fabaceae): unifoliate, bilobate, and bifoliate. By the fusion hypothesis, the ancestral leaf type within the Cercideae was bifoliate, and the unifoliate leaf was derived from the fusion of the bifoliate leaflets. In the opposing splitter hypothesis, the unifoliate leaf was the ancestral leaf type within the Cercideae, and the bifoliolate leaf was derived from the splitting of the unifoliate leaf into two separate leaflets. Palmate venation in leaflets is problematic for the fusion hypothesis. Watari proposed derivation from a palmately compound leaf with many leaflets and interpreted the primary vein as homologous to a single midrib in a leaflet. The structure and function of the upper pulvinus in the unifoliate leaf of
3691717|For the past 40 years, the ecology and evolution of plant secondary metabolites have been major foci of investigation. We use one class of secondary metabolites, the terpenes, as a case study for exploring the factors regulating the evolution of metabolite function. Evolution of function can occur as a result of change at any of several scales of biological organization. Changes in gene sequence and/or genetic architecture underlie several important evolutionary changes in function, and changes in gene regulation that alter terpene quantities also are linked with functional shifts. In addition, changes in the spatial distribution of terpenes within plants and in the structures used for terpene storage can be involved with functional shifts. Finally, as volatile compounds, terpenes play important roles as signaling compounds, and evolution of function can occur through changes in organisms that receive signals as well as the organisms that send them. In terpenes, significant changes in function have occurred as insects have learned to use terpenes as attractant or deterrent cues. A complete understanding of the evolution of function in secondary metabolites requires studying the regulation of function across all of these scales.
40072487|We examined chloroplast
10.1086/651945|Keeled flowers are characteristic of many species of Polygalaceae (tribe Polygaleae), in which there is often a distinctive crest located at the abaxial petal. This study of floral ontogeny across the entire family highlights potential suites of characters that relate to the evolution of keeled and crested flowers. One character suite encompasses interconnected transformations of the lateral perianth organs acting as an evolutionary module: bracteoles, lateral sepals (with delayed initiation and petaloid appearance), and lateral petals (suppressed or lost). The plastochron between initiation of the lateral sepals and that of the other sepals is relatively long in the tribe Polygaleae, in which the calyx is usually heteromorphic. By contrast, in the petal whorl, the difference between a zygomorphic and an actinomorphic corolla involves organ suppression rather than heterochrony. Four primary androecial patterns are identified in the family, and the gynoecium ranges between syncarpousbicarpellate and multicarpellate. Stigma diversity is based on two primary morphological types: one in which the papillate stigmatic surfaces lie close together, the other in which they are physically separated. The floral ontogeny of Polygalaceae is considered alongside comparative data available for other members of the order Fabales, and hypotheses to account for the similarities and differences between keeled flowers are discussed.
2995838|Most attempts to understand the early evolution of tracheids have centered on fossil Silurian and Devonian vascular plants, and these efforts have led to a wealth of new information on early waterconducting cells. All of these early tracheids appear to possess secondary cell wall thickenings composed of two distinct layers: a layer adjacent to the primary cell wall that is prone to degradation (presumably during the process of fossilization) and a degradationresistant (possibly lignified) layer next to the cell lumen. Developmental studies of secondary wall formation in tracheary elements of extant vascular plants have been confined to highly derived seed plants, and it is evident that the basic structure of these secondary cell wall thickenings does not correspond well to those of tracheids of the Late Silurian and Early Devonian. Significantly, secondary cell wall thickenings of tracheary elements of seed plants are not known to display the coupled degradationprone and degradationresistant layers characteristic of tracheids in early tracheophytes. We report a previously unknown pattern of cell wall formation in the tracheids of a living plant. We show that in
4619785|Flower longevity often exhibits a plastic response to pollination and may vary adaptively to maximize pollen removal and deposition and minimize flower maintenance costs. Using
3079948|The natural compound 9,10anthraquinone was found to inhibit the growth of the musty odorproducing cyanobacterium
2475216|The spadix of Montrichardia arborescens contains unisexual flowers without a perianth. The pistillate flowers occur in the basal portion, and the staminate flowers are in the apical portion of the inflorescence axis. In some spadices the zone between male flowers and female flowers contains vestigial flowers. A morphological gradient seems to be apparent in the intermediary zone: the portion of the bisexual flower facing the staminate zone possesses staminate characters (stamens), and the portion facing the pistillate zone possesses pistillate characters (aborted gynoecium). The floral primordia appear in successive alternating rows producing parastichies (helices) around the spadix. The number of opposed contact parastichies can vary depending on the form of the inflorescence and on the number of flowers produced. Pistillate and staminate flowers are inserted in the same contact parastichies along the inflorescence, with no discontinuity among the female zone, the bisexual zone, and the male zone. On the same parastichies, one can observe a continuum from the lower to the upper part of the young inflorescences.
10.1086/681605|
               
30139310|Apomixis, the asexual production of seed, is a trait estimated to occur in fewer than 1% of flowering plant species, with an uneven distribution among lineages. In the past decade, targeted research efforts have aimed at clarifying the genetic basis of apomixis, with the goal of engineering or breeding apomictic crops. Recent work suggests a simple genetic basis for apomixis, but it also indicates that natural populations of apomicts are much more complex than is often assumed. For example, in nature, nearly all apomicts that go through a megagametophyte stage (gametophytic apomicts) are polyploid, while their sexual relatives are typically diploid.Although populations have been characterized as obligately sexual or apomictic, it is increasingly clear that many plant populations exhibit some variation in reproductive mode. Many apomicts retain residual sexual function as pollen donors and thus have the potential to spread apomixis via male gametes, thereby increasing thegenetic diversity observed within apomictic populations. Here, we summarize our current understanding of thegenetic basis and transmission of apomixis. We use insights from previous case studies and models for the spread of asexuality to explore the potential for establishment and spread of apomixis in nature.
3080216|Horsetails (
3874658|The relatively low reproductive success of buckwheat (
3080126|Climate change may have an impact on the productivity of conifer trees by influencing the morphology (size and surface characteristics) and function (capacity for gas exchange) of conifer needles. In order to test the responses of needles to climatic variables, Douglas fir (
20533060|Rubiaceae are one of the largest families of plants, with 13,000 species. In this study, we have estimated the phylogeny for 534 Rubiaceae taxa from 329 genera with up to five different chloroplast regions by Bayesian analysis. It resulted in a highly resolved tree with many strongly supported nodes. There is strong support for the three subfamilies (Cinchonoideae, Ixoroideae, Rubioideae) and most of the 44 included tribes. A scaleddown data set of173 Rubiaceae taxa was used with a Bayesian approach to estimate divergence times for clades classified as tribes and subfamilies. Four fossils were used as minimum age priors, one inside each subfamily and one for Rubiaceae asawhole (
3080268|We describe here the vegetative and floral morphology of the Australian and New Guinean species of
3691547|A new method is described for measuring spatial colonization by plants from threedimensional (3D) records of their aerial morphology. Nonparametric indices were devised to quantify the space colonized by the plant by measuring the spatial dispersion of sets of points representing relevant morphological features of its architecture, such as the nodes and petiole tips. These indices are defined as the square root of the secondorder moments of these sets, i.e., as dispersion radii. They can be split into the components that characterize the major directions of colonization and those that analyze the contributions of the various morphological features. Horizontal dispersion can be visualized as an indicator ellipse (to characterize the anisotropy), and vertical dispersion as equivalent heights. The kinetics of spatial colonization are then characterized as the changes in these dispersion radii during the development of the plant. This method is illustrated using isolated white clover plants. Two phases can be distinguished in the growth of this species: (i) a phase of rapid horizontal colonization involving the petioles and (ii) a phase in which the rate of horizontal colonization becomes slower and steady and involves both internodes and petioles. Petioles therefore make a major contribution to both vertical and horizontal colonization. We also show that these conclusions could not have been reached using only organ lengths and that the usual assumptions about the function of petioles in white clover should be reconsidered. We argue that this is a general method that can be applied to most species and growth forms of plants. It should be particularly useful for analyzing plastic morphogenetic responses to light conditions and their contribution to light foraging as a complement to estimating light interception.
10.1086/652389|Relatively few studies have investigated plant responses to the combined effects of multiple environmental factors. We studied the responses of canola (
3079966|We have amassed structural data for 108 characters and 52 taxa of magnoliids and basal monocots and eudicots, including observations by P. K. Endress and A. Igersheim on flowers. These data were analyzed separately and in combination with
2475228|Androecium development and gynoecium development were compared among hermaphroditic flowers from nonfruiting (NF) and low-fruiting (LF) trees and female flowers from high-fruiting (HF) trees of gynodioecious Ocotea tenera Mez & J.D. Smith ex Mez. Dramatic qualitative differences in androecium development were identified between gender classes. Anthers in all flowers initiated microsporogenesis, with flowers from NF and LF trees eventually producing pollen, although some pollen from LF trees was slightly malformed. In anthers from HF trees, pollen development terminated after microspore tetrads developed, and the immature pollen grains eventually degenerated. Allometric relationships between flower growth and gynoecium growth differed among gender classes, with flowers from HF trees having a significantly greater slope. Allometric relationships between androecium and whole-flower growth were not different, but androecium size was reduced in female flowers. We argue that the gene, or genes, causing abortion of pollen grains in flowers of HF trees not only causes male sterility but also has a cascade of effects on stamen and corolla development. In contrast, gynoecium development appears to be uncoupled from androecial and corolla development. The uncoupling may allow natural selection to shape specific structural attributes of female flowers and functionally male flowers separately.
3691667|Rapateaceae and Bromeliaceae each have a center of diversity in South America and a single species native to a sandstone area in west Africa that abutted the Guayana Shield in northern South America before the Atlantic rifted. They thus provide ideal material for examining the potential role of vicariance versus longdistance dispersal in creating amphiatlantic disjunctions. Analyses based on
3691595|A previous study of the Late Devonian (Famennian) sphenopsid
2475250|Three spontaneous mutants (m-1, m-2, and m-31) with a new sporidial colony color (magenta, m) were found in the stable pink 1.A1 a-1 and 2.A2 a-2 laboratory strains. The m-1 and white (w) mutations were very closely linked (<0.1 cM); the m locus was assumed to be distal from the w locus and in the same chromosome arm. The color mutations formed a map of very closely linked (<1 cM), centromere-linked loci: orange (o)-pumpkin (p)-yellow (y)-centr-wA-wB-m. Crosses between the m-1 and m-2 mutants, between the m-2 mutant and laboratory strains with a different color, and between the m-2 mutant and strains from the herbarium/field collections gave nonsectored and sectored teliospore colonies with a nonparental color. All of the teliospores colonies from cross AV13 involving strains 1.C417* y and 2.C413 p had a nonparental color or different nonparental colors, including magenta. The UV-irradiation of m-1, m-2, and m-31 sporidia gave mostly pink (+) colonies, ranging from 9% to 48%. Occasional nonsectored w and p colonies as well as one bisectored m/+ and one w/+ colony were found. Approximately 10
2995876|We investigated the relationships between polyamines and indole3acetic acid (IAA) and ethyleneinduced petiole elongation in
10.1086/679759|
               
3691792|Enantiostyly, the deflection of the style to the left or right side of the floral axis, is a sexual polymorphism reported from at least 10 angiosperm families in both monocotyledons and dicotyledons. To investigate variation in the enantiostylous condition, we examined sexorgan reciprocity and the arrangements of left and rightstyled flowers in 15 enantiostylous species from eight genera in six families. Enantiostyly can be expressed at three distinct levels of structural organization. In monomorphic enantiostyly, individual plants produce both floral forms, either mixed within an inflorescence or segregated between left and rightstyled inflorescences. In dimorphic enantiostyly, plants are exclusively left or rightstyled and this condition is a genetic polymorphism. Enantiostyly is most commonly associated with the reciprocal deflection of a pollinating anther (reciprocal enantiostyly), although there is a continuum in stigmaanther position, ranging from no reciprocal anther to complete reciprocity. Comparative analyses of a composite phylogeny of the monocotyledons indicate that in this group enantiostyly has evolved at least 11 times, often simultaneously with the gain of heteranthery. Both concentrated changes and maximum likelihood tests indicated that heteranthery and the loss of nectaries are significantly associated with the presence of enantiostyly, indicating a syndrome of traits where pollen is the main reward and anthers are divided into two functions: pollination and nutrition. The association of enantiostyly with heteranthery, the loss of nectaries, and the reciprocal placement of a pollinating anther suggest that the polymorphism functions to increase the precision of crosspollen transfer and to reduce interference of stigmas and anthers within or between flowers on the same plant.
2995769|Discovery of new material attributable to
3691826|A mutation to white pollen and petals in California poppy (
2475265|Jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis [Link] Schneider) is a crop of high economic interest that is grown for the exceptional quality of its seed oil. We have taken advantage of the large variation commonly shown by ribosomal DNA (rDNA) in many plant species to assess the genetic diversity between clones and among individuals in jojoba. The variation of rDNA was analyzed with the use of a homologous 1.7-kbp probe generated by PCR and a 20-mer oligonucleotide probe targeting, respectively, the 17S and 25S coding regions. The multiple-step ladder obtained with the BamH I-EcoR I restriction fragment containing the intergenic spacer (IGS) was the best indicator of variation in length of rDNA unit. In addition to variations observed among selected clones, significant differences in the relative proportion of length variants were seen among individuals grown from seeds of unknown origin.
4619755|The genus
40072534|The genus
3080190|When all of the procambial strands are identified and followed in serial cross sections of shoot tips of
IJPS41273|Leaves of three
2475155|Three clones, with low, medium, and high fruit-production capacities were selected from a 10-yr-old clonal seed orchard (CSO). Reproductive phenology and reproductive success of the three clones were determined. The period of flowering-to-fruit maturation of teak in East Java is 6-8 mo. Flowering begins in mid-January, and fruit maturation occurs during the dry season from mid-May through September. The low fruit-production capacity of clone 5 is related to early flowering, the intermediate fruit production capacity of clone 12 is related to late flowering, and the high fruit production capacity of clone 17 coincides with the peak CSO flowering period. The preemergent reproductive success (PERS) was very low and varies among clones. The PERS of clone 5 (0 1%) was lower than that of clones 12 and 17 (0 4% and 0.5%, respectively). The major constraints in teak reproduction were low fruit- and seed-set The higher fruit-set in clone 17 (35.6 Fr/Infl) than in clones 12 and 5 (17.9 and 10.4 Fr/Infl, respectively) may be caused by a higher incidence of cross-pollination, since the flowering period of clone 17 coincided with the peak CSO flowering period It is best to collect fruits in August (about 24 wk after peak flowering) when germination capacity is highest (57.67%) and Abscisic acid and water content have declined to about 0.84 g/g fw and 11%, respectively.
10.1086/679477|
               
10.1086/673536|The acquisition of new mutualists and escape from enemies are often essential for the establishment of invasive species. With its introduction to North America,
10.1086/651226|Generalized pollination systems and autonomous selffertilization are traits that have been linked with plant invasiveness. However, whether specialized pollination requirements pose a significant barrier to plant invasions is not yet clear. Likewise, the contribution of pollinators to the fecundity of facultatively selfpollinating invasive plant species is poorly understood. We addressed these issues using the selfcompatible and autonomously selfpollinating
3691703|Experimental self and crosspollinations revealed that
2475273|Six taxa in the Funariaceae were examined to compare development and cell division patterns in moss capsules with and without peristome teeth. The peristome differentiates from a series of apical cell segments that are found to develop by a similar pattern of cell divisions. The youngest apical cell segments do not complete the entire developmental sequence observed in the more proximal segments. Few differences in development were found among the taxa, other than in the timing of transverse cell divisions. Segments in the gymnostomous taxa (Ephemerum, Aphanorrhegma) do not complete the entire sequence of divisions, with only three amphithecial layers present in the mature capsule. Spiraling of the peristome teeth of Funaria is suggested to be the result of differential cell expansion during the course of development of the distal apical cell segments, although oblique division of the apical cell might also be responsible for the spiraling of the cell files. Moss sporophytes are bilaterally symmetrical in their development although forming a radially symmetrical capsule. Because peristome teeth differentiate from several different levels in several different segments, cell position as well as cell lineage obviously is responsible for guiding differentiation.
40072565|Phylogenetic relationships within
3874616|An infructescence from the Middle Miocene of Clarkia, Idaho, conforms to the extant Asian trochodendraceous genus
3691665|The recent proliferation of methodological advances in molecular phylogenetic and paleobiological research has resulted in powerful approaches to investigate the temporal framework of lineages. This article is a review of molecular and paleontological methods to estimate ages of clades. Inferring ages of clades is complicated by the nature of the process of molecular substitution and the uncertainties of the paleontological record. Some ofthe greatest problems associated with molecular methods include the stochastic nature of molecular substitution, the assumption of rate constancy among lineages when such constancy is absent, and the inextricable link between substitution rate and elapsed time on the branches of phylogeny. Molecular methods to estimate ages are ultimately based on the fact that as time elapses, molecular differences accumulate among sequences. Under rate constancy, methods to estimate ages include linear regression of molecular distance on elapsed time and maximum likelihood optimization of node ages under a single rate. Recently developed methods that allow rate heterogeneity are powerful approaches to estimate rates and divergence times under more realistic assumptions. Amonglineage rate variation is introduced as a compound Poisson process or more frequently is guided by the principle of temporal rate autocorrelation. These methods are based on numerical, semiparametric, and Bayesian parametric approaches, and some allow incorporation of constraints on the ages of nodes (derived, e.g., from fossils), conferring additional realism to age estimates. The paleontological record provides times of first appearances of morphological traits but not of lineage divergences; nevertheless, it represents one of the few sources of absolute information to decouple rates and times in a phylogeny. Analytical methods applied to paleontological data provide an alternative source of information about lineage duration. Stratigraphic confidence intervals that contain the time of origin of a lineage under a known probability are based on the frequency and abundance of fossil finds through the lineages fossil record. Tests of postulated lineage durations, derived, for example, from a molecular age estimate, are available under probabilistic or likelihood frameworks. A powerful approach toward achieving more robust inferences about evolutionary rates and timing of lineage divergence lies in the complementary use of molecular and paleontologicalbased approaches. While incorporating fossil information as age constraints confers further realism to molecularestimated rates and ages, such estimates may be evaluated against expectations derived from paleontological information.
10.1086/682079|
               
2995607|Structural adaptations promoting apoplastic transport to the embryo sac were studied in broad beans (Vicia faba) during histogenesis from ovule primordia to seed. Nucellus and the inner integument disappear at an early stage. The outer integument then adjoins the embryo sac boundary. In the thin part distal to the funiculus the cells of the persisting integument are smaller than in other parts and develop PAS-positive wall ingrowths opposite the embryo. At the late globular stage, the embryo establishes contact with the embryo sac boundary. In the contact zone, embryo cells develop wall ingrowths. Wall ingrowths are further formed on both sides of that part of the endosperm that is inserted between the outside of the cotyledons and the embryo sac boundary. The wall proliferations characterize all these cells as transfer cells. We conclude that the embryo sac is supported with nutrients from digested maternal tissues (nucellus, chalaza, inner integument, and part of the outer integument). These tissues are generally rich in starch grains. After the embryo has established contact with the embryo sac boundary, it is supported by transport of solutes from transfer cells in the outer integument.
2475166|Studies of the initiation sequence of floral organs are valuable not only in polymerous flowers but also in whorled flowers with a fixed number of organs. They show the sequence of the different whorls as well as the sequence of organs within each whorl. In the whorled flowers of the eudicotyledons there is little floral plasticity in the number and position of floral organs. It will be shown in this study that a number of different developmental pathways can lead to a relatively invariant mature floral morphology. In the flowers of the Apiaceae, the same number and position of floral organs is maintained in spite of major differences in the early sequence pattern. Remarkable are the temporal overlaps between subsequent whorls, i.e., overlap among initiations of different kinds of organs. In the flowers of the Brassicaceae, the uniform floral phyllotaxis is likewise brought about by sequences that vary in detail. Nearly all possibilities in the sequence of the four petals, the two shorter outer stamens, and the four longer inner stamens are realized (e.g., 4 petals  2 stamens  4 stamens or 2 stamens  4 petals  4 stamens or 4 petals  4 stamens  2 stamens, etc.). The following morphogenetical conclusions can be drawn from the detailed sequence studies: (1) A floral apex can produce more than one organ category at the same time. (2) The sequence of whorls must not be strictly acropetal. (3) Organ position and sequence of organ initiation, on the one hand, and organ identity, on the other hand, are regulated on different genetic levels.
