3884902|Many of the threats to the persistence of populations of sensitive species have physiological or pathological mechanisms, and those mechanisms are best understood through the inherently integrative discipline of physiological ecology. The desert tortoise was listed under the Endangered Species Act largely due to a newly recognized upper respiratory disease thought to cause mortality in individuals and severe declines in populations. Numerous hypotheses about the threats to the persistence of desert tortoise populations involve acquisition of nutrients, and its connection to stress and disease. The nutritional wisdom hypothesis posits that animals should forage not for particular food items, but instead, for particular nutrients such as calcium and phosphorus used in building bones. The optimal foraging hypothesis suggests that, in circumstances of resource abundance, tortoises should forage as dietary specialists as a means of maximizing intake of resources. The optimal digestion hypothesis suggests that tortoises should process ingesta in ways that regulate assimilation rate. Finally, the cost-of-switching hypothesis suggests that herbivores, like the desert tortoise, should avoid switching food types to avoid negatively affecting the microbe community responsible for fermenting plants into energy and nutrients. Combining hypotheses into a resource acquisition theory leads to novel predictions that are generally supported by data presented here. Testing hypotheses, and synthesizing test results into a theory, provides a robust scientific alternative to the popular use of untested hypotheses and unanalyzed data to assert the needs of species. The scientific approach should focus on hypotheses concerning anthropogenic modifications of the environment that impact physiological processes ultimately important to population phenomena. We show how measurements of such impacts as nutrient starvation, can cause physiological stress, and that the endocrine mechanisms involved with stress can result in disease. Finally, our new syntheses evince a new hypothesis. Free molecules of the stress hormone corticosterone can inhibit immunity, and the abundance of "free corticosterone" in the blood (thought to be the active form of the hormone) is regulated when the corticosterone molecules combine with binding globulins. The sex hormone, testosterone, combines with the same binding globulin. High levels of testosterone, naturally occurring in the breeding season, may be further enhanced in populations at high densities, and the resulting excess testosterone may compete with binding globulins, thereby releasing corticosterone and reducing immunity to disease. This sequence could result in physiological and pathological phenomena leading to population cycles with a period that would be essentially impossible to observe in desert tortoise. Such cycles could obscure population fluctuations of anthropogenic origin.
3884983|In an earlier characterization of the relationship between morphology, performance and fitness, I focused only on directional selection (Arnold, 1983). The aim of this article is to extend that characterization to include stabilizing and other forms of nonlinear selection. As in the earlier characterization, this more general description of the morphology-performance-fitness relationship splits empirical analysis into two parts: the study of the relationship between morpholgy and performance, and the study of the relationship between performance and fitness. From a conceptual standpoint, my goal is to specify the relationship of performance studies to the adaptive landscape. I begin by reviewing the adaptive landscape concept and its importance in evolutionary biology. A central point emerging from that review is that that key descriptors of the adaptive landscape can be estimated by measuring the impact of selection on the means, variances and covariances of phenotypic traits. Those descriptors can be estimated by making a quadratic (regression) approximation to the selection surface that describes the relationship between the phenotypic traits of individuals and their fitness. Analysis of the effects of morphology on performance follows an analogous procedure: making a quadratic approximation to the individual performance surface and then using that approximation to solve for the descriptors of the performance landscape. I conclude by discussing the evolution of performance and adaptive landscapes. One possibility with biomechanical justification is that the performance landscape evolves along performance lines of least resistance.
4485782|The topic of endocrine disruption and the broad range of physiological effects caused by endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) can only be meaningfully framed within an ecological and evolutionary context. Environmental pollutants and EDCs operate by disrupting the "chemical communication" that coordinates signaling within an organism. Here we discuss how EDCs are also able to disrupt the chemical communication between plants and soil bacteria necessary for initiating nitrogen-fixing symbiosis. We also examine, through examples of pollutant-related impacts on a wide range of invertebrates, the need for identifying emerging targets of EDCs. We suggest broadening the defined field of endocrine disruption to encompass the effects of synthetic chemicals that interfere with signaling and communication, not only within an organism, but also between organisms and linking ecosystems. The ecological consequences of failing to recognize novel targets of chemical pollutants and EDCs may be a net loss of biological diversity and a further imbalance of the global nitrogen cycle.
3884930|Biodiversity research combines two dimensions, the horizontal one that contains species diversity, patterns among this diversity and its interconnections and the vertical one that deals with the history of biodiversity, i.e., its phylogeny. With these tight interconnections, the importance of so-called "lesser known groups" such as Nematomorpha and Gastrotricha can be shown. Two examples are the life cycle of Nematomorpha and the phylogenetic position of Gastrotricha. The life cycle of Nematomorpha is only partially known and almost no conclusions can be made about the impact of Nematomorpha on their hosts. For the phylogenetic position of Gastrotricha, alternative hypotheses are available, mainly due to different results of morphological and molecular (18S rDNA) analyses. It is demonstrated how these different hypotheses influence character interpretation and reconstruction among Protostomia (Gastroneuralia).
25160176|Vertebrate genomes are comprised of isochores that are relatively long (&gt;100 kb) regions with a relatively homogenous (either GC-rich or AT-rich) base composition and with rather sharp boundaries with neighboring isochores. Mammals and living archosaurs (birds and crocodilians) have heterogeneous genomes that include very GC-rich isochores. In sharp contrast, the genomes of amphibians and fishes are more homogeneous and they have a lower overall GC content. Because DNA with higher GC content is more thermostable, the elevated GC content of mammalian and archosaurian DNA has been hypothesized to be an adaptation to higher body temperatures. This hypothesis can be tested by examining structure of isochores across the reptilian clade, which includes the archosaurs, testudines (turtles), and lepidosaurs (lizards and snakes), because reptiles exhibit diverse body sizes, metabolic rates, and patterns of thermoregulation. This study focuses on a comparative analysis of a new set of expressed genes of the red-eared slider turtle and orthologs of the turtle genes in mammalian (human, mouse, dog, and opossum), archosaurian (chicken and alligator), and amphibian (western clawed frog) genomes. EST (expressed sequence tag) data from a turtle cDNA library enriched for genes that have specialized functions (developmental genes) revealed using the GC content of the third-codon-position to examine isochore structure requires careful consideration of the types of genes examined. The more highly expressed genes (e.g., housekeeping genes) are more likely to be GC-rich than are genes with specialized functions. However, the set of highly expressed turtle genes demonstrated that the turtle genome has a GC content that is intermediate between the GC-poor amphibians and the GC-rich mammals and archosaurs. There was a strong correlation between the GC content of all turtle genes and the GC content of other vertebrate genes, with the slope of the line describing this relationship also indicating that the isochore structure of turtles is intermediate between that of amphibians and other amniotes. These data are consistent with some thermal hypotheses of isochore evolution, but we believe that the credible set of models for isochore evolution still includes a variety of models. These data expand the amount of genomic data available from reptiles upon which future studies of reptilian genomics can build.
40931196|The disposable soma hypothesis predicts that when reproduction is reduced, life span is increased because more nutrients are invested in the soma, increasing somatic repair. Rigorously testing the hypothesis requires tracking nutrients from ingestion to allocation to the soma or to reproduction. Fruit flies on life-extending dietary restriction increase allocation to the soma "relative" to reproduction, suggesting that allocation of nutrients can be associated with extension of life span. Here, we use stable isotopes to track ingested nutrients in ovariectomized grasshoppers during the first oviposition cycle. Previous work has shown that ovariectomy extends life span, but investment of protein in reproduction is not reduced until after the first clutch of eggs is laid. Because ovariectomy does not affect investment in reproduction at this age, the disposable soma hypothesis would predict that ovariectomy should also not affect investment in somatic tissues. We developed grasshopper diets with distinct signatures of C and N, but that produced equivalent reproductive outputs. These diets are, therefore, appropriate for the reciprocal switches in diet needed for tracking ingested nutrients. Incorporation of stable isotopes into eggs showed that grasshoppers are income breeders, especially for carbon. Allocation to the fat body of nitrogen ingested as adults was slightly increased by ovariectomy; this was our only result that was not consistent with the disposable soma hypothesis. In contrast, ovariectomy did not affect allocation of nitrogen to femoral muscles. Further, allocation of carbon to the fat body or femoral muscles did not appear to be affected by ovariectomy. Total anti-oxidant activities in the hemolymph and femoral muscles were not affected by ovariectomy. These experiments showed that allocation of nutrients was altered little by ovariectomy in young grasshoppers. Additional studies on older individuals are needed to further test the disposable soma hypothesis.
4485794| We introduce the concept of many-to-one mapping of form to function and suggest that this emergent property of complex systems promotes the evolution of physiological diversity. Our work has focused on a 4-bar linkage found in labrid fish jaws that transmits muscular force and motion from the lower jaw to skeletal elements in the upper jaws. Many different 4-bar shapes produce the same amount of output rotation in the upper jaw per degree of lower jaw rotation, a mechanical property termed Maxillary KT. We illustrate three consequences of many-to-one mapping of 4-bar shape to Maxillary KT. First, many-to-one mapping can partially decouple morphological and mechanical diversity within clades. We found with simulations of 4-bars evolving on phylogenies of 500 taxa that morphological and mechanical diversity were only loosely correlated (R = 0.25). Second, redundant mapping permits the simultaneous optimization of more than one mechanical property of the 4-bar. Labrid fishes have capitalized on this flexibility, as illustrated by several species that have Maxillary KT = 0.8 but have different values of a second property, Nasal KT. Finally, many-to-one mapping may increase the influence of historical factors in determining the evolution of morphology. Using a genetic model of 4-bar evo we exerted convergent selection on three different starting 4-bar shapes and found that mechanical convergence only created morphological convergence in simulations where the starting forms were similar. Many-to-one mapping is widespread in physiological systems and operates at levels ranging from the redundant mapping of genotypes to phenotypes, up to the morphological basis of whole-organism performance. This phenomenon may be involved in the uneven distribution of functional diversity seen among animal lineages. 
3884764|Many metazoans convert the reproductive modes presumably depending upon the environmental conditions and/or the phase of life cycle, but the mechanisms underlying the switching from asexual to sexual reproduction, and vice versa, remain unknown. We established an experimental system, using an integrative biology approach, to analyze the mechanism in the planarian, Dugesia ryukyuensis (Kobayashi et al., 1999). Worms of exclusively asexual clone (OH strain) of the species gradually develop ovaries, testes and other sexual organs, then copulate and eventually lay cocoons filled with fertilized eggs, if they are fed with sexually mature worms of Bdellocephala brunnea (an exclusively oviparous species). This suggests the existence of a sexualizing substance(s) in sexually mature worms. Random inbreeding of experimentally sexualized worms (acquired sexuals) produces an F1 population of spontaneous sexuals (innate sexuals) and asexuals in a ratio of approximately 2:1. All regenerants from various portions of innate sexuals become sexuals. In the case of acquired sexuals, head fragments without sexual organs regenerated into asexuals though regenerants from other portions became sexuals. Thus, we conclude that neoblasts, the totipotent stem cells in the planarians, of acquired sexuals remain "asexual" and the worms require external supply of a sexualizing substance for the differentiation of sexual organs and gametes. On the other hand, some, if not all, neoblasts in innate sexuals are somehow "sexual" and do not require external supply of a sexualizing substance for the eventual differentiation of themselves and/or other neoblasts into sexual organs and gametes. It is also shown that sexuality in acquired sexuals is maintained by the putative sexualizing substance(s) of their own. The sexualization is closely coupled with cessation of fission, and the worms seem to have an unknown way of controlling the karyotype. Our integrative approach integrates multiple fields of study, including classic breeding, regeneration, and genetics experiments, as well as karyotyping, and biochemical and molecular biological analyses; none of which would have revealed much about the intricate mechanisms that regulate sex and fission in these animals.
4540208|Synopsis Buddenbrockia plumatellae is an active, muscular, worm-shaped parasite of freshwater bryozoans. This rare and enigmatic animal has been assigned to the Myxozoa on the basis of 18S ribosomal DNA sequences and the presence of malacosporean spores. Here we report cloning of four homologous protein-coding genes from Buddenbrockia worms, the putatively conspecific sac-shaped parasite originally described as Tetracapsula bryozoides and the related sac-shaped parasite Tetracapsuloides bryosalmonae, the causative agent of proliferative kidney disease in salmonid fish. Analyses are consistent with the hypothesis that Buddenbrockia is indeed a malacosporean myxozoan, but do not provide support for conspecificity with either T. bryozoides or T. bryosalmonae. Implications for the evolution of worm-like body plans in the Myxozoa are discussed.
25160148|Biologists that study mammals continue to discuss the evolution of and functional variation in jaw-muscle activity during chewing. A major barrier to addressing these issues is collecting sufficient in vivo data to adequately capture neuromuscular variation in a clade. We combine data on jaw-muscle electromyography (EMG) collected during mastication from 14 species of primates and one of treeshrews to assess patterns of neuromuscular variation in primates. All data were collected and analyzed using the same methods. We examine the variance components for EMG parameters using a nested ANOVA design across successive hierarchical factors from chewing cycle through species for eight locations in the masseter and temporalis muscles. Variation in jaw-muscle EMGs was not distributed equally across hierarchical levels. The timing of peak EMG activity showed the largest variance components among chewing cycles. Relative levels of recruitment of jaw muscles showed the largest variance components among chewing sequences and cycles. We attribute variation among chewing cycles to (1) changes in food properties throughout the chewing sequence, (2) variation in bite location, and (3) the multiple ways jaw muscles can produce submaximal bite forces. We hypothesize that variation among chewing sequences is primarily related to variation in properties of food. The significant proportion of variation in EMGs potentially linked to food properties suggests that experimental biologists must pay close attention to foods given to research subjects in laboratory-based studies of feeding. The jaw muscles exhibit markedly different variance components among species suggesting that primate jaw muscles have evolved as distinct functional units. The balancing-side deep masseter (BDM) exhibits the most variation among species. This observation supports previous hypotheses linking variation in the timing and activation of the BDM to symphyseal fusion in anthropoid primates and in strepsirrhines with robust symphyses. The working-side anterior temporalis shows a contrasting pattern with little variation in timing and relative activation across primates. The consistent recruitment of this muscle suggests that primates have maintained their ability to produce vertical jaw movements and force in contrast to the evolutionary changes in transverse occlusal forces driven by the varying patterns of activation in the BDM.
3884960|Ethanol is an important environmental variable for fruit-breeding Drosophila species, serving as a resource at low levels and a toxin at high levels. The first step of ethanol metabolism, the conversion of ethanol to acetaldehyde, is catalyzed primarily by the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH). The second step, the oxidation of acetaldehyde to acetate, has been a source of controversy, with some authors arguing that it is carried out primarily by ADH itself, rather than a separate aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) as in mammals. We review recent evidence that ALDH plays an important role in ethanol metabolism in Drosophila. In support of this view, we report that D. melanogaster populations maintained on ethanolsupplemented media evolved higher activity of ALDH, as well as of ADH. We have also tentatively identified the structural gene responsible for the majority of ALDH activity in D. melanogaster. We hypothesize that variation in ALDH activity may make an important contribution to the observed wide variation in ethanol tolerance within and among Drosophila species.
3884836|Hexactinellid sponges are metazoans in which the major tissue component is a multinucleated syncytium. The preferred deepwater habitat of these sponges makes collection of hexactinellids in good condition difficult, and has hindered extensive examination of their body plan. Nonetheless, over the last three decades a number of studies have explored their ecology, histology and physiology. It has been shown that hexactinellids are extremely long-lived animals. Their cytoplasm consists of a giant, multinucleated tissue, the trabecular syncytium, which is connected via open and plugged cytoplasmic bridges to cells such as archaeocytes, choanoblasts, and cells with spherical inclusions. Because all of the sponge is cytoplasmically interconnected, electrical signals can propagate through the animal. The effector response is arrest of the feeding current. The perforate plugged junction apparently allows tissues to specialize in different ways while maintaining limited cytoplasmic continuity. Larvae of hexactinellid sponges are already largely syncytial. Although it is not known when the first syncytial tissues are formed or when perforate plugged junctions first appear during embryogenesis, evidence that embryos are cellular until gastrulation suggests that hexactinellid sponges may have evolved from cellular sponges and that syncytial tissues are not a primitive trait of the Metazoa.
3884988|Ontogenetic conflict arises when optima for alleles governing fitness variation differ between juveniles and adults or between adult sexes. Loci that govern development of alternative phenotypes in the sexes, hereafter termed morph-determining loci, mediate development through the endocrine system. Morphotypic selection is defined to be multivariate selection favoring discrete alternative morphotypes (e.g., optima). When the optimal combinations of alleles for alternative morphs differ between the sexes, it generates conflicting selection pressure and thus ontogenetic conflict. Selection on morph alleles promotes ontogenetic conflict because it perturbs physiological epistasis that governs the expression of male versus female traits. Expression of physiological traits arises from homeostasis that maintains trait expression within a normal range. The genetic basis of homeostasis is likely to arise from interactions among several genes (e.g., genetic epistasis) or protein products (e.g., physiological epistasis). For example, endocrine regulation arises from interactions between gondatropins, which are protein hormones produced by the hypothalamic-pituitary glands, and steroid hormones, which are produced by the gonads (e.g., HPG axis). The side-blotched lizard system is discussed with respect to physiological bases of ontogenetic conflict. We also describe a novel molecular marker strategy for uncovering genome-wide physiological epistasis in nature. Finally, ontogenetic conflict exerts selection on females to evolve mate selection or cryptic choice that is reflected in different sires being chosen for son versus daughter production. We describe how side-blotched lizard females ameliorate ontogenetic conflict by cryptic choice of male genotypes to produce sons versus daughters.
40405984|A key question in the evolution of life history and in evolutionary physiology asks how reproductive and other life-history traits evolve. Genetic variation in reproductive control systems may exist in many elements of the complex inputs that can affect the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) or reproductive axis. Such variation could include numbers and other traits of secretory cells, the amount and pattern of chemical message released, transport and clearance mechanisms, and the number and other traits of receptor cells. Selection lines created from a natural population of whitefooted mice (Peromyscus leucopus) that contains substantial genetic variation in reproductive inhibition in response short winter daylength (SD) have been used to examine neuroendocrine variation in reproductive timing. We hypothesized that natural genetic variation would be most likely to occur in the inputs to GnRH neurons and/or in GnRH neurons themselves, but not in elements of the photoperiodic pathway that would have pleiotropic effects on nonreproductive functions as well as on reproductive functions. Significant genetic variation has been found in the GnRH neuronal system. The number of GnRH neurons immunoreactive to an antibody to mature GnRH peptide under conditions maximizing detection of stained neurons was significantly heritable in an unselected control (C) line. Furthermore, a selection line that suppresses reproduction in SD (photoperiod responsive, R) had fewer IR-GnRH neurons than a selection line that maintains reproduction in SD (photoperiod nonresponsive, NR). This supports the hypothesis that genetic variation in characteristics of GnRH neurons themselves may be responsible for the observed phenotypic variation in reproduction in SD. The R and NR lines differ genetically in food intake and iodo-melatonin receptor binding, as well as in other characteristics. The latter findings are consistent with the hypothesis that genetic variation occurs in the nutritional and hormonal inputs to GnRH neurons. Genetic variation also exists in the phenotypic plasticity of responses to two combinations of treatments, (1) food and photoperiod, and (2) photoperiod and age, indicating genetic variation in individual norms of reaction within this population. Overall, the apparent multiple sources of genetic variation within this population suggest that there may be multiple alternative combinations of alleles for both the R and NR phenotypes. If that interpretation is correct, we suggest that this offers some support for the evolutionary "potential" hypothesis and is inconsistent with the evolutionary "constraint" and "symmorphosis" hypotheses for the evolution of complex neuroendocrine pathways.
40931194|A major factor influencing life-history strategies of endotherms is body size. Larger endotherms live longer, develop more slowly, breed later and less frequently, and have fewer offspring per attempt at breeding. The classical evolutionary explanation for this pattern is that smaller animals experience greater extrinsic mortality, which favors early reproduction at high intensity. This leads to a short lifespan and early senescence by three suggested mechanisms. First, detrimental late-acting mutations cannot be removed because of the low force of selection upon older animals (mutation accumulation). Second, genes that promote early reproduction will be favored in small animals, even if they have later detrimental effects (antagonistic pleiotropy). Third, small animals may be forced to reduce their investment in longevity assurance mechanisms (LAMs) in favor of investment in reproduction (the disposable soma theory, DST). The DST hinges on three premises: that LAMs exist, that such LAMs are energetically expensive and that the supply of energy is limited. By contrast, the heat dissipation limit (HDL) theory provides a different conceptual perspective on the evolution of life histories in relation to body size. We suggest that rather than being limited, energy supplies in the environment are often unlimited, particularly when animals are breeding, and that animals are instead constrained by their maximum capacity to dissipate body heat, generated as a by-product of their metabolism. Because heat loss is fundamentally a surface-based phenomenon, the low surface-to-volume ratio of larger animals generates significant problems for dissipating the body heat associated with reproductive effort, which then limits their current reproductive investment. We suggest that this is the primary reason why fecundity declines as animal size increases. Because large animals are constrained by their capacity for heat dissipation, they have low reproductive rates. Consequently, only those large animals living in habitats with low extrinsic mortality could survive leading to the familiar patterns of life-history trade-offs and their links to extrinsic mortality rates. The HDL theory provides a novel mechanism underpinning the evolution of life history and ageing in endotherms, and makes a number of testable predictions that directly contrast with the predictions arising from the DST.
40931217|The Ross Sea, Antarctica, supports two distinct populations of phytoplankton, one that grows well in sea ice and blooms in the shallow mixed layers of the Western marginal ice zone and the other that can be found in sea ice but thrives in the deeply mixed layers of the Ross Sea. Dominated by diatoms (e.g. Fragilariopsis cylindrus) and the prymnesiophyte Phaeocystis antarctica, respectively, the processes leading to the development of these different phytoplankton assemblages are not well known. The goal of this article was to gain a better understanding of the photophysiological characteristics that allow each taxon to dominate its specific habitat. Cultures of F. cylindrus and P. antarctica were each grown semi-continuously at four different constant irradiances (5, 25, 65, and 125mol quanta/m/s). Fragilariopsis cylindrus produced far less photosynthetic pigment per cell than did P. antrctica but much more photoprotective pigment. Fragilariopsis cylindrus also exhibited substantially lower rates of photosynthesis and growth but also was far less susceptible to photoinhibition of cell growth. Excess photosynthetic capacity, a measure of the ability of phytoplankton to exploit variable light environments, was significantly higher in both strains of P. antarctica than in F. cylindrus. The combination of these characteristics suggests that F. cylindrus has a competitive advantage under conditions where mixed layers are shallow and light levels are relatively constant and high. In contrast, P. antarctica should dominate waters where mixed layers are deep and light levels are variable. These results are consistent with distributions of phytoplankton in the Ross Sea and suggest that light is the primary factor determining composition of phytoplankton communities.
4540169|Canalization is a concept, introduced by Waddington that describes the reduced sensitivity of a phenotype to genetic and environmental perturbations. Some research in canalization assumes that lack of variation in a trait in one genotype with respect to another genotype in a population, is due to the existence of buffering mechanisms against environmental and/or genetic variation. This article criticizes this assumption and out points out other possible problems with the concepts of canalization, robustness, and evolvability. These involve: the neglect of alternative explanations for the lack of variation in a trait, the incompatibility with current understanding of development, the way the mutivariate nature of morphological variation is considered. In addition, this article tries to explain that these concepts implicitly assume, although not generally acknowledged, that without buffering any genetic or environmental variation should give rise to a distinct phenotypic outcome. This can be avoided by restricting the use of canalization to cases in which, as in hsp90, there is direct evidence of buffering. For the other cases it would be clearer to talk about variational properties or simply type of variation. The concept of evolvability is also biased towards univariate comparisons and is dependent on selective pressures. It is suggested that this can be replaced by "type of phenotypic variation" from a genotype or variational properties. Overall, this article proposes that the concepts of canalization and evolvability involve some assumptions that, in most situations, unnecessarily complicate the study of evolution and development.
4540205|Synopsis Living things invariably consist of some kind of compartmentalized redox chemistry. Signaling pathways mediated by oxidation and reduction thus derive from the nature of life itself. The role of such redox or metabolic signaling broadened with major transitions in the history of life. Prokaryotes often use redox signals to deploy one or more variant electron carriers and associated enzymes to better utilize environmental energy sources. Eukaryotes transcend the strong surface-to-volume constraints inherent in prokaryotic cells by moving chemiosmotic membranes internally. As a consequence, eukaryotic redox signaling is frequently between these organelle membranes and the nucleus, thus potentially involving levels-of-selection synergies and antagonisms. Gradients of oxygen and substrate in simple multicellular organisms similarly associated metabolic signaling with levels of selection, now at the level of the cell and the organism. By allowing sequestration of large amounts of food, the evolution of the animal mouth was a pivotal event in metabolic signaling, leading to "multicellular" redox regulation. Because concentrated food resources may be patchy in time and space, long-lived sedentary animals with mouths employ such metabolic signaling and phenotypic plasticity in ways that adapt them to the changing availability of food. Alternatively, if the mouth is coupled to a battery of sensory equipment, the organism can actively seek out and sequester patches of food. In these early bilaterians, competition for food resources may have favored rapid development with little subsequent plasticity and metabolic signaling. With rapid dispersal and colonization, such "assembly-line" animals could effectively compete for patchy resources. Limiting metabolic signaling, however, resulted in a cascade of seemingly unrelated changes. These changes derive from the effectiveness of metabolic signaling in policing variation at the cellular level. If the signals an organism uses to control cellular replication are the same as the signals a cell uses to control its own metabolism, then cells that ignore these signals and carry out selfish replication will pay a fitness cost in terms of inefficient metabolism. Bilaterians with limited metabolic signaling thus require other mechanisms to police cell-level variation. Bilaterian features such as restricted somatic cell potency, a sequestered germ line, and determinate growth should be viewed in this context. Bilaterian senescence evolved as a by-product of restricted potency of somatic cells, itself a mechanism of cell policing required by limited metabolic signaling.
3884758|Mussels owe their sessile way of life in the turbulent intertidal zone to adaptive adjustments in the process and biochemistry of permanent attachment. These have understandably attracted scientific interest given that the attachment is rapid, versatile, tough and not subverted by the presence of water. The adhesive pads of mussel byssus contain at least six different proteins all of which posses the peculiar amino acid 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) at concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 30 mol %. Studies of protein distribution in the plaque indicate that proteins with the highest levels of DOPA, such as mefp-3 (20 mol %) and mefp-5 (30 mol %), appear to predominate at or near the interface between the plaque and substratum. Although the presence of DOPA in proteins has traditionally been associated with cross-linking via chelate-mediated or covalent coupling, recent experiments with natural and synthetic DOPA-containing polypeptides suggest that cross-link formation is not the only fate for DOPA. Intact DOPA, particularly near the interface, may be essential for good chemisorption to polar surfaces. Uniformly high DOPA oxidation to cross-links leads to interfacial failure but high cohesive strength, while low DOPA oxidation results in better adhesion at the expense of cohesion. Defining the adaptations involved in balancing these two extremes is crucial to understanding marine adhesion.
4540222|The pelagic realm of the ocean is characterized by extremely clear water and a lack of surfaces. Adaptations to the visual ecology of this environment include transparency, fluorescence, bioluminescence, and deep red or black pigmentation. While the signals that pelagic organisms send are increasingly well-understood, the optical capabilities of their viewers, especially for predators with camera-like vision such as fish and squid, are almost unknown. Aquatic camera-like vision is characterized by a spherical lens focusing an image on the retina. Here, we measured the resolving power of the lenses of eight species of pelagic cephalopods to obtain an approximation of their visual capabilities. We did this by focusing a standard resolution target through dissected lenses and calculating their modulation transfer functions. The modulation transfer function (MTF) is the single most complete expression of the resolving capabilities of a lens. Since the optical and retinal capabilities of an eye are generally well-matched, we considered our measurements of cephalopod lens MTF to be a good proxy for their visual capabilities in vivo. In general, squid have optical capabilities comparable to other organisms generally assumed to have good vision, such as fish and birds. Surprisingly, the optical capability of the eye of Vampyroteuthis infernalis rivals that of humans.
23016122|Synopsis Speciation remains one of the most controversial and least understood topics in evolution. About 75% of the earth's surface is covered by oceans. However, most of what we currently know about speciation is strongly biased toward terrestrial and freshwater organisms. Here, we discuss some of the major advances of the past two decades in our understanding of speciation in the sea and outline promising future directions that were gathered during the 2011 SICB Symposium "Speciation in the Sea."
4485819| The plasticity of any given trait, which has a genetic basis and which may or may not be adaptive, can intensify or attenuate evolved responses, and can itself evolve in response to selection depending on the scale of spatial or temporal heterogeneity. To investigate the complex function and evolution of plastic traits, an appealing yet challenging approach is assessing responses to artificial selection. Here, I review how artificial selection has been employed to explore four botanical research themes: (1) relationships between plastic and evolved responses to multiple stresses, (2) integration of cellular, leaf-level, and whole-plant responses to altered CO concentrations, (3) photomorphogenic and photoperiodic development, both mediated by phytochrome photoreceptors, and (4) the evolution of the pest-induced myrosinase-glucosinolate system in cruciferous plants. These diverse topics are unified not only because they have been studied using artificial selection experiments, but also because they have considered variability in multiple traits affected by multiple factors in the external environment. Limitations of such research include a dearth of long-term studies; a surprising but often logistically necessary omission of control or replicate lines; and numerous issues relating to assessing impacts of inbreeding and drift. In addition to discussing options for circumventing such limitations, I draw attention to strategies for integrating the results of artificial selection studies with progress in functional and evolutionary genomics. 
3884880|The thermal phenotype of an organism (heat and cold tolerance, thermal range, and thermal plasticity) is an essential feature of how the organism performs across thermal environments and in response to thermal stress. Porcelain crabs are of interest in addressing questions of thermal phenotype because of their high species diversity and the large variation in thermal phenotype among species, as well as the biogeographic patterning of these crabs along environmental stress gradients. We are studying the cellular bases of thermal phenotype and physiological responses to environmental stress using a functional genomics cDNA microarray approach. To do this, we have isolated total RNA from a range of tissues from 1 species of porcelain crab (Petrolisthes cinctipes) exposed to a suite of thermal conditions, and have used this RNA to construct a 13 824-clone EST library. Here, we describe construction, EST sequencing, assembly and clustering, and results of BLASTx homology search for our initial 13 824-clone library. From 12 060 usable ESTs, 6717 consensus sequences were identified, and roughly 50% of these have homology to known proteins. At present, an additional 50 000-75 000-clone library of P. cinctipes ESTs is being generated, with the aim of developing a library with near-complete coverage of the transcriptome. The libraries and sequence information that will be generated as a result of this project should be of value for crustacean biologists working across a broad range of scientific disciplines (for example, physiology, developmental biology, biological rhythms, ecology, fisheries biology), as well as in studies of molecular evolution and phylogeography.
3884974|It is a strange coincidence that the highest point on Earth is very close to the limit of human tolerance to hypoxia. The physiological changes that allow humans to reach these extreme altitudes involve enormous alterations of their normal state. It is useful to contrast this response with two others to high altitude. One is acclimatization that allows lowlanders to ascend to altitudes of up to 5000 m and remain there for an indefinite period. The other is evolutionary adaptation which allows highlanders to live continuously over generations at altitudes up to 5000 m. These two responses enable humans to survive for an indefinite period at high altitude. By contrast, the changes that allow ascent to extreme altitudes are not compatible with an extended stay because of a poorly-understood process called high-altitude deterioration. The most important physiological response to extreme altitude is extreme hyperventilation which, on the summit of Mt. Everest, drives the alveolar P
40931228|Here we review the literature of a male poecillid's sexually dimorphic body plan, behavior, and nervous system, including work dating from the mid 1800s to the mid 1990s as well as work in press or in preparation for publication.Rosa-Molinar described the remodeling of the sexually dimorphic anal fin appendicular support, confirmed earlier claims about the development of the male and female secondary sex characteristics in the Western Mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis and provided for the first time direct embryonic evidence suggesting that remodeling of the sexually dimorphic anal fin appendicular support is biphasic. The first process begins in embryos and proceeds similarly in immature males and females; the second process occurs only in males and results in the anterior transposition of the anal fin and its appendicular support to the level of vertebra 11 [Rosa-Molinar E, Hendricks SE, Rodriguez-Sierra JF, Fritzsch B. 1994.Development of the anal fin appendicular support in the western mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard, 1854): a reinvestigation and reinterpretation. Acta Anat 151: 20-35.] and the formation of a gonopodium used for internal fertilization. Studies using high-speed video cameras confirmed and extended Peden's and others' observations of copulatory behavior. The cameras showed that circumduction is a complex movement combining in a very fast sequence abduction, extension and pronation, S-start-type fast-start (defined as torque-thrust), and adduction movements. Recent work on the nervous system demonstrated dye-coupling between motor neurons and interneurons via gap junctions, suggesting an attractive substrate for the rapid motions involved in poecillid copulatory reflexes.
3884871|Ecdysone and thyroid hormone are 2 ligands that have important roles in regulating metamorphosis in animals. Ecdysone is a steroid that regulates molting in insects. Thyroid hormone regulates differentiation and development in fish and amphibia. Although ecdysone and thyroid hormone have different chemical structures, both hormones act by binding to transcription factors that belong to the nuclear receptor family. We investigated the evolution of structure and function in the ecdysone receptor (EcR) and thyroid hormone receptor (TR), and liver X receptor (LXR) and retinoic acid receptor (RAR), which cluster with EcR and TR, respectively (Bertrand S, Brunet FG, Escriva H, Parmentier G, Laudet V, Robinson-Rechavi M. 2004. Mol Biol Evol 21:1923-37), by constructing a multiple alignment of their sequences and calculating ancestral sequences for TR, RAR, EcR, and LXR. These alignments were mapped onto the 3D structures of TR, RAR, EcR, and LXR in the Protein Data Bank to examine the evolution of amino acids involved in the binding of ligands to TR, RAR, EcR, and LXR.
40931218|Thirteen years ago in a review that appeared in the American Zoologist, we presented the first survey of the chemical and ecological bioactivity of Antarctic shallow-water marine invertebrates. In essence, we reported that despite theoretical predictions to the contrary the incidence of chemical defenses among sessile and sluggish Antarctic marine invertebrates was widespread. Since that time we and others have significantly expanded upon the base of knowledge of Antarctic marine invertebrates' chemical ecology, both from the perspective of examining marine invertebrates in new, distinct geographic provinces, as well as broadening the evaluation of the ecological significance of secondary metabolites. Importantly, many of these studies have been framed within established theoretical constructs, particularly the Optimal Defense Theory. In the present article, we review the current knowledge of chemical ecology of benthic marine invertebrates comprising communities along the Western Antarctic Peninsula (WAP), a region of Antarctica that is both physically and biologically distinct from the rest of the continent. Our overview indicates that, similar to other regions of Antarctica, anti-predator chemical defenses are widespread among species occurring along the WAP. In some groups, such as the sponges, the incidence of chemical defenses against predation is comparable to, or even slightly higher than, that found in tropical marine systems. While there is substantial knowledge of the chemical defenses of benthic marine invertebrates against predators, much less is known about chemical anti-foulants. The sole survey conducted to date suggests that secondary metabolites in benthic sponges are likely to be important in the prevention of fouling by benthic diatoms, yet generally lack activity against marine bacteria. Our understanding of the sensory ecology of Antarctic benthic marine invertebrates, despite its great potential, remains in its infancy. For example, along the WAP, community-level non-consumptive effects occur when amphipods chemically sense fish predators and respond by seeking refuge in chemically-defended macroalgae. Such interactions may be important in releasing amphipods from predation pressure and facilitating their unusually high abundances along the WAP. Moreover, recent studies on the sensory biology of the Antarctic keystone sea star Odontaster validus indicate that chemotactile-mediated interactions between conspecifics and other sympatric predatory sea stars may have significant ramifications in structuring community dynamics. Finally, from a global environmental perspective, understanding how chemical ecology structures marine benthic communities along the WAP must increasingly be viewed in the context of the dramatic impacts of rapid climatic change now occurring in this biogeographic region.
4485771|There is a growing body of literature describing the actions of endocrine disruptors on annelids. These pollutants cause decreases in growth and reproductive output, delay sexual maturation, and inhibit the immune system in annelids. More studies are needed to determine the mechanisms that underlie these responses. Most invertebrate endocrine disruptor research focuses on steroids. In recent years many new invertebrate peptide hormones including those related to the molluscan peptide FMRFamide have been identified. Since the storage of these peptides can be inhibited by steroids during insect metamorphosis, they may be affected by endocrine disruptors. Therefore, it is worthwhile to give a brief overview of this peptide family to those studying endocrine disruption in invertebrates with the hope that they may begin to consider these peptides in their future research. In 1977 Price and Greenberg isolated FMRFamide from the cerebral ganglia of the clam, Macrocallista nimbosa. Since then researchers have used bioassays and immunoassays to identify a large number of FMRFamide-related peptides (FaRPs) from many invertebrate phyla. Even more peptides are predicted by the FaRP genes that have been sequenced. FaRPs have a variety of functions and act as neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, or neurohormones. Each function is species and tissue specific. Most FaRP receptors are linked to a second messenger system. However, at least one is a ligand gated sodium channel. On going studies are examining FaRPs from the molecular to organismal level.
41319641|Climate change is one of the major issues facing natural populations and thus a focus of recent research has been to predict the responses of organisms to these changes. Models are becoming more complex and now commonly include physiological traits of the organisms of interest. However, endothermic species have received less attention than have ectotherms in these mechanistic models. Further, it is not clear whether responses of endotherms to climate change are modified by variation in thermoregulatory characteristics associated with phenotypic plasticity and/or adaptation to past selective pressures. Here, we review the empirical data on thermal adaptation and acclimatization in endotherms and discuss how those factors may be important in models of responses to climate change. We begin with a discussion of why thermoregulation and thermal sensitivity at high body temperatures should be co-adapted. Importantly, we show that there is, in fact, considerable variation in the ability of endotherms to tolerate high body temperatures and/or high environmental temperatures, but a better understanding of this variation will likely be critical for predicting responses to future climatic scenarios. Next, we discuss why variation in thermoregulatory characteristics should be considered when modeling the effects of climate change on heterothermic endotherms. Finally, we review some biophysical and biochemical factors that will limit adaptation and acclimation in endotherms. We consider both long-term, directional climate change and short-term (but increasingly common) anomalies in climate such as extreme heat waves and we suggest areas of important future research relating to both our basic understanding of endothermic thermoregulation and the responses of endotherms to climate change.
3885008|Vertical zonation of intertidal organisms, from the shallow subtidal to the supralittoral zones, is a ubiquitous feature of temperate and tropical rocky shores. Organisms that live higher on the shore experience larger daily and seasonal fluctuations in microhabitat conditions, due to their greater exposure to terrestrial conditions during emersion. Comparative analyses of the adaptive linkage between physiological tolerance limits and vertical distribution are the most powerful when the study species are closely related and occur in discrete vertical zones throughout the intertidal range. Here, I summarize work on the physiological tolerance limits of rocky intertidal zone porcelain crab species of the genus Petrolisthes to emersion-related heat stress. In the eastern Pacific, Petrolisthes species live throughout temperate and tropical regions, and are found in discrete vertical intertidal zones in each region. Whole organism thermal tolerance limits of Petrolisthes species, and thermal limits of heart and nerve function reflect microhabitat conditions. Species living higher in the intertidal zone are more eurythermal than low-intertidal congeners, tropical species have the highest thermal limits, and the differences in thermal tolerance between low- and high-intertidal species is greatest for temperate crabs. Acclimation of thermal limits of high-intertidal species is restricted as compared to low-intertidal species. Thus, because thermal limits of high-intertidal species are near current habitat temperature maxima, global warming could most strongly impact intertidal species.
40405966|Hormones coordinate the co-expression of behavioral, physiological, and morphological traits, giving rise to correlations among traits and organisms whose parts work well together. This article considers the implications of these hormonal correlations with respect to the evolution of hormone-mediated traits. Such traits can evolve owing to changes in hormone secretion, hormonal affinity for carrier proteins, rates of degradation and conversion, and interaction with target tissues to name a few. Critically, however, we know very little about whether these changes occur independently or in tandem, and thus whether hormones promote the evolution of tight phenotypic integration or readily allow the parts of the phenotype to evolve independently. For example, when selection favors a change in expression of hormonally mediated characters, is that alteration likely to come about through changes in hormone secretion (signal strength), changes in response to a fixed level of secretion (sensitivity of target tissues), or both? At one extreme, if the phenotype is tightly integrated and only the signal responds via selection's action on one or more hormonally mediated traits, adaptive modification may be constrained by past selection for phenotypic integration. Alternatively, response to selection may be facilitated if multivariate selection favors new combinations that can be easily achieved by a change in signal strength. On the other hand, if individual target tissues readily "unplug" from a hormone signal in response to selection, then the phenotype may be seen as a loose confederation that responds on a trait-by-trait basis, easily allowing adaptive modification, although perhaps more slowly than if signal variation were the primary mode of evolutionary response. Studies reviewed here and questions for future research address the relative importance of integration and independence by comparing sexes, individuals, and populations. Most attention is devoted to the hormone testosterone (T) and a songbird species, the dark-eyed junco (Junco hyemalis).
41319660|Locomotion rhythms are thought to be generated by neurons in the central-pattern-generator (CPG) circuit in the spinal cord. Synaptic connections in the CPG and pacemaker properties in certain CPG neurons, both may contribute to generation of the rhythms. In the half-center model proposed by Graham Brown a century ago, reciprocal inhibition plays a critical role. However, in all vertebrate preparations examined, rhythmic motor bursts can be induced when inhibition is blocked in the spinal cord. Without inhibition, neuronal pacemaker properties may become more important in generation of the rhythms. Pacemaker properties have been found in motoneurons and some premotor interneurons in different vertebrates and they can be dependent on N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDAR) or rely on other ionic currents like persistent inward currents. In the swimming circuit of the hatchling Xenopus tadpole, there is substantial evidence that emergent network properties can give rise to swimming rhythms. During fictive swimming, excitatory interneurons (dINs) in the caudal hindbrain fire earliest on each swimming cycle and their spikes drive the firing of other CPG neurons. Regenerative dIN firing itself relies on reciprocal inhibition and background excitation. We now find that the activation of NMDARs can change dINs from firing singly at rest to current injection to firing repetitively at swimming frequencies. When action potentials are blocked, some intrinsic membrane potential oscillations at about 10 Hz are revealed, which may underlie repetitive dIN firing during NMDAR activation. In confirmation of this, dIN repetitive firing persists in NMDA when synaptic transmission is blocked by Cd. When inhibition is blocked, only dINs and motoneurons are functional in the spinal circuit. We propose that the conditional intrinsic NMDAR-dependent pacemaker firing of dINs can drive the production of swimming-like rhythms without the participation of inhibitory neurotransmission.
23016321|Synopsis Shallow coves in Chesapeake Bay have abundant food and serve as nursery grounds for juvenile blue crabs. In this study, we examined the relationships between the diet of very small (440 mm CW) juvenile blue crabs and the benthic infauna in shallow, unvegetated nursery coves. We compared infauna in benthic samples with gut contents of juvenile blue crabs from six shallow coves in each of two sub-estuaries (Rappahannock and York Rivers) in Chesapeake Bay, Virginia, USA. Benthic communities differed depending on river and location, with abundant clams in upriver regions and abundant polychaetes in downriver regions. Juvenile crabs, like adults, appeared to be opportunistic feeders, with gut contents including clams, amphipods, polychaetes, small crustaceans, plant matter, and detritus. There was a positive relationship between polychaetes in the benthic samples and in crab guts, suggesting that juvenile crabs are opportunistic feeders on polychaetes in the benthos. Moreover, Ivlev's electivity index and foraging ratio showed that clams and polychaetes were selectively eaten at all locations. Alternatively, crabs selectively rejected amphipods. Crab densities corresponded positively with polychaete densities, which suggests that there may be bottomup control of crab distributions and that food resources are important in nursery habitats.
3884767|Cladistic biogeographic methods remain susceptible to the confounding effects of "pseudo-congruence" and "pseudo-incongruence" because they were not designed to incorporate information on the absolute timing of the diversification of lineages. Consequently, results from cladistic biogeographic studies are difficult to interpret and cannot be confidently attributed to any particular cause. We illustrate these points with concrete examples, paying special attention to recent work on the biogeography of the Northern Hemisphere, and outline ways in which topological and temporal information might be better integrated. The development of historical biogeography over the last few decades provides general insights into the nature of integration through the life of a discipline.
3884757|Many marine invertebrates form strong, temporary attachments using viscoelastic gels. To better understand these adhesives, an analysis of what is known of gel structure and function was performed. There are different ways of making gels, ranging from entangling of giant glycoproteins to crosslinking of smaller proteins. The mechanics of the gel depend largely on the size of the polymer, its concentration, and whether it is crosslinked. Compared to gels such as mammalian mucus, the mechanics of adhesive mucous gels often appear to depend more heavily on relatively small proteins than on megadalton-sized glycoproteins. In addition, changes in concentration and the presence of specific proteins have been associated with the change from a non-adhesive to an adhesive form. The attachment strengths produced by different gels at different concentrations were compared with the changes in attachment strength seen in living animals. These data suggest that changes in concentration are not sufficient to account for adhesion. Thus, it is likely that the changes in protein composition may play a large role.
4485874|The breeding system of an animal population is thought to depend on the ability of one sex (usually the male) to acquire mates, either directly through association with females or indirectly through defense of the resources desired by females. The sex that contributes most to infant care (usually the female) is constrained by parental involvement and thereby limits reproduction of the opposite sex. Accordingly, males, but not females, enhance their reproductive success by acquiring additional mates. This classical view has emphasized the role of male-male competition in sexual selection, at the expense of fully exploring the potential for female choice. A more recent shift in focus has revealed substantial variation in female reproductive success and increasingly accentuates the importance of female intrasexual competition and male mate choice. A comparative review of primate reproduction, therefore, challenges expectations of male control and female compliance, and calls for a comprehensive treatment of costs and benefits that extends beyond conventional mention of heavy female investment versus male negligence or absenteeism. For individuals that manipulate their social environment or reproductive output, consideration of more subtle, even cryptic, aspects of female behavior and physiology (e.g., social strategizing, sexual solicitation or rejection, sexual advertisement or concealed ovulation, multiple mating, and reproductive failure) raises the question of whether females can be effectively 'monopolized.' Widespread patterns that counter Bateman's paradigm call for a reexamination of the predictions generated by dichotomizing gametes into 'expensive eggs' and 'cheap sperm,' and encourage continued mechanistic research focused on conception quality rather than quantity.
4485808|Marine sponges are an ecologically important and highly diverse component of marine benthic communities, found in all the world's oceans, at all depths. Although their commercial potential and evolutionary importance is increasingly recognized, many pivotal aspects of their basic biology remain enigmatic. Knowledge of historical biogeographic affinities and biodiversity patterns is rudimentary, and there are still few data about genetic variation among sponge populations and spatial patterns of this variation. Biodiversity analyses of tropical Australasian sponges revealed spatial trends not universally reflected in the distributions of other marine phyla within the Indo-West Pacific region. At smaller spatial scales sponges frequently form heterogeneous, spatially patchy assemblages, with some empirical evidence suggesting that environmental variables such as light and/or turbidity strongly contribute to local distributions. There are no apparent latitudinal diversity gradients at larger spatial scales but stochastic processes, such as changing current patterns, the presence or absence of major carbonate platforms and historical biogeography, may determine modern day distributions. Studies on Caribbean oceanic reefs have revealed similar patterns, only weakly correlated with environmental factors. However, several questions remain where molecular approaches promise great potential, e.g., concerning connectivity and biogeographic relationships. Studies to date have helped to reveal that sponge populations are genetically highly structured and that historical processes might play an important role in determining such structure. Increasingly sophisticated molecular tools are now being applied, with results contributing significantly to a better understanding of poriferan microevolutionary processes and molecular ecology.
3884640|This paper reviews some aspects of locomotor plasticity after spinalisation and after peripheral nerve lesions. Adult cats can recover spontaneous hindlimb locomotion on a treadmill several days or weeks after a complete section of the spinal cord at T13. The kinematics as well as the electromyographic activity are compared in the same animal before and after the spinal section to highlight the resemblance of locomotor characteristics in the two conditions. To study further the mechanisms of spinal plasticity potentially underlying such locomotor recovery, we also summarize the locomotor adaptation of cats submitted to various types of peripheral nerve section of either ankle flexor or extensor muscles or after denervation of the hindpaws' cutaneous inputs. It is argued that, even in the spinal state, cats have the ability to compensate for such lesions of the peripheral nervous system suggesting that the spinal cord has a significant potential for adaptive plasticity that could be used in rehabilitation strategies to restore locomotion after spinal cord injury.
3884998|We review here factors that control the excitability of the giant neuron-mediated tail-flip escape behavior in crayfish, focusing especially on recent findings concerning serotonergic modulation. Serotonin can either facilitate or inhibit escape depending on concentration and pattern of application. Low concentrations facilitate while high ones inhibit; however, if high concentrations arise gradually they facilitate instead of inhibiting. The effects of serotonin can also be altered by social experience, with application regimens that cause facilitation in social isolates coming to produce inhibition after an extended period of living as a subordinate. Attempts to understand both the possible physiological basis of some of these complexities and their possible function are discussed. Neuroethological investigations indicate that giant neuron-mediated escape is inhibited during the initial fights that establish social relationships and is facilitated in their immediate aftermath. Once the relationship of a pair is well-established, the presence of the dominant tends to suppress giant neuron-mediated escape (but not tail-flip escape mediated by non-giant circuitry) in the subordinate, but the presence of the subordinate has relatively little effect on the dominant. These patterns of modulation can be seen as consistent with the known variations in serotonin's effect as a function of concentration and social experience and may provide a biological reason for these variations.
4485780|Bering Sea snow crabs (Chionoecetes opilio) are a commercially important crab harvested in the Bering Sea. Optimal management of this species requires an understanding of the biology of this crab that is currently incomplete. Fisheries managers apply a continuous growth model in their management of snow crab, which assumes that male crabs increase in size throughout their lifespan. Male snow crabs undergo a morphometric molt that leads to a disproportionate increase in chelae size and it is still debated whether this molt is associated with a terminal molt. This study was conducted to determine whether adult male C. opilio are anecdysic. Using current knowledge of the hormonal regulation of crustacean growth, snow crab physiology was manipulated to induce an increase in molting hormones (ecdysteroids). Since female snow crabs are known to undergo a terminal molt after attaining reproductive maturity, we compared ecdysteroid levels in eyestalk-ablated terminally molted females, small-clawed males and large-clawed males. Snow crabs were collected from the Bering Sea and maintained in circulating seawater at approximately 6C. Animals were either eyestalk-ablated or left intact. Ecdysteroid levels in hemolymph were quantified using an enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA). Circulating ecdysteroids were significantly higher in small-clawed male crabs when compared to large-clawed males or terminally molted females. Eyestalk-ablation increased circulating ecdysteroids in small-clawed males, but had no significant effect on circulating ecdysteroids in large-clawed males or in terminally molted females.
3884614|Quantitative flow visualization has many roots and has taken several approaches. The advent of digital image processing has made it possible to practically extract useful information from every kind of flow image. In a direct approach, the image intensity or color (wavelength or frequency) can be used as an indication of concentration, density and temperature fields or gradients of these scalar fields in the flow (Merzkirch, 1987). For whole-field velocity measurement, the method of choice by experimental fluid mechanicians has been the technique of Particle Image Velocimetry (DPIV). This paper presents a novel approach to extend the DPIV technique from a planar method to a full three-dimensional volume mapping technique useful in both engineering and biological applications.
3884618|The great anatomical diversification of paired fins within the Actinopterygii (ray-finned fishes) can be understood as a suite of evolutionary transformations in design. At a broad taxonomic scale, two clear trends exist in the morphology of the anteriorly situated pectoral fins. In comparing basal to more derived clades, there are general patterns of (i) reorientation of the pectoral fin base from a nearly horizontal to more vertical inclination, and (ii) migration of the pectoral fin from a ventral to mid-dorsal body position. As yet, the functional significance of these historical trends in pectoral fin design remains largely untested by experiment. In this paper we test the proposal that variation in pectoral fin structure has an important influence on the magnitude and orientation of fluid forces generated during maneuvering locomotion. Using digital particle image velocimetry for quantitative wake visualization, we measure swimming forces in ray-finned fishes exhibiting the plesiomorphic and apomorphic pectoral fin anatomy. Our experiments focus on rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss), a lower teleost with pectoral fins positioned ventrally and with nearly horizontally inclined fin bases, and bluegill sunfish (Lepomis macrochirus), a relatively derived perciform fish with more vertically oriented pectoral fins positioned mid-dorsally on the body. In support of hypotheses arising from our prior wake studies and previously untested models in the literature, we find that the pectoral fins of sunfish generate significantly higher forces for turning and direct braking forces closer to the center of mass of the body than the pectoral fins of trout. These results provide insight into the hydrodynamic importance of major evolutionary transformations in pectoral fin morphology within the Actinopterygii.
4485861|Desiccation-tolerance in vegetative tissues of angiosperms has a polyphyletic origin and could be due to 1) appropriation of the seed-specific program of gene expression that protects orthodox seeds against desiccation, and/or 2) a sustainable version of the abiotic stress response. We tested these hypotheses by comparing molecular and physiological data from the development of orthodox seeds, the response of desiccation-sensitive plants to abiotic stress, and the response of desiccation-tolerant plants to extreme water loss. Analysis of publicly-available gene expression data of 35 LEA proteins and 68 anti-oxidant enzymes in the desiccation-sensitive Arabidopsis thaliana identified 13 LEAs and 4 anti-oxidants exclusively expressed in seeds. Two (a LEA6 and 1-cys-peroxiredoxin) are not expressed in vegetative tissues in A. thaliana, but have orthologues that are specifically activated in desiccating leaves of Xerophyta humilis. A comparison of antioxidant enzyme activity in two desiccation-sensitive species of Eragrostis with the desiccation-tolerant E. nindensis showed equivalent responses upon initial dehydration, but activity was retained at low water content in E. nindensis only. We propose that these antioxidants are housekeeping enzymes and that they are protected from damage in the desiccation-tolerant species. Sucrose is considered an important protectant against desiccation in orthodox seeds, and we show that sucrose accumulates in drying leaves of E. nindensis, but not in the desiccation-sensitive Eragrostis species. The activation of "seed-specific" desiccation protection mechanisms (sucrose accumulation and expression of LEA6 and 1-cys-peroxiredoxin genes) in the vegetative tissues of desiccation-tolerant plants points towards acquisition of desiccation tolerance from seeds.
3884872|Direct development lies at 1 end of a continuum that encompasses various degrees of indirect development. Indirect development exists where a larval stage is interposed between the embryo and the adult and undergoes metamorphosis, though the ecological and morphological distinctiveness of the larval stage relative to the adult stage can vary tremendously. There are numerous empirical examples where direct development has evolved from indirect development, but little empirical evidence describing a recent transition from direct to indirect development. Here, we suggest 4 criteria for defining indirect, and therefore metamorphic, life histories. We then apply these criteria to address the planula-polyp transition in cnidarians, focusing on 2 species in the anthozoan family Edwardsiidae. The lined sea anemone, Edwardsiella lineata, has made a qualitative shift towards indirect development that coincides with, and was potentially facilitated by, the evolution of endoparasitism. We compare E. lineata's development with that of a closely related sea anemone, Nematostella vectensis, where the nonfeeding planula gradually develops the morphology of the adult polyp. In E. lineata, a novel parasitic life history stage is interposed between the planula and the polyp. We discuss how the evolution of endoparasitism could facilitate the evolution metamorphic life histories.
3884888|Recently, there has been a dramatic expansion of studies of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) variation aimed at discovering functional differences in immunity across wild populations of diverse vertebrate species. Some species with relatively low genetic diversity or under strong directional selection by pathogens have revealed fascinating cases of MHC allelic disease linkage. More generally in genetically diverse species, however, these linkages may be hard to find. In this paper, we review approaches for assessing functional variation in MHC and discuss their potential use for discovering smaller-scale intraspecific spatial and temporal patterns of MHC variation. Then, we describe and illustrate an approach using the structural model to produce a population composite of variation in antigen-binding regions by mapping population-specific substitutions onto functional regions of the molecule. We are producing models of variation in major histocompatibility (MH) loci for populations of non-migratory fish (killifish, Fundulus heteroclitus) resident at sites that vary dramatically in environmental quality. We discuss the goal of relating MH population variation to functional differences in disease susceptibility such as those inferred by observations of parasitic infection and direct measurement of bacterial challenges in the laboratory. Our study has focused on relatively well-studied killifish populations, including those resident in a highly disturbed, chemically contaminated estuary and nearby less contaminated sites. Population-specific genetic changes at MHC antigen-binding loci are described, and evidence relevant to functional implications of these changes is reviewed. Population-specific patterns of variation in antigen-binding regions in combination with a range of assessments of immune function will provide a powerful new approach to reveal functional changes in MHC.
4540133|Neuromechanics seeks to understand how muscles, sense organs, motor pattern generators, and brain interact to produce coordinated movement, not only in complex terrain but also when confronted with unexpected perturbations. Applications of neuromechanics include ameliorating human health problems (including prosthesis design and restoration of movement following brain or spinal cord injury), as well as the design, actuation and control of mobile robots. In animals, coordinated movement emerges from the interplay among descending output from the central nervous system, sensory input from body and environment, muscle dynamics, and the emergent dynamics of the whole animal. The inevitable coupling between neural information processing and the emergent mechanical behavior of animals is a central theme of neuromechanics. Fundamentally, motor control involves a series of transformations of information, from brain and spinal cord to muscles to body, and back to brain. The control problem revolves around the specific transfer functions that describe each transformation. The transfer functions depend on the rules of organization and operation that determine the dynamic behavior of each subsystem (i.e., central processing, force generation, emergent dynamics, and sensory processing). In this review, we (1) consider the contributions of muscles, (2) sensory processing, and (3) central networks to motor control, (4) provide examples to illustrate the interplay among brain, muscles, sense organs and the environment in the control of movement, and (5) describe advances in both robotics and neuromechanics that have emerged from application of biological principles in robotic design. Taken together, these studies demonstrate that (1) intrinsic properties of muscle contribute to dynamic stability and control of movement, particularly immediately after perturbations; (2) proprioceptive feedback reinforces these intrinsic self-stabilizing properties of muscle; (3) control systems must contend with inevitable time delays that can simplify or complicate control; and (4) like most animals under a variety of circumstances, some robots use a trial and error process to tune central feedforward control to emergent body dynamics.
3884601|The evolution of feeding mechanisms in the ray-finned fishes (Actinopterygii) is a compelling example of transformation in a musculoskeletal complex involving multiple skeletal elements and numerous muscles that power skull motion. Biomechanical models of jaw force and skull kinetics aid our understanding of these complex systems and enable broad comparison of feeding mechanics across taxa. Mechanical models characterize how muscles move skeletal elements by pulling bones around points of rotation in lever mechanisms, or by transmitting force through skeletal elements connected in a linkage. Previous work has focused on the feeding biomechanics of several lineages of fishes, but a broader survey of skull function in the context of quantitative models has not been attempted. This study begins such a survey by examining the diversity of mechanical design of the oral jaws in 35 species of ray-finned fishes with three main objectives: (1) analyze lower jaw lever models in a broad phylogenetic range of taxa, (2) identify the origin and evolutionary patterns of change in the linkage systems that power maxillary rotation and upper jaw protrusion, and (3) analyze patterns of change in feeding design in the context of actinopterygian phylogeny. The mandibular lever is present in virtually all actinopterygians, and the diversity in lower jaw closing force transmission capacity, with mechanical advantage ranging from 0.04 to 0.68, has important functional consequences. A four-bar linkage for maxillary rotation arose in the Amiiformes and persists in various forms in many teleost species. Novel mechanisms for upper jaw protrusion based on this linkage for maxillary rotation have evolved independently at least five times in teleosts. The widespread anterior jaws linkage for jaw protrusion in percomorph fishes arose initially in Zeiformes and subsequently radiated into a wide range of premaxillary protrusion capabilities.
40863362|Migration has fascinated researchers for years and many active areas of study exist. However, the question of how migratory species stay healthy within the context of their annual cycle remains relatively unexplored. This article addresses this question using Red Knots (Calidris canutus) as a model migrant species. We review recent research on immune function in Red Knots and integrate this work with the broader eco-immunological literature to introduce a conceptual model. This model synthesizes earlier ideas about resource allocation and the costs of immunity with recent increases in our knowledge about the vertebrate immune system and then puts these concepts into the context of defense against real pathogens in environments where a myriad of factors change in time and space. We also suggest avenues for further research, which will help to test the model and better link measures of immune function to pressure from pathogens and to optimal defense against disease.
23016061|Synopsis Although chewing has been suggested to be a basal gnathostome trait retained in most major vertebrate lineages, it has not been studied broadly and comparatively across vertebrates. To redress this imbalance, we recorded EMG from muscles powering anteroposterior movement of the hyoid, and dorsoventral movement of the mandibular jaw during chewing. We compared muscle activity patterns (MAP) during chewing in jawed vertebrate taxa belonging to unrelated groups of basal bony fishes and artiodactyl mammals. Our aim was to outline the evolution of coordination in MAP. Comparisons of activity in muscles of the jaw and hyoid that power chewing in closely related artiodactyls using cross-correlation analyses identified reorganizations of jaw and hyoid MAP between herbivores and omnivores. EMG data from basal bony fishes revealed a tighter coordination of jaw and hyoid MAP during chewing than seen in artiodactyls. Across this broad phylogenetic range, there have been major structural reorganizations, including a reduction of the bony hyoid suspension, which is robust in fishes, to the acquisition in a mammalian ancestor of a muscle sling suspending the hyoid. These changes appear to be reflected in a shift in chewing MAP that occurred in an unidentified anamniote stem-lineage. This shift matches observations that, when compared with fishes, the pattern of hyoid motion in tetrapods is reversed and also time-shifted relative to the pattern of jaw movement.
40931201|We present a case study of metabolism, life history and aging in the western terrestrial garter snake (Thamnophis elegans). Early research in the field supported the rate-of-living hypothesis as an explanation of aging, which was based on an apparent negative relationship between mass-specific metabolic rate and lifespan in endotherms. This hypothesis in its original form has not withstood additional tests and comparisons between the two main lineages of endotherms birds and mammals, but there is still much to be discovered of the causative links among rate of oxygen consumption, physiology and life history, particularly in ectothermic reptiles. We present data that show adult short-lived snakes, from naturally occurring ecotypes of garter snakes, have higher mass-specific resting metabolic rates at any given body mass (metabolic intensity) across a series of normal activity temperatures (15-32C). The short-lived ecotype in this geographic region reaches a larger body size, and has life-history traits that place it at the fast end of a pace-of-life continuum (fast growth, early maturation, high reproductive output) relative to individuals of the small-bodied long-lived ecotype. The difference between ecotypes in metabolic intensity, even after acclimation to identical conditions, may reflect evolutionary divergence and genetic differences between ecotypes. The difference in metabolic intensity is not, however, present at birth, so an alternative is that developmental environment may permanently influence metabolic rate and life history. Such developmental canalization could lead to altered gene expression via environmental influences on the epigenome and result in altered metabolic trajectories in the snakes' natural habitats.
3884622|The shape and motion of the pectoral fins vary considerably among fishes that swim in the labriform mode. Pectoral fin motion in fishes is highly variable, but one conspicuous axis of this variation is the rowing-flapping axis. At one extreme of this axis, paddle-shaped fins row back and forth in a plane that is parallel to fish motion, while at the other extreme, wing-shaped fins flap up and down in a plane that is perpendicular to fish motion. We have used two fish, the threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) and the bird wrasse (Gomphosus varius), that fall near the extremes of the rowing-flapping axis to study the dynamic, energetic, and ecological and evolutionary consequences of this kinematic variation. Our work confirms some traditionally held assumptions about rowing and flapping dynamics and energetics but reject others. A computer simulation experiment of virtual rowing and flapping appendages makes several predictions about differences in maneuvering performance and swimming energetics between rowing and flapping, which, in turn, make predictions about the behavior and ecological distribution of fishes that vary along the rowing-flapping axis. Both laboratory and field studies of labrid swimming ability and distribution support these predictions.
4485856|Most organisms depend on the availability of water. However, some life-forms, among them plants and fungi, but very few animals, can survive in the desiccated state. Here we discuss biochemical mechanisms that confer tolerance to desiccation in photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic organisms. We first consider damage caused by water removal and point out that free radicals are a major cause of death in intolerant tissue. Free radicals impair metabolism and necessitate protection and repair during desiccation and rehydration, respectively. As a consequence, desiccation tolerance and prolonged longevity in the desiccated state depend on the ability to scavenge free radicals, using antioxidants such as glutathione, ascorbate, tocopherols and free radical-processing enzymes. Some 'classic' antioxidants may be absent in lower plants and fungi. On the other hand, lichens and seeds often contain secondary phenolic products with antioxidant properties. The major intracellular antioxidant consistently found in all life forms is glutathione, making it essential to survive desiccation. We finally discuss the role of glutathione to act as a signal that initiates programmed cell death. The failure of the antioxidant system during long-term desiccation appears to trigger programmed cell death, causing ageing and eventual death of the organism. In turn, this suggests that a potent antioxidant machinery is one of the underlying mechanisms of desiccation tolerance.
3884877|The evolutionary origins of the chordate central nervous system remain uncertain. Conclusions drawn from classical morphological comparisons and from a broad range of metazoan phyla conflict with the new molecular genetic information from developmental model systems characterized by central nervous systems. This has led to debate as to the nature of the ancestral deuterostome nervous system. Hemichordates as basal deuterostomes occupy a phylogenetically critical position for addressing hypotheses on the evolution of the chordate nervous system. Characterizing the molecular basis of the development of their diffuse nervous system offers insights into the role of conserved body patterning genes in the evolution of specific neural anatomies. We present a description of hox gene expression during the development of the direct-developing hemichordate Saccoglossus kowalevskii. The nested ectodermal expression of these genes in a hemichordate suggest that they play a general patterning role in the anterior/posterior regionalization of the ectoderm of bilaterians rather than being uniquely associated with the development and evolution of central nervous systems.
3885002|Four major questions can be asked about vertebrate brain evolution: 1) What major changes have occurred in neural organization and function? 2) When did these changes occur? 3) By what mechanisms did these changes occur? 4) Why did these changes occur? Comparative neurobiologists have been very successful in recognizing major changes in brain structure. They have also made progress in understanding the functional significance of these changes, although this understanding is primarily limited to sensory centers, rather than integrative or motor centers, because of the relative ease of manipulating the relevant stimuli. Although neuropaleontology continues to provide important insights into when changes occurred, this approach is generally limited to recognizing variation in overall brain size, and sometimes brain regions, as interpreted from the surface of an endocranial cast. In recent years, most new information regarding when neural changes occurred has been based on cladistical analysis of neural features in extant taxa. Historically, neurobiologists have made little progress in understanding how and why brains evolve. The emerging field of evolutionary developmental biology appears to be the most promising approach for revealing how changes in development and its processes produce neural changes, including the emergence of novel features. Why neural changes have occurred is the most difficult question and one that has been the most ignored, in large part because its investigation requires a broad interdisciplinary approach involving both behavior and ecology.
3884788|We investigated the development of dorsoventral and longitudinal musculature in all postembryonic stages of the kinorhynch Pycnophyes kielensis. Although the earliest stages have only 8 externally separated trunk segments, they already possess dorsoventral muscles for 10 (prospective) trunk segments. The last, 11th, pair is added in the third juvenile stage. Longitudinal musculature, in contrast, is slower to develop and reaches its full length only in the adult. In several juvenile individuals, single fibers project from the longitudinal musculature into the following segments. In all juvenile stages, longitudinal muscles are continuous between segments, whereas in adults they are segmentally separated from each other. Such late occurrence of a segmental pattern in the longitudinal musculature is in contrast to patterns of muscle development in arthropods and annelids.
25160117|Operators of early weather-surveillance radars often observed echoes on their displays that did not behave like weather pattern, including expanding ring-like shapes they called angels. These echoes were caused by high-flying insects, migrating birds, and large colonies of bats emerging from roosts to feed. Modern weather-surveillance radar stations in the United States (NEXt-generation RADar or NEXRAD) provide detailed images that clearly show evening bat emergences from large colonies. These images can be used to investigate the flight behavior of groups of bats and population trends in large colonies of Brazilian free-tailed bats (Tadarida brasiliensis) in south-central Texas which are clearly imaged by local NEXRAD radar stations. In this study, we used radar reflectivity data from the New Braunfels, Texas NEXRAD station to examine relative colony size, direction of movement, speed of dispersion, and altitude gradients of bats from these colonies following evening emergence. Base reflectivity clear-air-mode Level-II images were geo-referenced and compiled in a GIS along with locations of colonies and features on the landscape. Temporal sequences of images were filtered for the activity of bats, and from this, the relative size of bat colonies, and the speed and heading of bat emergences were calculated. Our results indicate cyclical changes in colony size from year to year and that initial headings taken by bats during emergence flights are highly directional. We found that NEXRAD data can be an effective tool for monitoring the nightly behavior and seasonal changes in these large colonies. Understanding the distribution of a large regional bat population on a landscape scale has important implications for agricultural pest management and conservation efforts.
3884886|Proteins in the arthropod hemocyanin gene family are involved in major physiological processes, including aerobic respiration, the innate immune response, and molting. Members of this family, hemocyanin, cryptocyanin, and phenoloxidase, are multisubunit molecules that assemble into hexamers and higher aggregates. The hemocyanin hexamers show species-specific subunit heterogeneity. It is hypothesized that this subunit diversity is maintained as a mechanism of selection for functional diversity under changing developmental and environmental conditions. There is good evidence for a strong relationship between subunit composition and functional diversity in the hemocyanins. We have amplified, cloned, and sequenced the complete cDNAs of the 6 hemocyanin genes, 2 cryptocyanins, and 1 phenoloxidase of Cancer magister. Alignment of the amino acid sequences provides the first opportunity to assess in 1 species of brachyuran crustacean the similarities and differences among all the hemocyanin subunits and compare them with cryptocyanin and phenoloxidase. A phylogeny of sequences of crustacean members of the arthropod hemocyanin gene family is described. Construction of a cDNA library for C. magister microarray studies is in progress. The microarrays will be queried using transcriptional profiles from crabs sampled during developmental, molting, and physiological perturbations. The combination of genomics, proteomics, and gene-by-gene analyses will help us dissect how much a gene sequence in this hemocyanin family can vary while conserving function and which aspects of preservation of shape and structural flexibility are essential for functional stability. Integrating focused gene studies with global-expression profiling can eventually lead to the identification of functional networks at the level of the gene, the multisubunit molecule, and the whole organism.
40931234|Over the past century and half since the process of natural selection was first described, one enduring question has captivated many, "how predictable is evolution?" Because natural selection comprises deterministic components, the course of evolution may exhibit some level of predictability across organismal groups. Here, I provide an early appraisal of the utility of one particular approach to understanding the predictability of evolution: generalized models of divergent selection (GMDS). The GMDS approach is meant to provide a unifying framework for the science of evolutionary prediction, offering a means of better understanding the causes and consequences of phenotypic and genetic evolution. I describe and test a GMDS centered on the evolution of body shape, size of the gonopodium (sperm-transfer organ), steady-swimming abilities, fast-start swimming performance, and reproductive isolation between populations in Gambusia fishes (Family Poeciliidae). The GMDS produced some accurate evolutionary predictions in Gambusia, identifying variation in intensity of prdation by piscivorous fish as a major factor driving repeatable and predictable phenotypic divergence, and apparently playing a key role in promoting ecological speciation. Moreover, the model's applicability seems quite general, as patterns of differentiation in body shape between predator regimes in many disparate fishes match the model's predictions. The fact that such a simple model could yield accurate evolutionary predictions in distantly related fishes inhabiting different geographic regions and types of habitat, and experiencing different predator species, suggests that the model pinpointed a causal factor underlying major, shared patterns of diversification. The GMDS approach appears to represent a promising method of addressing the predictability of evolution and identifying environmental factors responsible for driving major patterns of replicated evolution.
3884602|Coral reefs contain the most speciose communities of fishes on this planet, so it is appropriate to use these to explore how fish species are organized into communities. While descriptive data suggest that the diverse communities of fish on coral reefs are equilibrial assemblages of species, all finely adapted to specific and unique ecological roles, these are highly dynamic, non-equilibrial assemblages with structure driven more by patterns of recruitment and loss of individual fishes, than by patterns of resource allocation among differently adapted phenotypes. As a consequence, local assemblages differ in structure, and structure wanders through time. Individual fish are confronted by different mixes of species in different times and places. The recruitment process that drives these dynamics is complex, being governed by several mechanisms, and local populations receive some portion of their recruitment from distant sources. Information on this connectively among local populations is critically important for management which is based increasingly on use of marine protected areas (no-take zones) both to conserve, and to provide sustainable fisheries. At present, however, we do not know the spatial scale or the extent of this connectivity, and this critical knowledge gap impedes both management, and fundamental understanding.
3884932|The Tardigrada are bilaterally symmetrical micrometazoans with four pairs of lobopod legs terminating in claws or sucking disks. They occupy a diversity of niches in marine, freshwater, and terrestrial environments throughout the world. Some have a cosmopolitan distribution, while others are endemic. About 900 species have been described thus far, but many more species are expected as additional habitats are investigated. Most are less than 1 mm in body length and are opaque or translucent, exhibiting colors such as brown, green, orange, yellow, red, or pink in the cuticle and/or gut. Marine species are more variable in body shape and overall appearance and generally exhibit low population density with high species diversity. Reproductive modes include sexual reproduction and parthenogenesis, but much remains to be known about development. Tardigrades have a hemocoel-type of fluid-filled body cavity, a complete digestive tract, and a lobed dorsal brain with a ventral nerve cord with fused ganglia. Recent molecular analyses and additional morphological studies of the nervous system have confirmed the phylogenetic position of tardigrades as a sister group of the arthropods. The ability of tardigrades to undergo cryptobiosis has long intrigued scientists. Although tardigrades are active only when surrounded by a film of water, they can enter latent states in response to desiccation (anhydrobiosis), temperature (cryobiosis), low oxygen (anoxybiosis), and salinity changes (osmobiosis). Cryptobiotic states aid in dispersal.
40931231|The bodies of fish change shape over propulsive, behavioral, developmental, and evolutionary time scales, a general phenomenon that we call "reconfiguration". Undulatory, postural, and form-reconfiguration can be distinguished, studied independently, and examined in terms of mechanical interactions and evolutionary importance. Using a combination of live, swimming fishes and digital robotic fish that are autonomous and self-propelled, we examined the functional relation between undulatory and postural reconfiguration in forward swimming, backward swimming, and yaw turning. To probe how postural and form reconfiguration interact, the yaw turning of leopard sharks was examined using morphometric and kinematic analyses. To test how undulatory reconfiguration might evolve, the digital robotic fish were subjected to selection for enhanced performance in a simulated ecology in which each individual had to detect and move towards a food source. In addition to the general issue of reconfiguration, these investigations are united by the fact that the dynamics of undulatory and postural reconfigurations are predicted to be determined, in part, by the structural stiffness of the fish's body. Our method defines undulatory reconfiguration as the combined, point-by-point periodic motion of the body, leaving postural reconfiguration as the combined deviations from undulatory reconfiguration. While undulatory reconfiguration appears to be the sole or primary propulsive driver, postural reconfiguration may contribute to propulsion in hagfish and it is correlated with differences in forward, and backward, swimming in lamprey. Form reconfigures over developmental time in leopard sharks in a manner that is consistent with an allometric scaling theory in which structural stiffness of the body is held constant. However, correlation of a form proxy for structural stiffness of the body suggests that body stiffness may scale in order to limit maximum postural reconfiguration during routine yaw turns. When structural stiffness and undulatory frequency are modeled as determining the tail's undulatory wave speed, both factors evolve under selection for enhanced foraging behavior in the digital fish-like robots. The methods used in making these distinctions between kinds of reconfiguration have broad applicability in fish biology, especially for quantifying complex motor behaviors in the wild and for simulating selection on behavior that leads to directional evolution of functional phenotypes.
4540136|For most vertebrates, locomotion is a fundamental component of prey capture. Despite this ubiquitous link, few studies have quantified the integration of these complex systems. Several variables related to locomotor performance, including maximum speed, acceleration, deceleration, maneuverability, accuracy, and approach stability, likely influence feeding performance in vertebrates. The relative importance of these measures of performance, however, depends on the ecology of the predator. While factors such as morphology and physiology likely define the limits of these variables, other factors such as motivation of the predator, prey type, and habitat structure can also influence performance. Understanding how these variables relate to feeding under a given suite of ecological conditions is central to understanding predator-prey interactions, and ultimately how locomotion and feeding have co-evolved. The goals of this article are to discuss several variables of locomotor performance related to prey capture, present new data on the relationship between locomotor and feeding morphology in fishes, discuss the evolution of prey capture in cichlid fishes, and outline some future directions for research. While suction feeding is a primary mechanism of prey capture in fishes, swimming is vital for accurately positioning the mouth relative to the prey item. Many fishes decelerate during prey capture using their body and fins, but the pectoral fins have a dominant role in maintaining approach stability. This suggests that fishes employing high-performance suction feeding (relatively small mouth) will have larger pectoral fins to facilitate accurate and stable feeding. I provide new data on the relationship between pectoral fin morphology and maximum gape in centrarchid fishes. For seven species, pectoral fin area was significantly, and negatively, correlated with maximum gape. This example illustrates that the demands from one complex system (feeding) can influence another complex system (locomotion). Future studies that examine the morphological, physiological, and functional evolution of locomotion involved in prey capture by aquatic and terrestrial vertebrates will provide insight into the origin and consequences of diversity.
25160184|Steroid hormones are essential for the normal function of most organ systems in vertebrates. Reproductive activities in females and males, such as the differentiation, growth and maintenance of the reproductive system, require signaling by sex steroid hormones. Although extensively studied in mammals and a few fish and bird species, the evolution and molecular mechanisms associated with the nuclear steroid hormone receptors are still poorly understood in amphibians and reptiles. Given our interest in environmental signaling of sex determination as well as a major interest in environmental contaminants that can mimic steroid hormone signaling, we have established an approach to study the molecular function (ligand binding and trans-activation) of steroid hormone receptors cloned from reptiles. This approach involves molecular cloning and sequencing of steroid hormone receptors, phylogenic analysis and in vitro trans-activation assays using endogenous or exogenous ligands. Comparing the in vitro trans-activation induced by different ligands with receptors cloned from different species would develop additional functional relationships (classification) among steroid hormone receptors. This approach can provide insight into understanding why each species could have different responses to exogenous ligands. Further, we have developed a novel and less invasive approach to obtaining mRNA for molecular cloning and sequencing of steroid hormone receptors in reptiles and other non-mammalian species, using blood cells as a source of genetic material. For example, white blood cells (WBCs) and red blood cells (RBCs) of the American alligator both express steroid hormone receptors and have adequate amounts of mRNA for molecular cloning. This approach would allow us to analyze components of endocrine function of steroid hormones without sacrificing animals. Especially in endangered species, this approach could provide an understanding of endocrine functions, elucidate the phylogenic relationships of various receptors in vitro, such as the steroid hormone receptors, and determine possible effects of environmental contaminants in a minimally invasive manner.
40306093|Understanding dietary specialization in herbivores has theoretical and practical implications in ecology, yet defining niche breadth consistently has been problematic. To increase clarity and communication among ecologists and among disciplines (i. e., chemists, pharmacologists), we propose a specialization key for mammalian herbivores that assigns "obligatory" and "facultative" modifiers to the terms "specialist" and "generalis\ These modifiers are assigned based on (1) relative breadth of the animas realized niche and diet (what it eats), (2) relative breadth of the fundamental niche and available diet (what it could eat), (3) the extent of chemical or physical characteristics, termed "difficulty", that make food items either low in value or unpalatable to most herbivores, and (4) relevant temporal and spatial scales at which diets and niche breadth were measured. Obligatory specialists always have a narrow realized niche consisting of difficult food items, and morphological adaptations and/or the loss of redundant behavioral flexibility that effectively limit their fundamental niches, precluding them from expanding their diet under changed environmental conditions. Facultative specialists have a consistently narrow realized niche for difficult foods during at least one spatial or temporal scale, but have a broad enough fundamental niche to allow them to expand their diet to include less difficult foods when environmental conditions allow. Facultative generalists have the broadest fundamental niche, allowing them to consume a wide variety of foods. However, they may occasionally demonstrate a narrow realized niche, focused on less difficult plants than is the case with specialists. Finally, the obligatory generalists always have a wide realized niche because of a relatively narrow fundamental niche, precluding them from eating much of any difficult plant. We summarize hypothesized characteristics of mammalian herbivores in each of the four categories of specialization. We demonstrate the need for further work on defining the realized and fundamental niches, comparing among herbivores across categories conducted under similar conditions, and understanding the nature of trade-offs required for specialization and generalization for both community and phylogenetically based analyses.
4485823|The extent to which modifications in intermediary metabolism contribute to life history variation and trade-offs is an important but poorly understood aspect of life history evolution. Artificial selection was used to produce replicate genetic stocks of the wing-polymorphic cricket, Gryllus firmus, that were nearly pure-breeding for either the flight-capable (LW[f]) morph, which delays ovarian growth, or the flightless (SW) morph, which exhibits enhanced early-age fecundity. LW(f) lines accumulated substantially more triglyceride, the main flight fuel in Gryllus, compared with SW-selected lines, and enhanced accumulation of triglyceride was strongly associated with reduced ovarian growth. Increased triglyceride accumulation in LW(f) lines resulted from elevated de novo biosynthesis of fatty acid and two morph-specific trade-offs: (1) greater proportional utilization of fatty acid for glyceride biosynthesis vs. oxidation, and (2) a greater diversion of fatty acids into triglyceride vs. phospholipid biosynthesis. Even though SW lines produced less total lipid and triglyceride, they produced more phospholipid (important in egg development) than did LW(f) lines. Differences between LW(f) and SW morphs in lipid biosynthesis resulted from substantial alterations in the activities of all studied lipogenic enzymes, a result that is consistent with expectations of Metabolic Control Theory. Finally, application of a juvenile hormone analogue to LW(f) females produced a striking SW phenocopy with respect to all aspects of lipid metabolism studied. Global alterations of lipid metabolism, most likely produced by alterations in endocrine regulation, underlie morph specializations for flight vs. early-age fecundity in G. firmus. Modification of the endocrine control of intermediary metabolism is likely to be an important mechanism by which intermediary metabolism evolves and contributes to life history evolution.
3884790|The phylogenetic relationships within the Arthropoda have been controversial for more than a century. Today, comparative studies on the structure and development of the nervous system contribute important arguments to this discussion, so that the term "neurophylogeny" was coined for this discipline. The large number of recent studies on the nervous system in various nonmodel arthropods indicates that we are far advanced in the process of analyzing the cellular architecture of the arthropod nervous system in a depth that will ultimately provide characters at a level of resolution equal or even superior to that of characters traditionally used in morphological phylogenetic studies. This article sets out to summarize the current state of the discussion on arthropod phylogeny and briefly evaluates the morphological characters that have been used as arguments in favor of the traditional Tracheata hypothesis. Then, a thorough overview is given of characters derived from structure and development of the arthropod brain and the ventral nerve cord from the cellular level to the level of larger neuropil systems. These characters support the new Tetraconata hypothesis suggested by Dohle and provide evidence for a clade that unites malacostracan and remipede crustaceans with the Hexapoda.
3884675|Inflatable penises have evolved independently at least four times in amniotes, specifically in mammals, turtles, squamates, and the archosaurs. Males in these lineages therefore share the functional problem of building a penis out of soft and flexible tissues that can increase its flexural stiffness and resist bending during copulation. Research on penile erectile tissues in mammals and turtles shows that these two taxa have convergently evolved an axial orthogonal array of collagen fibers to reinforce the penis during erection and copulation; in both lineages, the collagen fibers in the array are crimped and folded in the flaccid penis. Collagen fiber straightening during erection increases the stiffness of the tissue and allows changes in penile radius that increase its second moment of area: both of these changes increase the flexural stiffness of the penis as a whole. And once erect, axial orthogonal arrays have the highest flexural stiffness of any fiber arrangement. The high degree of anatomical convergence (to the level of microanatomical features) within mammals and turtles suggests that the stiffness requirements for copulation produce an extremely restrictive selective regime in organisms that evolve inflatable penises.
3884747| The extraordinary adhesive capabilities of geckos have challenged explanation for millennia, since Aristotle first recorded his observations. We have discovered many of the secrets of gecko adhesion, yet the millions of dry, adhesive setae on the toes of geckos continue to generate puzzling new questions and valuable answers. Each epidermally-derived, keratinous seta ends in hundreds of 200 nm spatular tips, permitting intimate contact with rough and smooth surfaces alike. Prior studies suggested that adhesive force in gecko setae was directly proportional to the water droplet contact angle (), an indicator of the free surface energy of a substrate. In contrast, new theory suggests that adhesion energy between a gecko seta and a surface
40863404|Many benthic marine invertebrate animals release larvae that are dispersed by ocean currents. These larvae swim and can respond to environmental factors such as chemical cues. However, larvae are so small (generally 0.01-1 mm) that they are often assumed to be passive particles whose trajectories are determined by the motion of the water in which they are riding. Therefore, marine larvae are useful model organisms to study the more general question of how the locomotion of very small animals in complex, variable natural habitats is affected by the motion of the fluid (water or air) around them. Studying larval locomotion under conditions of water flow encountered in nature is challenging because measuring the behavior of an individual microscopic organism requires high magnification imaging that is difficult to do in the field. The purpose of this article is to synthesize in one place the various approaches that we have been using to address the technical challenges of studying the locomotion of microscopic larvae in realistic ambient flow. The steps in our process include: (1) measuring water flow in the field; (2) mimicking realistic water movement in laboratory flumes to measure larval scale fluctuations in velocity of flow and concentration of chemical cues; (3) mimicking fine scale temporal patterns of larval encounters with a dissolved chemical cue to record larval responses; (4) using individual-based models to put larvae back into the larger scale environmental flow to determine trajectories; and (5) mimicking fine scale spatial and temporal patterns of larval encounters with water velocities and shear to determine the instantaneous forces on larvae. We illustrate these techniques using examples from our ongoing research on the settlement of larvae onto fouling communities and from our published work on settlement of larvae onto coral reefs. These examples show that water velocities and concentrations of chemical cues encountered by microscopic organisms can fluctuate in fractions of a second and vary over scales of less than a millimeter.
3885003|The span of complexity in brains, between the simplest flatworms and the most advanced mammals is exceedingly great, measured by the number of different anatomical parts, physiological processes, sensory discriminations, and behavioral alternatives in the repertoire. Most evolution of brains has been adaptive radiation within the same grade of complexity. Distinct grades of complexity have appeared a dozen or more times and quite often in the retrograde direction. Advancement has not been inevitable or obviously advantageous in survival value but has happened-long before primates or mammals or vertebrates. Compare cuttlefish and the most advanced gastropods, bees and the best brine shrimp, primates and the most advanced reptiles known-all twigs with common branches. This repeated achievement of evolution has had all too little study in respect of the detailed listing of differences between major taxa of distinct grades of complexity. Connectivity at the level now known for the mammalian cortex is much needed in other classes, with estimates of reciprocity, intrinsic differentiation, dendritic parcellation and afferent and efferent connections, both locally and projecting to other centers, each done quantitatively to permit comparison. Physiological system organization, personality properties of neurons and circuits, proclivities and emergent phenomena at several integrative levels are sketchily known only for parts of a few systems. Examples are given of opportunities for new research that can more adequately characterize grades of brains.
3884672|Salmonids undergo a developmental transition from parr to smolt that involves a number of physiological and morphological changes. In recent years, my laboratory has studied shifts in red muscle function at this parr-smolt transformation (PST) in rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss. Parr red muscle has faster contraction kinetics than smolts, including faster rates of activation and relaxation and a faster maximum shortening velocity. At PST, a transition in swimming behavior is also observed, with lower tailbeat frequencies and longer EMG duty cycles in the older smolts. Lastly, there is molecular correlate to changes in kinetics and behavior. During PST, there is a developmental reduction in the number of myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoforms in the red muscle of rainbow trout. Since MHC composition of muscle can determine contractile properties, these molecular results suggest a mechanism for the transition in red muscle kinetics and steady swimming. The red muscle of parr is more likely to contain the fast-twitch or white isoform of MHC, resulting in faster contractile properties of that muscle and higher tailbeat frequencies during steady swimming. Lastly, experimental work supports the conclusion that the shift in kinetics causes the observed shift in swimming behavior.
40863410|Life-history characteristics of marine invertebrates exhibit broad diversity across taxa as well as considerable variation within species. Although such variation is widely recognized, comparisons of the magnitude of variability as an outcome of evolutionary processes are relatively rare. Theory predicts, for example, that patterns of variability within and between clutches can arise as a consequence of population genetic structure, environmental variability, and the uncertainty of future ecological conditions. We review the strengths and weaknesses of several statistical methods for comparing variability across distributions, including Levene's test, use of the coefficient of variation in F-tests, and analysis of covariance. We then use four case studies from our own work and from the literature to illustrate adaptive patterns of variability related to metamorphosis, habitat differentiation, physiological stress, and life-history mode. These examples demonstrate the value of comparing variability for a range of questions associated with reproductive ecology, life-history biology, and geno type-by-environment interactions. We encourage researchers studying larval ecology and life-history evolution to explicitly consider the causes and consequences of variances in traits along with their means in models, experimental designs, analyses, and interpretations.
3884711|The very different courtship flashes of Photuris versicolor and Photuris lucicrescens males mirror the pattern of neural impulses produced by their brain. Their lanterns luminescence very differently, however, in response to direct, electrical stimulation. Whereas P. lucicrescens lanterns glow in response to high frequency, continuous electrical stimulation, those of P. versicolor produce only rapid, triple-pulsed flashlettes that resemble, but are not identical to, their courtship flashes. In addition, the exposed lantern tissue of P. versicolor males, when immersed in firefly saline high in potassium and calcium ions, scintillates with hundreds of photocytes flashing in random fashion. P. lucicrescens male lanterns, so treated, only glow. Tests of P. versicolor lanterns with salines of different composition suggest that calcium ions are essential in producing this intense, long lasting scintillation response and are therefore possibly implicated in the final stages of flash control in this species.
3884879| Expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were produced for normalized cDNA libraries prepared from several tissues of 2 marine crustaceans, the green shore crab Carcinus maenas and the American lobster Homarus americanus. Tissues represented in the Carcinus library were anterior and posterior gills, hypodermis, heart, hepatopancreas, antennal gland, brain, testis, and skeletal muscle, obtained from animals acclimated to 35 and 10 salinity. Tissues represented in the Homarus library were gill, epipodite, branchiostegite, heart, ovary, testis, antennal gland, skeletal muscle, hepatopancreas, and brain, obtained from intermolt and post-molt animals. Directional libraries from oligo-dT-primed cDNA were constructed in the pCMVsport6.1 vector and normalized by self-subtraction at 2 different Cot values. Randomly picked clones were single-pass sequenced from the 5 end. Raw sequence data were trimmed and prepared for submission to dbEST using phred, cross-match, and blastx protocols embedded within trace2dbest software. A total of 4604 Homarus and 12 401 Carcinus ESTs produced 540 and 2651 clusters, respectively, as determined by TIGR Gene Index Clustering software. Gene Ontology analysis with reference to a Drosophila melanogaster database using GOblet revealed 187 positive hits (35%) with the Homarus clusters and 1037 positive hits (39%) with the Carcinus clusters. Combining the number of assembled sequences with the number of singlets obtained after cluster analysis suggested that transcripts representing as much as 25% of the total number of genes in Carcinus have been isolated. 
41319648|Chemicals are a frequent means whereby organisms defend themselves against predators, competitors, parasites, microbes, and other potentially harmful organisms. Much progress has been made in understanding how a phylogenetic diversity of organisms living in a variety of environments uses chemical defenses. Chief among these advances is determining the molecular identity of defensive chemicals and the roles they play in shaping interactions between individuals. Some progress has been made in deciphering the molecular, cellular, and systems level mechanisms underlying these interactions, as well as how these interactions can lead to structuring of communities and even ecosystems. The neuroecological approach unifies practices and principles from these diverse disciplines and at all scales as it attempts to explain in a single conceptual framework the abundances of organisms and the distributions of species within natural habitats. This article explores the neuroecology of chemical defenses with a focus on aquatic organisms and environments. We review the concept of molecules of keystone significance, including examples of how saxitoxin and tetrodotoxin can shape the organization and dynamics of marine and riparian communities, respectively. We also describe the current status and future directions of a topic of interest to our research group the use of ink by marine molluscs, especially sea hares, in their defense. We describe a diversity of molecules and mechanisms mediating the protective effects of sea hares' ink, including use as chemical defenses against predators and as alarm cues toward conspecifics, and postulate that some defensive molecules may function as molecules of keystone significance. Finally, we propose future directions for studying the neuroecology of the chemical defenses of sea hares and their molluscan relatives, the cephalopods.
40405995|Cichlid fishes provide an excellent natural system for integrating studies of genomics and adaptive radiation. Cichlids are unique in comprising a substantial fraction of all vertebrate species, possessing unique jaw structures, displaying an exceptional range of breeding systems, and exhibiting rampant phenotypic convergence. The rate of divergence in cichlid jaws, teeth, color patterns, visual systems, reproductive biology, and mating behaviors is unparalleled among vertebrates. I discuss ways rapid divergence in cichlids and other adaptive radiations make understanding the genomic basis of adaptive divergence more tractable. Then, I briefly overview some major findings and insights into vertebrate adaptation that have been gained through cichlid genetic studies. Finally, I discuss the extensive evolutionary replication provided by cichlid adaptive radiations and their potential for studies of genotype-to-phenotype mapping.
3884867|Metamorphosis is both an ecological and a developmental genetic transition that an organism undergoes as a normal part of ontogeny. Many organisms have the ability to delay metamorphosis when conditions are unsuitable. This strategy carries obvious benefits, but may also result in severe consequences for older larvae that run low on energy. In the marine environment, some lecithotrophic larvae that have prolonged periods in the plankton may begin forming postlarval and juvenile structures that normally do not appear until after settlement and the initiation of metamorphosis. This precocious activation of the postlarval developmental program may reflect an adaptation to increase the survival of older, energy-depleted larvae by allowing them to metamorphose more quickly. In the present study, we investigate morphological and genetic consequences of delay of metamorphosis in larvae of Herdmania momus (a solitary stolidobranch ascidian). We observe significant morphological and genetic changes during prolonged larval life, with older larvae displaying significant changes in RNA levels, precocious migration of mesenchyme cells, and changes in larval shape including shortening of the tail. While these observations suggest that the older H. momus larvae are functionally different from younger larvae and possibly becoming more predisposed to undergo metamorphosis, we did not find any significant differences in gene expression levels between postlarvae arising from larvae that metamorphosed as soon as they were competent and postlarvae developing from larvae that postponed metamorphosis. This recalibration, or convergence, of transcript levels in the early postlarva suggests that changes that occur during prolonged larval life of H. momus are not necessarily associated with early activation of adult organ differentiation. Instead, it suggests that an autonomous developmental program is activated in H. momus upon the induction of metamorphosis regardless of the history of the larva.
25160140|There is no debate over the Theory of Evolution. Among biologists the Theory of Evolution is a settled principle. Yet, the issue is far from settled in the larger context of society; between sectors of lay society and biological scientists in the United States there is evidence of a deep divide. Faith and reason, religion, and science at odds-that is hardly a recent divide. It is the premise of the author that the origin of the current conflict over the teaching of evolution stems from a fundamental philosophical divide that began long before Darwin first proposed his Theory of Evolution. It predates the inclusion of physical and biological sciences in the curriculum of western universities. It is older than either Islam or Christianity. The conflict goes back to Plato's Academy in 385 BC where the schools of Idealism and Realism first emerged as two distinct philosophical systems. Idealism and Realism diverged over essential issues of philosophy: What are we, what is true, and how do we know? Answers to these questions about the natural order are framed within philosophical constructs, themselves based upon essential assumptions about the essence of being, the essence of truth, and the nature of learning. Idealism and Realism developed independently for over 1500 years into two competing schools: the Augustinians (fundamentally Idealists) and the Latin Averroists (fundamentally Realists). It was over the place of natural philosophy in the curriculum that these two competing schools collided violently at the University of Paris in 1252. It was Thomas Aquinas who brokered a ceasefire between two embattled schools. Aquinas forged a philosophical system, called Thomism, that allowed the two schools to agree to disagree to the extent that in the graduate curriculum of the University Natural Philosophy could be taught apart from theology. This separation of secular or natural philosophy from theology opened the way for the development of the empirical sciences, the effects of which are evident today. All but forgotten, however, is that Thomism provided a system for resolving the disparities between these two separate ways of knowing, not by compartmentalizing them into separate domains, but by proving the domains to be philosophically complementary, creating a holistic framework in which to reconcile apparent conflicts between theology (religion) and natural philosophy (science). The essence of this historic compromise and its implications for the teaching of the Theory of Evolution form the core of this article.
40793114|The cephalochordate, amphioxus, is phylogenetically placed at the most primitive position in the chordate clade. Despite many studies on the endocrine system of amphioxus, definitive evidence has not been reported for the presence an endocrine system comparable to the pituitary-gonadal axis, which is important in the regulation of reproduction in vertebrates. Recent genome analyses in the amphioxus, Branchiostoma floridae, showed that it does not have any pituitary hormone genes except the thyrostimulin gene. Thyrostimulin is a heterodimeric glycoprotein hormone consisting of  and  subunits, and is present in various organs of vertebrates. Analyses of a phylogenetic tree and a synteny suggest that amphioxus' thyrostimulin is an ancestral type of the glycoprotein hormones in chordates. In addition, genes for sex steroidogenic enzymes belonging to the CYP family were found in the genome sequences. The conversion pathway of sex steroids from cholesterol to estrogen, androgen, and major sex steroids was also identified in the gonads of amphioxus in vitro. Furthermore, we demonstrated the expression of genes encoding thyrostimulin and sex steroidogenic enzymes by an in situ hybridization technique. Here, we discuss the evolution of hormones and reproductive functions in the neuroendocrine control system of chordates.
40793140|The importance of positive interactions is increasingly acknowledged in contemporary ecology. Most research has focused on direct positive effects of one species on another. However, there is recent evidence that indirect positive effects in the form of facilitation cascades can also structure species abundances and biodiversity. Here we conceptualize a specific type of facilitation cascade the habitat cascade. The habitat cascade is defined as indirect positive effects on focal organisms mediated by successive facilitation in the form of biogenic formation or modification of habitat. Based on a literature review, we demonstrate that habitat cascades are a general phenomenon that enhances species abundance and diversity in forests, salt marshes, seagrass meadows, and seaweed beds. Habitat cascades are characterized by a hierarchy of facilitative interactions in which a basal habitat former (typically a large primary producer, e.g., a tree) creates living space for an intermediate habitat former (e. g., an epiphyte) that in turn creates living space for the focal organisms (e.g., spiders, beetles, and mites). We then present new data on a habitat cascade common to soft-bottom estuaries in which a relatively small invertebrate provides basal habitat for larger intermediate seaweeds that, in turn, generate habitat for focal invertebrates and epiphytes. We propose that indirect positive effects on focal organisms will be strongest when the intermediate habitat former is larger and different in form and function from the basal habitat former. We also discuss how humans create, modify, and destroy habitat cascades via global habitat destruction, climatic change, over-harvesting, pollution, or transfer of invasive species. Finally, we outline future directions for research that will lead to a better understanding of habitat cascades.
3884799|Sex allocation theory predicts that, in hermaphroditic organisms, individuals allocate a fixed amount of resources divided among male and female functions to reproduction and that the proportion devoted to each sex depends on the mating group size. As the mating group size increases, hermaphrodites are predicted to allocate proportionally more resources to the male and less resources to the female function (approaching equal allocation to both sexes) to face increased sperm competition. Up to now little experimental evidence has been provided to support the theory in hermaphroditic animals. Facultative shift between male and female allocation in response to variation in local group size does occur in several taxa but not always in the expected direction and not with similar patterns. In the protandric and then simultaneously hermaphroditic polychaete worm Ophryotrocha diadema reproductive resources are flexibly allocated in the protandrous and the hermaphroditic phase. The cost of male reproduction during adolescence is spread over the whole energy budget of the animal as shown by the shortening of lifespan and the lowering of growth rate in individuals with enhanced male expenditure during the protandrous phase. Moreover, in this species, short term sex allocation adjustments differ from those described in other taxa. Individuals regulate their reproductive output so that where reproductive competitors are present, the number of female gametes is strongly reduced but the number of male gametes (although it changes) is not significantly increased. Resources subtracted from the female function are not directly allocated to sperm production, but to expensive male behaviors that are likely to enhance male reproductive success. These results are discussed in the light of the relevance of sexual selection in large populations of hermaphrodites.
3884796|Over the last 130 years, research has established that (a) sexual selection exists and is widespread in the plant and animal kingdoms; (b) it does not necessarily entail sexual dimorphism; even hermaphrodites have it; (c) it does not require intelligence or a sophisticated sense of esthetics; even tapeworms and plants choose mates; and (d) it does not require brawn or even mobility for competition; plants may compete for pollinators, and broadcast spawning invertebrates may also compete for matings. Although discussions of sexual selection often focus on sexual dimorphism, several phenomena that are commonly associated with sexual selection are widespread and highly developed in hermaphrodites. These phenomena include (a) bizarre and expensive courtship and copulatory behavior, (b) multiple mating and sperm competition, (c) rapid evolution of genitalia, (d) special structures associated with courtship, and (e) sexual polymorphism. The skewed breeding sex ratios associated with sequential hermaphroditism have long been recognized as contributory to sexual selection. In many simultaneous hermaphrodites, although the sex ratio at mating may be one to one, the actual reproductive sex ratio may also be skewed, creating a high potential for sexual selection. Reproductive biology in hermaphroditic taxa also involves a lot of complexity unknown in dioecious taxa, such as sex change, facultative sex allocation and conditional reciprocity that offers opportunities to enrich our understanding of sexual selection and to test the assumptions and predictions of theory.
25160222|The ability to control the flow of water around the body dictates the performance of marine mammals in the aquatic environment. Morphological specializations of marine mammals afford mechanisms for passive flow control. Aside from the design of the body, which minimizes drag, the morphology of the appendages provides hydrodynamic advantages with respect to drag, lift, thrust, and stall. The flukes of cetaceans and sirenians and flippers of pinnipeds possess geometries with flexibility, which enhance thrust production for high efficiency swimming. The pectoral flippers provide hydrodynamic lift for maneuvering. The design of the flippers is constrained by performance associated with stall. Delay of stall can be accomplished passively by modification of the flipper leading edge. Such a design is exhibited by the leading edge tubercles on the flippers of humpback whales (Megaptera novaeangliae). These novel morphological structures induce a spanwise flow field of separated vortices alternating with regions of accelerated flow. The coupled flow regions maintain areas of attached flow and delay stall to high angles of attack. The delay of stall permits enhanced turning performance with respect to both agility and maneuverability. The morphological features of marine mammals for flow control can be utilized in the biomimetic design of engineered structures for increased power production and increased efficiency.
4485868|Many studies have addressed sexual selection in animals, but few data are available on animals that release eggs and sperm into the environment for external fertilization. Although this reproductive mode represents the ancestral condition and is still a very common reproductive strategy, it is underrepresented in empirical studies and theoretical treatments. Here I present data on the pattern of reproductive success in male and female sea urchins. The results suggest that the strength of sexual selection and the differences between the sexes in the intensity of sexual selection depend on mate density. In general, despite the high degree of multiple paternity, the variance in reproductive success appears to be lower in males and higher in females than it is in polygamous species with internal fertilization. These results may provide insight into the patterns of effective population size in marine invertebrates and also more generally the evolutionary transition from sexual monomorphism to polymorphism in adult traits.
25160219| Flow characteristics are a prominent factor determining body shapes in aquatic organisms, and correlations between body shape and ambient flow regimes have been established for many fish species. In this study, we investigated the potential for a brief period of extreme flow to exert selection on the body shape of juvenile climbing Hawaiian gobiid fishes. Because of an amphidromous life history, juvenile gobies that complete an oceanic larval phase return to freshwater habitats, where they become adults. Returning juveniles often must scale waterfalls (typically with the use of a ventral sucker) in order to reach the habitats they will use as adults, thereby exposing these animals to brief periods of extreme velocities of flow. Hydrodynamic theory predicts that bodies with larger suckers and with lower heights that reduce drag would have improved climbing success and, thus, be well suited to meet the demands of the flows in waterfalls. To test the potential for the flow environment of waterfalls to impose selection that could contribute to differences in body shape between islands, we subjected juvenile Sicyopterus stimpsoni to climbing trials up artificial waterfalls (100 body lengths) and measured differences in body shape between successful and unsuccessful climbers. Waterfalls appear to represent a significant selective barrier to these fishes, as nearly 30% failed our climbing test. However, the effects of selection on morphology were not straightforward, as significant differences in shape between successful and unsuccessful climbers did not always match hydrodynamic predictions. In both selection experiments and in adult fish collected from habitats with different prevailing conditions of flow (the islands of Hawai'i versus Kaua'i), lower head heights were associated with exposure to high-flow regimes, as predicted by hydrodynamic theory. Thus, a premium appears to be placed on the reduction of drag via head morphology throughout the ontogeny of this species. The congruence of phenotypic selection patterns observed in our experiments, with morphological character divergence documented among adult fish from Hawai'i and Kaua'i, suggests that differences in morphology between subpopulations of adult climbing gobies may result, at least in part, from the selective pressures of high-velocity flows encountered by migrating juveniles. 
25160179|Reptiles are a karyologically heterogeneous group, where some orders and suborders exhibit characteristics similar to those of anamniotes and others share similarities with homeotherms. The class also shows different evolutionary trends, for instance in genome and chromosome size and composition. The turtle DNA base composition is similar to that of mammals, whereas that of lizards and snakes is more similar to that of anamniotes. The major karyological differences between turtles and squamates are the size and composition of the genome and the rate at which chromosomes change. Turtles have larger and more variable genome sizes, and a greater amount of middle repetitive DNA that differs even among related species. In lizards and snakes size of the genome are smaller, single-copy DNA is constant within each suborder, and differences in repetitive DNA involve fractions that become increasingly heterogeneous with widening phylogenetic distance. With regard to variation in karyotype morphology, turtles and crocodiles show low variability in chromosome number, morphology, and G-banding pattern. Greater variability is found among squamates, which have a similar degree of karyotypic change-as do some mammals, such as carnivores and bats-and in which there are also differences among congeneric species. An interesting relationship has been highlighted in the entire class Reptilia between rates of change in chromosomes, number of living species, and rate of extinction. However, different situations obtain in turtles and crocodiles on the one hand, and squamates on the other. In the former, the rate of change in chromosomes is lower and the various evolutionary steps do not seem to have entailed marked chromosomal variation, whereas squamates have a higher rate of change in chromosomes clearly related to the number of living species, and chromosomal variation seems to have played an important role in the evolution of several taxa. The different evolutionary trends in chromosomes observed between turtles and crocodiles on the one hand and squamates on the other might depend on their different patterns of G-banding.
41319657|Experimental and corresponding modeling studies indicate that there is a 2- to 5-fold variation of intrinsic and synaptic parameters across animals while functional output is maintained. Here, we review experiments, using the heartbeat central pattern generator (CPG) in medicinal leeches, which explore the consequences of animal-to-animal variation in synaptic strength for coordinated motor output. We focus on a set of segmental heart motor neurons that all receive inhibitory synaptic input from the same four premotor interneurons. These four premotor inputs fire in a phase progression and the motor neurons also fire in a phase progression because of differences in synaptic strength profiles of the four inputs among segments. Our work tested the hypothesis that functional output is maintained in the face of animal-to-animal variation in the absolute strength of connections because relative strengths of the four inputs onto particular motor neurons is maintained across animals. Our experiments showed that relative strength is not strictly maintained across animals even as functional output is maintained, and animal-to-animal variations in strength of particular inputs do not correlate strongly with output phase. Further experiments measured the precise temporal pattern of the premotor inputs, the segmental synaptic strength profiles of their connections onto motor neurons, and the temporal pattern (phase progression) of those motor neurons all in the same animal for a series of 12 animals. The analysis of input and output in this sample of 12 individuals suggests that the number (four) of inputs to each motor neuron and the variability of the temporal pattern of input from the CPG across individuals weaken the influence of the strength of individual inputs. Moreover, the temporal pattern of the output varies as much across individuals as that of the input. Essentially, each animal arrives at a unique solution for how the network produces functional output.
3884665| As ground nesting homeotherms, alpine and arctic birds must meet similar physiological requirements for breeding as other birds, but must do so in more extreme conditions. Annual spring snowfall and timing of snow melt can vary by up to 1 month and daily temperatures near the ground surface vary from below freezing to over 45C in alpine and arctic habitats. Species breeding in these environments have various behavioral, physiological, and morphological adaptations to cope with energetically demanding conditions. We review the ways birds cope with harsh and variable weather, and present data from long term field studies of ptarmigan to examine effects of spring weather on reproduction. In variable but normal spring conditions, timing of breeding was not influenced by snow melt, snow depth or daily temperatures in the alpine, as breeding did not commence until conditions were generally favorable. Arctic ptarmigan tended to vary breeding onset in response to spring conditions. Generally, birds breeding in alpine and arctic habitats suffer a seasonal reproductive disadvantage compared to birds at lower latitudes or elevations because the breeding window is short and in late years, nest failure may be high with little opportunity for renesting. Coping mechanisms may only be effective below a threshold of climactic extremes. Despite strong resilience in fecundity parameters, when snowmelt is extremely delayed breeding success is greatly reduced. Alpine and arctic birds will be further challenged as they attempt to cope with anticipated increases in the frequency and severity of weather events (climate variability), as well as general climate warming. 
3884684|Traditionally, the field of parasitology has dealt with eukaryotic animals, to the exclusion of viruses, bacteria, fungi, etc., which is the way it will be approached here. The focus of the present paper will be on certain ecological aspects of the life cycles and life-history strategies employed by the Digenea, a diverse group of platyhelminths that includes some 25,000 species. More specifically, the review will consider the nature of host/parasite interactions within molluscan intermediate hosts and the manner in which these interactions, or lack thereof, function in structuring trematode infracommunities within these molluscan intermediate hosts. Literature in this area suggests that predation/competition may be a significant structuring force for infracommunities in certain marine prosobranchs, but not others, and that temporal/spatial factors may be involved as structuring mechanisms in at least some freshwater pulmonates.
3884694|Advances in molecular genetic techniques have provided new approaches for addressing evolutionary questions about brood parasitic birds. We review recent studies that apply genetic data to the systematics, population biology, and social systems of avian brood parasites and suggest directions for future research. Recent molecular systematics studies indicate that obligate brood parasitism has evolved independently in seven different avian lineages, a tally that has increased by one in cuckoos (Cuculiformes) and decreased by one in passeriforms (Passeriformes) as compared to conventional taxonomy. Genetic parentage analyses suggest that brood parasitic birds are less promiscuous than might be expected given their lack of nesting and parental care behavior. Host-specificity in brood parasites, which has important implications for host-parasite coevolution, has been evaluated using both population genetic and parentage analyses. Female lineages are faithful to particular host species over evolutionarily significant time scales in both common cuckoos (Cuculus canorus) and indigobirds (Vidua spp.), but differences in the host-specificity of male parasites has resulted in different patterns of diversification in these two lineages. Future research on brood parasitism will benefit from the availability of comprehensive molecular phylogenies for brood parasites and their hosts and from advances in functional genomics.
40306081|An epithelium is important for integrity, homeostasis, communication and co-ordination, and its development must have been a fundamental step in the evolution of modern metazoan body plans. Sponges are metazoans that are often said to lack a true epithelium. We assess the properties of epithelia, and review the history of studies on sponge epithelia, focusing on their homology to bilaterian epithelia, their ultrastructure, and on their ability to seal. Electron micrographs show that adherens-type junctions are present in sponges but they can appear much slighter than equivalent junctions in other metazoans. Fine septae are seen in junctions of all sponge groups, but distinct septate junctions are only known from Calcarea. Similarly, all sponges can have collagenous sheets underlying their epithelia, but only homoscleromorphs are established to have a distinct basal lamina. The presence of most, but not all, gene families known to be involved in epithelial development and function also suggests that sponge epithelia function like, and are homologous to, bilaterian epithelia. However, physiological evidence that sponge epithelia regulate their internal environment is so far lacking. Given that up to six differentiated epithelia can be recognized in sponges, distinct physiological roles are expected. Recognition that sponges have epithelia challenges the perception that sponges are only loose associations of cells, and helps to relate the biology and physiology of the body plan of the adult sponge to the biology of other metazoans.
40931233|Over the past century, many ideas have been developed on the relationships between water flow and the structure and shape of the body and fins of fishes, largely during swimming in relatively steady flows. However, both swimming by fishes and the habitats they occupy are associated with vorticity, typically concentrated as eddies characteristic of turbulent flow. Deployment of methods to examine flow in detail suggests that vorticity impacts the lives of fishes. First, vorticity near the body and fins can increase thrust and smooth variations in thrust that are a consequence of using oscillating and undulating propulsors to swim. Second, substantial mechanical energy is dissipated in eddies in the wake and adaptations that minimize these losses would be anticipated. We suggest that such mechanisms may be found in varying the length of the propulsive wave, stiffening propulsive surfaces, and shifting to using median and paired fins when swimming at low speeds. Eddies in the flow encountered by fishes may be beneficial, but when eddy radii are of the order of 0.25 of the fish's total length, negative impacts occur due to greater difficulties in controlling stability. The archetypal streamlined "fish" shape reduces destabilizing forces for fishes swimming into eddies.
3884962|In this paper we discuss how yeast, fungi ubiquitously present in sugar-rich fruit, can influence the interaction between frugivores and fleshy-fruited plants via ethanol. We suggest that plants, the seeds of which are mostly dispersed by vertebrates, exploit the ethanol from alcoholic fermentation by yeast in their seed dispersal strategy. Moderate consumption of ethanol, i.e., at concentrations close to those in naturally ripening fruit, by frugivores may have beneficial short- and long-term effects for these potential dispersers, whereas consumption of larger quantities may have negative short- and long-term effects. Ethanol vapor emanating from palatable fruit may act as an odor cue, guiding bats and other frugivores to the fruit, and aiding them to assess its quality. In addition, we suggest that ingested ethanol may be an appetitive stimulant. We also evaluate the possibility that ethanol within fruit may be used as a source of energy by frugivorous vertebrates. Our preliminary data indicate that Egyptian fruit bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus) can use the odor of ethanol to assess food suitability, but also that it may not serve as an attractant over short distances (i.e., <1 m). Instead, ethanol is avoided at concentrations greater than 1%, a value which might typically characterize overripe and otherwise unpalatable fruit. Our initial results further indicate that Egyptian fruit bats significantly decrease their food consumption if it contains 1 or 2% ethanol. Overall, ethanol may play diverse roles in the nutritional ecology and behavior of fruit-eating bats, and in the interaction between frugivores and plants, in general.
4485776|One of the most urgent problems in conservation biology today is the continuing loss of amphibian populations on a global scale. Recent amphibian population declines in Australia, Central America, the western United States, Europe, and Africa have been linked to a pathogenic chytrid fungus, Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, which infects the skin. The skin of amphibians is critical for fluid balance, respiration, and transport of essential ions; and the immune defense of the skin must be integrated with these physiological responses. One of the natural defenses of the skin is production of antimicrobial peptides in granular glands. Discharge of the granular glands is initiated by stimulation of sympathetic nerves. To determine whether antimicrobial skin peptides play a role in protection from invasive pathogens, purified antimicrobial peptides and natural peptide mixtures recovered from the skin secretions of a number of species have been assayed for growth inhibition of the chytrid fungus. The general findings are that most species tested have one or more antimicrobial peptides with potent activity against the chytrid fungus, and natural mixtures of peptides are also effective inhibitors of chytrid growth. This supports the hypothesis that antimicrobial peptides produced in the skin are an important defense against skin pathogens and may affect survival of populations. We also report on initial studies of peptide depletion using norepinephrine and the kinetics of peptide recovery following induction. Approximately 80 nmoles/g of norepinephrine is required to deplete peptides, and peptide stores are not fully recovered at three weeks following this treatment. Because many species have defensive peptides and yet suffer chytrid-associated population declines, it is likely that other factors (temperature, conditions of hydration, "stress," or pesticides) may alter normal defenses and allow for uncontrolled infection.
4485804|Haeckel's studies of development in calcareous sponges (1872) led him to develop the "Gastraea Theory," which proposes that the ancestral mode of germ layer formation, or gastrulation, was by invagination to produce a functional gut. His observations that gastrulation in the Calcarea occurs by invagination of a ciliated larva upon settlement and metamorphosis were supported by remarkable photomicrographs of the stage by Hammer in 1908. Although no later work found the same stage, these concepts are repeated in texts today. We have re-examined embryogenesis and metamorphosis in Sycon sp. cf. S. raphanus in order to understand when gastrulation occurs. Almost all larvae settle on their ciliated anterior pole and metamorphose into a bilayered juvenile whose interior cells rapidly differentiate into choanocytes and other cells of the young sponge. After a four-year search we have found the transitory stage shown by Hammer in which the anterior cells invaginate into the posterior half of the larva. The hole closes and it is not until some days later that the sponge forms an osculum at its apical pole. To understand whether invagination comprises gastrulation and if the hole can be considered to be a blastopore we have carried out a review of the literature dealing with this brief moment in calcaronean sponge development. Despite the intrigue of this type of metamorphosis, we conclude that gastrulation occurs earlier, during formation of the two cellular regions of the larva, and that metamorphosis involves the reorganization of these already differentiated regions. Considering the pivotal position occupied by the Calcarea as the possible sister-group to all other Metazoa, these results call for a reassessment of germ layer formation and of the relationships of the primary germ layers among basal metazoan phyla.
3884818| Integration between comparative biology and cellular/molecular biology has helped advance understanding of the structure, function and physiology of the vertebrate small heat shock proteins A- and B-crystallin. These proteins are expressed at high concentration in the eye lens where they contribute to transparency and refractive power. But they also function similarly to molecular chaperones by preventing the aggregation of denatured proteins that can cause opacities, or cataracts. -crystallins also serve a number of other roles in and out of the lens that are still not completely understood. Comparative examination of -crystallins and closely related small heat shock proteins from diverse taxa has helped provide insights into the proteins' three-dimensional shape and structure/function relationships. Until recently, no studies had examined the tissue specific expression or chaperone-like activity of -crystallins from a non-mammalian vertebrate. I have been investigating the -crystallins of the zebrafish, Danio rerio, as a first step towards utilizing the bony fishes as a model group for understanding the evolution of -crystallin function. Zebrafish A-crystallin displays similar structure and expression and increased chaperone-like activity compared to its human orthologue. Zebrafish B-crystallin, however, has a truncated C-terminal extension, more limited expression and lower chaperone-like activity than its human orthologue. These data suggest that A-crystallin physiological function may be conserved between zebrafish and mammals, while B-crystallin physiological function has diverged. Understanding zebrafish -crystallin physiology is necessary before this species can be used for development and genetic studies, and provides a foundation for further comparative studies. 
3885012|Different allozyme genotypes at the mannose phosphate isomerase (Mpi) locus in the northern acorn barnacle (Semibalanus balanoides) show a strong association with distinct intertidal microhabitats. In estuaries along the Maine Coast, the FF homozygote has higher fitness in exposed, high-tide level microhabitats while the SS homozygote has higher fitness under algal cover or at low-tide microhabitats. These patterns are consistent with a Levene (1953) model of balancing selection. In these same samples, polymorphisms at the glucose phosphate isomerase locus (Gpi) and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) show no fitness differences among microhabitats, providing intra-genomic controls supporting selection at or near Mpi. Here we report a similar analysis of genotype-by-microhabitat associations at sites in Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island, close to the southern range limit of S. balanoides. Genotype zonation at Mpi between high- and low-tide microhabitats is significantly different between Maine and Narragansett Bay due to opposite zonation patterns for the SF and FF genotypes. Enzyme activity data are consistent with this "reverse" zonation. At Gpi, there is significant microhabitat zonation in Narragansett Bay, while this locus behaves as a neutral marker in Maine. Mt DNA shows no significant microhabitat zonation in either Rhode Island or Maine. The Mpi data suggest that Levene-type selection for alternative genotypes in alternative habitats may operate at scales of both 10's of meters and 100's of kilometers. The Gpi data show how an apparently neutral locus can exhibit non-neutral variation under different environmental conditions. We argue that both Mpi and Gpi provide important genetic variation for adaptation to environmental heterogeneity that is recruited under distinct conditions of stress and carbohydrate substrate availability.
3884850|Whilst the "Cambrian Explosion" continues to attract much attention from a wide range of earth and life scientists, the detailed patterns exhibited by the terminal Proterozoic-Early Cambrian biotas remain unclear, for reasons of systematics, biostratigraphy and biogeography. In particular, recent changes in absolute dating of the Cambrian have refined the period of time that the fossil record might be of most help in revealing the dynamics of the undoubted radiation taking place at this time. The famous exceptionally preserved faunas seem to be rather close temporally, and as yet reveal little about the earliest and critical period of evolution, deep in the Cambrian. Nevertheless, the most parsimonious interpretation of the Cambrian fossil record is that it represents a broadly accurate temporal picture of the origins of the bilaterian phyla.
3884914|The lack of mobility in plants is often interpreted as a sign of their passivity in the face of environmental variation. This view is perhaps most firmly entrenched with regard to water transport through the xylem in which water flows through the lumen of cells that are "dead" (i.e., lack any cytoplasm or nucleus) at maturity. However, recent work demonstrates that a number of active, physiological processes may be involved in maintaining the transport capacity of this essential pathway. Here we review work relating to both embolism repair and the effect of ion concentrations on xylem hydraulic properties as examples of such dynamic processes.
40863359|For many years, orientation in migratory birds has primarily been studied in the laboratory. Although a laboratory-based setting enables greater control over environmental cues, the laboratory-based findings must be confirmed in the wild in free-flying birds to be able to fully understand how birds orient during migration. Despite the difficulties associated with following free-flying birds over long distances, a number of possibilities currently exist for tracking the long distance, sometimes even globe-spanning, journeys undertaken by migrating birds. Birds fitted with radio transmitters can either be located from the ground or from aircraft (conventional tracking), or from space. Alternatively, positional information obtained by onboard equipment (e. g., GPS units) can be transmitted to receivers in space. Use of these tracking methods has provided a wealth of information on migratory behaviors that are otherwise very difficult to study. Here, we focus on the progress in understanding certain components of the migration-orientation system. Comparably exciting results can be expected in the future from tracking free-flying migrants in the wild. Use of orientation cues has been studied in migrating raptors (satellite telemetry) and thrushes (conventional telemetry), highlighting that findings in the natural setting may not always be as expected on the basis of cage-experiments. Furthermore, field tracking methods combined with experimental approaches have finally allowed for an extension of the paradigmatic displacement experiments performed by Perdeck in 1958 on the short-distance, social migrant, the starling, to long-distance migrating storks and long-distance, non-socially migrating passerines. Results from these studies provide fundamental insights into the nature of the migratory orientation system that enables experienced birds to navigate and guide inexperienced, young birds to their species-specific winter grounds.
3884918|Physical, chemical and perceived stressors can all evoke non-specific responses in fish, which are considered adaptive to enable the fish to cope with the disturbance and maintain its homeostatic state. If the stressor is overly severe or long-lasting to the point that the fish is not capable of regaining homeostasis, then the responses themselves may become maladaptive and threaten the fish's health and well-being. Physiological responses to stress are grouped as primary, which include endocrine changes such as in measurable levels of circulating catecholamines and corticosteroids, and secondary, which include changes in features related to metabolism, hydromineral balance, and cardiovascular, respiratory and immune functions. In some instances, the endocrine responses are directly responsible for these secondary responses resulting in changes in concentration of blood constituents, including metabolites and major ions, and, at the cellular level, the expression of heat-shock or stress proteins. Tertiary or whole-animal changes in performance, such as in growth, disease resistance and behavior, can result from the primary and secondary responses and possibly affect survivorship. Fishes display a wide variation in their physiological responses to stress, which is clearly evident in the plasma corticosteroid changes, chiefly cortisol in actinopterygian fishes, that occur following a stressful event. The characteristic elevation in circulating cortisol during the first hour after an acute disturbance can vary by more than two orders of magnitude among species and genetic history appears to account for much of this interspecific variation. An appreciation of the factors that affect the magnitude, duration and recovery of cortisol and other physiological changes caused by stress in fishes is important for proper interpretation of experimental data and design of effective biological monitoring programs.
40931213|Who needs to go to outer space to study alien beings when the oceans of our own planet abound with bizarre and unknown creatures? Many of them belong to sessile clonal and colonial groups, including sponges, hydroids, corals, octocorals, ascidians, bryozoans, and some polychaetes. Their life histories, in many ways unlike our own, are a challenge for biologists. Studying their ecology, behavior, and taxonomy means trying to "think like a colony" to understand the factors important in their lives. Until the 1980s, most marine ecologists ignored these difficult modular organisms. Plant ecologists showed them ways to deal with the two levels of asexually produced modules and genetic individuals, leading to a surge in research on the ecology of clonal and colonial marine invertebrates. Bryozoans make excellent model colonial animals. Their life histories range from ephemeral to perennial. Aspects of their lives such as growth, reproduction, partial mortality due to predation or fouling, and the behavior of both autozooids and polymorphs can be studied at the level of the colony, as well as that of the individual module, in living colonies and over time.
3884751| In this paper we report on the effect of surface wettability on surface selection and adhesion properties of settled (adhered) spores of the biofouling marine alga Enteromorpha and cells of the diatom Amphora, through the use of patterned self-assembled monolayers (SAMs). The SAMs were formed from alkanethiols terminated with methyl
40931223|Community structure and diversity are influenced by patterns of disturbance and input of food. In Antarctica, the marine ecosystem undergoes highly seasonal changes in availability of light and in primary production. Near research stations, organic input from human activities can disturb the regular productivity regime with a consistent input of sewage. McMurdo Sound has both high-productivity and low-productivity habitats, thereby providing an ideal test bed for community recovery dynamics under polar conditions. We used experimental manipulations of the subtidal communities to test the hypotheses that (1) benthic communities respond differently to disturbance from organic enrichment versus burial and (2) community response also varies in areas with different natural patterns of food supply. Both in lowand high-food habitats, the strongest community response was to organic enrichment and resulted in dominance of typical organic-enrichment specialists. In habitats with highly seasonal productivity, community response was predictable and recovery was rapid. In habitats with low productivity, community variability was high and caging treatments suggested that inconsistencies were due to patchy impacts by scavengers. In areas normally subject to regular organic enrichment, either from primary production or from further up the food web (defecation by marine mammals), recovery of benthic communities takes only years even in a polar system. However, a low-productivity regime is as common in near shore habitats around the continent; under these conditions, recovery of benthic communities from disturbance is likely to be much slower and follow a variable ecological trajectory.
40931220|Antarctic icefishes of the family Channichthyidae are the only vertebrate animals that as adults do not express the circulating oxygen-binding protein hemoglobin (Hb). Six of the 16 family members also lack the intracellular oxygen-binding protein myoglobin (Mb) in the ventricle of their hearts and all lack Mb in oxidative skeletal muscle. The loss of Hb has led to substantial remodeling in the cardiovascular system of icefishes to facilitate adequate oxygenation of tissues. One of the more curious adaptations to the loss of Hb and Mb is an increase in mitochondrial density in cardiac myocytes and oxidative skeletal muscle fibers. The proliferation of mitochondria in the aerobic musculature of icefishes does not arise through a canonical pathway of mitochondrial biogenesis. Rather, the biosynthesis of mitochondrial phospholipids is up-regulated independently of the synthesis of proteins and mitochondrial DNA, and newly-synthesized phospholipids are targeted primarily to the outer-mitochondrial membrane. Consequently, icefish mitochondria have a higher lipid-to-protein ratio compared to those from red-blooded species. Elevated levels of nitric oxide in the blood plasma of icefishes, compared to red-blooded notothenioids, may mediate alterations in mitochondrial density and architecture. Modifications in mitochondrial structure minimally impact state III respiration rates but may significantly enhance intracellular diffusion of oxygen. The rate of oxygen diffusion is greater within the hydrocarbon core of membrane lipids compared to the aqueous cytosol and impeded only by proteins within the lipid bilayer. Thus, the proliferation of icefish's mitochondrial membranes provides an optimal conduit for the intracellular diffusion of oxygen and compensates for the loss of Hb and Mb. Currently little is known about how mitochondrial phospholipid synthesis is regulated and integrated into mitochondrial biogenesis. The unique architecture of the oxidative muscle cells of icefishes highlights the need for further studies in this area.
3884890|Understanding the ecotoxicological effects of arsenic in the environment is paramount to mitigating its deleterious effects on ecological and human health, particularly on the immune response. Toxicological and long-term health effects of arsenic exposure have been well studied. Its specific effects on immune function, however, are less well understood. Eukaryotic immune function often includes both general (innate) as well as specific (adaptive) responses to pathogens. Innate immunity is thought to be the primary defense during early embryonic development, subsequently potentiating adaptive immunity in jawed vertebrates, whereas all other eukaryotes must rely solely on the innate immune response throughout their life cycle. Here, we review the known ecotoxicological effects of arsenic on general health, including immune function, and propose the adoption of zebrafish as a vertebrate model for studying such effects on innate immunity.
40306104|Intermediate filaments are filaments 10 nm in diameter that make up an important component of the cytoskeleton in most metazoan taxa. They are most familiar for their role as the fibrous component of oc-keratins such as skin, hair, nail, and horn but are also abundant within living cells. Although they are almost exclusively intracellular in their distribution, in the case of the defensive slime produced by hagfishes, they are secreted. This article surveys the impressive diversity of biomaterials that animals construct from intermediate filaments and will focus on the mechanisms by which the mechanical properties of these materials are achieved. Hagfish slime is a dilute network of hydrated mucus and compliant intermediate filament bundles with ultrasoft material properties. Within the cytoplasm of living cells, networks of intermediate filaments form soft gels whose elasticity arises via entropic mechanisms. Single intermediate filaments or bundles are also elastic, but substantially stiffer, exhibiting modulus values similar to that of rubber. Hard oc-keratins like wool are stiffer still, an effect that is likely achieved via dehydration of the intermediate filaments in these epidermal appendages. The diverse mechanisms described here have been employed by animals to generate materials with stiffness values that span an impressive eleven orders of magnitude.
3885016|Rocky intertidal invertebrates live in heterogeneous habitats characterized by steep gradients in wave activity, tidal flux, temperature, food quality and food availability. These environmental factors impact metabolic activity via changes in energy input and stress-induced alteration of energetic demands. For keystone species, small environmentally induced shifts in metabolic activity may lead to disproportionately large impacts on community structure via changes in growth or survival of these key species. Here we use biochemical indicators to assess how natural differences in wave exposure, temperature and food availability may affect metabolic activity of mussels, barnacles, whelks and sea stars living at rocky intertidal sites with different physical and oceanographic characteristics. We show that oxygen consumption rate is correlated with the activity of key metabolic enzymes (e.g., citrate synthase and malate dehydrogenase) for some intertidal species, and concentrations of these enzymes in certain tissues are lower for starved individuals than for those that are well fed. We also show that the ratio of RNA to DNA (an index of protein synthetic capacity) is highly variable in nature and correlates with short-term changes in food availability. We also observed striking patterns in enzyme activity and RNA/DNA in nature, which are related to differences in rocky intertidal community structure. Differences among species and habitats are most pronounced in summer and are linked to high nearshore productivity at sites favored by suspension feeders and to exposure to stressful low-tide air temperatures in areas of low wave splash. These studies illustrate the great promise of using biochemical indicators to test ecological models, which predict changes in community structure along environmental gradients. Our results also suggest that biochemical indices must be carefully validated with laboratory studies, so that the indicator selected is likely to respond to the environmental variables of interest.
3884804|The sexual system of the decapod (caridean) shrimp Lysmata is protandric simultaneous hermaphroditism (PSH). Individuals first mature as males (male phase = MP) and then when older (larger) change to the external phenotype of female carideans (female phase = FP). However, unlike purely protandric carideans, Lysmata FPs retain reduced male gonadal tissues and ducts, and are able to mate nonreciprocally as males as well as to reproduce as females. Thus, FPs of Lysmata species are functional simultaneous hermaphrodites although most reproductive effort is devoted to embryo production and incubation. The question explored here is, given the propensity of carideans to protandry, the apparent low cost, and high reproductive advantage of PSH, why has not PSH evolved more frequently? The mating systems and sexual selection of caridean shrimps, the original sex of protandric individuals, the cost of maleness, and sex allocation theory are discussed in relation to protandry and PSH. None of these factors adequately explains the evolution of PSH of Lysmata species. Lysmata has at least 2 species groups with very different sociobiologies; these groups do not appear to share current selective pressures that would explain PSH in both. A historical contingency hypothesis, testable in part with a phylogenetic analysis, may explain the evolution of PSH in Lysmata.
3884984|Complex organismal traits such as body size are influenced by innumerable selective pressures, making the prediction of evolutionary trajectories for those traits difficult. A potentially powerful way to predict fitness in natural systems is to study the composite response of individuals in terms of performance measures, such as foraging or reproductive performance. Once key performance measures are identified in this top-down approach, we can determine the underlying physiological mechanisms and gain predictive power over long-term evolutionary processes. Here we use marine iguanas as a model system where body size differs by more than one order of magnitude between island populations. We identified foraging efficiency as the main performance measure that constrains body size. Mechanistically, foraging performance is determined by food pasture height and the thermal environment, influencing intake and digestion. Stress hormones may be a flexible way of influencing an individual's response to low-food situations that may be caused by high population density, famines, or anthropogenic disturbances like oil spills. Reproductive performance, on the other hand, increases with body size and is mediated by higher survival of larger hatchlings from larger females and increased mating success of larger males. Reproductive performance of males may be adjusted via plastic hormonal feedback mechanisms that allow individuals to assess their social rank annually within the current population size structure. When integrated, these data suggest that reproductive performance favors increased body size (influenced by reproductive hormones), with an overall limit imposed by foraging performance (influenced by stress hormones). Based on our mechanistic understanding of individual performances we predicted an evolutionary increase in maximum body size caused by global warming trends. We support this prediction using specimens collected during 1905. We also show in a common-garden experiment that body size may have a genetic component in iguanids. This 'performance paradigm' allows predictions about adaptive evolution in natural populations.
4485818|In rainbow trout the magnitude of the cortisol response to stress shows both consistency over time and a moderate to high degree of heritability, and high responding (HR) and low responding (LR) lines of rainbow trout have been generated by individual selection for consistently high or low post-stress cortisol values. Using 2nd and 3rd generation fish, we tested the hypothesis that differential stress responsiveness is associated with behavioral alterations in the HR-LR trout model. LR fish showed a tendency to become socially dominant, a rapid recovery of food intake after transfer to a novel environment, and a reduced locomotor response in a territorial intrusion test. Furthermore, stress induced elevation of brain stem and optic tectum concentrations of the monoamine neurotransmitters serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine and their metabolites suggests that both synthesis and metabolism of these transmitters were elevated after stress to a larger degree in HR than in LR trout. A divergent pattern was seen in the hypothalamus, where LR fish displayed elevated levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (a serotonin metabolite) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (a norepinephrine metabolite). Thus, selection for a single trait, cortisol responsiveness, in rainbow trout is associated with concurrent changes in both behavior and central signaling systems. The apparent parallel to genetically determined stress coping styles in mammals, and the existence of similar trait associations in unselected populations of rainbow trout, suggests an evolutionarily conserved correlation between multiple traits. Continuing studies on the HR and LR trout lines are aimed at providing the physiological and genetic basis for new marker-assisted selection strategies in the rapidly developing finfish aquaculture industry, as well as increased knowledge of the function and evolution of central neuroendocrine signaling systems.
3884959|Recently, the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has been introduced as a model system to study the molecular bases of a variety of ethanol-induced behaviors. It became immediately apparent that the behavioral changes elicited by acute ethanol exposure are remarkably similar in flies and mammals. Flies show signs of acute intoxication, which range from locomotor stimulation at low doses to complete sedation at higher doses and they develop tolerance upon intermittent ethanol exposure. Genetic screens for mutants with altered responsiveness to ethanol have been carried out and a few of the disrupted genes have been identified. This analysis, while still in its early stages, has already revealed some surprising molecular parallels with mammals. The availability of powerful tools for genetic manipulation in Drosophila, together with the high degree of conservation at the genomic level, make Drosophila a promising model organism to study the mechanism by which ethanol regulates behavior and the mechanisms underlying the organism's adaptation to long-term ethanol exposure.
3884911|In order to adapt to low oxygen it is necessary first to be able to detect hypoxia, then to initiate the appropriate defense mechanisms. There are two basic detectors: molecular sensors that are directly linked to gene regulation and metabolic indicators that are triggered when the cell goes into a state of energy imbalance. The molecular responses to oxygen deprivation are characterized in a variety of cell types and include activation of oxygen sensors, signaling through specific promoter elements and subsequent down-stream adaptations. Many of the components are highly conserved across species. In the brain, the most hypoxic vulnerable of all vertebrate tissues, low oxygen quickly results in a fall in ATP and a consequent increase in adenosine. Both changes act as metabolic indicators of cellular energy crisis and effect mechanisms to reduce metabolic demand. Important lessons on the potential scope of such mechanisms can be provided by the anoxic tolerant turtle brain. Anoxia provokes an early release of adenosine which mediates channel arrest, causes a reduction in K
4485857|Soil nematodes are capable of employing an anhydrobiotic survival strategy in response to adverse environmental conditions. The McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica represent a unique environment for the study of anhydrobiosis because extremes of cold, salinity, and aridity combine to limit biological water availability. We studied nematode anhydrobiosis in Taylor Valley, Antarctica, using natural variation in soil properties. The coiled morphology of nematodes extracted from dry valley soils suggests that they employ anhydrobiosis, and these coiled nematodes showed enhanced revival when re-hydrated in water as compared to vermiform nematodes. Nematode coiling was correlated with soil moisture content, salinity, and water potential. In the driest soils studied (gravimetric water content <2%), 20-80% of nematodes were coiled. Soil water potential measurements also showed a high degree of variability. These measurements reflect microsite variation in soil properties that occurs at the scale of the nematode. We studied nematode anhydrobiosis during the austral summer, and found that the proportion of nematodes coiled can vary diurnally, with more nematodes vermiform and presumably active at the warmest time of day. However, dry valley nematodes uncoiled rapidly in response to soil wetting from snowmelt, and most nematode activity in the Dry Valleys may be confined to periods following rare snowfall and melting events. Anhydrobiosis represents an important temporal component of a dry valley nematode's life span. The ability to utilize anhydrobiosis plays a significant role in the widespread distribution and success of these organisms in the Antarctic Dry Valleys and beyond.
3884733|Many evolutionary modifications in development and life history derive from changes in embryonic gene expression. However, the genetic variation affecting gene expression in natural populations is not well understood, nor are the evolutionary mechanisms that operate on that variation. The early embryonic gene network of the purple sea urchin (Strongylocentrotus purpuratus) has been studied in considerable detail, providing an informative basis for analyzing the developmental and evolutionary mechanisms that alter gene expression. Comparative functional analyses have been carried out for several genes. These case studies indicate a complex relationship between sequence divergence and gene expression: in some cases, gene expression is conserved despite extensive divergence in cis-regulatory sequences, while in others the basis for a change in gene expression does not reside locally but rather in the expression or activity of transcription factors that regulate its expression. Diverse evolutionary mechanisms apparently operate on cis-regulatory regions, including negative, balancing, and stabilizing selection.
4485783|Nereis succinea and Platynereis dumerilii (Annelida, Polychaeta) are broadcast spawners and reproduce semelparously. The final events in reproduction, swarming and spawning are co-ordinated by sex pheromones. A water-soluble fraction of crude oil, the volatile fraction (C9-C16) of EKO FISK crude oil was found to induce release of gametes in male nereids at levels <0.3 ppm. Using vacuum distillation, column chromatography, preparative GC and GC-MS analysis we showed that C-alkylated benzenes were most potent in inducing sperm release, of those n-butyl-4-methylbenzene and 1,4-diethyl-2-methylbenzene were found to induce release of gametes at concentrations 4 nM. This threshold is lower than those reported for natural pheromones (nereithione: 60 nM, uric acid: 600 nM) but higher than background levels of aromatic compounds of 0.05 nM and below. Other oil fractions showed additional effects, blocking pheromone reception or narcotising and intoxicating animals. Part of these effects could be assigned to naphthalenes at levels down to approx. 320 nM. In the original mixtures, their action was modified or compensated by the presence of gamete release inducing alkylated benzenes. Other highly paralysing substances remained elusive.
40306088|Stress is known to suppress or dysregulate immune function and increase susceptibility to disease. Paradoxically, the short-term fght-or-flight stress response is one of nature's fundamental defense mechanisms that galvanizes the neuroendocrine, cardiovascular, and musculoskeletal systems into action to enable survival. Therefore, it is unlikely that short-term stress would suppress immune function at a time when it may be critically required for survival (e. g., in response to wounding and infection by a predator or aggressor). In fact, studies have shown that stress can enhance immune function under certain conditions. Several factors influence the direction (enhancing versus suppressive) of the effects of stress on immune function: (1) Duration: acute or short-term stress experienced at the time of activation of an immune response enhances innate and adaptive immune responses. Chronic or long-term stress can suppress or dysregulate immune function. (2) Leukocyte distribution: compartments (e. g., skin), that are enriched with immune cells during acute stress show immuno-enhancement, while those that are depleted of leukocytes (e. g., blood), show immuno-suppression. (3) The differential effects of physiologic versus pharmacologic stress hormones: Endogenous hormones in physiological concentrations can have immuno-enhancing effects. Endogenous hormones at pharmacologic concentrations, and synthetic hormones, are immuno-suppressive. (4) Timing: immuno-enhancement is observed when acute stress is experienced during the early stages of an immune response while immuno-suppression may be observed at late stages. The type of immune response (protective, regulatory/inhibitory, or pathological) that is affected determines whether the effects of stress are ultimately beneficial or harmful for the organism. Arguments based on conservation of energy have been invoked to explain potential adaptive benefits of stress-induced immuno-suppression, but generally do not hold true because most mechanisms for immuno-suppression expend, rather than conserve, energy. We propose that it is important to study, and if possible, to clinically harness, the immuno-enhancing effects of the acute stress response that evolution has finely sculpted as a survival mechanism, just as we study its maladaptive ramifications (chronic stress) that evolution has yet to resolve.
4485865|Bateman's principles, their corollaries and predictions constitute a paradigm for the study of sexual selection theory, evolution of mating systems, parental investment theory, and sexual dimorphism in male and female behavior. Some aspects of this paradigm have been challenged in recent years, while others have been supported by empirical and theoretical research. We re-examine Bateman's 1948 paper in detail, including some methodological problems. Additionally, we review three areas in which an over-reliance on Bateman's predictions about sexual dynamics hindered our ability to understand the potential importance of certain behaviors: 1) male mate choice and sperm allocation; 2) the role of females in initiating and soliciting extra-pair copulations and fertilizations; and 3) the role of females in lekking systems, in which recent evidence suggests that copulations with multiple males (polyandrous behavior) may be common. We conclude this introduction to the symposium by emphasizing the heuristic value of Bateman's contributions, as well as the problems that arise when Bateman's paradigm is viewed through the lens of modern behavioral ecology and evolutionary theory.
23016113|Synopsis Recent years have seen a rapid increase in the number of Afrotropical endotherms known to avoid mismatches between energy supply and demand by using daily torpor and/or hibernation. Among mammals, heterothermy has been reported in 40 species in six orders, namely Macroscelidea, Afrosoricida, Rodentia, Eulipotyphla, Primates and Chiroptera. These species span a range in body mass of 7770 g, with minimum heterothermic body temperatures ranging from 127C and bout length varying from 1 h to 70 days. Daily torpor is the most common form of heterothermy, with true hibernation being observed in only seven species, Graphiurus murinus, Graphiurus ocularis, Atelerix frontalis, Cheirogaleus medius, Cheirogaleus major, Microcebus murinus and Microcebus griseorufus. The traditional distinction between daily torpor and hibernation is blurred in some species, with free-ranging individuals exhibiting bouts of >24 h and body temperatures <16C, but none of the classical behaviours associated with hibernation. Several species bask in the sun during rewarming. Among birds, heterothermy has been reported in 16 species in seven orders, and is more pronounced in phylogenetically older taxa. Both in mammals and birds, patterns of heterothermy can vary dramatically among species occurring at a particular site, and even among individuals of a single species. For instance, patterns of heterothermy among cheirogalid primates in western Madagascar vary from daily torpor to uninterrupted hibernation for up to seven months. Other examples of variation among closely-related species involve small owls, elephant shrews and vespertilionid bats. There may also be variation in terms of the ecological correlates of torpor within a species, as is the case in the Freckled Nightjar Caprimulgus tristigma.
3884623|Flapping flight and swimming in many organisms is accompanied by significant bending of flexible wings and fins. The instantaneous shape of wings and fins has, in turn, a profound effect on the fluid dynamic forces they can generate, with non-monotonic relationships between the pattern of deformation waves passing along the wing and the thrust developed. Many of these deformations arise, in part, from the passive mechanics of oscillating a flexible air- or hydrofoil. At the same time, however, their instantaneous shape may well emerge from details of the fluid loading. This issue-the extent to which there is feedback between the instantaneous wing shape and the fluid dynamic loading-is core to understanding flight control. We ask to what extent surface shape of wings and fins is controlled by structural mechanics versus fluid dynamic loading. To address this issue, we use a combination of computational and analytic methods to explore how bending stresses arising from inertial-elastic mechanisms compare to those stresses that arise from fluid pressure forces. Our analyses suggest that for certain combinations of wing stiffness, wing motions, and fluid density, fluid pressure stresses play a relatively minor role in determining wing shape. Nearly all of these combinations correspond to wings moving in air. The exciting feature provided by this analysis is that, for high Reynolds number motions where linear potential flow equations provide reasonable estimates of lift and thrust, we can finally examine how wing structure affects flight performance. Armed with this approach, we then show how modest levels of passive elasticity can affect thrust for a given level of energy input in the form of an inertial oscillation of a compliant foil.
4540191|(Orgeig and Daniels) This surfactant symposium reflects the integrative and multidisciplinary aims of the 1st ICRB, by encompassing in vitro and in vivo research, studies of vertebrates and invertebrates, and research across multiple disciplines. We explore the physical and structural challenges that face gas exchange surfaces in vertebrates and insects, by focusing on the role of the surfactant system. Pulmonary surfactant is a complex mixture of lipids and proteins that lines the air-liquid interface of the lungs of all air-breathing vertebrates, where it functions to vary surface tension with changing lung volume. We begin with a discussion of the extraordinary conservation of the blood-gas barrier among vertebrate respiratory organs, which has evolved to be extremely thin, thereby maximizing gas exchange, but simultaneously strong enough to withstand significant distension forces. The principal components of pulmonary surfactant are highly conserved, with a mixed phospholipid and neutral lipid interfacial film that is established, maintained and dynamically regulated by surfactant proteins (SP). A wide variation in the concentrations of individual components exists, however, and highlights lipidomic as well as proteomic adaptations to different physiological needs. As SP-B deficiency in mammals is lethal, oxidative stress to SP-B is detrimental to the biophysical function of pulmonary surfactant and SP-B is evolutionary conserved across the vertebrates. It is likely that SP-B was essential for the evolutionary origin of pulmonary surfactant. We discuss three specific issues of the surfactant system to illustrate the diversity of function in animal respiratory structures. (1) Temperature: In vitro analyses of the behavior of different model surfactant films under dynamic conditions of surface tension and temperature suggest that, contrary to previous beliefs, the alveolar film may not have to be substantially enriched in the disaturated phospholipid, dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC), but that similar properties of rate of film formation can be achieved with more fluid films. Using an in vivo model of temperature change, a mammal that enters torpor, we show that film structure and function varies between surfactants isolated from torpid and active animals. (2) Spheres versus tubes: Surfactant is essential for lung stabilization in vertebrates, but its function is not restricted to the spherical alveolus. Instead, surfactant is also important in narrow tubular respiratory structures such as the terminal airways of mammals and the air capillaries of birds. (3). Insect tracheoles: We investigate the structure and function of the insect tracheal system and ask whether pulmonary surfactant also has a role in stabilizing these minute tubules. Our theoretical analysis suggests that a surfactant system may be required, in order to cope with surface tension during processes, such as molting, when the tracheae collapse and fill with water. Hence, despite observations by Wigglesworth in the 1930s of fluid-filled tracheoles, the challenge persists into the 21st century to determine whether this fluid is associated with a pulmonary-type surfactant system. Finally, we summarize the current status of the field and provide ideas for future research.
3884651|Offspring size can have pervasive effects throughout an organism's life history. Mothers can make either a few large or many small offspring, and the balance between these extremes is determined by the relationship between offspring size and performance. This relationship in turn is thought to be determined by the offspring's environment. Recently, it has become clear that events in one life-history stage can strongly affect performance in another. Given these strong carryover effects, we asked whether events in the larval phase can change the relationship between offspring size and performance in the adult phase. We manipulated the length of the larval period in the bryozoan Bugula neritina and then examined the relationship between offspring size and various parameters of adult performance under field conditions. We found that despite the adult stage being outplanted into identical conditions, different offspring sizes were predicted to be optimal, depending on the experience of those adults as larvae. This work highlights the fact that the strong phenotypic links between life-history stages may result in optimal offspring size being highly unpredictable for organisms with complex life cycles.
23016121|Synopsis We studied the occurrence of torpor in golden spiny mice in a hot rocky desert near the Dead Sea. In this rodent assemblage, a congener, the nocturnal common spiny mouse, competitively excluded the golden spiny mouse from the nocturnal part of the diel cycle and forced it into diurnal activity; this temporal partitioning allows the two species to partition their prey populations, particularly in summer when the diet of the two species is comprised mainly of arthropods, and largely overlap. We studied the effect of the presence of the common spiny mice at two resource levels (natural food availability and food added ad libitum) on populations of golden spiny mice in four large outdoor enclosures: two with common spiny mice removed and two enclosures with populations of both species. We hypothesized that with interspecific competition and/or reduced resources, golden spiny mice will increase their use of torpor. As we expected, supplemented food reduced the total time spent torpid. In summer, when the different activity periods of the two species results in prey species partitioning, removal of the congener did not affect torpor in the golden spiny mouse. However, in winter, when insect populations are low and the two species of mice overlap in a largely vegetarian diet, removal of the common spiny mouse reduced torpor in golden spiny mice, whether food was supplemented or not. This result suggests that torpor, a mechanism that allows small mammals to sustain periods of low availability of resources or high energetic requirements, may also help them to tolerate periods of enhanced interspecific competition. This may be a significant short-term mechanism that reduces competition and hence increases fitness, in particular of individuals of the subordinate species whose accessibility to resources may be limited.
3884853|The Trilobita were characterized by a cephalic region in which the biomineralized exoskeleton showed relatively high morphological differentiation among a taxonomically stable set of well defined segments, and an ontogenetically and taxonomically dynamic trunk region in which both exoskeletal segments and ventral appendages were similar in overall form. Ventral appendages were homonomous biramous limbs throughout both the cephalon and trunk, except for the most anterior appendage pair that was antenniform, preoral, and uniramous, and a posteriormost pair of antenniform cerci, known only in one species. In some clades trunk exoskeletal segments were divided into two batches. In some, but not all, of these clades the boundary between batches coincided with the boundary between the thorax and the adult pygidium. The repeated differentiation of the trunk into two batches of segments from the homonomous trunk condition indicates an evolutionary trend in aspects of body patterning regulation that was achieved independently in several trilobite clades. The phylogenetic placement of trilobites and congruence of broad patterns of tagmosis with those seen among extant arthropods suggest that the expression domains of trilobite cephalic Hox genes may have overlapped in a manner similar to that seen among extant arachnates. This, coupled with the fact that trilobites likely possessed ten Hox genes, presents one alternative to a recent model in which Hox gene distribution in trilobites was equated to eight putative divisions of the trilobite body plan.
25160200|Reproduction in all vertebrates requires the brain hormone gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) to activate a cascade of events leading to gametogenesis. All vertebrates studied to date have one to three forms of GnRH in specific but different neurons in the brain. In addition, at least one type of GnRH receptor is present in each vertebrate for activation of specific physiological events within a target cell. Humans possess two types of GnRH (GnRH1 and GnRH2) but only one functional GnRH receptor. Zebrafish, Danio rerio, also have two types of GnRH (GnRH2 and GnRH3), although in contrast to humans, zebrafish appear to have four different GnRH receptors in their genome. To characterize the biological significance of multiple GnRH receptors within a single species, we cloned four GnRH receptor cDNAs from zebrafish and compared their structures, expression, and cell physiology. The zebrafish receptors are 7-transmembrane G-protein coupled receptors with amino-acid sequence identities ranging from 45 to 71% among the four receptors. High sequence similarity was observed among the seven helices of zebrafish GnRHRs compared with the human GnRHR, the green monkey type II GnRHR, and the two goldfish GnRHRs. Also, key amino acids for putative ligand binding, disulfide bond formation, N-glycosylation, and G-protein coupling were present in the extracellular and intracellular domains. The four zebrafish receptors were expressed in a variety of tissues including the brain, eye, and gonads. In an inositol phosphate assay, each receptor was functional as shown by its response to physiological doses of native GnRH peptides; two receptors showed selectivity between GnRH2 and GnRH3. Each of the four receptor genes was mapped to distinct chromosomes. Our phylogenetic and syntenic analysis segregated the four zebrafish GnRH receptors into two distinct phylogenetic groups that are separate gene lineages conserved throughout vertebrate evolution. We suggest the maintenance of four functional GnRH receptors in zebrafish compared with only one in humans may depend either on subfunctionalization or neofunctionalization in fish compared with mammalian GnRH receptors. The differences in structure, location, and response to GnRH forms strongly suggests that the four zebrafish GnRH receptors have novel functions in addition to the conventional activation of the pituitary gland in the reproductive axis.
25160145|Electromyography (EMG), or the study of muscle activation patterns, has long been used to infer central nervous system (CNS) control of the musculoskeletal system and the evolution of that control. As the activation of the muscles at the level of the periphery is a reflection of the interaction of descending influences and local reflex control, EMG is an important tool in integrated investigations of the evolution of coordination in complex, musculoskeletal systems. Yet, the use of EMG as a tool to understand the evolution of motor control has its limitations. We here review the potential limitations and opportunities of the use of EMG in studying the evolution of motor control in vertebrates and provide original previously unpublished data to illustrate this. The relative timing of activation of a set of muscles can be used to evaluate CNS coordination of the components in a musculoskeletal system. Studies of relative timing reveal task-dependent variability in the recruitment of different populations of muscle fibers (i.e., different fiber types) within a single muscle, and left-right asymmetries in activation that need to be taken into account in comparative studies. The magnitude of muscle recruitment is strongly influenced by the instantaneous demands imposed on the system, and is likely determined by local reflex-control systems. Consequently, using EMG to make meaningful inferences about evolutionary changes in musculoskeletal control requires comparisons across similar functional tasks. Moreover, our data show that inferences about the evolution of motor control are limited in their explanatory power without proper insights into the kinematics and dynamics of a system.
3884704|In many species of animals, males may achieve reproductive success via one of several alternative reproductive tactics. Over the past decade or so, there has been a concerted effort to investigate endocrine mechanisms that underlie such discrete behavioral (and often morphological) variation. In vertebrates, the first generation of studies focused on potential organizational or activational effects of steroid hormones (Moore, 1991; Moore et al., 1998). Some of these studies have made it clear that, in addition to circulating hormone levels, one must also consider other aspects of the endocrine system, including hormone receptors, binding globulins and potential interactions among endocrine axes. In this paper, I review recent work on endocrine mechanisms and suggest possibilities for future investigation. I highlight how individual variation in sensitivity to environmental conditions, particularly with respect to various stressors, may account for the existence of alternative male reproductive phenotypes. Along these lines, I briefly explain the logic behind our work with male phenotypes of longear sunfish (Lepomis megalotis) that is aimed at determining the tissue-specific distribution and activity of two enzymes that are common to androgen and glucocorticoid metabolism. A major goal of our work is to examine the potential role of steroidogenic enzymes in the transduction of environmental information to influence the expression of alternative male reproductive phenotypes.
25160146|Many studies of feeding behavior have implanted electrodes unilaterally (in muscles on only one side of the head) to determine the basic motor patterns of muscles controlling the jaws. However, bilateral implantation has the potential to achieve a more comprehensive understanding of modification of the motor activity that may be occurring between the left and right sides of the head. In particular, complex processing of prey is often characterized by bilaterally asynchronous and even unilateral activation of the jaw musculature. In this study, we bilaterally implant feeding muscles in species from four orders of elasmobranchs (Squaliformes, Orectolobiformes, Carcharhiniformes, Rajoidea) in order to characterize the effects of type of prey, feeding behavior, and phylogeny on the degree of asynchronous muscle activation. Electrodes were implanted in three of the jaw adductors, two divisions of the quadratomandibularis and the preorbitalis, as well as in a cranial elevator in sharks, the epaxialis. The asynchrony of feeding events (measured as the degree to which activity of members of a muscle pair is out of phase) was compared across species for capture versus processing and simple versus complex prey, then interpreted in the contexts of phylogeny, morphology, and ecology to clarify determinants of asynchronous activity. Whereas capture and processing of prey were characterized by statistically similar degrees of asynchrony for data pooled across species, events involving complex prey were more asynchronous than were those involving simple prey. The two trophic generalists, Squalus acanthias and Leucoraja erinacea, modulated the degree of asynchrony according to type of prey, whereas the two behavioral specialists, Chiloscyllium plagiosum and Mustelus canis, activated the cranial muscles synchronously regardless of type of prey. These differences in jaw muscle activity would not have been detected with unilateral implantation. Therefore, we advocate bilateral implantation in studies of cranial muscle function in fishes, particularly when investigating behaviors associated with processing complex prey. Incorporating this methodology will provide a more detailed understanding of the coordination and evolution of paired-muscle function in the feeding apparatus relative to behavioral and ecological performance.
4540155|Synopsis Sexual dimorphism in size (sexual size dimorphism; SSD) is nearly ubiquitous, but the relative importance of genetic versus environmental control of SSD is not known for most species. We investigated proximate determinants of SSD in several species of squamate reptiles, including three species of Sceloporus lizards and the diamond-backed rattlesnake (Crotalus atrox). In natural populations of these species, SSD is caused by sexual differences in age-specific growth. Males and females, however, may often share similar potentials for growth: growth is strongly responsive to the availability of food, and sexual differences in growth can be greatly suppressed or completely absent under common environmental conditions in the laboratory. Sexually divergent growth is expressed in natural environments because of inherent ecological differences between males and females and because of potential epigenetic effects of sex-specific growth regulators. In field-active Sceloporus, sexual differences in growth rate are associated with sexual divergence in plasma testosterone. Experiments confirm that testosterone inhibits growth in species in which females are larger (for example, S. undulatus and S. virgatus) and stimulates growth in those in which males are larger (for example, S. jarrovii). Interestingly, however, sexual divergence in plasma testosterone is not accompanied by divergence in growth in S. jarrovii or in male-larger C. atrox in the laboratory. Furthermore, experimental effects of castration and testosterone replacement on growth are not evident in captive S. jarrovii, possibly because growth effects of testosterone are superseded by an abundant, high-quality diet. In female-larger S. undulatus, growth may be traded-off against testosterone-induced reproductive costs of activity. In male-larger species, costs of reproduction in terms of growth are suggested by supplemental feeding of reproductive female C. atrox in their natural environment and by experimental manipulation of reproductive cost in female S. jarrovii. Growth costs of reproduction, however, do not contribute substantially to the development of SSD in male-larger S. jarrovii. We conclude that the energetic costs of testosterone-induced, male reproductive behavior may contribute substantially to the development of SSD in some female-larger species. However, despite strong evidence that reproductive investment exacts a substantial cost in growth, we do not support the reproductive cost hypothesis as a general explanation of SSD in male-larger species.
40863407|The evolutionary significance of egg size in marine invertebrates is commonly perceived in energetic terms. Embryonic size should also have direct effects upon the forces that govern swimming, a behavior common to early larval development in the plankton. If swimming is ecologically important, early larvae may need to perform to a certain "standard", or threshold of speed and/or stability. The existence of performance standards in early development could therefore act to constrain the evolution of egg size and the evolution of development. Here we present the key parameters that characterize the upward swimming speed of ciliated spheroidal larvae moving at very low Reynolds numbers. The dependence of maximum supported mass upon larval size, and the independence of neutral-weight swimming speed from size, lead to hypotheses about scaling of swimming speed with size. Experimental studies with thirteen broadcastspawning planktotrophs demonstrate that free-living embryonic swimmers in all of these species conform to a strong negative scaling of density with size that offsets increases in mass with increasing size. This trend suggests that swimming ability is broadly under selection in early development. In experimental studies and in a hydrodynamic model of larval swimming, the performance of trochophore larvae provides support for our hypothesized scaling relationships, and also for the concept of a standard in swimming speed. Echinoid blastulae, however, show relationships between speed and size that are not predicted by our scaling arguments. Results for echinoids suggest that differences in ciliary tip speed, or possibly in spatial density of cilia over the blastula's surface, result in significant differences in species' performance. Strong phyletic differences in the initial patterning and growth of structures used for swimming thus appear to cause significant differences in the relationship of swimming ability with embryo size.
3884573|Many species carry out their most interesting activities where they cannot readily be observed or monitored. Marine mammals are extreme among this group, accomplishing their most astounding activities both distant from land and deep in the sea. Collection, storage and transmission of data about these activities are constrained by the energy requirements and size of the recording loggers and transmitters. The more bits of information collected, stored and transmitted, the more battery is required and the larger the tag must be. We therefore need to be selective about the information we collect, while maintaining detail and fidelity. To accomplish this in the study of marine mammals, we have designed "intelligent" data logger/ transmitters that provide context-driven data compression, data relay, and automated data base storage. We later combine these data with remotely sensed environmental information and other oceanographic data sets to recreate the environmental context for the animal's activity, and we display the combined data using computer animation techniques. In this way, the system can provide near real time "observation" of animal behavior and physiology from the remotest parts of the globe.
3884620|A recurring question in the study of fish biomechanics and energetics is the mechanical power required for tail-swimming at the high speeds seen among aquatic vertebrates. The quest for answers has been driven by conceptual advances in fluid dynamics, starting with ideas on the boundary layer and drag initiated by Prandtl, and in measurement techniques starting with force balances focussing on drag and thrust. Drag (=thrust) from measurements on physical models, carcasses, kinematics as inputs to hydromechanical models, and physiological power sources vary from less than that expected for an equivalent rigid reference to over an order of magnitude greater. Estimates of drag and thrust using recent advances largely made possible by increased computing power have not resolved the discrepancy. Sources of drag and thrust are not separable in axial undulatory self propulsion, are open to interpretation and Froude efficiency is zero. Wakes are not easily interpreted, especially for thrust evaluation. We suggest the best measures of swimming performance are velocity and power consumption for which 2D inviscid simulations can give realistic predictions. Steady swimming power is several times that required for towing an equivalent flat plate at the same speed.
40931187|Certain mRNAs have been shown to be segregated in different cells in various metazoan embryos. These events represent aspects of autonomous mechanisms that establish particular embryonic cell fates and axial properties associated with asymmetric cell divisions. The spiralian lophotrochozoans (which include molluscs, annelids, nemerteans, gnathostomulids, dicyemid mesozoans, entoprocts, and platyhelminthes) exhibit a highly conserved pattern of early development that involves stereotypical, asymmetric cell divisions (termed "spiral cleavage"). Recently, it was demonstrated that various mRNAs are dynamically localized to the centrosomes in specific cells during early development in the gastropod mollusc, llyanassa obsoleta. During subsequent cell divisions, these messages become segregated in particular daughter cells, and it has been proposed that these events distinguish the developmental potential of these cells within the early embryo of I. obsoleta. The molecular mechanisms underlying these events, however, are still unknown. Here we show for the first time in another spiralian lophotrochozoan (the gastropod Crepidula fornicata) that similar patterns of mRNA localization take place during early development. To characterize the transcriptome of early development, and identify candidate genes for the expression analyses, high-throughput sequencing was carried out, via GS FLX Titanium 454 pyrosequencing. The annotated sequences have been made available as a resource for the scientific community (www.life.illinoi.edu/henry/crepidula_databases.html). Presumably, specific proteins associated with centrosomes may be important for these mRNA localization events. In silico sequence comparisons with known centriolar/centrosomal, ciliary/basal body proteomes shows that a large number of those proteins are represented in the collection of expressed sequence tags of C. fornicata annotated in this study. These data should be useful for future studies of the role of specific mRNAs in controlling cell fate and axial specification in the spiralian Lophotrochozoa, and for dissecting the underlying molecular mechanisms that accomplish these events.
4540166| The chordates include vertebrates plus two groups of invertebrates (the cephalochordates and tunicates). Previous embryonic fate maps of the cephalochordate amphioxus (Branchiostoma) were influenced by preconceptions that early development in amphioxus and ascidian tunicates should be fundamentally the same and that the early amphioxus embryo, like that of amphibians, should have ventral mesoderm. Although detailed cell lineage tracing in amphioxus has not been done because of limited availability of the embryos and because cleavage is radial and holoblastic with the blastomeres nearly equal in size and not tightly adherent until the mid-blastula stage, a compilation of data from gene expression and function, blastomere isolation and dye labeling allows a more realistic fate map to be drawn. The revised fate map is substantially different from that of ascidians. It shows (1) that the anterior pole of the amphioxus embryo is offset dorsally from the animal pole only by about 20, (2) that the ectoderm/mesendoderm boundary (the future rim of the blastopore) is at the equator of the blastula, which approximately coincides with the 3rd cleavage plane, and (3) that there is no ventral mesoderm during the gastrula stage. Involution or ingression of cells over the blastopore lip is negligible, and the blastopore, which is posterior, closes centripetally as if by a purse string. During the gastrula stage, the animal pole shifts ventrally, coming to lie about 20 ventral to the anterior tip of the late gastrula/early neurula. Comparisons of the embryos of amphioxus and vertebrates indicate that in spite of large differences in the mechanics of cleavage and gastrulation, anterior/posterior and dorsal/ventral patterning occur by homologous genetic mechanisms. Therefore, the small, nonyolky embryo of amphioxus is probably a reasonable approximation of the basal chordate embryo before the evolution of determinate cleavage in the tunicates and the evolution large amounts of yolk in basal vertebrates. 
4485822|Coevolution between male and female traits can result from correlated responses to selection or correlated selection on genetically independent traits. This study examines the possibility that traits involved in precopulatory sexual selection may influence the evolution of traits involved in postcopulatory sexual selection due to the existence of correlated selection or correlated responses to selection. Artificial selection on male eye span in Cyrtodiopsis dalmanni, a sexually dimorphic stalk-eyed fly, is used to test for correlated changes in reproductive traits of male and female flies. Flies from replicate lines that had been under selection for 57 generations were matched for age and genotyped at four X-linked microsatellite loci. Egg number and testis size increased with age, but did not differ among lines. Spermathecal areas and duct lengths differed among replicates, but not among selection treatments. Female relative eye span, size of the ventral receptacle and egg size exhibited significant correlated responses to selection on male relative eye span. The absence of any change in sperm length or testis size between lines indicates that changes in female traits are unlikely due to correlated selection mediated by sperm competition. Significant effects of X-linked microsatellite genotypes indicate instead that the correlated responses to selection were due, in part, to Xlinked genes in linkage disequilibrium or that exhibit pleiotropy. The presence of nonadditive allelic effects on genetically correlated female traits combined with additive allelic effects on a male ornament provides a previously unrecognized mechanism by which genetic variation could be maintained despite strong sexual selection.
3884609|Patterns of distribution and processes of differentiation have often been contrasted between terrestrial and marine biotas. The islands of Oceania offer an excellent setting to explore this contrast, because the geographic setting for terrestrial and shallow-water, benthic, marine organisms are the same: the myriad islands strewn across the vast Pacific. The size of species ranges and the geographic distribution of endemism are two biogeographic attributes that are thought to differ markedly between terrestrial and marine biotas in the Pacific. While terrestrial species are frequently confined to single islands or archipelagoes throughout Oceania, marine species tend to have wide to very wide distributions, and are rarely restricted to single island groups except for the most isolated archipelagoes. We explore the conditions under which species can reach an island by dispersal and differentiate. Genetic differentiation can occur either through founder speciation or vicariance; these processes are requisite ends of a continuum. We show that founder speciation is most likely when few propagules enter the dispersal medium and survive well while they travel far. We argue that conditions favorable to founder speciation are common in marine as well as terrestrial systems, and that terrestrial-type, archipelagic-level endemism is likely common in marine taxa. We give examples of marine groups that show archipelagic level endemism on most Pacific island groups as well as of terrestrial species that are widespread. Thus both the patterns and processes of insular diversification are variable, and overlap more between land and sea than previously considered.
4485799|Top pelagic predators such as tunas, sharks, marine turtles and mammals have historically been difficult to study due to their large body size and vast range over the oceanic habitat. In recent years the development of small microprocessor-based data storage tags that are surgically implanted or satellite-linked provide marine researchers a novel avenue for examining the movements, physiology and behaviors of pelagic animals in the wild. When biological and physical data obtained from the tags are combined with satellite derived sea surface temperature and ocean color data, the relationships between the movements, behaviors and physical ocean environment can be examined. Tag-bearing marine animals can function as autonomous ocean profilers providing oceanographic data wherever their long migrations take them. The biologging science is providing ecological physiologists with new insights into the seasonal movements, habitat utilization, breeding behaviors and population structures in of marine vertebrates. In addition, the data are revealing migration corridors, hot spots and physical oceanographic patterns that are key to understanding how organisms such as bluefin tunas use the open ocean environment. In the 21st century as ecosystem degradation and global warming continue to threaten the existence of species on Earth, the field of physiological ecology will play a more pivotal role in conservation biology.
3884900|The energy expenditure of endotherms, through its impact on the rate of reproduction, affects their ability to withstand competition, to tolerate environmental disturbances, and to endure predation. The fecundity of eutherian mammals increases with rate of metabolism because the post-natal growth rate increases and the gestation and conception-to-weaning periods decrease with a mass-independent increase in basal rate of metabolism. These correlations account for the observation that species that have large population fluctuations have high rates of metabolism and reproduction. Species with high rates of metabolism out-compete species with low rates when using resources that permit consumers to have high rates of metabolism, which explains why eutherian carnivores replace marsupial carnivores, none of which have high basal rates as a result of their form of reproduction. Fecundity in birds also appears to correlate with energy expenditure, which may account for the huge die-off of birds endemic to oceanic islands after the invasion of humans: island endemics, many of which have low rates of metabolism, are unable to increase fecundity in response to a human-based increase in mortality. The long-term protection for endotherms characterized by low rates of energy expenditure requires their isolation from high levels of predation and competition, conditions that are likely to occur only on islands free from eutherian predators and with low species diversity. Such endotherms may survive on continents if they are ecologically isolated from the general fauna.
3884597|Gonad morphology at the gross anatomical or histological levels has long been studied by fisheries biologists to identify annual reproductive cycles and length of breeding season, among other goals. Comparative surveys across vertebrate taxa have not been detailed enough, however, to describe fully the differences and similarities among gonads of bony fishes and other vertebrates, and to use gonad morphology in phylogenetic systematic analyses. An emerging constant among vertebrates is the presence of a germinal epithelium composed of somatic and germ cells in both males and females. In females, the germinal epithelium lines the ovarian lamellae. In males, arrangement of the germinal epithelium into compartments varies among osteichthyans: basal taxa have an anastomosing tubular testis, whereas derived taxa have a lobular testis. The lobular testis is proposed as a synapomorphy of the Neoteleostei. The annual reproductive cycle is hypothesized to be the source of morphological variation among testis types. Elongation of germinal compartments during early maturation may result in a transition from anastomosing tubular to lobular testes. In all male atherinomorphs surveyed, spermatogonia are restricted to the distal termini of lobules rather than being distributed along the lobule; there is an epithelioid arrangement of Sertoli and germ cells rather than a germinal epithelium. Arrest of the maturation-regression phases is hypothesized to lead to formation of the atherinomorph testis. Atherinomorphs also have a distinctive egg with fluid, rather than granular, yolk. Variation among germinal epithelia is interpreted in a developing phylogenetic framework to understand evolution of gonad morphology and to propose gonad characters for phylogenetic analyses.
4485807|The marine sponge Lamellodysidea chlorea contains large populations of the host-specific, filamentous cyanobacterium Oscillatoria spongeliae. Other marine sponges, including Xestospongia exigua, contain the generalist, unicellular cyanobacterium Synechococcus spongiarum. The impact of cyanobacterial photosynthesis on host sponges was manipulated by shading these sponge-cyanobacteria associations. If cyanobacteria benefit their hosts, shading should reduce this benefit. Chlorophyll a concentrations were measured as an index of cyanobacterial abundance. After two weeks, shaded L. chlorea lost more mass than controls, while shaded and control X. exigua did not lose a significant amount of mass. Chlorophyll a concentrations in shaded X. exigua were lower than in controls, but were not significantly different between shaded and control L. chlorea. In addition, L. chlorea shaded in situ lost over 40% of their initial area, but did not differ in chlorophyll a concentrations from controls. These results suggest that Oscillatoria symbionts benefit their host sponges in a mutualistic association. Synechococcus symbionts may be commensals that exploit the resources provided by their sponge hosts without significantly affecting sponge mass. When shaded, Synechococcus symbionts may be consumed by their hosts or may be able to disperse from this unfavorable environment. These data support the hypothesis that more specialized symbionts provide a greater benefit to their hosts, but hypotheses concerning the dispersal abilities of these symbionts remain to be explored. Sponge-cyanobacteria symbioses provide model systems for investigating the costs and benefits of symbiosis and the roles of dispersal, environmental conditions, and phylogenetic history in determining the specificity of endosymbionts for their hosts.
3884616| A continuously swimming mullet modulates its thrust production by changing slip-the ratio between its swimming speed U and the speed V with which the body wave travels down its body. This variation in thrust is reflected in the wake of the fish. We obtained 2-dimensional impressions of the wake behind a mullet swimming at a slip of 0.7 equivalent to active swimming, at a slip of 0.9 close to free-wheeling, and at a slip of 1.1 when the fish is braking. Independent of the slip, vortices are shed at the tail when the tail tip reaches its maximum lateral excursion. The manner in which the wake changes as it decays depends on the degree of slip: At a slip well below unity, the wake decays without any qualitative changes in shape, the medio-frontal cross section of the mature wake consists of a double row of alternating vortices separated by an undulating jet, and the angle between the jet flow and the mean path of motion is close to 45; at a slip above unity, the vortices stretch out laterally and the mature wake resembles a single row of oval vortices with two vortex cores, and the jet between the vortices is almost perpendicular to the mean path of motion; the wake at slip of 0.9 exhibits a pattern intermediate between the wakes at slips 0.7 and 0.9 with slightly elongate vortices and a jet angle of 61. 
25160120|Bats feature prominently among organisms that occupy the aerosphere as they extensively use this environment for foraging, but also for dispersal, migration, and behavioral interactions. Differential use of the aerosphere is an important factor structuring bat assemblages, with species exhibiting distinct morphological, physiological, and sensory adaptations to different habitat types. This necessitates comprehensive sampling methodologies such as combined ground-level and canopy-level mist netting as well as acoustic monitoring to assess the presence, diversity, and activity of different functional groups of species adequately. Recent technological advances in acoustic detection and in methods of analysis, coupled with the expansion of libraries of echolocation calls for species identification, now allow for the reliable quantification of species numbers and activity of the scarcely known group of aerial insectivorous bats, particularly in species-rich tropical assemblages. We provide a brief, exemplary overview of recent studies on bats conducted in Panam to demonstrate the necessity of comprehensive sampling methods and application of new technologies in order to adequately depict assemblage composition and responses of bats to structural changes in habitats induced by fragmentation. In addition to acoustic methods, miniaturization of radio transmitters has provided new insights into the patterns of spatial use of the aerosphere by bats and has identified species-specific differences in mobility as one of the important traits that determines bats' reactions to anthropogenic alterations of the landscape. Following the goals of the symposium on aeroecology, we propose new avenues of research for probing the aerosphere. We discuss how integration of a diverse array of remote sensing tools with data on species distribution and species traits, such as mobility and edge-sensitivity, might provide novel opportunities for the development, and application of conservation-oriented monitoring systems.
3884838|Muscle tissue may have played a central role in the early evolution of mesoderm. The first function of myocytes could have been to control swimming and gliding motion in ciliated vermiform organisms, as it still is in such present-day basal Bilateria as the Nemertodermatida. The only mesodermal cells between epidermis and gastrodermis in Nemertodermatida are myocytes, and conceivably the myocyte was, in fact, the original mesodermal cell type. In Nemertodermatida as well as the Acoela, myocytes are sub-epithelial fiber-type muscle cells and appear to originate from the gastrodermal epithelium by emigration of single cells. Other mesodermal cells in the acoels are the peripheral parenchyma (connective tissue) and tunica cells of the gonads, and these also arise from the gastrodermis. Musculature in many of the coelomate protostomes and deuterostomes, on the other hand, is in the form of epitheliomuscular (myoepithelial) cells, and this cell type may also have been an early form of the mesodermal myocyte. The mesodermal bands in the small annelid Polygordius and in juvenile enteropneusts have cells intermediate between mesenchymal and epithelial in their histological organization as they develop into myoepithelia. If acoelomates were derived from coelomates by progenesis, then the fiber-type muscles of acoelomates could be products of foreshortened differentiation of such tissue. The precise serial patterning of circular muscle cells along the anterior-posterior axis during embryonic development in the acoel Convoluta pulchra provides a model for early steps in the gradual evolution of segmentation from iterated organ systems.
3884896|We present an approach to delineating physiological effects on population level processes by modeling the activity and resource budgets of animals. Physiology and its environmental forcing functions are assumed to affect both the total time available for activity and foraging and the resource budgets by affecting resource acquisition, costs, and handling. We extend the earlier model of Dunham and others (1989) and translate it into a computational algorithm. To satisfy conservation needs for accuracy, wide applicability, and rapid deployment, the model is relatively simple, uses as much data on the focal organism as possible, is mechanistically driven, and can be adapted to new organisms by using data for the new species, or the best available approximations to those data. We present 2 applications of the modeling approach. First, we consider a system with substantial information available, canyon lizards (Sceloporus merriami) studied by Dunham and colleagues in west Texas. In this case the focus is on integration of numerous inputs and the ability of the model to produce predictions that approximate counterintuitive empirical patterns. By using the wealth of specific data available, the model outperforms previous attempts at explanation of those patterns. Next, we consider a system with much less available information (forest-dwelling semi-fossorial frogs). The question here is how hydric conditions can become limiting. A model of evaporation from frogs buried in leaf litter was incorporated and it demonstrates how rainfall patterns can both supply water and put the frogs at risk of critical dehydration.
23016039|Synopsis Reproduction on mudflats requires that eggs are protected from different environmental challenges during development and hatch when environmental conditions are favorable for survival of juveniles. Mudskippers are air-breathing, amphibious gobies of the subfamily Oxudercinae, and one of a few vertebrates that reside on mudflats. They excavate burrows in mudflats and deposit eggs in them. However, these burrows are filled with extremely hypoxic water, in which eggs could not survive. To secure embryonic development within their burrows, the burrow-guarding parental fish (a male or mating pair) store fresh air in an egg chamber, located near the bottom or at mid-depth in a burrow, by transporting mouthfuls of air during each low tide. The Japanese mudskipper, Periophthalmus modestus, is the best-studied species regarding reproductive strategies. The air-supplying behavior appears to be predominantly governed by the oxygen levels within egg chambers, but also by some other factor that is possibly related to the tidal cycle. When embryonic development is complete, the burrow-guarding male P. modestus removes the air from the egg chamber and releases the air outside the burrow on a nocturnal rising tide. Consequently, the tide floods the egg chamber and induces hatching. Because P. modestus eggs only have a 56 day window for hatching competence, the male's initial selection of the position for the burrow in the intertidal zone and the timing of spawning relative to the tidal cycle are both important factors in hatching success. This is particularly crucial for those burrows in higher intertidal zones, which may be reached only by spring high tides. Not much is known for other mudskippers, but it is likely that they also employ similar reproductive strategies. The objective of this review is to summarize available information on reproductive strategies of mudskippers, and to discuss future directions to better elucidate mechanisms and adaptive significance for the reproduction of mudskippers. Further comparative studies with both mudskippers and other oxudercine gobies dwelling mudflats could shed new light on how vertebrates solved problems of reproduction when they expanded habitats to environments in an air-water interface.
3884882|Lobsters have numerous adaptive specializations of the olfactory system that make them especially suitable model organisms for the study of olfaction. Recent work using genomics and physiological genomics to study the lobster olfactory organ extends the advantages of their use further. A subtracted cDNA library from the mature zone of the olfactory organ and 3 physiological genomics experiments have helped identify numerous functionally interesting genes. These include specific markers of 3 cell types that previously could be discriminated only in anatomical sections, plus a marker of reactive epithelial cells at sites of cellular proliferation for both the normal ongoing replacement of olfactory tissue and the regeneration of damaged olfactory tissue. The approaches were instrumental in the discovery of a new exocrine gland, the aesthetasc tegumental gland, which is linked to grooming and the prevention of fouling of the olfactory aesthetasc setae. They also suggest a previously unknown endocrine or paracrine function performed by auxiliary cells of the olfactory aesthetasc sensory units. Other discoveries include candidates for gene products involved in olfactory transduction, presynaptic modulation of olfactory neuron axons by ionotropic receptors, and neuromodulation of both the olfactory sensory neurons and the interneurons in the olfactory lobe of the brain.
23016040|Synopsis Evidence is accumulating for the widespread occurrence of environmentally cued hatching (ECH) in animals, but its diversity and distribution across taxa are unknown. Herein I review three types of ECH in reptiles: early hatching, delayed hatching, and synchronous hatching. ECH is currently known from 43 species, including turtles, crocodilians, lizards, snakes, tuatara, and possibly worm lizards. Early hatching caused by physical disturbance (e.g., vibrations) is the most commonly reported ECH across all groups; although it apparently serves an antipredator function in some species, its adaptive value is unknown in most. Delayed hatching, characterized by metabolic depression or embryonic aestivation, and sometimes followed by a hypoxic cue (flooding), occurs in some turtles and possibly in monitor lizards and crocodilians; in some of these species delayed hatching serves to defer hatching from the dry season until the more favorable conditions of the wet season. Synchronous hatching, whereby sibling eggs hatch synchronously despite vertical thermal gradients in the nest, occurs in some turtles and crocodilians. Although vibrations and vocalizations in hatching-competent embryos can stimulate synchronous hatching, cues promoting developmentally less advanced embryos to catch up with more advanced embryos have not been confirmed. Synchronous hatching may serve to dilute predation risk by promoting synchronous emergence or reduce the period in which smells associated with hatching can attract predators to unhatched eggs. Within species, advancing our understanding of ECH requires three types of studies: (1) experiments identifying hatching cues and the plastic hatching period, (2) experiments disentangling hypotheses about multiple hatching cues, and (3) investigations into the environmental context in which ECH might evolve in different species (major predators or abiotic influences on the egg, embryo, and hatchling). Among species and groups, surveys for ECH are required to understand its evolutionary history in reptiles. The probability of ECH occurring is likely influenced by a species's life history, ecology, behavior, and interrelationships with other species (e.g., sizes of predator and prey). More broadly, the discovery of embryoembryo communication as a mechanism for synchronous hatching in crocodilians and turtles indicates that the social behavior of (nonavian) reptiles has been underestimated.
40863368|A stable phylogenetic hypothesis for families within jellyfish class Scyphozoa has been elusive. Reasons for the lack of resolution of scyphozoan familial relationships include a dearth of morphological characters that reliably distinguish taxa and incomplete taxonomic sampling in molecular studies. Here, we address the latter issue by using maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods to reconstruct the phylogenetic relationships among all 19 currently valid scyphozoan families, using sequence data from two nuclear genes: 18S and 28S rDNA. Consistent with prior morphological hypotheses, we find strong evidence for monophyly of subclass Discomedusae, order Coronatae, rhizostome suborder Kolpophorae and superfamilies Actinomyariae, Kampylomyariae, Krikomyariae, and Scapulatae. Eleven of the 19 currently recognized scyphozoan families are robustly monophyletic, and we suggest recognition of two new families pending further analyses. In contrast to long-standing morphological hypotheses, the phylogeny shows coronate family Nausithoidae, semaeostome family Cyaneidae, and rhizostome suborder Daktyliophorae to be nonmonophyletic. Our analyses neither strongly support nor strongly refute monophyly of order Rhizostomeae, superfamily Inscapulatae, and families Ulmaridae, Catostylidae, Lychnorhizidae, and Rhizostomatidae. These taxa, as well as familial relationships within Coronatae and within rhizostome superfamily Inscapulatae, remain unclear and may be resolved by additional genomic and taxonomic sampling. In addition to clarifying some historically difficult taxonomic questions and highlighting nodes in particular need of further attention, the molecular phylogeny presented here will facilitate more robust study of phenotypic evolution in the Scyphozoa, including the evolution characters associated with mass occurrences of jellyfish.
40793146|Dense aggregations of tube-worms can stabilize sediments and generate oases for benthic communities that are different and often more diverse and abundant than those of the surroundings. If these features are to qualify as biogenic reefs under nature-conservation legislation such as the EC Habitats Directive, a level of stability and longevity is desirable aside from physical and biological attributes. Lanice conchilega (Pallas, 1766) is widely distributed around the European coast and aggregations of this tube-dwelling polychaete are known to have a positive effect on the biodiversity of associated species in inter-and sub-tidal areas. This increases the value of L. conchilega-rich habitats for higher trophic levels such as birds and fish. However, L. conchilega is currently not recognized as a reef builder primarily due to uncertainty about the stability of their aggregations. We carried out three studies on different spatial and temporal scales to explore a number of properties relating to stability: (1) Individual aggregations of L. conchilega of ~1 m were monitored for up to 1 year, (2) records of L. conchilega from a 258-ha area over a 35-year period were analyzed, (3) the recovery of a population of L. conchilega subjected to disturbances by cultivation of Manila clams (Ruditapes philippinarum) was followed over 3 years. The studies provided evidence about the longevity of L. conchilega aggregations, their resistance to disturbance, their resilience in recovering from negative impact and their large-scale persistence. The results showed that populations of L. conchilega were prone to considerable fluctuation and the stability of aggregations depended on environmental factors and on recruitment. The tube-worms proved to be susceptible to disturbance by cultivation of Manila clams but demonstrated the potential to recover from that impact. The long-term monitoring of a large L. conchilega population in the Bay of Mont Saint Michel (France) indicated that aggregations can persist over many decades with a constant, densely populated core area and an expanding and contracting more thinly populated fringe zone. The stability of aggregations of L conchilega and the structures they form do not unequivocally fit the currently accepted definition of a reef. However, given L conchtlegds accepted reef-like potential to influence diversity and abundance in benthic communities, we suggest clarifying and expanding the definition of reefs so that species with records of significant persistence in particular areas and which otherwise meet expectations of reefs are included within the definition.
3884784|Sponges (Porifera) are unusual animals whose body plans make interpreting phylogenetic relationships within the group and with other basal metazoan taxa a difficult task. Although molecular approaches have offered new insights, some questions require a morphological approach using detailed ultrastructural or light microscopical studies of developing embryos and larvae. Glass sponges (Hexactinellida) have perhaps the most unusual body plan within the Metazoa because the majority of the tissue of the adult consists of a single giant multinucleated syncytium that forms the inner and outer layers of the sponge and is joined by cytoplasmic bridges to uninucleate cellular regions. Here we have used serial section transmission and high-resolution scanning electron microscopy to examine when syncytia first form in the cave-dwelling glass sponge Oopsacas minuta. We confirm that in O. minuta blastomeres are separate until the 32-cell stage; cleavage is equal but asynchronous until a hollow blastula is formed. The sixth division yields a collection of variously sized micromeres at the surface of the embryo and large yolk- and lipid-filled macromeres lining the blastocoel. Syncytia then form by the fusion of micromeres to form cytoplasmic bridges with each other and the fusion of macromeres to form the future multinucleated trabecular tissue of the larva and adult sponge. The multinucleated trabecular tissue envelops and forms cytoplasmic bridges with all uninucleate cells, covering the developing larva with a continuous syncytial epithelium. Differentiation of tissues occurs very early during embryogenesis with the separation of uninucleate and multinucleate lineages, but all cells and syncytia are joined by cytoplasmic bridges such that there is cytoplasmic continuity throughout the entire larva. Although glass sponges begin life as a cellular embryo, the unusual mechanism of syncytia formation at such an early stage in development distinguishes this group of animals from their closest multicellular relatives, the Demospongiae. Most important, however, these data lend support to the hypothesis that the original metazoans were cellular, not syncytial.
41319665|Animals that fall upside down typically engage in an aerial righting response so as to reorient dorsoventrally. This behavior can be preparatory to gliding or other controlled aerial behaviors and is ultimately necessary for a successful landing. Aerial righting reflexes have been described historically in various mammals such as cats, guinea pigs, rabbits, rats, and primates. The mechanisms whereby such righting can be accomplished depend on the size of the animal and on anatomical features associated with motion of the limbs and body. Here we apply a comparative approach to the study of aerial righting to explore the diverse strategies used for reorientation in midair. We discuss data for two species of lizards, the gecko Hemidactylus platyurus and the anole Anolis carolinensis, as well as for the first instar of the stick insect Extatosoma tiaratum, to illustrate size-dependence of this phenomenon and its relevance to subsequent aerial performance in parachuting and gliding animals. Geckos can use rotation of their large tails to reorient their bodies via conservation of angular momentum. Lizards with tails well exceeding snout-vent length, and correspondingly large tail inertia to body inertia ratios, are more effective at creating midair reorientation maneuvers. Moreover, experiments with stick insects, weighing an order of magnitude less than the lizards, suggest that aerodynamic torques acting on the limbs and body may play a dominant role in the righting process for small invertebrates. Both inertial and aerodynamic effects, therefore, can play a role in the control of aerial righting. We propose that aerial righting reflexes are widespread among arboreal vertebrates and arthropods and that they represent an important initial adaptation in the evolution of controlled aerial behavior.
40793113|Ascidians, which are the closest phylogenetic relatives to vertebrates, lack a distinct pituitary gland, which is the major endocrine gland in vertebrates. Nevertheless, for the past 130 years, it has been debated that the ascidian neural complex (NC) is homologous to the pituitary. Of the three major components of the NC, the neural gland (NG) has mainly been thought to be the ascidian counterpart of the pituitary. Recently, however, the ciliated funnel, and not the NG, was postulated to be the adenohypophysis (AH) primordium because it is likely derived from oral ectoderm, and because the expression of several placodal genes is comparable to their expression in vertebrates. An extensive in silico survey of the Ciona intestinalis genome sequence revealed that genes encoding pituitary hormones are absent in ascidians. Under the circumstances, this thesis attempts to find a path that shows that the AH primordium is recognizable in the ascidian by revisiting molecular and developmental data from recent public resources on C. intestinalis, and through the use of advanced bio-imaging techniques. A putative Ciona genetic pathway, which was constructed by referring to data from mammals, shows that only a patchwork of the genetic network exists to achieve terminal differentiation of the AH endocrine cells in the Ciona genome. Re-annotation on glycoprotein hormone related proteins, a GPA2/ARP and two GPB5/BRP ones previously reported, reveals that the GPA2 locus contains two splicing variants, and one variant likely formed a three-dimensional conformation similar to that of human GPA2. No clone of the GPB5/BRP1 locus has been isolated, and another candidate, BRP2, is unlikely to be a GPB5. Next, I argued a possibility that endocrine activities of Ciona species could be specialized in association with its short generation time, and I suggest that not only Ciona species but also other ascidians should be studied in order to understand ascidian endocrinology. Confocal images of the stages of tailbud development reconfirmed the presence of an oral ectoderm placode, and I propose to update the stomodeum development by adding descriptions of a folded structure of the stomodeum and deeply positioned opening of the sensory vesicle. Finally, YFP expression driven by Ci-Six3 promoter demonstrated a boundary between the pharyngeal endoderm and other ectodermal and neuroectodermal tissues around the ciliated funnel. These updates on the ascidian model, which complement other lower chordates and vertebrates, shed light on the evolutionary origin of the pituitary primordium.
3884975|Alpine plants offer unique opportunities to study the processes and economics of nutrient storage. The short alpine growing season forces rapid completion of plant growth cycles, which in turn causes competition between vegetative and reproductive growth sinks during the early part of the growing season. Mobilization of stored nitrogen and carbon reserves facilitates competing sinks and permits successful completion of reproduction before the onset of winter stress. We discuss the theoretical framework for assessing the costs and benefits of nutrient storage in alpine plants in order to lay the foundation for interpretation of observations. A principal point that has emerged from past theoretical treatments is the distinction between reserve storage, defined as storage that occurs with a cost to growth, and resource accumulation, defined as storage that occurs when resource supply exceeds demand, and thus when there is no cost to growth. We then discuss two case studies, one already published and one not yet published, pertaining to the storage and utilization of nitrogen and carbon compounds in alpine plants from Niwot Ridge, Colorado. In the first case, we tested the hypothesis that the seasonal accumulation of amino acids in the rhizome of N-fertilized plants of Bistorta bistortoides provides an advantage to the plant by not imposing a cost to growth at the time of accumulation, but providing a benefit to growth when the accumulated N is remobilized. We show that, as predicted, there is no cost during N accumulation but, not as predicted, there is no benefit to future growth. In the presence of N accumulation, reliance on stored N for growth increases, but reliance on current-season, soil-derived N decreases; thus the utilization of available N in this species is a 'zero sum' process. Inherent meristematic constraints to growth cause negative feedback that limits the utilization of accumulated N and precludes long-term advantages to this form of storage. In the second case study, we discuss new results showing high concentrations of cyclic polyol (cyclitol) compounds in the leaves of many alpine species dominant in the dry fellfield habitat. In Artemisia scopulorum, cyclitols were induced as the growing season progressed, and reached highest concentrations during the dry, late-summer months. Leaf cyclitol concentrations were high in all four species of the Caryophyllaceae that we examined and appeared to be constitutive components of the leaf carbohydrate pool as concentrations were high through the entire growing season. We observed correlations among seedling abundance, seeding survivorship and the presence of high leaf cyclitol concentrations. We propose that the primary function of cyclitols in the leaves of alpine, fellfield herbs is to promote drought tolerance through osmotic protection, and enhance fitness by improving seedling survival. We considered the possibility that cyclitols also function as carbon storage compounds that are remobilized at the end of the growing season and used to support growth the following year. Our observations do not support this hypothesis in the Caryophyllaceae because the requirement for high constitutive concentrations year-after-year prevents long-term advantages of storage and remobilization. However, in A. scopulorum, remobilization of cyclitols following the end of the growing season may provide storage substrates that can be used for growth the following season. From our analysis we conclude that it is difficult to use current theory that is embedded in the economic concept of costs and benefits to interpret observed dynamics in nitrogen and carbon allocation. Future theoretical developments that move away from an abstract foundation embedded in cost-benefit tradeoffs and toward phenotypic integration of source-sink relationships will improve our ability to merge observations and theory.
40863413|Between 85% and 95% of all living macroscopic species are found on land; the rest are mainly marine. We argue that the extraordinary diversity on land is geologically recent, dating from the mid-Cretaceous period, ~ 110 million years ago. We suggest that the ability and necessity to be rare that is, to maintain populations at low density are made possible by the low cost of mobility of consumers on land, and that rarity is critical to the attainment of high-terrestrial diversity. Increasing productivity beginning in the mid-Cretaceous led to an increase in the survival of populations at low density and to an increase in the intensity of selection for that ability as well as for high mobility and habitat specialization. The pre-eminence of terrestrial, as compared to marine, diversity is therefore an historical phenomenon that is best explained by selection-related changes in mobility, dispersibility, and the evolution of partnerships.
4485790|The Bartholomew Award has now completed a decade of recognizing outstanding young investigators in comparative physiology and biochemistry or in related fields of functional and integrative biology. It honors Professor George A. Bartholomew (Bart to his many students and other friends), whose research contributions continue to be important in shaping these fields. Bart's influence reflects a steadfast adherence to a set of basic precepts: the inherent unity of biology; the need for an evolutionary perspective in functional studies; the value of modern natural history in guiding research investigations; the focus on the organism and its function in nature, even in highly reductionist studies; the importance of biological variability within and between species; and the crucial interactions of physiology and behavior in allowing animals to deal with environmental challenges. Were he to have done nothing else in his career, he would remain an important figure in the fields with which the Society of Integrative and Comparative Biology's (SICB) Division of Comparative Physiology and Biochemistry is concerned. However, his influence is also felt through his inspirational performance as an undergraduate teacher, his skill and wisdom as a graduate mentor, his many services to the University of California, his insightful contributions to scientific committees and policy boards at the national level, and his presidency of the American Society of Zoologists (now SICB). This symposium offers the opportunity for honoring Bart for all his accomplishments and fine personal qualities, while illustrating the contributions of the impressive set of younger investigators who are recipients of the George A. Bartholomew Award.
3884913|Zooplankton egg banks are the accumulation of diapausing embryos of planktonic animals buried in the sediments of many aquatic ecosystems. These eggs, which are analogous life history stages to the seeds of many plants, can survive in a ready-to-hatch state for periods ranging from a few years to greater than a century. Their presence in ponds, lakes and near-shore marine environments has substantial implications for understanding trajectories of ecological and evolutionary change. When the sediments of lakes are structured in historical sequence, diapausing eggs extracted from different sediment ages can provide a means of studying past changes in community or population-genetic structure. A completely different aspect of egg banks derives from the fact that hatching of diapausing eggs can influence, through what can be thought of as temporal dispersal, population and community response to environmental change. Eggs hatching from diapause introduce to current environments species or genotypes laid at times in the distant past. In addition, egg banks create extended generation overlap that can play an important role in maintaining diversity in a fluctuating environment when different types (species or genotypes) are favored at different times. These distinct aspects of egg banks (i.e., their direct impact on ecological and evolutionary processes versus their usefulness in reconstructing historical changes), are potentially in conflict because for old eggs to hatch, the sediments must be at least partially mixed. This same mixing, however, degrades the accuracy of the historical record. Both aspects are possible, however, even within a single lake when sediment-mixing intensity is spatially heterogeneous.
3884662|Adaptations to the cold and to short growing seasons characterize arctic life, but climate in the Arctic is warming at an unprecedented rate. Will plant and animal populations of the Arctic be able to cope with these drastic changes in environmental conditions? Here we explore the potential contribution of evolution by natural selection to the current response of populations to climate change. We focus on the spring phenology of populations because it is highly responsive to climate change and easy to document across a wide range of species. We show that evolution can be fast and can occur at the time scale of a few decades. We present an example of reproductive phenological change associated with climate change (North American red squirrels in the Yukon), where a detailed analysis of quantitative genetic parameters demonstrates contemporary evolution. We answer a series of frequently asked questions that should help biologists less familiar with evolutionary theory and quantitative genetic methods to think about the role of evolution in current responses of ecological systems to climate change. Our conclusion is that evolution by natural selection is a pertinent force to consider even at the time scale of contemporary climate changes. However, all species may not be equal in their capacity to benefit from contemporary evolution.
40306078|Parasitic crustaceans serve as both hosts and vectors of viruses as well as of parasites and other microbial pathogenic agents. Few of the presumably numerous associations are known, but many can be anticipated. Recently, branchiurans and gnathiid isopods have been documented to host helminths and blood parasites. Because the agents can be observed readily with a microscope, these are better recognized than are the smaller viral, bacterial, and fungal agents. Some agents are harmful to the host of the crustacean parasite and others are not. Viruses probably fit both these categories, since viruses that do not appear pathogenic are often seen in ultrastructural images from a range of invertebrate hosts, including crustaceans. Some viruses have been implicated in causing disease in the host, at least under appropriate conditions. For example, lymphocystis virus may possibly be transmitted to the dermis of its fish hosts by copepods and to the visceral organs by a cymothoid isopod. Similarly, argulid branchiurans seem to transmit the viral agent of spring viremia of carp as well as carp pox, and copepods have been implicated in transmitting infectious hematopoietic necrosis, infectious salmon anemia, and infectious pancreatic necrosis to salmon. Other viruses can be vectored to their hosts through an additional animal. We exposed three viruses, Taura syndrome virus (TSV), white spot syndrome virus (WSSV), and yellowhead virus (YHV), all of which cause mortalities in wild and cultured penaeid shrimps, to crustacean parasites on fish and crabs. Using real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis, we show that TSV in the cyclopoid copepod Ergasilus manicatus on the gill filaments of the Gulf killifish, Fundulus grandis, the acorn barnacle Chelonibia patula on the carapace of the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, and gooseneck barnacle Octolasmis muelleri on the gills of C. sapidus, can replicate for at least 2 weeks and establish what should be an infective dose. This result was additionally supported by positive in situ hybridization reactions. All three parasites are the first known non-penaeid hosts in which replication occurs. The mean log copy number of WSSV also suggested that replication occurred in E. manicatus. The mean log copy number of YHV gradually decreased in all three parasites and both hosts over the 2-week period. The vector relationships indicate an additional potential means of transmitting and disseminating the disease-causing agents to the highly susceptible and economically valuable penaeid shrimp hosts.
40306082|Vertebral columns are a group of diverse axial structures that define the vertebrates and provide supportive, locomotive, protective, and other important functions. The embryonic origin of the first vertebral element in this subphylum, the lamprey arcualia, has remained a puzzle for more than a century although much developmental and genetic progress has been made. The comparative approach is a very powerful tool for studying vertebrate morphological variation and understanding how the novel structures were generated during evolution. Here, I first briefly describe the vertebral structures and their developmental processes in major taxa, and then analyze the most recently published data on the basal vertebrates. Finally, an ontogenetic and phylogenetic origin is proposed. The lamprey may have already evolved a sderotome, which gave rise to arcualia ontogenetically; whole genome duplications likely promoted the establishment of sclerotomal core genetic program by gene co-options.
4485870|Angus J. Bateman's classic study of sexual selection in Drosophila melanogaster has had a major influence on the development of sexual selection theory. In some ways, Bateman's study has served a catalytic role by stimulating debate on sex roles, sexual conflict and other topics in sexual selection. However, there is still considerable disagreement regarding whether or not "Bateman's principles" are helpful in the study of sexual selection. Here, we test the idea that Bateman's principles provide the basis for a useful method to quantify and compare mating systems. In this study, we focus on the sex-role-reversed pipefish Syngnathus typhle as a model system to study the measurement of sexual selection. We set up artificial breeding assemblages of pipefish in the laboratory and used microsatellite markers to resolve parentage. Three different sex-ratio treatments (female-biased, even and male-biased) were used to manipulate the expected intensity of sexual selection. Measures of the mating system based on Bateman's principles were calculated and compared to the expected changes in the intensity of sexual selection. We also compare the results of this study to the results of a similar study of Bateman's principles in the rough-skinned newt, a species with conventional sex roles. The results of this experiment show that measures of the mating system based on Bateman's principles do accurately capture the relative intensities of sexual selection in the different treatments and species. Thus, widespread use of Bateman's principles to quantify mating systems in nature would facilitate comparative studies of sexual selection and mating system evolution.
3884907|Both plants and animals respond to stress by using adaptations that help them evade, tolerate, or recover from stress. In a synthetic paper A. D. Bradshaw (1972) noted that basic biological differences between plants and animals will have diverse evolutionary consequences, including those influencing how they deal with stress. For instance, Bradshaw argued that animals, because they have relatively well-developed sensory and locomotor capacities, can often use behavior and movement to evade or ameliorate environmental stresses. In contrast, he predicted that plants will have to emphasize increased physiological tolerance or phenotypic plasticity, and also that plants should suffer stronger selection and show more marked differentiation along environmental gradients. Here we briefly review the importance of behavior in mitigating stress, the behavioral capacities of animals and plants, and examples of plant responses that are functionally similar to behaviors of animals. Next, we try to test some of Bradshaw's predictions. Unfortunately, critical data often proved non-comparable: plant and animal biologists often study different stressors (e.g., water versus heat) and measure different traits (photosynthesis versus locomotion). Nevertheless, we were able to test some of Bradshaw's predictions and some related ones of our own. As Bradshaw predicted, the phenology of plants is more responsive to climate shifts than is that of animals and the micro-distributions of non-mobile, intertidal invertebrates ("plant" equivalents) are more sensitive to temperature than are those of mobile invertebrates. However, mortality selection is actually weaker for plants than for animals. We hope that our review not only redraws attention to some fascinating issues Bradshaw raised, but also encourages additional tests of his predictions. Such tests should be informative.
23016041|Synopsis Most semiterrestrial, intertidal and shallow subtidal brachyuran crabs that live in tropical and warm temperate estuaries, bays and protected coasts world-wide release their planktonic larvae near the times of nocturnal high tides on the larger amplitude tides in the biweekly or monthly cycles of tidal amplitude. Crab larvae usually emigrate quickly to the sea where they develop to return as postlarvae to settle in habitats suitable for their survival. Predators of larvae are more abundant where larvae are released than where they develop, suggesting that this migration from estuaries to the sea reduces predation on larvae. Crabs with larvae that are relatively well-protected by spines and cryptic colors do not emigrate and often lack strong reproductive cycles, lending support to this explanation. Adults control the timing of the release of larvae with respect to the biweekly and monthly cycles of tidal amplitude by controlling when they court and mate and females control when development begins by controlling when they ovulate and allow their eggs to be fertilized by stored sperm. By changing the time they breed, fiddler crabs (Uca terpsichores) compensate for the effects of spatial and temporal variation in incubation temperature on development rates so that embryos are ready to hatch at the appropriate time. Control of the diel and tidal timing of hatching and of release of larvae varies with where adults live. Females of the more terrestrial species often move from protected incubation sites, sometimes far from water, and they largely control the precise time, both, of hatching and of release of larvae. Females of intertidal species also may influence when embryos begin to hatch. Upon hatching, a chemical cue is released that stimulates the female to pump her abdomen, causing rapid hatching and release of all larvae in her clutch. Embryos, rather than females, largely control hatching in subtidal species, perhaps because females incubate their eggs where they release their larvae. Topics for further study include the mechanism whereby adults regulate the timing of breeding, the mechanisms by which females control development rates of embryos, the nature of communication between females and embryos that leads to precise and synchronous hatching by the number (often thousands) of embryos in a clutch, and the causes of selection for such precision. The timing of hatching and of release of larvae by cold-temperate, Arctic, and Antarctic species and by fully terrestrial and freshwater tropical species has received little attention.
40863357|Evidence for climate-driven phenological changes is rapidly increasing at all trophic levels. Our current poor knowledge of the detailed control of bird migration from the level of genes and hormonal control to direct physiological and behavioral responses hampers our ability to understand and predict consequences of climatic change for migratory birds. In order to better understand migration phenology and adaptation in environmental changes, we here assess the scale at which weather affects timing of spring migration in passerine birds. We use three commonly used proxies of spring-time climatic conditions: (1) vegetation "greenness" (NDVI) in Europe, (2) local spring temperatures in northern Europe, and (3) the North Atlantic Oscillation Index (NAO) as predictors of the phenology of avian migration as well as the strength of their effect on different subsets of populations and the dependence of correlations on species-specific migratory strategy. We analyze phenological patterns of the entire spring migration period in 12 Palaearctic passerine species, drawing on long-term data collected at three locations along a longitudinal gradient situated close to their northern European breeding area. Local temperature was the best single predictor of phenology with the highest explanatory power achieved in combination with NAO. Furthermore, early individuals are more affected by climatic variation compared to individuals on later passage, indicating that climatic change affects subsets of migratory populations differentially. Species wintering closer to the breeding areas were affected more than were those travelling longer distances and this pattern was strongest for the earliest subsets of the population. Overall, our results suggest that at least early subsets of the population are affected by local conditions and early birds use local conditions to fine-tune the date of their spring arrival while individuals arriving later are driven by other factors than local conditions e. g. endogenous control. Understanding what cues migratory organisms use to arrive at an optimum time is important for increasing our knowledge of fundamental issues like decision making in organisms during migration and is crucial for future protection of migratory organisms.
40306096|The synthesis of pharmacological techniques and concepts into ecology holds considerable promise for gaining new insights into old questions, uncovering new priorities for research and, ultimately, for consolidating a new sub-discipline within the ecological sciencesPharmEcology. We argue that this potential will best be realized if the boundaries of PharmEcology are drawn broadly to encompass not only toxins and medicines, but also nutrients. The hub of our argument is that PharmEcology shares with the established discipline of nutritional ecology an organismal focus, at the core of which is the notion of evolutionary function. From this functional viewpoint the dividing lines between chemicals traditionally considered as "toxins," "medicines," and "nutrients" are often thin, vague, heavily contingent and non-stationary, and thus provide a poor footing for an emerging sub-discipline. We build our argument around three points: nutrients and toxins are not so different, medicines and nutrients are not so different, and even in cases in which nutrients, medicines and toxins can be categorically distinguished, the biological actions of these compounds are heavily interdependent.
3884664|Polar bears (Ursus maritimus) live throughout the ice-covered waters of the circumpolar Arctic, particularly in near shore annual ice over the continental shelf wher biological productivity is highest. However, to a large degree under scenarios predicted by climate change models, these preferred sea ice habitats will be substantially altered. Spatial and temporal sea ice changes will lead to shifts in trophic interactions involving polar bears through reduced availability and abundance of their main prey: seals. In the short term, climatic warming may improve bear and seal habitats in higher latitudes over continental shelves if currently thick multiyear ice is replaced by annual ice with more leads, making it more suitable for seals. A cascade of impacts beginning with reduced sea ice will be manifested in reduced adipose stores leading to lowered reproductive rates because females will have less fat to invest in cubs during the winter fast. Non-pregnant bears may have to fast on land or offshore on the remaining multiyear ice through progressively longer periods of open water while they await freeze-up and a return to hunting seals. As sea ice thins, and becomes more fractured and labile, it is likely to move more in response to winds and currents so that polar bears will need to walk or swim more and thus use greater amounts of energy to maintain contact with the remaining preferred habitats. The effects of climate change are likely to show large geographic, temporal and even individual differences and be highly variable, making it difficult to develop adequate monitoring and research programs. All ursids show behavioural plasticity but given the rapid pace of ecological change in the Arctic, the long generation time, and the highly specialised nature of polar bears, it is unlikely that polar bears will survive as a species if the sea ice disappears completely as has been predicted by some.
3884610|Evolutionary innovations that require or provide increased per-capita energy budgets and competitive performance should appear at times and in places where resources are abundant and accessible and where predators and competitors impose intense selection. By contrast, innovations without functional benefits should become established in productive environments under conditions of weak selection from enemies. I confirmed these predictions in comparative studies of two types of innovation in gastropod shells. The labral tooth, a structure facilitating predation, appeared in 45 Cenozoic clades of marine gastropods, with the highest concentrations originating during the early Miocene, late Miocene, and Pliocene, all times and sites of high planktonic productivity, large expanses of warm shallow water, and diverse predator-rich biotas. Left-handed coiling, a condition with no obvious survival benefits, arose 19 times independently in right-handed clades. Most left-handed clades, including eight arising in regions outside the tropics, evolved in productive regions where the larva and/or the adult is shielded from intense predation. The times and places of origin of new traits in clades thus offer insights into the geography of evolutionary opportunity.
4485795|Social interactions in small groups of juvenile rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) lead to the formation of dominance hierarchies. Dominant fish hold better positions in the environment, gain a larger share of the available food and exhibit aggression towards fish lower in the hierarchy. By contrast, subordinate fish exhibit behavioural inhibition, including reduced activity and feeding. The behavioural characteristics associated with social status are likely the result of changes in brain monoamines resulting from social interactions. Whereas substantial physiological benefits, including higher growth rates and condition factor, are experienced by dominant trout, low social status appears to be a chronic stress, as indicated by sustained elevation of circulating cortisol concentrations in subordinate fish. High cortisol levels, in turn, may be responsible for many of the deleterious physiological consequences of low social status, including lower growth rates and condition factor, immunosuppression and increased mortality. Circulating cortisol levels may also be a factor in determining the outcome of social interactions in pairs of rainbow trout, and hence in determining social status. Rainbow trout treated with cortisol were significantly more likely to become subordinate in paired encounters with smaller untreated conspecifics.
40306094|Within our lakes, streams, estuaries, and oceans, there is an astounding chemodiversity of secondary metabolites produced by microbes, algae, and invertebrates. Nearly 30 years of study have yielded hundreds of examples in which secondary metabolites alter the foraging behavior or fitness of aquatic consumers, or both. However, our understanding of the mechanisms that mediate the fate and consequences of these metabolites in aquatic consumers remains in its infancy. Interactions between metabolites and consumers at the molecular and biochemical level are the purview of modern pharmacology, which is rooted in the long history of human-drug interactions and can be adopted for ecological studies. Here, we argue that a pharmacological approach to consumer-prey interactions will be as productive within aquatic systems as it has been for understanding terrestrial systems. We review the diversity of secondary metabolites in aquatic organisms, their known effects on the feeding behaviors and performance of aquatic consumers, and the few studies that have attempted to describe their biochemical manipulation within consumer tissues, i. e., their absorption, distribution, metabolism (including detoxification), and excretion. We then highlight vexing issues in the ecology and evolution of aquatic consumer-prey interactions that would benefit from a pharmacological approach, including specialist-versus-generalist feeding strategies, dietary mixing, nutrient-toxin interactions, and taste. Finally, we argue that a pharmacological approach could help to predict how consumer-prey interactions are altered by global changes in pH, water temperature and ultraviolet radiation, or by pollution. Arguably, the state of knowledge of aquatic consumer-prey interactions is equivalent to that faced by ecologists studying terrestrial herbivores in the 1970s; the literature documents profound variation among consumers in their feeding tolerances for secondary metabolites without a thorough understanding of the mechanisms that underlie that variation. The subsequent advancement in our understanding of terrestrial herbivores in the intervening decades provides confidence that applying a pharmacological approach to aquatic consumers will prove equally productive.
4485777|Rising concern over pesticide usage near estuarine systems and evidence of physical and physiological impacts on estuarine organisms have strengthened the need to better identify the ecological effects of nonpoint source runoff. Grass shrimp, Palaemonetes spp., are ecologically important and abundant marsh inhabitants that may be impacted by anthropogenic contamination. Populations of grass shrimp were sampled monthly, over a period of ten years, at four sites in South Carolina with varying upland land use characteristics. Spatial and temporal trends in grass shrimp densities were noted over time and between sites. Agricultural and golf course land usage corresponded with decreased grass shrimp population levels, overall shrimp size, and percentage of gravid females. Conservation methods, such as the use of best management practices (BMPs) and integrated pesticide management (IPM) at agricultural fields, corresponded with increased grass shrimp population density.
40306079|Physiology integrates biology with the environment through cell-cell interactions at multiple levels. The evolution of the respiratory system has been "deconvoluted" (Torday and Rehan in Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol 31: 8-12, 2004) through Gene Regulatory Networks (GRNs) applied to cell-cell communication for all aspects of lung biology development, homeostasis, regeneration, and aging. Using this approach, we have predicted the phenotypic consequences of failed signaling for lung development, homeostasis, and regeneration based on evolutionary principles. This cell-cell communication model predicts other aspects of vertebrate physiology as adaptational responses. For example, the oxygen-induced differentiation of alveolar myocytes into alveolar adipocytes was critical for the evolution of the lung in land dwelling animals adapting to fluctuating Phanarezoic oxygen levels over the past 500 million years. Adipocytes prevent lung injury due to oxygen radicals and facilitate the rise of endothermy. In addition, they produce the class I cytokine leptin, which augments pulmonary surfactant activity and alveolar surface area, increasing selection pressure for both respiratory oxygenation and metabolic demand initially constrained by high-systemic vascular pressure, but subsequently compensated by the evolution of the adrenomedullary beta-adrenergic receptor mechanism. Conserted positive selection for the lung and adrenals created further selection pressure for the heart, which becomes progressively more complex phylogenetically in tandem with the lung. Developmentally, increasing heart complexity and size impinges precociously on the gut mesoderm to induce the liver. That evolutionary-developmental interaction is significant because the liver provides regulated sources of glucose and glycogen to the evolving physiologic system, which is necessary for the evolution of the neocortex. Evolution of neocortical control furthers integration of physiologic systems. Such an evolutionary vertical integration of cell-to-tissue-to-organ-to-physiology of intrinsic cell-cell signaling and extrinsic factors is the reverse of the "top-down" conventional way in which physiologic systems are usually regarded. This novel mechanistic approach, incorporating a "middle-out" cell-cell signaling component, will lead to a readily available algorithm for integrating genes and phenotypes. This symposium surveyed the phylogenetic origins of such vertically integrated mechanisms for the evolution of cell-cell communication as the basis for complex physiologic traits, from sponges to man.
3884791|Several alternative hypotheses on the relationships between the major arthropod groups are still being discussed. We reexamine here the chelicerate/myriapod relationship by comparing previously published morphological data on neurogenesis in the euarthropod groups and presenting data on an additional myriapod (Strigamia maritima). Although there are differences in the formation of neural precursors, most euarthropod species analyzed generate about 30 single neural precursors (insects/crustaceans) or precursor groups (chelicerates/myriapods) per hemisegment that are arranged in a regular pattern. The genetic network involved in recruitment and specification of neural precursors seems to be conserved among euarthropods. Furthermore, we show here that neural precursor identity seems to be achieved in a similar way. Besides these conserved features we found 2 characters that distinguish insects/crustaceans from myriapods/chelicerates. First, in insects and crustaceans the neuroectoderm gives rise to epidermal and neural cells, whereas in chelicerates and myriapods the central area of the neuroectoderm exclusively generates neural cells. Second, neural cells arise by stem-cell-like divisions of neuroblasts in insects and crustaceans, whereas groups of mainly postmitotic neural precursors are recruited for the neural fate in chelicerates and myriapods. We discuss whether these characteristics represent a sympleisiomorphy of myriapods and chelicerates that has been lost in the more derived Pancrustacea or whether these characteristics are a synapomorphy of myriapods and chelicerates, providing the first morphological support for the Myriochelata group.
41319638|Schwenk and colleagues challenged biologists to develop a deeper understanding of the linkages between organisms and environments. These linkages are captured by the concept of the niche, which has guided theoretical and empirical research in ecology for decades. Despite this research, we still cannot explain or predict much of the variation in niches over space and time. This shortcoming hinders efforts to forecast biological responses to environmental change. We believe that progress has been slowed by poor coordination between theoretical and empirical efforts to understand the evolution of niches. Therefore, progress should be sped by research programs that integrate modeling and experiments. Such research programs should focus on the structures of environmental variation, the constraints on phenotypes, and the relationships between phenotypes and fitness.
40306083|Immune receptors are omnipresent in multicellular organisms and comprise a vast array of molecular structures that serve to detect and eliminate pathogenic threats. The immunoglobulin (Ig) domain, a central structural feature of the antigen binding receptors that mediate adaptive immunity in jawed vertebrates, appears to play a particularly widespread role in metazoan immunity. Recent reports also have implicated Ig domains in the immune responses of protostomes such as flies and snails. Our research has focused on understanding the utilization of the Ig domain in the immunity of chordates and has identified numerous multigene families of Ig domain-containing receptors that appear to serve roles distinct from the adaptive antigen-binding receptors. Three families have received particular focus: novel immune-type receptors (NITRs) of bony fish, modular domain immune-type receptors (MDIRs) of cartilaginous fish and variable region-containing chitin-binding proteins (VCBPs) of amphioxus. NITRs and MDIRs are encoded in large multigene families of highly diversified forms and exhibit a striking dichotomy of an apparently ubiquitous presence but extensive diversification of sequence both within and among the particular taxonomic groups in which they are found. Crystal structures of VCBPs and NITRs demonstrate significant similarity to those of antigen-binding receptors but at the same time exhibit key differences that imply acquisition of separate and distinct ligand-binding functions. The tremendous plasticity of the Ig domain makes it a strong focus for studies of evolutionary events that have shaped modern integrated immune systems. Current data are consistent with a model of extremely rapid emergence and divergence of immune receptors, perhaps specific to individual species, as organisms contend with environments in which pathogens are continually selected for variation of their own molecular signatures.
3884851|Exceptionally preserved, non-biomineralizing fossils contribute importantly to resolving details of the Cambrian explosion, but little to its overall patterns. Six distinct "types" of exceptional preservation are identified for the terminal Proterozoic-Cambrian interval, each of which is dependent on particular taphonomic circumstances, typically restricted both in space and time. Taphonomic pathways yielding exceptional preservation were particularly variable through the Proterozoic-Cambrian transition, at least in part a consequence of contemporaneous evolutionary innovations. Combined with the reasonably continuous record of "Doushantuo-type preservation," and the fundamentally more robust records of shelly fossils, phytoplankton cysts and trace fossils, these taphonomic perturbations contribute to the documentation of major evolutionary and biogeochemical shifts through the terminal Proterozoic and early Cambrian. Appreciation of the relationship between taphonomic pathway and fossil expression serves as a useful tool for interpreting exceptionally preserved, often problematic, early Cambrian fossils. In shale facies, for example, flattened non-biomineralizing structures typically represent the remains of degradation-resistant acellular and extracellular "tissues" such as chaetae and cuticles, whereas three-dimensional preservation represents labile cellular tissues with a propensity for attracting and precipitating early diagenetic minerals. Such distinction helps to identify the acuticular integument of hyolithids, the chaetae-like nature of Wiwaxia sclerites, the chaetognath-like integument of Amiskwia, the midgut glands of various Burgess Shale arthropods, and the misidentification of deposit-feeding arthropods in the Chengjiang biota. By the same reasoning, putative lobopods in the Sirius Passet biota and putative deuterostomes in the Chengiang biota are better interpreted as arthropods.
3884634|Environmental stresses such as high temperature or low levels of oxygen can lead to structural destabilization of cells, disruption of cellular processes, and, in extreme cases, death. Previous experience of sub-lethal stress can lead to protection during a subsequent stress that may otherwise have been lethal. Synapses are particularly vulnerable to extreme environmental conditions and failure of function at this level may be the primary cause of organismal death. Prior heat shock induces enhanced thermotolerance at neuromuscular junctions in the locust extensor tibiae muscle and in abdominal muscles of larval Drosophila. Synaptic thermoprotection is associated with an increase in short-term plasticity at these synapses. Prior anoxic coma in locusts induces synaptic thermotolerance suggesting that the same protective pathways are activated. It is well established that diverse forms of stress induce the upregulation of cellular chaperones (heat shock proteins; HSPs) that mediate acquired protection. The mechanisms underlying HSP-mediated synaptic protection are currently unknown but evidence is accumulating that stabilization of the cytoskeleton may play an important role.
23016322|Synopsis Populations of the snow crab (Chionoecetes opilio) are widely distributed on high-latitude continental shelves of the North Pacific and North Atlantic, and represent a valuable resource in both the United States and Canada. In US waters, snow crabs are found throughout the Arctic and sub-Arctic seas surrounding Alaska, north of the Aleutian Islands, yet commercial harvest currently focuses on the more southerly population in the Bering Sea. Population dynamics are well-monitored in exploited areas, but few data exist for populations further north where climate trends in the Arctic appear to be affecting species' distributions and community structure on multiple trophic levels. Moreover, increased shipping traffic, as well as fisheries and petroleum resource development, may add additional pressures in northern portions of the range as seasonal ice cover continues to decline. In the face of these pressures, we examined the ecological niche and population distribution of snow crabs in Alaskan waters using a GIS-based spatial modeling approach. We present the first quantitative open-access model predictions of snow-crab distribution, abundance, and biomass in the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas. Multi-variate analysis of environmental drivers of species' distribution and community structure commonly rely on multiple linear regression methods. The spatial modeling approach employed here improves upon linear regression methods in allowing for exploration of nonlinear relationships and interactions between variables. Three machine-learning algorithms were used to evaluate relationships between snow-crab distribution and environmental parameters, including TreeNet, Random Forests, and MARS. An ensemble model was then generated by combining output from these three models to generate consensus predictions for presenceabsence, abundance, and biomass of snow crabs. Each algorithm identified a suite of variables most important in predicting snow-crab distribution, including nutrient and chlorophyll-a concentrations in overlying waters, temperature, salinity, and annual sea-ice cover; this information may be used to develop and test hypotheses regarding the ecology of this species. This is the first such quantitative model for snow crabs, and all GIS-data layers compiled for this project are freely available from the authors, upon request, for public use and improvement.
25160142| University faculty often express frustration with the accuracy of students' understanding of science in general and of evolution in particular. A rich research literature suggests that inquiry-based pedagogies are more effective in producing meaningful learning than are traditional, didactic approaches. A pragmatic investigation into the efficacy of inquiry-based curricular reforms compared to traditional laboratory activities was undertaken in the introductory biology course for majors at a large state university in the southeastern United States. The topics of the course focused on biodiversity, evolution, and plant and animal anatomy and physiology. Students' learning in the inquiry versus traditional units was compared using both a test of pre-post content knowledge as well as open-ended written responses in which students described events in which there was meaningful learning and conceptual changes. The pre-post tests were replicated over five semesters of the same course (n = 1493 students). Students' misconceptions as well as examples of meaningful learning were gathered for two semesters in the same course (n = 518 students). Results consistently revealed that descriptive, concrete topics such as anatomy can be taught effectively using traditional didactic methods; average effect sizes (a measure of the difference between pretest scores and posttest scores) range from 1.8 to 2.1. The inquiry units also increased knowledge of content on the topics of evolution and biodiversity by a significant degree (average effect sizes range from 1.0 to 1.1), despite the fact that students spent less than half the instructional time on these units compared to the didactic units. In addition, a literature review indicated that highly abstract or mathematical concepts such as evolution or geologic time require greater formal reasoning ability and that students often show lesser gains in these areas compared to more concrete topics. It was therefore especially notable that the frequency of meaningful learning events was significantly higher in the units on evolution compared to the traditional units ( P&lt;0.5 to 0.001). A catalog of students' misconceptions (some of which were quite unexpected) was also generated and found useful for future teaching. Therefore, we feel that when time and resources for curricular reform are limited, those efforts should prioritize abstract and foundational topics such as evolution. Didactic teaching appears sufficient for more concrete topics such as anatomy. 
25160207|Because of its basal position on the phylogenetic tree of vertebrates, the lamprey embryo would be expected to exhibit segmental head mesoderm. Recent observations, however, show that the lamprey does not have any somite-like segments in the head. Coelomic head cavities that are most conspicuous in elasmobranch embryos, do not appear to represent universal vertebrate traits. From the perspective of generative constraint, segmental structures in the vertebrate body can be classified into primary segments, which arise as segmental embryonic primordia such as somites and pharyngeal pouches, and secondary segments whose patterns are determined by the presence of primary segments. Secondary segments include neural crest derivatives and epibranchial placodes that are not initially segmented. The head mesoderm of vertebrates is secondarily regionalized into several domains that do not impose any secondary segmental patterns on other structures. Thus, the vertebrate head is characterized by a lack of segmental generative constraint in its mesoderm. Classical segmental theories are now refuted because they attempted to equate the vertebrate head with that of the amphioxus, whose rostral somites are considered primary segments, which are absent from vertebrates.
3884894|Sexually transmitted infections are a major worldwide public health problem affecting millions of people. A number of bacteria, fungi, viruses, and protozoa can infect reproductive tissues, resulting in varying degrees of pathology ranging from little discomfort to death. The female reproductive tract has evolved innate and adaptive immune mechanisms that protect from microbial infection, thereby reducing infection and disease. Central to this protection are the epithelial cells that line the female reproductive tract. In the uterus, columnar epithelial cells provide a physical barrier to microbial infection, possess toll-like receptors that detect pathogens and secrete a number of constitutive and induced factors that directly or indirectly hinder infection. For example, uterine epithelial cells secrete peptides that destroy pathogenic microbes. In addition, epithelial cells produce chemokines and cytokines that attract and activate innate immune cells and serve as a link to the adaptive immune system. Further, uterine epithelial cells serve as a conduit for secretory antibodies to enter the lumen and can present antigen to T cells. These protective mechanisms contribute to an environment in the uterus that is generally considered sterile, unlike the environment in the lower female reproductive tract. The uterine environment is in constant flux due to the concentration changes in sex hormones that occur in preparation for reproduction. The sex hormones estrogen and progesterone alter the local immune system to prepare for conception, influence how well the immune system will tolerate antigenic sperm and a semi-allogeneic fetus and yet provide a network of protective immune mechanisms against microbial pathogens. Understanding how sex hormones influence uterine epithelial cell function will provide a basis for immune protection in the uterus.
25160220|Fish inhabit environments greatly varying in intensity of water velocity, and these flow regimes are generally believed to be of major evolutionary significance. To what extent does water flow drive repeatable and predictable phenotypic differentiation? Although many investigators have examined phenotypic variation across flow gradients in fishes, no clear consensus regarding the nature of water velocity's effects on phenotypic diversity has yet emerged. Here, I describe a generalized model that produces testable hypotheses of morphological and locomotor differentiation between flow regimes in fishes. The model combines biomechanical information (describing how fish morphology determines locomotor abilities) with ecological information (describing how locomotor performance influences fitness) to yield predictions of divergent natural selection and phenotypic differentiation between low-flow and high-flow environments. To test the model's predictions of phenotypic differentiation, I synthesized the existing literature and conducted a meta-analysis. Based on results gathered from 80 studies, providing 115 tests of predictions, the model produced some accurate results across both intraspecific and interspecific scales, as differences in body shape, caudal fin shape, and steady-swimming performance strongly matched predictions. These results suggest that water flow drives predictable phenotypic variation in disparate groups of fish based on a common, generalized model, and that microevolutionary processes might often scale up to generate broader, interspecific patterns. However, too few studies have examined differentiation in body stiffness, muscle architecture, or unsteady-swimming performance to draw clear conclusions for those traits. The analysis revealed that, at the intraspecific scale, both genetic divergence and phenotypic plasticity play important roles in phenotypic differentiation across flow regimes, but we do not yet know the relative importance of these two sources of phenotypic variation. Moreover, while major patterns within and between species were predictable, we have little direct evidence regarding the role of water flow in driving speciation or generating broad, macroevolutionary patterns, as too few studies have addressed these topics or conducted analyses within a phylogenetic framework. Thus, flow regime does indeed drive some predictable phenotypic outcomes, but many questions remain unanswered. This study establishes a general model for predicting phenotypic differentiation across flow regimes in fishes, and should help guide future studies in fruitful directions, thereby enhancing our understanding of the predictability of phenotypic variation in nature.
40931225|A major direction of current and future biological research is to understand how multiple, interacting functional systems coordinate in producing a body that works. This understanding is complicated by the fact that organisms need to work well in multiple environments, with both predictable and unpredictable environmental perturbations.Furthermore, organismal design reflects a history of past environments and not a plan for future environments. How complex, interacting functional systems evolve, then, is a truly grand challenge. In accepting the challenge, an integrative model of evolutionary covariance is developed. The model combines quantitative genetics, functional morphology/physiology, and functional ecology. The model is used to convene scientists ranging from geneticists, to physiologists, to ecologists, to engineers to facilitate the emergence of body shape in fishes as a model system for understanding how complex, interacting functional systems develop and evolve. Body shape of fish is a complex morphology that (1 ) results from many developmental paths and (2) functions in many different behaviors. Understanding the coordination and evolution of the many paths from genes to body shape, body shape to function, and function to a working fish body in a dynamic environment is now possible given new technologies from genetics to engineering and new theoretical models that integrate the different levels of biological organization (from genes to ecology).
25160183|Lizards in the genus Anolis have radiated extensively within and among islands in the Caribbean. Here, I provide a prospectus for identifying genes underlying adaptive phenotypic traits in anoles. First I review patterns of diversification in Anolis and the important morphological axes along which divergence occurs. Then I discuss two features of anole diversification, the repeated, convergent evolution of ecomorphs, and phenotypic divergence among populations within species, that provide opportunities to identify genes underlying adaptive phenotypic variation. While small clutch size and difficulty with captive rearing currently limit the utility of quantitative trait locus analyses, comparative analyses of gene expression, and population genomic approaches are promising.
3885015|Populations of marine benthic organisms occupy habitats with a range of physical and biological characteristics. In the intertidal zone, energetic costs increase with temperature and aerial exposure, and prey intake increases with immersion time, generating size gradients with small individuals often found at upper limits of distribution. Wave action can have similar effects, limiting feeding time or success, although certain species benefit from wave dislodgment of their prey; this also results in gradients of size and morphology. The difference between energy intake and metabolic (and/or behavioral) costs can be used to determine an energetic optimal size for individuals in such populations. Comparisons of the energetic optimal size to the maximum predicted size based on mechanical constraints, and the ensuing mortality schedule, provides a mechanism to study and explain organism size gradients in intertidal and subtidal habitats. For species where the energetic optimal size is well below the maximum size that could persist under a certain set of wave/flow conditions, it is probable that energetic constraints dominate. When the opposite is true, populations of small individuals can dominate habitats with strong dislodgment or damage probability. When the maximum size of individuals is far below either energetic optima or mechanical limits, other sources of mortality (e.g., predation) may favor energy allocation to early reproduction rather than to continued growth. Predictions based on optimal size models have been tested for a variety of intertidal and subtidal invertebrates including sea anemones, corals, and octocorals. This paper provides a review of the optimal size concept, and employs a combination of the optimal energetic size model and life history modeling approach to explore energy allocation to growth or reproduction as the optimal size is approached.
23016115|Synopsis Migrating blackcaps (Sylvia atricapilla) were used to test the predictions that (1) the rebuilding of the digestive tract, as reflected by mass-specific consumption of food on the first 23 days of a stopover, is faster in birds with access to drinking water than in birds without, and (2) that adipose tissue and pectoral muscles grow faster and to a greater extent in birds with unlimited access to water. We simulated migratory stopover in two experiments. In Experiment I, each of 31 birds was randomly assigned to one of three experimental groups for 6 days. Along with mealworms (64% water) ad libitum, Group 1 received drinking water ad libitum; Group 2 had 0.5 h/day access to water; and Group 3 had no access to water. In Experiment II, 30 birds were offered a mixed diet for insectivorous birds (33% water) ad libitum for 6 days, while randomly assigned to two groups: (1) Water ad libitumcontrol; and (2) 30 min access to water twice a day. We measured lean mass and fat mass using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry, as well as body mass (m<sub>b</sub>), pectoral muscle index (PMI), and daily intake of food and water. Mean daily water intake was significantly different among the groups in both experiments. However, the availability of drinking water positively affected the rates of gain of lean and fat mass only in birds fed with the mixed, relatively dry diet. Furthermore, mass-specific daily food intake was affected by the availability of drinking water only in the mixed diet experiment, in which birds with unlimited access to drinking water reached an asymptote, 1 day earlier than birds in the water-restricted group. We suggest that in birds consuming diets with low water content, the lack of sufficient drinking water may result in slower rebuilding of the digestive tract, or may influence biochemical processes in the gut that result in slower growth of tissue. Although blackcaps obtained sufficient water from preformed and metabolic water to renew lost tissues when eating mealworms, given access to water, the birds drank prodigiously. Our results also suggest that if drinking water is unavailable to migrating blackcaps, their choices are restricted to water-rich foods, which may constrain their rate of feeding and thus the rate at which they deposit fat. Consequently, drinking water may have an important influence on birds' migratory strategies with respect to habitat selection, use of energy, and the saving of time.
3884717|Synchronous flashing occurs in certain species of Southeast Asian and North American fireflies. Most Southeast Asian synchrony involves stationary congregating fireflies, but North American synchrony occurs in flying fireflies that do not congregate. Southeast Asian synchrony is usually continuous, but North American synchrony is interrupted. Photuris frontalis, the only member of the North American genus Photuris to synchronize, shows an intermittent synchrony. This involves synchronization and repeated re-synchronizations while in flight. The precision that occurs at the start of synchrony was studied in Ph. frontalis using caged fireflies and photometry. Barrier experiments (using two fireflies) or flash entrainment experiments (using one LED and one firefly) were performed to measure the temporal precision of the first entrained flash. In both cases, the first entrained flash was close to unison synchrony (phase = 1.0) and showed little variability. The behavioral implications of the ability to synchronize with the first entrained flash are not known, but it might facilitate male-male interactions during brief, transient encounters such as maintaining distance between closely flying males in search of females.
4540206|Synopsis Animal mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is usually depicted as a small and very economically organized molecule with almost invariable gene content, stable gene order, a high rate of sequence evolution, and several unorthodox genetic features. Sampling across different animal phyla reveals that such a description applies primarily to mtDNA of bilaterian animals (such as arthropods or chordates). By contrast, mitochondrial genomes of nonbilaterian animals (phyla Cnidaria, Placozoa, and Porifera) display more variation in size and gene content and, in most cases, lack the genetic novelties associated with bilaterian mtDNA. Outside the Metazoa, mtDNA of the choanoflagellate Monosiga brevicollis, the closest unicellular out-group, is a much larger molecule that contains a large proportion of noncoding DNA, 1.5 times more genes, as well as several introns. Thus, changes in animal mtDNA organization appear to correlate with two main transitions in animal evolution: the origin of multicellularity and the origin of the Bilateria. Studies of mtDNA in nonbilaterian animals provide valuable insights into these transitions in the organization of mtDNA and also supply data for phylogenetic analyses of the relationships of early animals. Here I review recent progress in the understanding of nonbilaterian mtDNA and discuss the advantages and limitations of mitochondrial data sets for inferences about the phylogeny and evolution of animals.
3884852|There was a major diversification known as the Ordovician Radiation, in the period immediately following the Cambrian. This event is unique in taxonomic, ecologic and biogeographic aspects. While all of the phyla but one were established during the Cambrian explosion, taxonomic increases during the Ordovician were manifest at lower taxonomic levels although ordinal level diversity doubled. Marine family diversity tripled and within clade diversity increases occurred at the genus and species levels. The Ordovician radiation established the Paleozoic Evolutionary Fauna; those taxa which dominated the marine realm for the next 250 million years. Community structure dramatically increased in complexity. New communities were established and there were fundamental shifts in dominance and abundance. Over the past ten years, there has been an effort to examine this radiation at different scales. In comparison with the Cambrian explosion which appears to be more globally mediated, local and regional studies of Ordovician faunas reveal sharp transitions with timing and magnitudes that vary geographically. These transitions suggest a more episodic and complex history than that revealed through synoptic global studies along. Despite its apparent uniqueness, we cannot exclude the possibility that the Ordovician radiation was an extension of Cambrian diversity dynamics. That is, the Ordovician radiation may have been an event independent of the Cambrian radiation and thus requiring a different set of explanations, or it may have been the inevitable follow-up to the Cambrian radiation. Future studies should focus on resolving this issue.
40863366|Scleractinian corals, which include the architects of coral reefs, are found throughout the world's oceans and have left a rich fossil record over their 240 million year history. Their classification has been marked by confusion but recently developed molecular and morphological tools are now leading to a better understanding of the evolutionary history of this important group. Although morphological characters have been the basis of traditional classification in the group, they are relatively few in number. In addition, our current understanding of skeletal growth and homology is limited, and homoplasy is rampant, limiting the usefulness of morphological phylogenetics. Molecular phylogenetic hypotheses for the order, which have been primarily focused on reef-building corals, differ significantly from traditional classification. They suggest that the group is represented by two major lineages and do not support the monophyly of traditional suborders and most traditional families. It appears that once a substantial number of azooxanthellate taxa are included in molecular phylogenetic analyses, basal relationships within the group will be clearly defined. Understanding of relationships at lower taxonomic levels will be best clarified by combined analyses of morphological and molecular characters. Molecular phylogenies are being used to inform our understanding of the evolution of morphological characters in the Scleractinia. Better understanding of the evolution of these characters will help to integrate the systematics of fossil and extant taxa. We demonstrate how the combined use of morphological and molecular tools holds great promise for ending confusion in scleractinian systematics.
3884868|Transitions between different states of development, physiology, and life history are typically mediated by hormones. In insects, metamorphosis and reproductive maturation are regulated by an interaction between the sesquiterpenoid juvenile hormone (JH) and the steroid 20-hydroxy-ecdysone (20E). In vertebrates and some marine invertebrates, the lipophilic thyroid hormones (THs) affect metamorphosis and other life history transitions. Interestingly, when applied to insects, THs can physiologically mimic many facets of JH action, suggesting that the molecular actions of THs and JH/20E might be similar. Here we discuss functional parallels between TH and JH/20E signaling in insects, with a particular focus on the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, a genetically and physiologically tractable model system. Comparing the effects of THs with the well defined physiological roles of insect hormones such as JH and 20E in Drosophila might provide important insights into hormone function and the evolution of endocrine signaling.
3884643|The Symposium "Zebrafish in Comparative Context" was organized to bring together two largely separate but highly complementary research traditions in order to make developmental and genetic information about a model species (Danio rerio, the zebrafish) more accessible to the comparative biology community. The meeting focused on the relationship of this model organism to other vertebrates (particularly other fishes) using a comparative and evolutionary approach. Topics included the phylogeny of cypriniform fishes, genome evolution, the evolution of gastrulation, dentition, pigmentation, craniofacial development, and nervous system structure and function. Participants also met informally to discuss ways to facilitate collaborative projects in areas of common interest and determine priorities for the development of shared resources. Continuing interactions between comparative biologists, with their extensive body of knowledge of morphological variation among fish species, and developmental biologists and geneticists working with model species such as the zebrafish will facilitate our understanding of the evolution of developmental patterns and processes in vertebrates.
25160175|Genomic resources for studies of nonavian reptiles have recently improved and will reach a new level of access once the genomes of the painted turtle (Chrysemys picta) and the green anole (Anolis carolinensis) have been published. Eleven speakers gathered for a symposium on reptilian genomics and evolutionary genetics at the 2008 meeting of the Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology in San Antonio, Texas. Presentations described results of reptilian genetic studies concerning molecular evolution, chromosomal evolution, genomic architecture, population dynamics, endocrinology and endocrine disruption, and the evolution of developmental mechanisms. The presented studies took advantage of the recent generation of genetic and genomic tools and resources. Novel findings demonstrated the positive impact made by the improved availability of resources like genome annotations and bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs). The symposium was timely and important because it provided a vehicle for the dissemination of novel findings that advance the field. Moreover, this meeting fostered the synergistic interaction of the participants as a group, which is anticipated to encourage the funding and creation of further resources such as additional BAC libraries and genomic projects. Novel data have already been collected and studies like those presented in this symposium promise to shape and improve our understanding of overall amniote evolution. Additional reptilian taxa such as the American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis), tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus), and garter snake (Thamnophis sirtalis) should be the foci of future genomic projects. We hope that the following articles in this volume will help promote these efforts by describing the conclusions and the potential that the improvement of genomic resources for nonavian reptiles can continue having in this important area of integrative and comparative biology.
3884578|The flexible phenotypes of birds and mammals often appear to represent adjustments to alleviate some energetic bottleneck or another. By increasing the size of the organs involved in digestion and assimilation of nutrients (gut and liver), an individual bird can increase its ability to process nutrients, for example to quickly store fuel for onward flight. Similarly, an increase in the exercise organs (pectoral muscles and heart) enables a bird to increase its metabolic power for sustained flight or for thermoregulation. Reflecting the stationary cost of organ maintenance, changes in the size of any part of the "metabolic machinery" will be reflected in Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) unless changes in metabolic intensity also occur. Energetic bottlenecks appear to be set by the marginal value of organ size increases relative to particular peak requirements (including safety factors). These points are elaborated using the studies on long-distance migrating shorebirds, especially red knots Calidris canutus. Red knots encounter energy expenditure levels similar to experimentally determined ceiling levels of ca. 5 times BMR in other birds and mammals, both during the breeding season on High Arctic tundra (probably mainly a function of costs of thermoregulation) and during winter in temperate coastal wetlands (a function of the high costs of processing mollusks, prey poor in nutrients but rich in shell material and salt water). During migration, red knots phenotypically alternate between a "fueling [life-cycle] stage" and a "flight stage." Fueling red knots in tropical areas may encounter heat load problems whilst still on the ground, but high flight altitudes during migratory flights seem to take care of overheating and unacceptably high rates of evaporative water loss. The allocation principles for the flexible phenotypes of red knots and other birds, the costs of their organ flexibility and the ways in which they "organize" all the fast phenotypic changes, are yet to be discovered.
3884766|The monospecific light organ association between the Hawaiian sepiolid squid Euprymna scolopes and the marine luminous bacterium Vibrio fischeri has been used as a model for the study of the most common type of coevolved animal-bacterial interaction; i.e., the association of Gram-negative bacteria with the extracellular apical surfaces of polarized epithelia. Analysis of the squid-vibrio symbiosis has ranged from characterizations of the harvesting mechanisms by which the host ensures colonization by the appropriate symbiont to identification of bacteria-induced changes in host gene expression that accompany the establishment and maintenance of the relationship. Studies of this model have been enhanced by extensive collaboration with microbiologists, who are able to manipulate the genetics of the bacterial symbiont. The results of our studies have indicated that initiation and persistence of the association requires a complex, reciprocal molecular dialogue between these two phylogenetically distant partners.
23016038|Synopsis The process of hatching has been well studied in some model species of teleosts: the medaka Oryzias latipes, the mummichog Fundulus heteroclitus, and the zebrafish Danio rerio. These models are compared to the California Grunion, Leuresthes tenuis that has some unique features of reproduction related to tidal synchrony of spawning and environmentally cued hatching (ECH). During oviposition at spring tides, this marine teleost spawns out of water to bury its clutches on sandy beaches in the high intertidal zone. After embryos of L. tenuis reach hatching competence, hatching can be triggered at any time. Incubation above the water line inhibits hatching until ECH is triggered by rising tides during the following lunar phase, and hatching occurs within a few seconds. We review the embryo's response to environmental cues at hatching and the effects of the surrounding medium on the chorionase and chorion for this form of ECH. Leuresthes tenuis shares some similarities as well as some important differences with the model species. Comparison of hatching across teleostean taxa indicates great variability in stage at hatching and in duration of incubation that suggest hatching plasticity in response to environmental cues may be more widespread than currently appreciated.
3884636|Despite an immense amount of variation in organisms throughout the animal kingdom many of their genes show substantial conservation in DNA sequence and protein function. Here we explore the potential for a conserved evolutionary relationship between genes and their behavioural phenotypes. We investigate the evolutionary history of cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) and its possible conserved function in food-related behaviours. First identified for its role in the foraging behaviour of fruit flies, the PKG encoded by the foraging gene has since been associated with the maturation of behaviour (from nurse to forager) in honey bees and the roaming and dwelling food-related locomotion in nematodes. These parallels encouraged us to construct protein phylogenies using 32 PKG sequences that include 19 species. Our analyses suggest five possible evolutionary histories that can explain the apparent conserved link between PKG and behaviour in fruit flies, honey bees and nematodes. Three of these raise the hypothesis that PKG influences the food-related behaviours of a wide variety of animals including vertebrates. Moreover, it appears that the PKG gene was duplicated some time between the evolution of nematodes and a common ancestor of vertebrates and insects whereby current evidence suggests only the for-like PKG might be associated with food-related behaviour.
4540195|In some animals, the oxygen transport capacity of blood decreases when pH is lowered, yielding oxygen binding curves with Hill-coefficients smaller than unity. This so-called Root effect is observed in several fishes and is important for creating large oxygen partial pressures locally, for example in the swim bladder. While there is general agreement on the physiological advantages of this effect, its molecular basis remains ambiguous. Various studies show that isoforms of hemoglobins usually are present in the hemolymph, when the Root effect is observed. Here, we show that in such a case the mixture of these isoforms can exhibit apparent negative cooperativity, although each component taken separately can be described by the MWC model. In other cases, isolated isoforms exhibit true negative cooperativity. The well established MWC model describes many cooperative phenomena of enzymes and respiratory proteins but is not capable of describing negative cooperativity. In order to model negative cooperativity within a single molecular species a decoupling model might be employed, as pointed out previously. However, simulations show that it is not mandatory to have species with negative cooperativity, in order to obtain the binding curves typically seen for whole blood. These two aspects of the Root effect will be discussed on the basis of data from the literature.
3884946|The general effects of temperature and nutritional quality on growth rate and body size are well known. We know little, however, about the physiological mechanisms by which an organism translates variation in diet and temperature into reaction norms of body size or development time. We outline an endocrine-based physiological mechanism that helps explain how this translation occurs in the holometabolous insect Manduca sexta (Sphingidae). Body size and development time are controlled by three factors: (i) growth rate, (ii) the timing of the cessation of juvenile hormone secretion (measured by the critical weight) and (iii) the timing of ecdysteroid secretion leading to pupation (the interval to cessation of growth [ICG] after reaching the critical weight). Thermal reaction norms of body size and development time are a function of how these three factors interact with temperature. Body size is smaller at higher temperatures, because the higher growth rate decreases the ICG, thereby reducing the amount of mass that can accumulate. Development time is shorter at higher temperatures because the higher growth rate decreases the time required to attain the critical weight and, independently, controls the duration of the ICG. Life history evolution along altitudinal, latitudinal and seasonal gradients may occur through differential selection on growth rate and the duration of the two independently controlled determinants of the growth period.
40405996|Sensory systems provide crucial information about an organism's external environment and, thus, are often subject to strong natural selection. Because of the large variation in the intensity and spectral quality of light in aquatic environments, studies of sensory adaptation have focused on the visual systems of fish for over a half a century. Recently, the molecular genetic mechanisms that determine the spectral sensitivity of visual pigments have been characterized in several fishes including zebrafish, guppies, medaka, killifish, bream, and cichlids. The results of these studies suggest that teleost fish have incredibly diverse visual systems. In this paper, we review the role that opsin duplication and differential gene expression have played in the diversification of visual pigments. We compare our findings in cichlids to five other taxonomic groups and highlight the ways that their similarities and differences may provide new insights into the molecular genetic basis of sensory adaptation and diversification.
25160138|Although contemporary high school and college textbooks of biology generally cover the principles and data of microevolution (genetic and populational change) and speciation rather well, coverage of what is known of the major changes in evolution (macroevolution), and how the evidence is understood is generally poor to nonexistent. It is critical to improve this because acceptance of evolution by the American public rests on the understanding of how we know what we know about the emergence of major new taxonomic groups, and about their adaptations, behaviors, and ecologies in geologic time. An efficient approach to this problem is to improve the illustrations in college textbooks to show the consilience of different lines of fossil, morphological, and molecular evidence mapped on phylogenies. Such "evograms" will markedly improve traditional illustrations of phylogenies, "menageries," and "companatomies." If "evograms" are installed at the college level, the basic principles and evidence of macroevolution will be more likely taught in K-12, thus providing an essential missing piece in biological education.
4540171|Body plans are remarkably well conserved, but on (very) rare occasions important novelties evolve. Such novelties involve changes at the genotypic and phenotypic level affecting both developmental and adult traits. At all levels, duplications play an important role in the evolution of novelties. Mutations for duplications, including mutations for duplications of body parts, as well as mutations for other changes in the body plan, in particular homeotic ones, occur surprisingly frequently. Hence the limitation of mutations appears to be relatively unimportant for the conservation of body plans. However, mutations for duplications of body parts and homeotic changes rarely persist in populations. We argue that the root cause of the conservation of body plans is the strong interactivity during the patterning of the embryonic axes, including the interactivity between patterning and proliferation processes. Due to this interactivity, mutations cause many negative pleiotropic effects (malformations and cancers) that dramatically lower fitness. As an example, we have shown that in humans there is extreme selection against negative pleiotropic effects of the, surprisingly frequent, mutations affecting the number of cervical vertebrae. Moreover, we argue for the relevance of relaxed selection, which temporarily allows just-arisen novelties to persist, for the effective breaking of pleiotropic constraints. We illustrate this with two empirical examples.
3884990| Invasive species that penetrate habitat boundaries are likely to experience strong selection and rapid evolution. This study documents evolutionary shifts in tolerance and performance following the invasion of fresh water by the predominantly estuarine and salt marsh copepod Eurytemora affinis. Commongarden experiments were performed on freshwater-invading (Lake Michigan) and ancestral saline (St. Lawrence marsh) populations to measure shifts in adult survival (at 0, 5, and 25 PSU), and survival during development and development time (both using full-sib clutches split across 0, 5, 15, and 25 PSU). Results showed clear evidence of heritable shifts in tolerance and performance associated with freshwater invasions. The freshwater population exhibited a gain in low-salinity tolerance and a reduction in high-salinity tolerance relative to the saline population, suggesting tradeoffs. These tradeoffs were supported by negative genetic correlations between survival at fresh (0 PSU) versus higher salinities. Mortality in response to salinity occurred primarily before metamorphosis, suggesting that selection in response to salinity had acted primarily on the early life-history stages. The freshwater population exhibited curious patterns of life-history evolution across salinities, relative to the saline population, of retarded development to metamorphosis but accelerated development from metamorphosis to adulthood. This pattern might reflect tradeoffs between development rate and survival in fresh water at the early life-history stages, but some other selective force acting on later life-history stages. Significant effects of clutch (genotype) and clutch-by-salinity interaction (G  E) on survival and development time in both populations indicated ample genetic variation as substrate for natural selection. Variation for high-salinity tolerance was present in the freshwater population despite negative genetic correlations between high- and low-salinity tolerance. Results implicate the importance of natural selection and document the evolution of reaction norms during freshwater invasions. 
25160224|Bryozoans are suspension feeding colonial animals that remain attached to the substratum or other surfaces. How well a bryozoan can feed in a particular flow regime could help determine the distribution and abundance of that bryozoan. I tested how velocity of flow affects feeding rate in four species of bryozoans in the laboratory and how these species perform in different flow regimes in the field. I found that one species, Membranipora membranacea, had a higher ingestion rate than did the other three species at all velocities of flow tested. Membranipora also had a higher rate of ingestion at intermediate velocities, while velocity did not have as strong an effect on ingestion rate in the other three species. As predicted from the feeding experiments, all four species generally had greater abundance, attained a larger size, grew faster, and survived longer in flow regimes in which feeding is higher. Also as predicted, Membranipora had greater abundance, attained a larger size, grew faster, and survived longer than did the other three species both in slower and faster flow regimes in the field. Understanding how flow affects feeding can help predict the distribution and abundance of bryozoans in the field. Because especially efficient filterers like Membranipora can grow faster and have higher survival under a wide range of conditions of flow, this species may be able to outcompete many other species or take advantage of ephemeral habitats, thereby becoming a potentially effective invasive species as has been seen in the Gulf of Maine.
3884774|The involvement of circulating hemocytes as the principal cellular effector mediating molluscan immune responses is well established. They participate in a variety of internal defense-related activities including microbial phagocytosis, multicellular encapsulation, and cell-mediated cytotoxicity reactions that are presumed to be initiated through foreign ligand binding to hemocyte receptors and subsequent transduction of the binding signal through the cell resulting in appropriate (or in some cases, inappropriate) hemocyte responses. At present, however, although functional evidence abounds as to the existence of hemocyte "recognition" receptors, few have been characterized at the molecular level. Similarly, signal transduction systems associated with various receptor-mediated hemocyte functions in molluscs are only beginning to be investigated and understood. This review examines what is currently known about the molluscan hemocyte receptors and the putative signal transduction pathways involved in regulating their cellular behaviors/activities. The cumulative data implies the presence of various hemocyte-associated receptors capable of binding specific carbohydrates, extracellular matrix proteins, growth factors, hormones, and cytokines. Moreover, receptor-ligand interactions appear to involve signaling molecules similar to those already recognized in vertebrate immunocyte signal transduction pathways, such as protein kinases A and C, focal adhesion kinase, Src, Ca
25160141|The strength of the evidence supporting evolution has increased markedly since the discovery of DNA but, paradoxically, public resistance to accepting evolution seems to have become stronger. A key dilemma is that science faculty have often continued to teach evolution ineffectively, even as the evidence that traditional ways of teaching are inferior has become stronger and stronger. Three pedagogical strategies that together can make a large difference in students' understanding and acceptance of evolution are extensive use of interactive engagement, a focus on critical thinking in science (especially on comparisons and explicit criteria) and using both of these in helping the students actively compare their initial conceptions (and publicly popular misconceptions) with more fully scientific conceptions. The conclusion that students' misconceptions must be dealt with systematically can be difficult for faculty who are teaching evolution since much of the students' resistance is framed in religious terms and one might be reluctant to address religious ideas in class. Applications to teaching evolution are illustrated with examples that address criteria and critical thinking, standard geology versus flood geology, evolutionary developmental biology versus organs of extreme perfection, and the importance of using humans as a central example. It is also helpful to bridge the false dichotomy, seen by many students, between atheistic evolution versus religious creationism. These applications are developed in detail and are intended to be sufficient to allow others to use these approaches in their teaching. Students and other faculty were quite supportive of these approaches as implemented in my classes.
3884750|Several species of sea cucumbers, all belonging to a single family, possess a peculiar and specialized defense system, the Cuvierian tubules. It is mobilized when the animal is mechanically stimulated, resulting in the discharge of a few white filaments, the tubules. In seawater, the expelled tubules lengthen considerably and become sticky upon contact with any object. The adhesiveness of their outer epithelium combined with the tensile strength of their collagenous core make Cuvierian tubules very efficient at entangling and immobilizing most potential predators. We have designed a method to measure the adhesion of holothuroid Cuvierian tubules. Tubule adhesive strength was measured in seven species of sea cucumbers belonging to the genera Bohadschia, Holothuria and Pearsonothuria. The tenacities (force per unit area) varied from 30 to 135 kPa, falling within the range reported for marine organisms using non-permanent adhesion. Two species, H. forskali and H. leucospilota, were selected as model species to study the influence of various factors on Cuvierian tubule adhesive strength. Tubule tenacity varied with substratum, temperature and salinity of the seawater, and time following expulsion. These differences give insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying Cuvierian tubule adhesion. Tenacity differences between substrata of varying surface free energy indicate the importance of polar interactions in adhesion. Variation due to temperature and time after expulsion suggests that an increase of tubule rigidity, presumably under enzymatic control, takes place after tubule elongation and reinforces adhesion by minimizing peeling effects.
4540178|Animals in their natural environments display a remarkably diverse variety of walking patterns. Although some of this diversity is generated by alterations in feedback from the moving limbs, animals can modify their walking in many ways that cannot be directly attributed to this sensory feedback. For example, animals and humans can learn to associate a particular environment with disturbances that were experienced there earlier, and alter their stepping accordingly even after the disturbance has ceased. Another relevant example is that walking animals are aware of the locations of obstacles around them, and use this awareness to alter their stepping patterns even when there is no visual information available about the location of the obstacles relative to the body. In this article, we discuss recent work from our laboratory that addresses these two topics. First, we report that perturbing walking cats in a consistent manner evokes long-lasting changes to the walking pattern that are expressed only in the context in which walking was disturbed. Secondly, we show that cats that have stepped over an obstacle remember the location of that obstacle relative to the body during long delays, and can use that memory to guide stepping. The general theme of this research is that sensory inputs that signal context-the visual and auditory environment that surrounds an animal-play an important role in shaping the basic pattern of locomotion.
3884588|Animals can swerve, dodge, dive, climb, turn and stop abruptly. Their stability and maneuverability are remarkable, but a challenge to quantify. Formal stability analysis can allow for quantitative comparisons within and among species. Stability analysis used in concert with a template (a simple, general model that serves as a guide for control) can lead to testable hypotheses of function. Neural control models postulated without knowledge of the animal's mechanical (musculo-skeletal) system can be counterproductive and even destabilizing. Perturbations actively corrected by reflex feedback in one direction can result in perturbations in other directions because the system is coupled dynamically. The passive rate of recovery from a perturbation in one direction differs from rates in other directions. We hypothesize that animals might exert less neural control in directions that rapidly recover via passive dynamics (e.g., in body orientation and rotation). By contrast, animals are likely to exert more neural control in directions that recover slowly or not at all via passive dynamcis (e.g., forward velocity and heading). Neural control best enhances stability when it works with the natural, passive dynamics of the mechanical system. Measuring maneuverability is more challenging and new, general metrics are needed. Templates reveal that simple analyses of summed forces and quantification of the center of pressure can lead to valuable hypotheses, whereas kinematic descriptions may be inadequate. The study of stability and maneuverability has direct relevance to the behavior and ecology of animals, but is also critical if animal design is to be understood. Animals appear to be grossly over-built for steady-state, straight-ahead locomotion, as they appear to possess too many neurons, muscles, joints and even too many appendages. The next step in animal locomotion is to subject animals to perturbations and reveal the function of all their parts.
4485778|To fully understand the implications of a chemical's effect on the conservation of a species, effects observed at the physiological or individual level must be expressed in terms of the population. Since long-term field experiments are typically not feasible, vital rates such as survival and reproduction of individual organisms are measured in life table response experiments (LTRE) and employed to extrapolate the effects of a pollutant on the population. The population-level response of the mysid, Americamysis bahia, to varying concentrations of methoprene (0, 4, 8, 16, 31, 62 g/L) was determined using age-structured population models. Models were parameterized from the results of an LTRE conducted throughout the entire mysid life cycle. A density-independent matrix model with time invariant demographic parameters was developed to measure the change in population growth rate, , with change in methoprene concentration. The values of  were greater than one for all methoprene concentrations, indicating that populations exposed to the concentrations reported here would not become extinct. However, a general decrease in  occurred with increasing methoprene concentration and would result in reduced population sizes. Sensitivity and decomposition analyses were conducted to determined the relative roles of the vital rates on altered popu- lation growth rates and determined that impaired reproduction was the primary influence on the observed decrease in . The model constructed was a useful tool for linking the individual-level effects to the population-level consequences of methoprene exposure on mysids, as well as defining the mechanism (reduced reproduction) responsible for the observed effects on population.
3884734|Asterinid sea stars have the greatest range of life histories known for the Asteroidea. Larval form in these sea stars has been modified in association with selection for planktonic, benthic, or intergonadal developmental habitats. Life history data are available for 31 species and molecular data for 28 of these. These data were used to assess life history evolution and relationships among asterinid clades. Lecithotrophy is prevalent in Asterinidae, with at least 6 independent origins of this developmental mode. Morphological differences in the attachment complex of brachiolaria larvae were evident among species with planktonic lecithotrophy. Some features are clade specific while others are variable within clades. Benthic brachiolariae are similar in Aquilonastra and Parvulastra with tripod-shaped larvae, while the bilobed sole-shaped larvae of Asterina species appear unique to this genus. Multiple transitions and pathways have been involved in the evolution of lecithotropy in the Asterinidae. Although several genera have a species with a planktonic feeding larva in a basal phylogenetic position, relative to species with planktonic or benthic lecithotrophy, there is little evidence for the expected life history transformation series from planktonic feeding, to planktonic non-feeding, to benthic non-feeding development. Intragonadal development, a life history pattern unique to the Asterinidae, arose three times through ancestors with benthic or pelagic lecithotrophy. Evolution of lecithotrophy appears more prevalent in the Asterinidae than other asteroid families. As diverse modes of development are discerned in cryptic species complexes, new insights into life history evolution in the Asterinidae are being generated.
40405980|Migration determines where, when, and in which order males and females converge for reproduction. Protandry, the earlier arrival of males relative to females at the site of reproduction, is a widespread phenomenon found in many migratory organisms. Detailed knowledge of the determinants of protandry is becoming increasingly important for predicting how migratory species and populations will respond to rapid phenological shifts caused by climatic change. Here, we review and discuss the potential mechanisms underlying protandrous migration in birds, focusing on evidence from passerine species. Latitudinal segregation during the non-breeding period and differences in the initiation of spring migration are probably the key determinants of protandrous arrival at the breeding sites, while sexual differences in speed of migration appear to play a minor role. Experimental evidence suggests that differences between the sexes in the onset of spring migratory activity are caused by differences in circannual rhythmicity or by photoperiodic responsiveness. Both of these mechanisms are hardwired and could prevent individuals from responding plastically to chronic changes in temperature at the breeding grounds. As a consequence, adaptive changes in both the timing of arrival in spring and of reproduction will require evolutionary (genetic) changes of the cue-response systems underlying the initiation and extent of migration in both males and females.
4540207|Synopsis Understanding the nature and timing of metazoan origins is one of the most important, yet elusive, questions in evolutionary biology. Fossil data provide the most tangible evidence for the origin of early animal lineages, although additional evidence from molecular phylogenetics, molecular clock studies, and development has contributed to our current understanding. We review several lines of evidence to explore the nature and timing of early metazoan evolution and discuss how these data, when considered together, provide a more cohesive picture of the origin of animal diversity. We discuss how trace fossils and biomarkers provide compelling evidence for the origins of Bilateria and siliceous sponges. Using a molecular phylogenetic framework for metazoans, we discuss how fossils can be used to date the origin of clades. We use these fossil dates to perform a relaxed molecular clock analysis for estimating dates of nodes when no fossils are available. We also discuss current data from developmental biology that suggest that early metazoans possessed a sophisticated molecular toolkit for building complex body plans. We conclude that the best evidence for the origin of major metazoan lineages lies in the careful interpretation of the fossil record and that these data, when considered with phylogenetic and developmental evidence, support the notion that the Cambrian radiation is a real phenomenon that marks a critically important time in the history of life.
40863412|The importance of associations between microorganisms and their invertebrate hosts is becoming increasingly apparent. An emerging field, driven by the necessity to understand the microbial relationships that both maximize coral health and cause coral disease, is the study of coral-bacteria interactions. In this article, we review our current understanding of the diversity, specificity, development, and functions of coral-associated bacteria. We also summarize what is known regarding the role of coral microbiota in the health and disease of coral. We conduct a meta-analysis to determine whether the presence of unique taxa correlates with the state of coral health (i.e. healthy, diseased or bleached), as well as whether coral reef habitats harbor clusters of. distinct taxa. We find that healthy and bleached corals harbor similar dominant taxa, although bleached corals had higher proportions of Vibrio and Acidobacteria. Diseased corals generally had more Rhodobacter, Clostridia, and Cyanobacteria sequences, and fewer Oceanospirillum sequences. We caution, however, that while 16S rRNA is useful for microbial species identification, it is a poor predictor of habitat or lifestyle, and care should be taken in interpretation of 16S rRNA surveys to identify potential pathogens amongst complex coralmicrobial assemblages. Finally, we highlight evidence that coral-bacterial assemblages could be sensitive to the effects of climatic change. We suggest that the relationship between coral and their bacterial associates represents a valuable model that can be applied to the broader discipline of invertebrate-microbial interactions.
3884798| Mixed-mating, that is reproduction by both self-fertilization and cross-fertilization is common in hermaphroditic parasites. Its maintenance poses, however, a problem for evolutionary biology. The tapeworm Schistocephalus solidus Mller 1776, served as a model to study experimentally the consequences of selfing and outcrossing in its 2 consecutive intermediate hosts, a copepod (Macrocyclops albidus Jurine) and the three-spined stickleback fish (Gasterosteus aculeatus). Size-matched tapeworms were allowed to reproduce either alone or in pairs in an in vitro system that replaced the definitive bird host's gut. Selfed eggs from singletons had a 4 times lower hatching success than outcrossed eggs from pairs. Outcrossed offspring achieved both a higher infection success and a higher weight in the copepod, and a higher number of parasites per host in both intermediate hosts, but only under competition. Outcrossed offspring were generally more successful. If a S. solidus plerocercoid has a partner in the bird's gut, they should outcross unless they differ in size and thus cannot solve the Hermaphrodite's Dilemma cooperatively. Using microsatellite markers, the proportion of selfed offspring and the total reproductive output of each worm within pairs varying in mean weight and in weight difference was measured. Worms produced more selfed offspring not only with increasing weight difference as expected but also with decreasing total weight of the pair. If small worms were selfed, they have already purged deleterious mutations and would thus be better selfers in a year with low parasite density when worms cannot find partners. To maintain this advantage they should self a higher proportion of their eggs even with a partner. Here I review recent exprimental evidence. 
40405981|In temperate zones, the reproductive physiology of most vertebrates is controlled by changes in photoperiod. Mechanisms for the regulation of photoperiodic gonadal responses are known to differ between mammals and birds: in mammals, melatonin is the photoperiodic signal messenger, whereas in birds, photoperiodic information is received by deep brain photoreceptors. Recently, the molecular mechanism of photoperiodism has been revealed by studies on Japanese quail, which exhibit a most remarkable responsiveness to photoperiod among vertebrates, and molecular cascades involved in photoperiodism have been elucidated. Long-day stimulus induces expression of the -subunit of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH-) in the pars tuberalis (PT) of the pituitary gland, and TSH derived from the PT regulates reciprocal switching of genes encoding types 2 and 3 deiodinases (Dio2 and Dio3, respectively) in the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) by retrograde action. Dio2 locally converts prohormone thyroxine (T) to bioactive triiodothyronine (T) in the MBH, which subsequently stimulates the gonadal axis. These events have been confirmed to occur in mammals with seasonal breeding, such as hamsters and sheep, suggesting that similar mechanisms are involved among various vertebrates. In addition, nonphotoperiodic mice also appeared to possess the same molecular mechanisms at the hypothalamo-hypophysial level. It has been noted that melatonin regulates the above-mentioned key genes (Dio2, Dio3, and TSH-) in mammals, while photoperiod directly regulates these genes in birds. Thus, the input pathway of photoperiod is different between mammals and birds (i.e., melatonin versus light); however, the essential mechanisms are conserved among these vertebrates.
3884624|Characterized by complex geometry and complicated dynamic process, biological fluid dynamics in swimming and flying is usually of large scale vortex flows with four-dimensional nature, namely, spatial three-dimensional and one-dimensional in time. Conventional theories for understanding power and energetics in swimming and flying rely exclusively on the consistent potential flow formulation in qualitatively analyzing the physics as well as the observations and measurements in visualizing the flows so as to support the theories. In the present paper we address a new paradigm of the so-called, simulation-based biological fluid dynamics that can digitize and visualize swimming and flying by using computational mechanical modeling of the biological fluid dynamics through faithful reconstruction of morphology and realistic representation of kinematics of an individual object. We demonstrate an integrated computational system as a baseline for the simulation-based biological fluid dynamics, which involves four subsystems of the morphological modeling, the kinematic modeling, the computational fluid dynamic modeling, and the post-processing for visualization. Applications of a realistic model of insect flapping flight and an extensive study on the Micro Air Vehicle are then presented and discussed.
40931214|A major grand challenge in biology is to understand the interactions between an organism and its environment. Behavior resides in the central core of this association as it affects and is affected by development, physiology, ecological dynamics, environmental choice, and evolution. We present this central role of behavior in a diagram illustrating the multifaceted program emphasizing the necessity for understanding this nexus and to fully appreciate the organism in its environment given the ongoing changes affected by contemporary human induced, rapid environmental change (HIREC). We call for the consideration of educational and research focuses to concentrate on the interdisciplinary role that behavior plays in the integration of biological processes.
3885001|Long-term facilitation (LTF) of Aplysia tail sensory neuron-motor neuron (SN-MN) synapses provides a synaptic correlate of memory for long-term behavioral sensitization of the tail-siphon withdrawal reflex. LTF can be induced by repeated exposures of serotonin (5HT) in the isolated pleural-pedal ganglion preparation. In addition, we have shown previously (Sherff and Carew, 1999) that LTF can also be induced by coincident 5HT exposure comprised of a single 25-min exposure of 5HT at the SN cell body and a 5 min pulse of 5HT at the SN-MN synapses. If synaptic 5HT is applied either 15 min before or after somatic 5HT, LTF is significantly reduced or is not induced at all. These results show that two anatomically remote cellular compartments can functionally interact within a surprisingly short time period. In this chapter, we discuss some of the mechanistic implications of this temporal constraint. We also find that coincident LTF and LTF induced by repeated pulses of 5HT differ (1) in whether they induce another temporal phase of facilitation (intermediate-term facilitation, ITF, expressed up to 1.5 hr after 5HT), and (2) in their requirements for protein synthesis. The results described both in this paper and in the preceding companion paper show that there are multiple forms of both ITF and LTF that differ in their induction and expression requirements, and at least in some instances, the different temporal phases of facilitation, and perhaps comparable phases of memory, can be induced independently of each other.
3884693|Many of the most commonly cited examples of exquisite adaptation are of coevolved symbioses. As we learn more about the coevolutionary process, however, it is becoming increasingly evident that co-evolution may also keep populations moderately maladapted much of the time. As a result, coevolving populations may only rarely occupy adaptive peaks, because the selective landscape is under continual change through reciprocal selection on the species themselves. These shifting patterns of coadaptation are further shaped by the geographic structure of most species. Selection mosaics across landscapes and coevolutionary hotspots can favor different evolutionary trajectories in different populations. The combined action of gene flow, random genetic drift, and local extinction of populations may then continually remold these local patterns, creating a geographic mosaic in the degrees of maladaptation found within local interactions. Recent mathematical models of the geographic mosaic of coevolution suggest that complex mosaics of maladaptation are a likely consequence of spatially structured species interactions. These models indicate that the spatial structure of maladaptation may depend upon the type of coevolutionary interaction, the underlying selection mosaic, and patterns of gene flow across landscapes. By maintaining local polymorphisms and driving the divergence of populations, coevolution may produce spatial patterns of maladaptation that are a source of ongoing innovation and diversification in species interactions.
23016323|Synopsis The increased overexploitation of freshwater ecosystems and their extended watersheds often generates a cascade of anthropogenic stressors (e.g., acidification, eutrophication, metal contamination, Ca decline, changes in the physical environment, introduction of invasive species, over-harvesting of resources). The combined effect of these stressors is particularly difficult to study, requiring a coordinated multi-disciplinary effort and insights from various sub-disciplines of biology, including ecology, evolution, toxicology, and genetics. It also would benefit from a well-developed and broadly accepted model systems. The freshwater crustacean Daphnia is an excellent model organism for studying multiple stressors because it has been a chosen focus of study in all four of these fields. Daphnia is a widespread keystone species in most freshwater ecosystems, where it is routinely exposed to a multitude of anthropogenic and natural stressors. It has a fully sequenced genome, a well-understood life history and ecology, and a huge library of responses to toxicity. To make the case for its value as a model species, we consider the joint and separate effects of natural and three anthropogenic stressorsclimatic change, calcium decline, and metal contaminants on daphniids. We propose that integrative approaches marrying various subfields of biology can advance our understanding of the combined effects of stressors. Such approaches can involve the measuring of multiple responses at several levels of biological organization from molecules to natural populations. For example, novel interdisciplinary approaches such as transcriptome profiling and mutation accumulation experiments can offer insights into how multiple stressors influence gene transcription and mutation rates across genomes, and, thus, help determine the causal mechanism between environmental stressors and population/community effects as well as long-term evolutionary patterns.
4540168|Time control is a crucial issue during embryonic development. Nevertheless, little is known about how embryonic cells measure time. Until recently, the only molecular clock known to operate during vertebrate embryonic development was the somitogenesis clock, exclusively functioning in coordinating the precise timing of each new pair of somites formed from the presomitic mesoderm. We have recently evidenced that a similar molecular clock also underlies the timing at which autopod chondrogenic precursors are laid down to form a skeletal limb element. In addition, we herein suggest that the molecular clock is not the only parallelism that can be established between somitogenesis and limb-bud development. In an evolutionary perspective, we support the previously proposed idea that the molecular mechanisms involved in the segmentation of the body axis may have been partially reused in the mesoderm of the lateral plate, thereby allowing the emergence of paired appendages.
3884770|Comparative immunology, derived from zoology and immunology, examines immune systems during evolution. We now know that invertebrates have molecules that share homology with some of those in vertebrates. Acquired immunity first appeared in the vertebrates, but before then innate immune systems had been successfully defending invertebrates and plants against microbial infections for hundreds of millions of years. The germline-encoded receptors of innate systems are relatively limited in diversity and unable to make fine distinctions between closely related structures. Nevertheless, they can recognize certain chemical features shared by groups of microorganisms (e.g., pattern recognition receptors) but not by the host, such as lipopolysaccharide of Gram-negative bacterial cell walls. This capability enables innate immunity to detect the presence of an infection, if not the precise cause-it is thus a biological rather than a structural distinction. Because of its evolutionary success, innate immunity is no longer considered primarily a stopgap measure, a temporary expedient for host defense. It no longer seems to matter that there is an absence of genetic-recombination mechanisms to generate neither specificity nor 'memory', because first and second exposures to a microbial substance elicit similar responses. Comparative immunology has enriched the parent field of immunology.
3884583|The understanding of fish maneuvering and its application to underwater rigid bodies are considered. The goal is to gain insight into stealth. The recent progress made in NUWC is reviewed. Fish morphology suggests that control fins for maneuverability have unique scalar relationships irrespective of their speed type. Maneuvering experiments are carried out with fish that are fast yet maneuverable. The gap in maneuverability between fish and small underwater vehicles is quantified. The hydrodynamics of a dorsal fin based brisk maneuvering device and a dual flapping foil device, as applied to rigid cylindrical bodies, are described. The role of pectoral wings in maneuvering and station keeping near surface waves is discussed. A pendulum model of dolphin swimming is presented to show that body length and tail flapping frequency are related. For nearly neutrally buoyant bodies, Froude number and maneuverability are related. Analysis of measurements indicates that the Strouhal number of dolphins is a constant. The mechanism of discrete and deterministic vortex shedding from oscillating control surfaces has the property of large amplitude unsteady forcing and an exquisite phase dependence, which makes it inherently amenable to active control for precision maneuvering. Theoretical control studies are carried out to demonstrate the feasibility of maneuverability of biologically inspired bodies under surface waves. The application of fish hydrodynamics to the silencing of propulsors is considered. Two strategies for the reduction of radiated noise are developed. The effects of a reduction of rotational rate are modeled. The active cambering of blades made of digitally programmable artificial muscles, and their thrust enhancement, are demonstrated. Next, wake momentum filling is carried out by artificial muscles at the trailing edge of a stator blade of an upstream stator propulsor, and articulating them like a fish tail. A reduction of radiated noise, called blade tonals, is demonstrated theoretically.
23016314|Synopsis Emerging concepts in developmental biology, such as facilitated variation and dynamical patterning modules, address a major shortcoming of the Modern Synthesis in Biology: how genotypic variation is transduced into functional yet diverse phenotypic variation. Still, we lack a theory to explain how variation at the cellular and tissue level is coordinated into variation at the whole-organism level, especially as priority of cellular and tissue functions change over an individual's lifetime and are influenced by environmental variation. Here, we propose that interactions among a limited subset of physiological factors that we call, integrators, regulate most phenotypic variation at the organismal level. Integrators are unique among physiological factors in that they have the propensity to coordinate the expression of conserved gene modules of most types of tissues because they participate as nodes in a hierarchical network. In other words, integrator networks impose physiological epistasis, meaning that whole-organism phenotypic responses will be influenced by previous experiences, current environmental conditions, and fitness priorities as encoded by individual integrators. Below, we provide examples of how integrator networks are responsible for both profound and irreversible phenotypic changes (i.e., metamorphosis, sexual differentiation) as well as subtler, transient (e.g., pelage color, seasonal fluctuations in lymphoid and reproductive tissues) variation. The goal of this article is not to describe completely how integrator networks function, but to stimulate discussion about the role of physiology in linking genetic to phenotypic variation. To generate useful data sets for understanding integrator networks and to inform whole-organism physiology generally, we describe several useful tools including vector-field editing, response-surface regression, and experiments of life-table responses. We then close by highlighting some implications of integrator networks for conservation and biomedicine.
23016119|Synopsis If heat generated through activity can substitute for heat required for thermoregulation, then activity in cold environments may be energetically free for endotherms. Although the possibility of activity-thermoregulatory heat substitution has been long recognized, its empirical generality and ecological implications remain unclear. We combine a review of the literature and a model of heat exchange to explore the generality of activity-thermoregulatory heat substitution, to assess the extent to which substitution is likely to vary with body size and ambient temperature, and to examine some potential macroecological implications. A majority of the 51 studies we located showed evidence of activity-thermoregulatory heat substitution (35 of 51 studies), with 28 of 32 species examined characterized by substitution in one or more study. Among studies that did detect substitution, the average magnitude of substitution was 57%, but its occurrence and extent varied taxonomically, allometrically, and with ambient temperature. Modeling of heat production and dissipation suggests that large birds and mammals, engaged in intense activity and exposed to relatively warm conditions, have more scope for substitution than do smaller endotherms engaged in less intense activity and experiencing cooler conditions. However, ambient temperature has to be less than the lower critical temperature (the lower bound of the thermal neutral zone) for activity-thermoregulatory heat substitution to occur and this threshold is lower in large endotherms than in small endotherms. Thus, in nature, substitution is most likely to be observed in intermediate-sized birds and mammals experiencing intermediate ambient temperatures. Activity-thermoregulatory heat substitution may be an important determinant of the activity patterns and metabolic ecology of endotherms. For example, a pattern of widely varying field metabolic rates (FMR) at low latitudes that converges to higher and less variable FMR at high latitudes has been interpreted as suggesting that warm environments at low latitudes allow a greater variety of feasible metabolic niches than do cool, high-latitude environments. However, activity-thermoregulatory heat substitution will generate this pattern of latitudinal FMR variation even if endotherms from cold and warm climates are metabolically and behaviorally identical, because the metabolic rates of resting and active animals are more similar in cold than in warm environments. Activity-thermoregulatory heat substitution is an understudied aspect of endotherm thermal biology that is apt to be a major influence on the physiological, behavioral and ecological responses of free-ranging endotherms to variation in temperature.
3884679|Like many marine crustaceans, mantis shrimp rely on their sense of smell to find food, mates, and habitat. In order for olfaction to function, odorant molecules in the surrounding fluid must gain access to the animal's chemosensors. Thus fluid motion is important for olfaction, both in terms of the large scale fluid movements (currents, waves, etc.) that advect the odorants to the vicinity of the sensors, and the small-scale viscosity dominated flows that determine odorant access to the surface of the sensor. In order to understand how stomatopods interpret their chemical environment, I investigated how stomatopod chemosensory morphology and the movement of the structures bearing the chemosensors affect fluid access to the sensor surface in Gonodactylaceus mutatus. Preliminary results from new directions are presented, including mathematical modeling of molecular flux at the sensor surface, field studies of the effects of ambient flow on odor sampling behavior, and flume experiments testing the ability of stomatopods to trace odor plumes. Finally, I show how the use of multiple techniques from several disciplines leads to new ideas about the functional morphology of stomatopod antennules.
41319653|Nearly all demersal teleost marine fishes have pelagic larval stages lasting from several days to several weeks, during which time they are subject to dispersal. Fish larvae have considerable swimming abilities, and swim in an oriented manner in the sea. Thus, they can influence their dispersal and thereby, the connectivity of their populations. However, the sensory cues marine fish larvae use for orientation in the pelagic environment remain unclear. We review current understanding of these cues and how sensory abilities of larvae develop and are used to achieve orientation with particular emphasis on coral-reef fishes. The use of sound is best understood; it travels well underwater with little attenuation, and is current-independent but location-dependent, so species that primarily utilize sound for orientation will have location-dependent orientation. Larvae of many species and families can hear over a range of ~ 100-1000 Hz, and can distinguish among sounds. They can localize sources of sounds, but the means by which they do so is unclear. Larvae can hear during much of their pelagic larval phase, and ontogenetically, hearing sensitivity, and frequency range improve dramatically. Species differ in sensitivity to sound and in the rate of improvement in hearing during ontogeny. Due to large differences among-species within families, no significant differences in hearing sensitivity among families have been identified. Thus, distances over which larvae can detect a given, sound vary among species and greatly increase ontogenetically. Olfactory cues are current-dependent and location-dependent, so species that primarily utilize olfactory cues will have location-dependent orientation, but must be able to swim upstream to locate sources of odor. Larvae can detect odors (e. g., predators, conspecifics), during most of their pelagic phase, and at least on small scales, can localize sources of odors in shallow water, although whether they can do this in pelagic environments is unknown. Little is known of the ontogeny of olfactory ability or the range over which larvae can localize sources of odors. Imprinting on an odor has been shown in one species of reef-fish. Celestial cues are current-and location-independent, so species that primarily utilize them will have location-independent orientation that can apply over broad scales. Use of sun compass or polarized light for orientation by fish larvae is implied by some behaviors, but has not been proven. Use of neither magnetic fields nor direction of waves for orientation has been shown in marine fish larvae. We highlight research priorities in this area.
40931230|One of the most notable features in looking across fishes is their diversity of body shape and size. Extant actinopterygian fishes range in shape from nearly spheroidal in pufferfishes to extremely elongate in snipe eels with nearly every shape in-between. One extreme along the body-shape continuum is a highly elongate form, which has evolved multiple times independently in Actinopterygii. Thus, comparison of these separate (independent) radiations provides a unique opportunity for examining the anatomical traits underlying elongation as well as the similarities and differences in the evolutionary pathways followed. Body elongation generally evolves via an increase in region-specific vertebral number, although certain lineages elongate via an increase in vertebral length. In this study, we describe how anatomical characters related to feeding and locomotion are correlated with elongation of the body across Actinopterygii. In addition to modifications of the postcranial axial skeleton, elongation in fishes is often accompanied by an increase in head length, loss of the pelvic fins, reduction of the pectoral fins, and expansion of the median fins. Based on anatomical studies and on recent studies of developmental control of the body axis in different species, we hypothesize how an axial trait might change at the genetic level. Overall, we discuss the evolution of body elongation in fishes in light of an understanding of the underlying anatomical modifications, developmental control, ecology, and locomotion.
25160119|The night sky remains a largely unexplored frontier for biologists studying the behavior and physiology of free-ranging, nocturnal organisms. Conventional imaging tools and techniques such as night-vision scopes, infrared-reflectance cameras, flash cameras, and radar provide insufficient detail for the scale and resolution demanded by field researchers. A new tool is needed that is capable of imaging noninvasively in the dark at high-temporal and spatial resolution. Thermal infrared imaging represents the most promising such technology that is poised to revolutionize our ability to observe and document the behavior of free-ranging organisms in the dark. Herein we present several examples from our research on free-ranging bats that highlight the power and potential of thermal infrared imaging for the study of animal behavior, energetics and censusing of large colonies, among others. Using never-before-seen video footage and data, we have begun to answer questions that have puzzled biologists for decades, as well as to generate new hypotheses and insight. As we begin to appreciate the functional significance of the aerosphere as a dynamic environment that affects organisms at different spatial and temporal scales, thermal infrared imaging can be at the forefront of the effort to explore this next frontier.
3884844|Three features contribute to the complexity of an entity: number of parts, their order, and their iteration. Many functional biological entities are complex when measured by those attributes, and although they are produced in tree-like architectures, the organizational structures that permit them to function are in the form of hierarchies. Natural hierarchies can be thought of as organizing structures that are emergent properties of complex functional entities, and which are transformed from trees by process networks. For example, hierarchies are observed in the architecture of metazoan bodies (the somatic hierarchy) and in the biotic structure of ecogeographic units (the ecological hierarchy). As the metazoan developmental genome is quite complex and has been evolved through tree-like processes, it must harbor at least one hierarchy, which is most clearly indicated in the developmental processes that create the somatic hierarchy. For multicellular organisms, the processes that serve to transform trees of gene expression events into a somatic hierarchy have produced complicated signaling networks whose histories can probably be recovered in general outline.
3884736|For marine, benthic animals, duration of planktonic larval stages is expected to correlate with dispersal ability, and thus species ranges, at least where planktonic dispersal is necessary to reach habitats. Yet past analyses of larval duration and species ranges across the insular Pacific show at most a weak correlation. So, do larvae matter in determining species ranges in such an island setting? We analyze an extensive dataset on cowries and find, again, that estimated larval duration does not correlate with species ranges. Several factors can obscure a real correlation, however, including estimation error, intraspecific variation, other factors affecting dispersal, poor taxonomy, and remote endemics. We show that taking these into consideration greatly improves correlation. Further evidence for the importance of larval duration comes from diversity and speciation patterns. Diversity of poor dispersers drops more rapidly eastward across the Pacific and leads to taxonomic differences in community composition across the basin. Geographic scale of differentiation is strongly influenced by larval duration and leads to the most rapid diversification at intermediate dispersal capacities. A major lesson from the phylogenetically corrected cowrie dataset is that without accurate and appropriate taxonomy, clear and important distributional and diversity patterns can become obscured. Inappropriate taxonomic scale can also obscure macroecological patterns: cowrie tribes/subfamilies show substantial variation in the steepness of their diversity cline across the Pacific and in their proportional local abundance, showing the importance of ecological traits in controlling distributions. In contrast such variation was not evident in a study focused at the family level in corals and fishes.
40306087|Vertebrate sickness behaviors, which include lethargy, anorexia, and decreased libido, can facilitate defense against pathogens by conserving energy for use in other immune responses and by limiting parasites' access to nutrients. Such benefits come with considerable costs, however, as lethargy decreases the time available for other fitness-enhancing activities and dampened libido directly reduces reproductive prospects. While the degree of sickness behaviors expressed varies among individuals, populations, and species, the ecological and physiological factors driving this diversity remain unclear. Here, we consider how an organism's ecological context and life-history strategy may impact the ways in which it balances the costs and benefits of sickness behaviors to enable or suppress its expression. Striking an appropriate balance requires physiological assimilation of information about external ecological conditions as well as about the status of infection and host nutrition. This integration requires multi-directional communication among the endocrine, nervous, and immune systems, the purview of the field of psychoneuroimmunology. This discipline portrays cytokines, signaling molecules originally characterized solely by their roles within the immune system, as key mediators of a brain-immune network that ensures the adaptive expression of sickness behaviors. Study of these molecules and the behaviors they coordinate in an ecological context will greatly augment our understanding of the natural variation in immune function found among wild animals.
3884579|The adaptive significance of mechanisms of energy and water conservation among species of desert rodents, which avoid temperature extremes by remaining within a burrow during the day, is well established. Conventional wisdom holds that arid-zone birds, diurnal organisms that endure the brunt of their environment, occupy these desert climates because of the possession of physiological design features common to all within the class Aves. We review studies that show that desert birds may have evolved specific features to deal with hot desert conditions including: a reduced basal metabolic rate (BMR) and field metabolic rate (FMR), and lower total evaporative water loss (TEWL) and water turnover (WTO). Previous work on the comparative physiology of desert birds relied primarily on information gathered on species from the deserts of the southwestern U.S., which are semi-arid habitats of recent geologic origin. We include data on species from Old World deserts, which are geologically older than those in the New World, and place physiological responses along an aridity axis that includes mesic, semi-arid, arid, and hyperarid environments. The physiological differences between desert and mesic birds that we have identified using the comparative method could arise as a result of acclimation to different environments, of genetic change mediated by selection, or both. We present data on the flexibility of BMR and TEWL in Hoopoe Larks that suggest that phenotypic adjustments in these variables can be substantial. Finally, we suggest that linkages between the physiology of individual organism and its life-history are fundamental to the understanding of life-history evolution.
25160163|Steroids present in egg yolk have been shown to vary as a result of numerous social and environmental influences and to produce both positive and negative phenotypic outcomes in offspring. In the present study, we examined how quality of the diet affects plasma and yolk steroids in the green anole (Anolis carolinensis), a lizard species with genotypic sex determination. We documented the effects of body condition on plasma testosterone (T) and corticosterone (CORT)-steroids with frequently opposing effects-in breeding females and on the T and CORT content of their eggs. We chose to manipulate body condition via diet because resource availability is a relevant, fluctuating variable in the environment to which females can be expected to respond. Field-collected females were housed in the laboratory and kept on either a reduced, standard, or enhanced diet (differing in nutritional quality and/or quantity) for ten weeks. Although females did not differ in body condition at the beginning of the study, we found these diet regimes effective in producing females that differed in condition by the end of the study. Females on diets of enhanced quality were in better condition, produced more, but not heavier, eggs, and had higher plasma T concentrations than did females on a standard diet or one of reduced quality. There was also a significant positive relationship between laying sequence of eggs and yolk T for females on diets of enhanced quality, but not for the females on diets of standard or reduced quality. There were no effects of quality of diet on CORT in plasma or yolk, but yolk T and yolk CORT exhibited a strong positive correlation irrespective of treatment. Females on diets of reduced quality did not differ from females on standard diets either with respect to reproductive output or to endocrine profiles, in spite of being in worse body condition. These results demonstrate that females' body condition, physiology, and reproductive output can be manipulated by quality of diet, and that changes in deposition of yolk steroids in response to diet may be minimal.
4540172|The last common ancestor of extant bilaterian animals is often referred to as "Urbilateria". Comparative studies of development in a variety of laboratory animals, both traditional model systems and newer "emerging" models, have resulted in many proposals as to the morphological and developmental genetic characteristics of Urbilateria. Most of these proposals are concerned with the development and emergence of external morphology, such as appendages, eyes, and ectodermal segmentation. Less attention has been paid to the evolutionary developmental biology of organogenesis. Arguably, one of the most important aspects of urbilaterian organogenesis would have been gonadogenesis, since Urbilateria must have successfully generated gametes and developed a strategy for extrusion and fertilization, in order to be the ancestor of all living Bilateria. This article considers what is known about gonadogenesis and reproductive strategies in extant metazoans, and searches for phylogenetic patterns that suggest what shared characteristics of these processes Urbilateria might have displayed. I conclude that the data presently available cannot suggest homologies of the somatic components of metazoan gonads, and that convergent evolution has resulted in many different morphological, and possibly molecular genetic, solutions to the various problems posed by sexual reproduction.
40931227|The common pattern of replicated evolution of a consistent shape environment relationship might reflect selection acting in similar ways within each environment, but divergently among environments. However, phenotypic evolution depends on the availability of additive genetic variation as well as on the direction of selection, implicating a bias in the distribution of genetic variance as a potential contributor to replicated evolution. Allometry, the relationship between shape and size, is a potential source of genetic bias that is poorly understood. The threespine stickleback, Gastetosteus aculeatus, provides an ideal system for exploring the contribution of genetic variance in body shape allometry to evolutionary patterns. The stickleback system comprises marine populations that exhibit limited phenotypic variation, and young freshwater populations which, following independent colonization events, have often evolved similar phenotypes in similar environments. In particular, stickleback diversification has involved changes in both total body size and relative size of body regions (i. e., shape). In a laboratory-reared cohort derived from an oceanic Alaskan population that is phenotypically and genetically representative of the ancestor of the diverse freshwater populations in this region, we determined the phenotypic static allometry, and estimated the additive genetic variation about these population-level allometric functions. We detected significant allometry, with larger fish having relatively smaller heads, a longer base to their second dorsal fin, and longer, shallower caudal peduncles. There was additive genetic variance in body size and in size-independent body shape (i. e., allometric elevation), but typically not in allometric slopes. These results suggest that the parallel evolution of body shape in threespine stickleback is not likely to have been a correlated response to selection on body size, or vice versa. Although allometry is common in fishes, this study highlights the need for additional data on genetic variation in allometric functions to determine how allometry evolves and how it influences phenotypic evolution.
40931191|The snail Ilyanassa obsoleta is a useful model for a variety of investigations in the fields of developmental biology, cell biology, larval ecology, ecotoxicology, parasitology, and chemical ecology. To enhance such studies, we have carried out two cDNA sequencing projects to characterize the mRNA transcripts that are present during development of this embryo. These efforts have generated 480 megabases of new sequence, which have been assembled into transcript contigs and represent thousands of newly identified Ilyanassa genes. We identified the orthologs of 182 transcription factors in these data, focusing on families that are likely to be sequence-specific transcriptional regulators. To demonstrate the utility of identifying and examining such transcripts, we describe the expression pattern during organognesis for IoOnecut, an Ilyanassa ortholog of the HNF6/onecut family of transcription factors.
3884977|Many birds fly at high altitude, either during long-distance flights or by virtue of residence in high-elevation habitats. Among the many environmental features that vary systematically with altitude, five have significant consequences for avian flight performance: ambient wind speeds, air temperature, humidity, oxygen availability, and air density. During migratory flights, birds select flight altitudes that minimize energy expenditure via selection of advantageous tail- and cross-winds. Oxygen partial pressure decreases substantially to as little as 26% of sea-level values for the highest altitudes at which birds migrate, whereas many taxa reside above 3000 meters in hypoxic air. Birds exhibit numerous adaptations in pulmonary, cardiovascular, and muscular systems to alleviate such hypoxia. The systematic decrease in air density with altitude can lead to a benefit for forward flight through reduced drag but imposes an increased aerodynamic demand for hovering by degrading lift production and simultaneously elevating the induced power requirements of flight. This effect has been well-studied in the hovering flight of hummingbirds, which occur throughout high-elevation habitats in the western hemisphere. Phylogenetically controlled studies have shown that hummingbirds compensate morphologically for such hypodense air through relative increases in wing size, and kinematically via increased stroke amplitude during the wingbeat. Such compensatory mechanisms result in fairly constant power requirements for hovering at different elevations, but decrease the margin of excess power available for other flight behaviors.
40931219|Antarctica has a complex and multifaceted geologic and oceanographie history that has influenced and shaped patterns of marine invertebrate diversity. This evolutionary history consists of major events on a wide range of time scales such as the formation of the Antarctic Polar Front (25-41 million years ago) to repeated glacial cycles during the past million years. These factors variably influenced genetic connectivity of fauna to produce a highly unique, but incredibly diverse marine community. Use of molecular phylogeographic methods is creating the need to revise our understanding of Antarctic patterns of biodiversity. In particular, almost every phylogeographic study carried out to date, suggests that the biodiversity of Antarctic marine shelf fauna is considerably underestimated. In discovering this diversity, some lineages (i.e., cryptic lineages) show no diagnostic morphological differences whereas others (i.e., unrecognized species) show differences that were unknown to science. The sea star genus Odontaster is among the best-studied of Antarctic invertebrate groups. Nonetheless, two unrecognized lineages were recently discovered along the Antarctic Peninsula, which is one of the best-studied regions in Antarctica. Herein, we elucidate the molecular and morphological uniqueness of these species and name them O. roseus and O. pearsei The latter is in honor of John Pearse, an Antarctic biologist, as well as past President and long-time member of the Society of Integrative and Comparative Biology.
3884869|The problem of insect metamorphosis has inspired naturalists for centuries. One question that often arises is why some insects, such as butterflies and bees, undergo a fairly radical metamorphosis while others, such as crickets and lice, do not. Even before the concept of homology emerged scientists speculated which stage found in more direct-developing insects would correspond with the pupal stage of metamorphosing insects. William Harvey (1651) considered the pupal stage to be a continuation of embryonic events, calling it a "second egg." Since then variations of this idea have emerged over the centuries of scientific research and have been supported by a wide variety of methods and rationales. This review will follow those ideas and the ideas that emerged in opposition to them to the present state of the field.
3884582|Perturbations vary in period and amplitude, and responses to unavoidable perturbations depend on response time and scale. Disturbances due to unavoidable perturbations occur in three translational planes and three rotational axes during forwards and backwards swimming. Stability depends on hydrodynamic damping and correcting forces, which may be generated by propulsors (powered) or by control surfaces moving with the body (trimming). Hydrostatic forces affecting body orientation (posture) result in negative metacentric heights amplifying rolling disturbances. The ability to counteract perturbations and correct disturbances is greater for fishes with more slender bodies, which appears to affect habitat choices. Postural control problems are greatest at low speeds, and are avoided by some fishes by sitting on the bottom. In currents, body form and behavior affect lift, drag, weight, and friction and hence speeds to which posture can be controlled. Self-correcting and regulated damping and trimming mechanisms are most important in stabilizing swimming trajectories. Body resistance, fin trajectory, multiple propulsors, and long-based fins damp self-generated locomotor disturbances. Powered control using the tail evolved early in chordates, and is retained by most groups, although fishes, especially acanthopterygians, make greater use of appendages. As with most areas of stability, little is known of control costs. Costs and benefits of low-density inclusions and hydrodynamic mechanisms for depth control vary with habits and habitats. Control may make substantial contributions to energy budgets.
4485784|Over the last decade, evidence has mounted demonstrating that human-made compounds released into the environment are disrupting endocrine systems of animals. Research has centered largely on direct steroidogenic or antisteroidogenic effects of these compounds with a recent focus on development of rapid in vitro assays employing estrogen receptors. A literature search and analysis confirms attention placed on estrogen and anti-estrogen-like aspects of endocrine disruption at the receptor level. Non-steroidal components of the hypothalamic-pituitary-end gland axes have received much less attention in the published endocrine disruption literature. Furthermore, aspects of endocrine physiology, such as the ability of animals to cope with stress or communicate chemically, have also received relatively less literature attention when compared to disruption of development and reproduction. As researchers continue to investigate complex mixes of human-synthesized compounds in the environment, it is critical to broaden the spectrum of hormonal disruption investigated beyond estrogenic and androgenic actions and to determine how exposure to mixes affects physiological function beyond reproduction. Last, in the field of endocrine disruption, it also important to begin to use data on individuals for development of hypotheses regarding fitness risks, changes in population dynamics, and the potential for ecosystem level disruption.
40863406|Newly metamorphosed juvenile sea urchins are highly variable across taxa. This contribution documents and illustrates structural, functional, and phylogenetic variation among newly metamorphosed juvenile sea urchins for 31 species from 12 ordinal or familial lineages. The classic juvenile with five primary podia, 20 interambulacral spines, and variable numbers of juvenile spines is found commonly among new metamorphs across lineages, but there are many examples, which depart from this pattern and most likely reflect adaptation to settlement habitats. At metamorphosis juveniles can have 5-25 functional podia. They can have 0-65 spines, 0 or 5 sphaeridia (balance organs). They may have zero or up to eight pedicellariae. While competent larvae that delay metamorphosis may continue to develop juvenile structures, variation across species is much greater than within species and there are strong phylogenetic and functional differences among juveniles. Heterochronic changes in expression of these structures can account for differences among taxa. Based on this sample, juvenile characters such as spines, podia, and larval pedicellariae are expressed in ways that suggest they are developmental modules whose expression can be readily changed relative to one another and to the time of metamorphosis.
3884647|Many species of marine algae have life cycles that involve multiple separate, free-living phases that frequently differ in ploidy levels. These complex life cycles have received increasing scientific attention over the past few decades, due to their usefulness for both ecological and evolutionary studies. I present a synthesis of our current knowledge of the ecological functioning and evolutionary implications of the isomorphic, biphasic life cycles commonly found in many species of marine algae. There are both costs and benefits to life cycles with 2 morphologically similar but separate, free-living phases that differ in ploidy levels (haploids and diploids). Evolutionary theory predicts that the existence of subtle yet important differences between the phases may be what allows these life cycles to be maintained. Different phases of the same species can vary in abundance, in demographic parameters such as mortality and fecundity, in their physiology, and in their resistance to herbivory. Some taxonomic groups within the red algae have received significant attention toward these issues, while our knowledge of these properties for brown and green algae remains limited.
3884931|Loriciferans, cycliophorans and micrognathozoans are amongst the latest groups of animals to be discovered. Other than all being microscopic, they have very different body plans and are not closely related. Loriciferans were originally assigned to the Aschelminthes. However, both new molecular and ultrastructural researches have shown that Aschelminthes consist of two unrelated groups, Cycloneuralia and Gnathifera. Cycloneuralia may be included in the Ecdysozoa, including all molting invertebrates, and Gnathifera are more closely related to Platyhelminthes. The phylum Loricifera shares many apomorphic characters (e.g., scalids on the introvert) with both Priapulida and Kinorhyncha, and can be included in the taxon Scalidophora, a subgroup of Cycloneuralia. Cycliophora was originally allied to the Entoprocta and Ectoprocta (Bryozoa) based on ultrastructural research. Subsequent molecular data show they may be related to Rotifera and Acanthocephala, within the taxon Gnathifera. The phylogenetic position of Cycliophora is therefore not settled, and more ultrastructural and molecular data are needed. Micrognathozoa is the most recent major group of animals to be described. They show strong affinities with both Rotifera and Gnathostomulida (within the taxon Gnathifera), especially in the fine structure of the pharyngeal apparatus, where the jaw elements have cuticular rods with osmiophilic cores. Furthermore the micrognathozoans have two rows of multiciliated cells that form a locomotory organ, similar to that seen in some gastrotrichs and interstitial annelids. This character is never seen in Rotifera or in the monociliated Gnathostomulida. Rotifera and Acanthocephala always have a syncytial epidermis (Syndermata). Micrognathozoa lack this characteristic feature. Therefore, they are postulated to be placed basally in the Gnathifera, either as a sister-group to Gnathostomulida or as a sister-group to Rotifera + Acanthocephala.
3884979|Among ectothermic tetrapods, amphibians are by far the most diverse group at high elevations in the tropical Andes. This article asks whether this pattern reflects intrinsic aspects of amphibian natural history. An interdisciplinary analysis suggests that amphibians have a long evolutionary history at moderate Andean elevations and that adaptation for activity at low temperature occurred frequently and independently in different taxa. One conclusion is that temperature is unlikely to be the only or the main factor constraining some unrepresented anuran taxa that do not reach high elevations. Other physical variables (e.g. the effects of ultraviolet radiation on egg development) could better explain anuran diversity along tropical altitudinal gradients. In contrast, heliothermic taxa, such as lizards, might indeed be constrained by the low and variable temperatures that characterize high tropical elevations. Ecological gradients, therefore, might not affect ectothermic tetrapods in a similar manner, and differential susceptibility to biotic and abiotic factors that change with elevation might help to explain current patterns of distribution and diversity.
3884650|The uptake and utilization of dissolved organic matter (DOM) by marine invertebrates is a field that has received significant attention over the past 100 years. Although it is well established that DOM is taken up by marine invertebrates, the extent to which it contributes to an animal's survival, growth, and reproduction (that is, the ecological benefits) remains largely unknown. Previous work seeking to demonstrate the putative ecological benefits of DOM uptake have examined them within a single life stage of an animal. Moreover, most of the benefits are demonstrated through indirect approaches by examining (1) mass balance, or (2) making comparisons of oxyenthalpic conversions of transport rates to metabolic rate as judged by oxygen consumption. We suggest that directly examining delayed metamorphosis or the latent effects associated with nutritional stress of larvae is a better model for investigating the ecological importance of DOM to marine invertebrates. We also provide direct evidence that availability of DOM enhances survival and growth of the bryozoan Bugula neritina. That DOM offsets latent effects in B. neritina suggests that the underlying mechanisms are at least in part energetic.
4540158| Synopsis Models of the evolution of virulence have typically focused on increased mortality, one of two negative effects that parasites can inflict on their host. Those that consider the other effect, fecundity reduction, can predict that parasites should completely sterilize their hosts. Although this prediction seems extreme, sterilization features prominently in a fascinating strategy, parasitic castration. Such castration can be accompanied by gigantism (unusually large growth of infected hosts), long infectious periods, and fecundity compensation (where, before heavy parasite burdens ensue, newly infected hosts reproduce earlier/more than they would if not infected). Using a model of dynamic energy budgets (DEB), we show how these results readily emerge, assuming that parasites consume energy reserves of the host. The simple, but mechanistic, DEB model follows energy flow though hosts and parasites, starting with ingestion, and continuing with storage of assimilated energy, and use of those reserves for growth and reproduction, as allocated by the host according to the "-rule". Using this model, we compare and contrast two strategies for parasites. "Consumers" only steal energy from their hosts, thereby indirectly altering allocation of energy to growth and reproduction, reducing fecundity, and enhancing mortality. "Castrators" steal energy but also directly modify the scheme by which hosts allocate reserve energy, shunting resources from reproduction to growth. Not surprisingly, the model predicts that this strategy should promote gigantism, but it also forecasts longer infectious periods and fecundity compensation. Thus, commonly observed characteristics of parasitic castration readily emerge from a mechanistic model of energy flow using a minimal number of assumptions. Finally, the DEB model for both "consumers" and "castrators" highlight that variation in resources supplied to hosts promotes variation in virulence in a given host-parasite system, holding all else equal. Such predictions highlight the potential importance of resource ecology for virulence in disease systems. 
4485817|Numerous studies have documented evolution by natural selection in natural populations, but few are genuine selection experiments that are designed and then executed in nature. We will focus on these few cases to illustrate what can be learned from field selection experiments alone or field and laboratory selection experiments together that cannot be learned from laboratory experiments alone. Both types of study allow us to evaluate cause and effect relationships because a planned experiment can be accompanied by a more direct evaluation of the factors that cause evolution. A unique benefit of field experiments is that they give us the opportunity to measure the rate and magnitude of selection in nature. We have found that this rate is far greater than one might imagine based on observations of the fossil record. A combination of field and laboratory selection experiments has revealed the importance of population size and structure in shaping the genetics of adaptation. For example, laboratory selection experiments on insecticide resistance tend to attain resistance though polygenic inheritance. The evolution of insecticide resistance in nature often eventually yields to single genes of large effect that are rare but, once they arise, represent a higher fitness solution to resistance and spread among populations. Finally, field studies enable us to test evolutionary theory in a context in which all of the tradeoffs associated with a trait are realized; in the laboratory, organisms may be shielded from the fitness tradeoffs associated with the evolution of a trait. For example, we have compared the patterns of senescence in guppies from high and low mortality rate environments in the laboratory and in the field. In the laboratory, guppies from high predation environments had delayed senescence relative to those from low predation environments. In the field the apparent relationship is the opposite. One hypothesis for this difference is that a tradeoff associated with the evolution of the high predation life history is a decrease in the investment in the immune system. Such a sacrifice would be evident in nature where there is exposure to disease and parasites but less so in the laboratory, which is relatively disease and parasite free.
4485816|Selective breeding of house mice has been used to study the evolution of locomotor behavior. Our model consists of 4 replicate lines selectively bred for high voluntary wheel running (High-Runner) and 4 bred randomly (Control). The major changes in High-Runner lines appear to have taken place in the brain rather than in capacities for exercise. Their neurobiological profile resembles features of human Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and is also consistent with high motivation for exercise as a natural reward. Both ADHD and motivation for natural rewards (such as food and sex), as well as drugs of abuse, have been associated with alterations in function of the neuromodulator dopamine, and HighRunner mice respond differently to dopamine drugs. In particular, drugs that block the dopamine transporter protein (such as Ritalin and cocaine) reduce the high-intensity running of High-Runner mice but have little effect on Control mice. In preliminary studies of mice exercised on a treadmill, brain dopamine concentrations did not differ, suggesting that changes in the dopamine system may have occurred downstream of dopamine production (e.g., receptor expression or transduction). Brain imaging by immunohistochemical detection of c-Fos identified several key regions (prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, caudateputamen, lateral hypothalamus) that appear to play a role in the differential response to Ritalin and in the increased motivation for running in High-Runner mice. The activation of other brain regions, such as the hippocampus, was closely associated with wheel running itself. Chronic wheel running (several weeks) also increased the production of new neurons to apparently maximal levels in the hippocampus, but impaired learning in High-Runner mice. We discuss the biomedical implications of these findings.
4485835|The symbiotic life style involves mutual ecological, physiological, structural, and molecular adaptations between the partners. In the symbiotic association between anthozoans and photosynthetic dinoflagellates (Symbiodinium spp., also called zooxanthellae), the presence of the endosymbiont in the animal cells has constrained the host in several ways. It adopts behaviors that optimize photosynthesis of the zooxanthellae. The animal partner has had to evolve the ability to absorb and concentrate dissolved inorganic carbon from seawater in order to supply the symbiont's photosynthesis. Exposing itself to sunlight to illuminate its symbionts sufficiently also subjects the host to damaging solar ultraviolet radiation. Protection against this is provided by biochemical sunscreens, including mycosporine-like amino acids, themselves produced by the symbiont and translocated to the host. Moreover, to protect itself against oxygen pro during algal photosynthesis, the cnidarian host has developed certain antioxidant defenses that are unique among animals. Finally, living in nutrient-poor waters, the animal partner has developed several mechanisms for nitrogen assimilation and conservation such as the ability to absorb inorganic nitrogen, highly unusual for a metazoan. These facts suggest a parallel evolution of symbiotic cnidarians and plants, in which the animal host has adopted characteristics usually associated with phototrophic organisms.
4485875|The widespread use of molecular markers to estimate parentage makes possible a new index of the opportunity for sexual selection. After demonstrating the need for a new measure, I develop one based on the upper limit on sexual selection. I describe what sets the upper limit for each sex by showing how maximum fecundity increases with number of mates, accounting for the amount of energy (or critical resources) available for reproduction and levels of parental care. For females the upper limit on sexual selection is set by the value of paternal investment that comes with each mating. For males, the upper limit on sexual selection is set by the fecundity of their mates (including any boost to female fecundity from paternal investment). Sex-roles are most likely to reverse (making males choosy and females competitive) when the amount of reproductive energy investment made by each sex is low, irrespective of the level of paternal investment. Finally, I propose that we use the difference between male and female upper limits on sexual selection to quantify sex differences in the opportunity for sexual selection. Using upper limits to estimate the opportunity for sexual selection is more intuitive than older methods (e.g., standardized variance in mating success), it is experimentally measurable, and it is valuable in understanding the evolution of mating systems.
4485768|To gain basic understanding of the reproductive and developmental effects of endocrine disrupting chemicals in invertebrates, we have used C. elegans as an animal model. The completion of the C. elegans genome sequence brings to bear microarray analysis as a tool for these studies. We previously showed that the C. elegans genome was responsive to vertebrate steroid hormones, and changes in gene expression of traditional biomarkers used in environmental studies were detected; i.e., vitellogenin (vtg), cytochrome P450 (cyp450), glutathione-S-transferase (gst) and heat shock proteins (hsp). The data were interpreted to suggest that exogenous lipophilic compounds can be metabolized via cytochrome P450 proteins, and that the resulting metabolites can bind to members of the Nuclear Receptor (NR) class of proteins and regulate gene expression. In the present study, using DNA microarrays, we examined the pattern of gene expression after progesterone (10, 10 M), estradiol (10 M), cholesterol (10 M) and cadmium (0.1, 1 and 10 M) exposure, with special attention to the members of NRs. Of approximately 284 NRs in C. elegans, expression of 25 NR genes (representing 9% of the total NRs in C. elegans) was altered after exposure to steroids. Of note, each steroid activated or inhibited different subsets of NR genes, and only estradiol regulated NR genes implicated in neurogenesis. These results suggest that NRs respond to a variety of exogenous steroids, which regulate important metabolic and developmental pathways. The response of the C. elegans genome to cholesterol and cadmium was analyzed in more detail. Cholesterol is a probable precursor to signaling molecules that may interact with NRs and we focused on expression of genes related to lipid metabolism (cyp450), transport and storage (i.e., vitellogenin). Worms exposed to cadmium respond principally by activating the expression of genes encoding stress-responsive proteins, such as mtl-2 and cdr-1, and no significant changes in expression of NRs or vtg genes were observed. The possible implications of these results with regard to the evolution of steroid receptors, endocrine disruption and the role of vitellogenin as a lipid transporter are discussed.
25160161|The discovery by Schwabl that maternal steroid hormones are transferred to the egg yolk and have effects on the phenotype of offspring revealed a new pathway for non-genetic maternal effects. The initial model relied on passive transfer. The thinking was that steroids passively entered the lipophillic yolk during yolk deposition and then were deposited in the yolk until they were passively delivered to the embryo as the yolk was used. Subsequent studies revealed that the system is much more dynamic than that. Here, we explore questions about how dynamic the system really is and look at questions like: Is transfer of maternal steroids to the yolk passive or is it actively regulated? At what stages of the maternal reproductive cycle are steroids transferred? During reproduction, how dynamic are the levels of yolk steroids? Especially in the case of potentially deleterious steroids (e.g., androgens in female offspring; glucocorticoids), once deposited can they come out of the yolk over time? Can they be metabolized by the yolk or by the embryo? During incubation, how much do steroid levels in the yolk change? Can steroids diffuse from the yolk to the embryo prior to yolk utilization? Does the embryo contribute to yolk steroid levels as it develops? We believe that comprehensive answers to questions like these will eventually allow us to generate a much more accurate and complete model of the transfer and utilization of yolk steroids and that this model will be much more dynamic and active than the one initially proposed.
3884855|The increase in trace fossil diversity across the Neoproterozoic-Cambrian boundary often is presented in terms of tabulations of ichnogenera. However, a clearer picture of the increase in diversity and complexity can be reached by combining trace fossils into broad groups defined both on morphology and interpretation. This also focuses attention on looking for similarites between Neoproterozoic and Cambrian trace fossils. Siliciclastic sediments of the Neoproterozoic preserve elongate tubular organisms and structures of probable algal origin, many of which are very similar to trace fossils. Such enigmatic structures include Palaeopascichnus and Yelovichnus, previously thought to be trace fossils in the form of tight meanders. A preliminary two or tripartite terminal Neoproterozoic trace fossil zonation can be be recognized. Possibly the earliest trace fossils are short unbranched forms, probably younger than about 560 Ma. Typical Neoproterozoic trace fossils are unbranched and essentially horizontal forms found associated with diverse assemblages of Ediacaran organisms. In sections younger than about 550 Ma a modest increase in trace fossil diversity occurs, including the appearance of rare three-dimensional burrow systems (treptichnids), and traces with a three-lobed lower surfaces.
4540199|Synopsis In order to address this subject further and to assess progress in the examination of animal origins and transitions, an international group of scientists was convened at the Society for Comparative Biology meeting in January 2007.
40405982|Circadian rhythms impact a variety of behavioral and physiological functions contributing to longevity and successful reproduction. In their natural environments, individuals of a species are faced with a multitude of challenges and the coordination of internal processes and behavior with external pressures has been hypothesized to be an important target of natural selection. Several lines of evidence from cyanobacteria, Drosophila, and plants provide strong support for an important role of the circadian clock in survival and reproductive success. Similarly in mammals, disruptions in circadian function markedly impact reproduction and lifespan. The present review discusses research outlining the proximate and ultimate mechanisms responsible for the central and peripheral control of the reproductive axis. Because precise temporal coordination of the endocrine system is particularly crucial for reproduction by females, the present overview focuses on the role of circadian timing in this sex.
3884860|Metamorphosis (Gr. meta- "change" + morphe "form") as a biological process is generally attributed to a subset of animals: most famously insects and amphibians, but some fish and many marine invertebrates as well. We held a symposium at the 2006 Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology (SICB) annual meeting in Orlando, FL (USA) to discuss metamorphosis in a comparative context. Specifically, we considered the possibility that the term "metamorphosis" could be rightly applied to non-animals as well, including fungi, flowering plants, and some marine algae. Clearly, the answer depends upon how metamorphosis is defined. As we participants differed (sometimes quite substantially) in how we defined the term, we decided to present each of our conceptions of metamorphosis in 1 place, rather than attempting to agree on a single consensus definition. Herein we have gathered together our various definitions of metamorphosis, and offer an analysis that highlights some of the main similarities and differences among them. We present this article not only as an introduction to this symposium volume, but also as a reference tool that can be used by others interested in metamorphosis. Ultimately, we hope that this article-and the volume as a whole-will represent a springboard for further investigations into the surprisingly deep mechanistic similarities among independently evolved life cycle transitions across kingdoms.
25160158|Understanding development is relevant to understanding evolution because developmental processes structure the expression of phenotypic variation upon which natural selection acts. Advances in developmental biology are fueling a new synthesis of developmental and evolutionary biology, but it remains unclear how to use developmental information that largely derives from a few model organisms to test hypotheses about the evolutionary developmental biology of taxa such as humans and other primates that have not been or are not amenable to direct study through experimental developmental biology. In this article, we discuss how and when model organisms like mice are useful for studying the evolutionary developmental biology of even rather distantly related and morphologically different groups like primates. A productive approach is to focus on processes that are likely to play key roles in producing evolutionarily significant phenotypic variation across a large phylogenetic range. We illustrate this approach by applying the analysis of craniofacial variation in mouse mutant models to primate and human evolution.
4485829|Behavior and electrophysiological studies have demonstrated a sensitivity to characteristics of the Geomagnetic field that can be used for navigation, both for direction finding (compass) and position finding (map). The avian magnetic compass receptor appears to be a light-dependent, wavelength-sensitive system that functions as a polarity compass (i.e., it distinguishes poleward from equatorward rather than north from south) and is relatively insensitive to changes in magnetic field intensity. The receptor is within the retina and is based on one or more photopigments, perhaps cryptochromes. A second receptor system appears to be based on magnetite and might serve to transduce location information independent of the compass system. This receptor is associated with the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve and is sensitive to very small (<50 nanotesla) changes in the intensity of the magnetic field. In neither case has a neuron that responded to changes in the magnetic field been traced to a structure that can be identified to be a receptor. Almost nothing is known about how magnetic information is processed within the brain or how it is combined with other sensory information and used for navigation. These remain areas of future research.
3884735|Ascidians exhibit a rich array of body plans and life history strategies. Colonial species typically consist of zooids embedded in a common test and brood large, fully developed larvae, while solitary species live singly and usually free-spawn eggs that develop into small, undifferentiated larvae. Ascidians in the order Stolidobranchia include both colonial and solitary species, as well as several species with intermediate morphologies. These include social species, which are colonial but do not live completely embedded in a common test, and a few solitary species that brood embryos and larvae until they are competent to metamorphose. We examined how many times coloniality has evolved within the Stolidobranchia, with phylogenetic analyses using full-length 18S rDNA and partial cytochrome oxidase B sequences for taxa in the families Molgulidae, Styelidae, and Pyuridae. Tunicata orders Phlebobranchia and Stolidobranchia are sister groups, and the family Molgulidae is a monophyletic group and should be raised to the subordinal level, as shown previously by analyses from this lab with partial 18S sequences. In contrast to previous studies, styelids and pyurids are separated into monophyletic groups by ML and Bayesian analyses. We show a single clade within the family Styelidae that contains two colonial (compound) botryllid species, a Symplegma (colonial compound), a colonial (social) species Metandrocarpa taylori, as well as four solitary species, thus confirming that the botryllids are a subfamily of the Styelidae. These results suggest that the ancestor of the Stolidobranchia was solitary and that coloniality has evolved only once within this clade of ascidians. Further phylogenetic analyses of aplousobranch and phlebobranch ascidians will be necessary to understand the number of times that coloniality has evolved within the class Ascidiacea.
3884919|Research on the stress response in reptiles can provide a useful comparative perspective for understanding how the constituent elements of the response can be put into service of diverse behavioral adaptations. A summary of the neural and endocrine causes and consequences of specific behavioral patterns seen in the small diurnal lizard, Anolis carolinensis, has provided a model for the exploration of the dynamics of autonomic and neurohormonal contributions to adaptive behavior. In this species, changes in body color provide indices of the flux of circulating stress-relevant hormones, and are seen in situations from spontaneous exploration through agonistic behavior. Furthermore, captive adult males spontaneously and consistently manifest social dominance relationships that provide many of the elements of a stress-mediated adaptive behavioral patterns. These patterns include suppressed reproduction and long-term coping apparently based more on stress-mediated changes in motivation than acquired changes in behavior.
40863402|The most extensive regenerative ability in adult vertebrates is found in the salamanders. Although it is often suggested that regeneration is an ancestral property for vertebrates, our studies on the cell-surface three-finger-protein Prod 1 provide clear evidence for the importance of local evolution of limb regeneration in salamanders. Prod 1 is implicated in both patterning and growth in the regeneration of limbs. It interacts with well-conserved proteins such as the epidermal growth-factor receptor and the anterior gradient protein that are widely expressed in phylogeny. A detailed analysis of the structure and sequence of Prod 1 in relation to other vertebrate three-finger proteins in mammals and zebra fish supports the view that it is a salamander-specific protein. This is the first example of a taxon-specific protein that is clearly implicated in the mechanisms of regeneration. We propose the hypothesis that regeneration depends on the activity of taxon-specific components in orchestrating a cellular machinery that is extensively conserved between regenerating and non-regenerating taxa. This hypothesis has significant implications for our outlook on regeneration in vertebrates, as well as for the strategies employed in extending regenerative ability in mammals.
25160155|The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that increased masticatory muscle accompanied morphologic changes in the temporal bone and squamosal suture. Ten mice deficient for the protein myostatin (Mstn -/-) had significantly increased skeletal muscle mass and were compared with nine controls (Mstn +/+). Variables measured include linear and areal metrics describing temporal size and temporal bone shape as well as the extent of the area of the squamosal suture that overlaps, or bevels, with parietal bones. Mstn-/- mice showed significantly larger temporalis muscles. Their temporal bones showed significantly decreased size as well as decreased beveling of the squamosal suture. These decreases were absolute as well as relative and were not restricted to either vertical or horizontal axes. The increased masticatory musculature of Myostatin-null mice had a shrinking effect on the temporal aspect of the cranium. These results are inconsistent with the interpretation that increased temporalis mass induces morphologic changes in temporal bone that compensate for putative increases in compressive forces transduced at this region. Rather than increase in the area of overlap between two calvarial bones, potential increase in biomechanical loading along the temporal squama led to a smaller bevel which would presumably weaken this joint. It is unclear why this is so. Either compressive forces are not anabolic to suture beveling or they do upregulate growth of the suture bevel, with compression not being the primary loading regime at this suture.
23016317|Synopsis Eco-immunology is the field of study that attempts to understand the functions of the immune system in the context of the host's environment. Amphibians are currently suffering devastating declines and extinctions in nearly all parts of the world due to the emerging infectious disease chytridiomycosis caused by the chytrid fungus, Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis. Because chytridiomycosis is a skin infection and remains confined to the skin, immune defenses of the skin are critical for survival. Skin defenses include secreted antimicrobial peptides and immunoglobulins as well as antifungal metabolites produced by symbiotic skin bacteria. Low temperatures, toxic chemicals, and stress inhibit the immune system and may impair natural defenses against B. dendrobatidis. Tadpoles' mouth parts can be infected by B. dendrobatidis. Damage to the mouth parts can impair growth, and the affected tadpoles maintain the pathogen in the environment even when adults have dispersed. Newly metamorphosing frogs appear to be especially vulnerable to infection and to the lethal effects of this pathogen because the immune system undergoes a dramatic reorganization at metamorphosis, and postmetamorphic defenses are not yet mature. Here we review our current understanding of amphibian immune defenses against B. dendrobatidis and the ability of the pathogen to resist those defenses. We also briefly review what is known about the impacts of temperature, environmental chemicals, and stress on the hostpathogen interactions and suggest future directions for research.
23016316|Synopsis Concurrent infections with multiple parasites are ubiquitous in nature. Coinfecting parasites can interact with one another in a variety of ways, including through the host's immune system via mechanisms such as immune trade-offs and immunosuppression. These within-host immune processes mediating interactions among parasites have been described in detail, but how they scale up to determine disease dynamic patterns at the population level is only beginning to be explored. In this review, we use helminthmicroparasite coinfection as a model for examining how within-host immunological effects may influence the ecological outcome of microparasitic diseases, with a specific focus on disease invasion. The current literature on coinfection between helminths and major microparasitic diseases includes many studies documenting the effects of helminths on individual host responses to microparasites. In many cases, the observed host responses map directly onto parameters relevant for quantifying disease dynamics; however, there have been few attempts at integrating data on individual-level effects into theoretical models to extrapolate from the individual to the population level. Moreover, there is considerable variability in the particular combination of disease parameters affected by helminths across different microparasite systems. We develop a conceptual framework identifying some potential sources of such variability: Pathogen persistence and severity, and resource availability to hosts. We also generate testable hypotheses regarding diseases and the environmental contexts when the effects of helminths on microparasite dynamics should be most pronounced. Finally, we use a case study of helminth and mycobacterial coinfection in the African buffalo to illustrate both progress and challenges in understanding the population-level consequences of within-host immunological interactions, and conclude with suggestions for future research that will help improve our understanding of the effects of coinfection on dynamics of infectious diseases.
3884950|Basically all organisms can be classified as determinate growers if their growth stops or almost stops at maturation, or indeterminate growers if growth is still intense after maturation. Adult size for determinate growers is relatively well defined, whereas in indeterminate growers usually two measures are used: size at maturation and asymptotic size. The latter term is in fact not a direct measure but a parameter of a specific growth equation, most often Bertalanffy's growth curve. At a given food level, the growth rate in determinate growers depends under given food level on physiological constraints as well as on investments in repair and other mechanisms that improve future survival. The growth rate in indeterminate growers consists of two phases: juvenile and adult. The mechanisms determining the juvenile growth rate are similar to those in determinate growers, whereas allocation to reproduction (dependent on external mortality rate) seems to be the main factor limiting adult growth. Optimal resource allocation models can explain the temperature-size rule (stating that usually ectotherms grow slower in cold but attain larger size) if the exponents of functions describing the size-dependence of the resource acquisition and metabolic rates change with temperature or mortality increases with temperature. Emerging data support both assumptions. The results obtained with the aid of optimization models represent just a rule and not a law: it is possible to find the ranges of production parameters and mortality rates for which the temperature-size rule does not hold.
3884989|Whole organism performance represents the integration of numerous physiological, morphological, and behavioral traits. How adaptive changes in performance evolve therefore requires an understanding of how selection acts on multiple integrated traits. Two approaches that lend themselves to studying the evolution of performance in natural populations are the use of quantitative genetics models for estimating the strength of selection acting on multiple quantitative traits and ecological genetic comparisons of populations exhibiting phenotypic differences correlated with environmental variation. In both cases, the ultimate goal is to understand how suites of traits and trade-offs between competing functions respond to natural selection. Here we consider how these two complimentary approaches can be applied to study the adaptive evolution of escape performance in fish. We first present an extension of Arnold's (1983) quantitative genetic approach that explicitly considers how trade-offs between different components of performance interact with the underlying genetics. We propose that such a model can reveal the conditions under which multiple selection pressures will cause adaptive change in traits that influence more than one component of fitness. We then review work on the Atlantic silversides and Trinidadian guppies as two case studies where an ecological genetics approach has been successfully applied to evaluate how the evolution of escape performance trades-off with other components of fitness. We conclude with the general lesson that whole organism performance is embedded in a complex phenotype, and that the net outcome of selection eacting on different aspects of the organism will often result in a compromise among competing influences.
4485813| Based upon ideas about evolution, we put forth the argument that the capacity to transfer energy via aerobic metabolism is such a central feature of mammalian biology, that it must also be the primary determinant of complex disease. From this, we hypothesized that artificial selection on low and high capacity for aerobic exercise would create lines that can be used to define the divide between health and disease. In 1996 we began large-scale divergent selection for aerobic treadmill running capacity in a widely heterogeneous stock of rats (N:NIH). By ten generations we developed lines of low capacity runners (LCR) and high capacity runners (HCR) that on average differed by 317%. As a correlated trait, body mass increased at each generation in the LCR while the body mass decreased in the HCR. The lines also separated for key factors of systemic oxygen transport capacity such as maximal oxygen consumption (VOmax), tissue perfusion, capillary density, and oxidative enzyme activity (citrate synthase and B-HAD). We also tested our hypothesis that differences in aerobic energy transfer would produce rats that contrast for risk factors associated with complex disease. Indeed, the lines separated for cardiovascular risk factors including differences in blood pressure, cardiac contractility, visceral adiposity, plasma free fatty acids, and triglycerides. The decrease in aerobic capacity was also associated with low amounts of several proteins required for mitochondrial function. 
3885004|In animals, muscles are the most common effectors that translate neuronal activity into behavior. Nowhere is behavior more restricted by the limits of muscle performance than at the upper range of high-frequency movements. Here, we see new and multiple designs to cope with the demands for speed. Extremely rapid oscillations in force are required to power cyclic activities such as flight in insects or to produce vibrations for sound. Such behaviors are seen in a variety of invertebrates and vertebrates, and are powered by both synchronous and asynchronous muscles. In synchronous muscles, each contraction/relaxation cycle is accompanied by membrane depolarization and subsequent repolarization, release of activator calcium, attachment of cross-bridges and muscle shortening, then removal of activator calcium and cross-bridge detachment. To enable all of these to occur at extremely high frequencies a suite of modifications are required, including precise neural control, hypertrophy of the calcium handling machinery, innovative mechanisms to bind calcium, and molecular modification of the cross-bridges and regulatory proteins. Side effects are low force and power output and low efficiency, but the benefit of direct, neural control is maintained. Asynchronous muscles, in which there is not a 1:1 correspondence between neural activation and contraction, are a radically different design. Rather than rapid calcium cycling, they rely on delayed activation and deactivation, and the resonant characteristics of the wings and exoskeleton to guide their extremely high-frequency contractions. They thus avoid many of the modifications and attendant trade-offs mentioned above, are more powerful and more efficient than high-frequency synchronous muscles, but are considerably more restricted in their application.
40405978|This contribution is fifth in a series of articles in Integrative and Comparative Biology that was initiated by Schwenk et al. (2009) and followed by Satterlie et al. (2009), Denny and Helmuth (2009), and Denver et al. (2009). Here, our intent is to be provocative and to stimulate further discourse. Like other contributors we have our own biases, and as it should be clear to the readers, we approach this task as evolutionary biologists, specifically systematists.
3884808|Hermaphroditic animals often exhibit mating mechanisms that seem more damaging than those in species with separate sexes. Our analyses indicate that this difference is real. While females only remate when the benefit is positive, hermaphrodites remate even when this implies losing female fitness. This occurs because hermaphrodites can outweigh losses in the female function by gaining paternity. In an extended model we ask whether this favors the evolution of more male harm in hermaphrodites. When male harm only suppresses remating in the receiver it neither evolves in hermaphrodites nor in gonochorists. However, when male harm is coupled to a fertilization advantage, it evolves in both forms of gender expression with the highest levels in hermaphrodites. Hence, hermaphrodites are more prone to be caught in costly escalations than gonochorists. We discuss the implications for the evolution of gender expression in animals and plants.
3884928|Most biologists are familiar only with a few of the approximately 40 extant animal phyla. The purpose of this symposium was to renew interest in the lesser-known invertebrate taxa, encourage their use in research and teaching and to promote the relevance of high-level systematic studies. This paper reviews the two major views of metazoan evolutionary relationships with particular attention to the lesser-known taxa and to some of the new and/or conflicting terminology used in current animal phylogenetic study. The current use of lesser-known taxa in research is briefly described, and the discussion that followed the symposium is summarized. The paper concludes with a brief history of the symposium and a tribute to Robert P. Higgins, who organized three "Symposia on the Lesser-Known Invertebrates" over the past 25 yr.
3884924|Pacific salmon (genus Oncorhynchus) exhibit an interesting and uncommon life-history pattern that combines semelparity, anadromy, and navigation (homing). During smoltification, young salmon imprint on the chemical composition of their natal stream water (the home-stream olfactory bouquet or "HSOB"); they then migrate to the ocean where they spend a few years feeding prior to migrating back to their natal freshwater stream to spawn. Upstream migration is guided by the amazing ability to discriminate between the chemical compositions of different stream waters and thus identify and travel to their home-stream. Pacific salmon demonstrate marked somatic and neural degeneration changes during home-stream migration and at the spawning grounds. The appearance of these pathologies is correlated with a marked elevation in plasma cortisol levels. While the mechanisms of salmonid homing are not completely understood, it is known that adult salmon continuously utilize two of their primary sensory systems, olfaction and vision, during homing. Olfaction is the primary sensory system involved in freshwater homing and "HSOB" recognition, and will be emphasized here. Previously, we proposed that the increase in plasma cortisol during Pacific salmon home-stream migration is adaptive because it enhances the salmon's ability to recall the imprinted memory of the "HSOB" (Carruth, 1998; Carruth et al., 2000b). Elevated plasma concentrations of cortisol could prime the hippocampus or other olfactory regions of the brain to recall this memory and, therefore, aid in directing the fish to their natal stream. Thus, specific responses of salmon to stressors could enhance reproductive success.
3884716|Flash communication by the firefly Photinus pyralis was studied in a stationary, simulated flight apparatus in which an individual of either sex could be "flown" and its flashing behavior and flight orientation recorded in response to photic stimulation. Males made long "flights" showing many of the characteristics of their natural, female-seeking patrol flights. Males oriented their flight vectors towards light emitting diode (LED) flashes that mimicked the responses of females to their patrol flashes. Females flew and responded to male-emulating LED flashes, making a previously unknown early response followed by the typical 2 sec delayed response characteristic of the dialoging perched female, including abdominal aiming of the flash. Pairs consisting of males, in tethered flight, and females, perched, were run in an integrating sphere photometer, permitting the first determinations of flash intensities of both sexes during courtship dialog. The implications of this work on thought about evolution of photic behavior in fireflies are considered.
4485850|Drying to equilibrium with the air is lethal to most species of animals and plants, making drought (i.e., low external water potential) a central problem for terrestrial life and a major cause of agronomic failure and human famine. Surprisingly, a wide taxonomic variety of animals, microbes, and plants do tolerate complete desiccation, defined as water content below 0.1 g H0 g dry mass. Species in five phyla of animals and four divisions of plants contain desiccation-tolerant adults, juveniles, seeds, or spores. There seem to be few inherent limits on desiccation tolerance, since tolerant organisms can survive extremely intense and prolonged desiccation. There seems to be little phylogenetic limitation of tolerance in plants but may be more in animals. Physical constraints may restrict tolerance of animals without rigid skeletons and to plants shorter than 3 m. Physiological constraints on tolerance in plants may include control by hormones with multiple effects that could link tolerance to slow growth. Tolerance tends to be lower in organisms from wetter habitats, and there may be selection against tolerance when water availability is high. Our current knowledge of limits to tolerance suggests that they pose few obstacles to engineering tolerance in prokaryotes and in isolated cells and tissues, and there has already been much success on this scientific frontier of desiccation tolerance. However, physical and physiological constraints and perhaps other limits may explain the lack of success in extending tolerance to whole, desiccation-sensitive, multicellular animals and plants. Deeper understanding of the limits to desiccation tolerance in living things may be needed to cross this next frontier.
3884933| Rotifers comprise a modestly sized phylum (1,850 species) of tiny (ca. 50-2,000 m), bilaterally symmetrical, eutelic metazoans, traditionally grouped within the pseudocoelomates or Aschelminthes. These saccate to cylindrically shaped protostomes possess three prominent regions (corona, trunk, foot). They are distinguished by a ciliated, anterior corona (used in locomotion and food gathering) and a pharynx equipped with a complex set of jaws. Unfortunately, these generalizations grossly oversimplify a rich and fascinating diversity. Chief among the charms of the study of rotifers are their ecological importance, ease of culture (including chemostat technology), and the fact that much remains unknown about this exquisite phylum. 
3884713|The phenomenon of nuptial gift transfer during mating occurs across a remarkably wide range of taxa, and such male donations are likely to influence both pre-copulatory and post-copulatory sexual selection. This paper reviews what is known about nuptial gifts in Photinus fireflies (Coleoptera: Lampyridae), and discusses the adaptive significance of spermatophores in firefly mating systems. During copulation Photinus males transfer a spiral, gelatinous spermatophore to the female: sperm are released into the female's spermatheca for storage, while the remainder of the spermatophore disintegrates within a specialized gland. Radiolabelling studies indicate that male-derived protein is used to help provision the female's developing oocytes, and multiply-mated females show increased fecundity. As most Photinus adults do not feed, these studies suggest that females should continue to forage for matings to supplement their diminishing larval reserves, even after they have gained sufficient sperm to fertilize their eggs. Male spermatophore mass declines across sequential matings, and smaller spermatophores are associated with lower paternity success in situations where males compete for fertilizations. Declining spermatophore size across sequential matings may thus lead to diminishing reproductive returns for firefly males. Taken together, these results suggest that seasonal changes in nuptial gift availability may contribute to reversals of traditional courtship roles, with male choice and female-female competition occuring as spermatophore availability declines.
3884839|In simplest terms, the complexity of the metazoan body arises through various combinations of but two tissue types: epithelium and mesenchyme. Through mutual inductions and interactions, these tissues produce all of the organs of the body. Of the two, epithelium must be considered the default type in the Eumetazoa because it arises first in embryonic development and because mesenchyme arises from it by a switching off of the mechanisms that underly differentiation and maintenance of epithelial cells. In the few model metazoans whose epithelia have been studied by molecular techniques (largely Drosophila, Caenorhabditis, mouse), the molecular mechanisms underlying differentiation of epithelia show remarkable similarity. Extrapolating from these studies and from comparisons of the morphology of epithelia in lower metazoans, I propose how epithelia arose in the stem metazoan. Steps in epithelial differentiation include 1) establishment of cell polarity by molecular markers confined to either apical or basolateral domains in the plasma membrane; 2) aggregation of cells into sheets by localization of cell-adhesion molecules like cadherin to the lateral membrane; 3) formation of a zonula adherens junction from the cadherins by their localization to a discrete belt; 4) cell-to-cell linking of certain transmembrane proteins (primitively in the septate junction) to produce gates that physiologically isolate compartments delimited by the cells; and 5) synthesis of a basal lamina and adaptation of receptors (integrins) to its components. Despite morphological differences in the variety of cell junctions evident in various epithelia, the underlying molecular markers of these junctions are probably universally present in all eumetazoan epithelia.
23016124|Synopsis The endemic Hawaiian limpets (Cellana exarata, Cellana sandwicensis, and Cellana talcosa), reside at different elevations on wave-exposed rocky shores and comprise a monophyletic lineage that diversified within Hawai`i. Here, I report phenotypic differences in shell, soft tissue, and behavioral characters among these limpets and discuss their potential utility in exploiting their respective niches. The high-shore limpet, C. exarata, is characterized by a tall round shell, short mantle tentacles, and long evasion distance when confronted by a predatory gastropod. The mid-shore limpet, C. sandwicensis, is characterized by a shorter oblong shell, long mantle tentacles, and a short evasion distance when confronted by a predatory snail. The low-shore, shallow-subtidal limpet, C. talcosa, is characterized by a flat shell that is thin in juveniles and disproportionately massive in large adults (relative to the other two species), and mantle tentacles of varying lengths (some individuals exhibit short tentacles, some long). These species-specific suites of characters are likely to confer specific fitness advantages on the high shore (C. exarata) where thermal and desiccation stress is severe, on the mid shore (C. sandwicensis) where hydrodynamic forces are severe, and on the low-shallow subtidal shore (C. talcosa) where pelagic predators have free access to the limpets. These data add to the growing body of evidence for adaptive diversification and speciation in the Hawaiian Cellana, and in marine species in general.
3884657|Many insect species live in the arctic and show a wide range of adaptations to its extreme severity and seasonality. Long, cold winters are met, for example, by cold hardiness and choice of protected sites. Cold hardiness includes both widespread tolerance to freezing and extreme supercooling ability, as well as unusual responses in a few species, such as lack of typical cryoprotectants. Adaptations to short, cool summers include activity at low temperatures, selection of warm habitats and microhabitats, melanism and hairiness coupled with basking behaviour, and prolonged or abbreviated life cycles. Diapause ensures that many species emerge early in summer, with brief synchronized reproduction that maximizes the time for offspring development before winter returns. Some species overwinter in sites that thaw earliest in spring, even if they are relatively exposed in winter. Other adaptations respond to year-to-year variability: for example, prolonged diapause can provide insurance against unsuitable summers. All of these adaptations are co-ordinated. For example, cold hardiness relies on physiological and biochemical adaptations but also on habitat choice and timing. Because the adaptations are complex, predicted climatic warming probably will have unexpected effects. In particular, an increase in temperature that increases summer cloud when sea ice melts would likely reduce temperatures for insect development and activity, because sunshine provides critical warmth to insects and their microhabitats. Changes in moisture will also be important. Moreover, responses differ among species, depending especially on their microhabitats. The complexity of the responses of insects to arctic conditions reinforces the need for research that is sufficiently detailed.
40405971|How an animal performs in its natural environment ultimately plays a key role in its reproductive success. While a number of studies have investigated how selection acts on performance-related traits, far fewer studies have examined the mechanisms responsible for variation in performance. Among mechanisms, variable morphology has received the most attention. Although physiological traits have received less attention, they are intrinsically related to performance and ultimately to reproductive success. We present a framework whereby investigators can link some basic physiological functions with organismal performance and ultimately with reproductive success. We propose that performance and ultimately reproductive success are strongly influenced by hormones, immune functions, and energetics. We further argue that no physiological function can be considered in isolation and thus our model emphasizes interactions and trade-offs both within each physiological function as well as among them. Some of the most commonly studied trade-offs are between reproduction and immune functions, with energetics as one of the key common currencies for these trade-offs. From an evolutionary perspective, the largest gaps in our knowledge lie in how these interactions and trade-offs influence reproductive success. We believe that a full understanding of how hormones, immune functions, and energetics influence performance traits related to reproduction and, ultimately, lifetime reproductive success requires recognition of the complex relationships, interactions, and trade-offs among these processes.
3884645|In the marine environment, both external fertilization and settlement are critical processes linking adult and early juvenile life-history phases. The success of both processes can be tightly linked in organisms lacking a larval dispersive phase. This review focuses on synchronous gamete release (= spawning) in fucoid algae. These brown macroalgae are important components of temperate intertidal ecosystems in many parts of the world, and achieve synchronous gamete release by integrating various environmental signals. Photosynthesis-dependent sensing of boundary-layer inorganic carbon fluxes, as well as blue light and green light signals, possibly perceived via a chloroplast-located photoreceptor(s), are integrated into pathways that restrict gamete release to periods of low water motion. Avoidance of turbulent and/or high flow conditions in the intertidal zone allows high levels of fertilization success in this group. Temporal patterns and synchrony of spawning in natural populations are reviewed. Most species/populations have a more or less semilunar periodicity, although phase differences occur both between and within species at different geographical locations, raising the possibility that tidal and diurnal cues are more important than semilunar cues in entraining the response. The ecological and evolutionary role(s) of synchronous spawning in the intertidal zone are considered, particularly with regard to hybridization/reproductive isolation in species complexes, and reproductive versus recruitment assurance in the intertidal zone, where synchronous spawning during calm periods may be important for recruitment assurance in addition to fertilization success. Ways in which the roles of spawning synchrony could be tested in closely related species with contrasting mating systems (outcrossing versus selfing) are discussed.
3884991|Functional challenges can differ among life-history stages, yet performance at one stage may be linked to the outcome of performance at others. For example, adult performance, in terms of the location or timing of reproduction in response to environmental signals, can set conditions that affect the performance of developmental stages. In marine invertebrates, however, early performance has been studied primarily in the laboratory. I outline an integrative approach to the study of filed reproductive performance in a marine gastropod that undergoes development in intertidal habitats. Embryos within gelatinous masses experience high variability in development temperature and frequent exposure to thermal stress. In laboratory experiments, developmental performance was measured as a function of maximum temperature
3884875| The ability to locomote in one direction (oriented movement), and the ability to navigate toward a distant goal are related behaviors that are phylogenetically widespread. Orientation behaviors include finding the source of an odor or acoustic signal, using a sun-compass for guidance, and moving relative to fluid-dynamic cues. Such abilities might require little more than directionally selective sensors coupled to a turning mechanism. This type of behavior, therefore, can be implemented by relatively simple circuits. In contrast, navigation involves both the ability to detect direction, as well as a map-sense that provides position. Navigation is less common and arguably requires greater brain computation than does simple orientation, but may be present in arthropods as well as in vertebrates. Great progress has been made in exploring the biophysical and sensory bases for these behaviors, and in recent years the locations and the identity of the cellular transducers of the sensory stimuli (for example, geomagnetic fields) have been narrowed in some taxa. Similarly, neurons within the central nervous that most likely function in higher order computational processes have been identified. For example, direction-selective and position-responsive brain cells have been located in the brains of mammals and birds, and these cells might contribute to a cognitive map that can enable navigation. One model organism in which orientation and navigation has been extensively studied is the sea slug Tritonia diomedea. This animal orients its crawling to chemical, hydrodynamic, and geomagnetic cues. The brain of Tritonia has 7000 relatively large neurons that facilitate circuit analysis. Recent work has characterized both peripheral and central neural correlates of orientation signals, as well as the control of thrust and turning, and studies of their field behavior have suggested how these disparate orientation systems may be integrated. These findings provide the basis for future studies to determine how the nervous system combines multiple sensory cues into a complex hierarchy of signals that can direct motor output and therefore guide navigational tasks. 
3884756|Climbing assisted by adhesive subdigital pads in gekkotan lizards has been the subject of intrigue and study for centuries. Many hypotheses have been advanced to explain the mechanism of adhesion, and recently this phenomenon has been investigated at the level of individual setae. The ability to isolate, manipulate and record adhesive forces from individual setae has provided new insights, not only into the mechanism of attachment, but also into the physical orientation of these structures necessary to establish attachment, maximize adhesive force, and effect subsequent release. This, in turn, has enabled a reassessment of the overall morphology and mode of operation of the adhesive system. Digital hyperextension has often been noted as a behavioral characteristic associated with the deployment of the gekkotan adhesive system-this is now understandable in the context of setal attachment and release kinematics, and in the context of the evolution of this pattern of digital movement from the primitive pattern of saurian digital kinematics. The perpendicular and parallel preloads associated with setal attachment are now reconcilable with other morphological aspects of the gekkotan adhesive system-the lateral digital tendon complex and the vascular sinus network, respectively. Future investigations of the integrated adhesive system will help to further elucidate the interdependence of its structural and functional components.
3885007|Temperature's pervasive effects on physiological systems are reflected in the suite of temperature-adaptive differences observed among species from different thermal niches, such as species with different vertical distributions (zonations) along the subtidal to intertidal gradient. Among the physiological traits that exhibit adaptive variation related to vertical zonation are whole organism thermal tolerance, heart function, mitochondrial respiration, membrane static order (fluidity), action potential generation, protein synthesis, heat-shock protein expression, and protein thermal stability. For some, but not all, of these thermally sensitive traits acclimatization leads to adaptive shifts in thermal optima and limits. The costs associated with repairing thermal damage and adapting systems through acclimatization may contribute importantly to energy budgets. These costs arise from such sources as: (i) activation and operation of the heat-shock response, (ii) replacement of denatured proteins that have been removed through proteolysis, (iii) restructuring of cellular membranes ("homeoviscous" adaptation), and (iv) pervasive shifts in gene expression (as gauged by using DNA microarray techniques). The vertical zonation observed in rocky intertidal habitats thus may reflect two distinct yet closely related aspects of thermal physiology: (i) intrinsic interspecific differences in temperature sensitivities of physiological systems, which establish thermal optima and tolerance limits for species; and (ii) 'cost of living' considerations arising from sub-lethal perturbation of these physiological systems, which may establish an energetics-based limitation to the maximal height at which a species can occur. Quantifying the energetic costs arising from heat stress represents an important challenge for future investigations.
40306076|A single tantulus larva was found at the abyssal depth of the Indian Ocean attached to a harpacticoid host of the family Cletodidae. It represents a new genus and species of Tantulocarida, family Basipodellidae. Its ultrastructure was studied with SEM. This genus can be easily distinguished from the other genera of Basipodellidae by the pore pattern, bilobed oral disk with strong longitudinal ridges and the posterior projection of the cephalic shield. A morphological analysis of two related families Basipodellidae and Deothertridae shows that they represent polyphyletic taxa and need further revision.
4485846|This paper is a mini review of kinetic and kinematic evidence on the control of the hand with emphasis on grasping. It is not meant to be an exhaustive review, rather it summarizes current research examining the mechanisms through which specific patterns of coordination are elicited and observed during reach to grasp movements and static grasping. These coordination patterns include the spatial and temporal covariation of the rotation at multiple joints during reach to grasp movements. A basic coordination between grip forces produced by multiple digits also occurs during whole hand grasping such that normal forces tend to be produced in a synchronous fashion across pairs of digits. Finally, we address current research that suggests that motor unit synchrony across hand muscles and muscle compartments might be one of the neural mechanisms underlying the control of grasping.
3884590|In the experiments stick insects walk on an inclined substrate such that the legs of one side of the body point uphill and the legs of the other side point downhill. In this situation the vertical axis of the body is rotated against the inclination of the substrate as if to compensate for the effect of substrate inclination. A very small effect has been found when the experiment was performed with animals standing on a tilted platform which shows that the effect depends on the behavioral context. When, however, animals first walked along the inclined surface and then, before measurement, stopped walking spontaneously, a rotation of the body has been observed similar to that in walking animals. In a second experiment it was tested whether the observed body rotation is caused by the change of direction of gravity vector or by the fact that on an inclined surface gravity necessarily has a component pulling the body sideways. Experiments with animals standing on horizontal ground and additional weights applied pulling the body to the side showed similar body rotations supporting the latter idea. In a simulation study it could be shown that the combined activity of proportional feedback controllers in the leg joints is sufficient to explain the observed behavior. This is however only possible if the gain factors of coxa-trochanter joint controller and of femurtibia joint controller show a ratio in the order of 1: 0.05 to 1: 1.8. In order to describe the behavior of animals standing on a tilted platform, a ratio of 1: 1.7 is necessary. In walking animals, this body rotation requires to change the trajectories of stance and swing movements. The latter have been studied in more detail. During swing, the femur-tibia joint is more extended in the uphill legs. Conversely, the coxa-trochanter joint appears to be more elevated in the downhill legs which compensates the smaller lift in the femur-tibia joint. The results are discussed in the context of different hypotheses.
3884986| Significant relationships among morphology, behavior, performance and fitness have long served as bona fide evidence for the role of selection in shaping natural populations. Here, I discuss how studies of ecological performance, or how organisms perform in nature, provide an ecological context for such selection studies. Laboratory studies assume that the level of performance expressed under "optimal" conditions accurately reflects the level of performance used in nature, but I show here that this assumption is not always borne out. A review of how various factors affect ecological performance (ontogeny, microhabitat, and macrohabitat) show that animals often express very different levels of movement speed both among different tasks, and when comparing laboratory versus field performance. Thus, a failure to take this variation into account could lead to negative, or even misleading significant fitness-character correlations. While laboratory performance studies should continue to play a key role in studies of selection, recent technological (i.e., portable high-speed cameras) and methodological developments should enable researchers to measure performance in nature to high degrees of accuracy. Thus, I encourage researchers to measure performance both in the laboratory and in the field, and thus expand the traditional paradigm of morphology  performance  fitness to morphology  ecological performance  fitness. 
4540202|Synopsis Cnidarians display most of the characters considered as milestones of metazoan evolution. Whereas a tissue-level organization was probably already present in the multicellular common ancestor of all animals, the Urmetazoa, the emergence of important animal features such as bilateral symmetry, triploblasty, a polarized nervous system, sense organs (eyes, statocysts), and a (chitinous or calcium-based) continuous skeleton can be traced back before the divergence between cnidarians and bilaterians. Modularity and metamery might be also regarded as two faces of the same medal, likely involving conserved molecular mechanisms ruling animal body architectures through regional specification of iterated units. Available evidence indicates that the common ancestor of cnidarians and bilaterians, the UrEumetazoa, was a surprisingly complex animal with nerve cell differentiation. We suggest that paedomorphic events in descendants of this ancestor led to the array of diversity seen in the main extant animal phyla. The use of molecular analyses and identifying the genetic determinants of anatomical organizations can provide an integrative test of hypotheses of homologies and independent evidence of the evolutionary relationships among extant taxa.
4540173|Successful reproduction requires contributions from both the male and the female. In Drosophila, contributions from the male include accessory gland proteins (Acps) that are components of the seminal fluid. Upon their transfer to the female, Acps affect the female's physiology and behavior. Although primary sequences of Acp genes exhibit variation among species and genera, the conservation of protein biochemical classes in the seminal fluid suggests a conservation of functions. Bioinformatics coupled with molecular and genetic tools available for Drosophila melanogaster has expanded the functional analysis of Acps in recent years to the genomic/proteomic scale. Molecular interplay between Acps and the female enhances her egg production, reduces her receptivity to remating, alters her immune response and feeding behavior, facilitates storage and utilization of sperm in the female and affects her longevity. Here, we provide an overview of the D. melanogaster Acps and integrate the results from several studies that bring the current number of known D. melanogaster Acps to 112. We then discuss several examples of how the female's physiological processes and behaviors are mediated by interactions between Acps and the female. Understanding how Acps elicit particular female responses will provide insights into reproductive biology and chemical communication, tools for analyzing models of sexual cooperation and/or sexual conflict, and information potentially useful for strategies for managing insect pests.
4540137|Despite almost 50 years of research on the functional morphology and biomechanics of suction feeding, no consensus has emerged on how to characterize suction-feeding performance, or its morphological basis. We argue that this lack of unity in the literature is due to an unusually indirect and complex linkage between the muscle contractions that power suction feeding, the skeletal movements that underlie buccal expansion, the sharp drop in buccal suction pressure that occurs during expansion, the flow of water that enters the mouth to eliminate the pressure gradient, and the forces that are ultimately exerted on the prey by this flow. This complexity has led various researchers to focus individually on suction pressure, flow velocity, or the distance the prey moves as metrics of suction-feeding performance. We attempt to integrate a mechanistic view of the ability of fish to perform these components of suction feeding. We first discuss a model that successfully relates aspects of cranial morphology to the capacity to generate suction pressure in the buccal cavity. This model is a particularly valuable tool for studying the evolution of the feeding mechanism. Second, we illustrate the multidimensional nature of suction-feeding performance in a comparison of bluegill, Lepomis macrochirus, and largemouth bass, Micropterus salmoides, two species that represent opposite ends of the spectrum of performance in suction feeding. As anticipated, bluegills had greater accuracy, lower peak flux into the mouth, and higher flow velocity and acceleration of flow than did bass. While the differences between species in accuracy of strike and peak water flux were substantial, peak suction velocity and acceleration were only about 50% higher in bluegill, a relatively modest difference. However, a hydrodynamic model of the forces that suction feeders exert on their prey shows that this difference in velocity is amplified by a positive effect of the smaller mouth aperture of bluegill on force exerted on the prey. Our model indicates that the pressure gradient in front of a fish that is feeding by suction, associated with the gradient in water velocity, results in a force on the prey that is larger than drag or acceleration reaction. A smaller mouth aperture results in a steeper pressure gradient that exerts a greater force on the prey, even when other features of the suction flow are held constant. Our work shows that some aspects of suction-feeding performance can be determined from morphology, but that the complexity of the behavior requires a diversity of perspectives to be used in order to adequately characterize performance.
40405970|In social species animals should fine-tune the expression of their social behavior to social environments in order to avoid the costs of engaging in costly social interactions. Therefore, social competence, defined as the ability of an animal to optimize the expression of its social behavior as a function of the available social information, should be considered as a performance trait that impacts on the Darwinian fitness of the animal. Social competence is based on behavioral plasticity which, in turn, can be achieved by different neural mechanisms of plasticity, namely by rewiring or by biochemically switching nodes of a putative neural network underlying social behavior. Since steroid hormones respond to social interactions and have receptors extensively expressed in the social behavioral neural network, it is proposed that steroids play a key role in the hormonal modulation of social plasticity. Here, we propose a reciprocal model for the action of androgens on short-term behavioral plasticity and review a set of studies conducted in our laboratory using an African cichlid fish (Oreochromis mossambicus) that provide support for it. Androgens are shown to be implicated as physiological mediators in a wide range of social phenomena that promote social competence, namely by adjusting the behavioral response to the nature of the intruder and the presence of third parties (dear enemy and audience effects), by anticipating territorial intrusions (bystander effect and conditioning of the territorial response), and by modifying future behavior according to prior experience of winning (winner effect). The rapid behavioral actions of socially induced short-term transient changes in androgens indicate that these effects are most likely mediated by nongenomic mechanisms. The fact that the modulation of rapid changes in behavior is open to the influence of circulating levels of androgens, and is not exclusively achieved by changes in central neuromodulators, suggests functional relevance of integrating body parameters in the behavioral response. Thus, the traditional view of seeing neural circuits as unique causal agents of behavior should be updated to a brain-body-environment perspective, in which these neural circuits are embodied and the behavioral performance (and outcomes as fitness) depends on a dynamic relationship between the different levels. In this view hormones play a major role as behavioral modulators.
3884725|Over the last decade, subtractive cloning approaches have been used extensively to isolate genes that are up- or down-regulated under various conditions. These techniques have provided the foundation for many subsequent studies concerning gene function and regulation and, as such, have been valuable tools for many biological fields. Over the past 10 years, we have used different subtractive cloning approaches to isolate genes in fish that are regulated in relation to hormonal stimulation or the stage of ovarian maturation. These include conventional cDNA subtraction followed by library screening, differential display PCR, suppression subtraction hybridization, and more recently, iterative PCR subtraction. We continue to use these techniques for the isolation of new genes involved in physiological processes in fish and bivalve molluscs. Examples that illustrate the use of these different subtractive cloning techniques are described, including where possible the advantages and disadvantages of each. In addition, the use of ancillary methods (e.g., "Reverse Northerns") to facilitate the use of these subtractive approaches are discussed.
23016319|Synopsis Crustaceans are a globally-distributed faunal group, found across all habitats from the equator to the poles. They are an ideal focal assemblage for assessment of the impacts of climatic change and anthropogenic disturbance on nonmodel systems, such as how sea currents influence the movements of zooplankton communities in the open ocean, or how ecosystem processes affect phytoplanktonic species with restricted geographic distributions across a cluster of island lakes that could be a new model system for studies of speciation. This symposium introduced early-career researchers working in the fields of phylogeography, ecogenomics, fisheries management, and ecosystem processes with the aim of highlighting the different genetic and ecological approaches to the study of population dynamics of freshwater, estuarine, and marine crustacean species.
3885005|The rocky intertidal zone is among the most physically harsh environments on earth. Marine invertebrates and algae living in this habitat are alternatively pounded by waves and exposed to thermal extremes during low tide periods (Denny and Wethey, 2001). Additionally, they must deal with strong selective pressures related to predation and competition for space (Connell, 1961). As a result, the steep physical gradient and spatially condensed community has made the rocky intertidal zone an ideal "natural laboratory" to study the coupled role of physical and biological factors in determining the abundance and distribution of organisms in nature (Connell, 1961; Paine, 1966, 1994).
4485824|Natural selection typically acts on multiple traits simultaneously. Quantitative genetics provides the theory for predicting the response to selection of multiple traits and predicts symmetrical responses to selection (the response to upward selection on both traits is equal to their response to downward selection). In reality, however, the response to simultaneous selection on two traits is often asymmetrical. We provide a physiology-based framework to explain the asymmetrical response to simultaneous selection on two important life history traits: body size and development time. The tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta, is particularly well suited for such a study, as the physiological control of body size and development time is well known in this species. Three physiological factors control both life history traits in M. sexta: growth rate, the critical weight that measures the timing of the onset of the cessation of juvenile hormone secretion (which initiates the processes leading to pupation) and the time interval between the critical weight and secretion of the molting hormone 20-hydroxyecdysteroid (the interval to cessation of growth, ICG). Asymmetry in the response to simultaneous selection on the two life history traits is due to the different types of selection acting on the three physiological factors. The critical weight and ICG are always under synergistic selection when both focal traits are selected in the same direction and under antagonistic selection when the focal traits are selected in opposite directions. Growth rate follows the opposite pattern. We propose a general model to explain the asymmetric response to simultaneous selection. This model emphasizes the importance of physiological processes in understanding evolutionary responses to selection and the control of complex traits.
4485826|The Earth's magnetic field provides a pervasive source of directional information used by phylogenetically diverse marine animals. Behavioral experiments with sea turtles, spiny lobsters, and sea slugs have revealed that all have a magnetic compass sense, despite vast differences in the environment each inhabits and the spatial scale over which each moves. For two of these animals, the Earth's field also serves as a source of positional information. Hatchling loggerhead sea turtles from Florida responded to the magnetic fields found in three widely separated regions of the Atlantic Ocean by swimming in directions that would, in each case, facilitate movement along the migratory route. Thus, for young loggerheads, regional magnetic fields function as navigational markers and elicit changes in swimming direction at crucial geographic boundaries. Older turtles, as well as spiny lobsters, apparently acquire a "magnetic map" that enables them to use magnetic topography to determine their position relative to specific goals. Relatively little is known about the neural mechanisms that underlie magnetic orientation and navigation. A promising model system is the marine mollusc Tritonia diomedea, which possesses both a magnetic compass and a relatively simple nervous system. Six neurons in the brain of T. diomedea have been identified that respond to changes in magnetic fields. At least some of these appear to be ciliary motor neurons that generate or modulate the final behavioral output of the orientation circuitry. These findings represent an encouraging step toward a holistic understanding of the cells and circuitry that underlie magnetic orientation behavior in one model organism.
3884741|Many marine invertebrates with complex life cycles produce planktonic larvae that experience environmental conditions different from those encountered by adults. Factors such as temperature and food, known to impact the larval period, can also affect larval size and consequently the size of newly settled juveniles. After documenting natural variation in the size of cyprids (the final larval stage) of the barnacle Balanus glandula, we experimentally manipulated temperature and food given to larvae to produce cyprids of differing sizes but within the size range of cyprids found in the field. In a set of trials in which larvae of B. glandula were raised on full or reduced rations in the laboratory and subsequently outplanted into the field as newly metamorphosed juveniles, we explored the effects of larval nutrition and size on juvenile performance. Larvae that received full rations throughout their feeding period produced larger cyprids (with more lipid and protein). These larger cyprids grew faster as juveniles and sometimes survived better in the field than juveniles from larvae that had their food ration reduced in the last feeding instar. For naturally settling barnacles brought into the laboratory within 2 days of settlement and fed, we found that initial juvenile size was a good predictor of juvenile size even after 2 weeks of growth. By manipulating food given to juveniles that were derived from larvae fed either full or reduced rations, we found that larval nutritional effects persisted in juveniles for 2-3 times the period that larvae experienced altered food rations.
25160160| We present a novel mouse-model for the study of skeletal structure and evolution, based on selective breeding for high levels of voluntary wheel running. Whereas traditional models (originally inbred strains, more recently knockouts and transgenics) rely on the study of mutant or laboratory-manipulated phenotypes, we have studied changes in skeletal morphometrics resulting from many generations of artificial selection for high activity in the form of wheel running, in which mice engage voluntarily. Mice from the four replicate High Runner (HR) lines run nearly three times as many revolutions during days 5 and 6 of a 6-day exposure to wheels (1.12 m circumference). We have found significant changes in skeletal dimensions of the hind limbs, including decreased directional asymmetry, larger femoral heads, and wider distal femora. The latter two have been hypothesized as evolutionary adaptations for long-distance locomotion in hominids. Exercise-training studies involving experimental groups with and without access to wheels have shown increased diameters of both femora and tibiafibulae, and suggest genetic effects on trainability (genotype-by-environment interactions). Reanalysis of previously published data on bone masses of hind limbs revealed novel patterns of change in bone mass associated with access to wheels for 2 months. Without access to wheels, HR mice have significantly heavier tibiafibulae and foot bones, whereas with chronic access to wheels, a significant increase in foot bone mass that was linearly related to increases in daily wheel running was observed. Mice exhibiting a recently discovered small-muscle phenotype ("mini-muscle," [MM] caused by a Mendelian recessive gene), in which the mass of the triceps surae muscle complex is 50% lower than in normal individuals, have significantly longer and thinner bones in the hind limb. We present new data for the ontogenetic development of muscle mass in Control, HR, and MM phenotypes in mice of 1-7 weeks postnatal age. Statistical comparisons reveal highly significant differences both in triceps surae mass and mass-corrected triceps surae mass between normal and MM mice at all but the postnatal age of 1 week. Based on previously observed differences in distributions of myosin isoforms in adult MM mice, we hypothesize that a reduction of myosin heavy-chain type-IIb isoforms with accounts for our observed ontogenetic changes in muscle mass. 
40793119|Two lamprey glycroprotein hormone receptors (1GpH-R I and II) highly similar with gnathostome GpH-Rs were cloned from sea lamprey testes and thyroid, respectively. Vertebrate glycoprotein protein receptors have a large extracellular domain (ED) containing a leu rich domain (LRD) linked to a rhodopsin-like transmembrane domain (TMD) through a highly divergent linker region (signal specificity domain, SSD or 'hinge' region) and a third major segment, the intracellular domain. To determine the potential roles of the different domains in the activation of the receptor following ligand-receptor binding, functional assays were performed on 1GpH-R I/rat luteinizing hormone (LH)-R domain swapped chimeric receptors. These results show that the functional roles of the lamprey glycoprotein-receptor I (1GpH-R I) domains are conserved compared with its Gnathostome homologs. The ability of different glycoprotein hormones to activate chimeric lamprey/rat receptors suggests that the selectivity of the GpH-Rs in respect to their ligands is not controlled exclusively by a single domain but is the result of specific interactions between domains. We hypothesize that these interactions were refined during millions of years of co-evolution of the receptors with their cognate ligands under particular intramolecular, intermolecular and physiological constraints.
3884898|Monarch butterflies in eastern North America accumulate lipids during their fall migration to central Mexico, and use them as their energy source during a 5 month overwintering period. When and where along their migratory journey the butterflies accumulate these lipids has implications for the importance of fall nectar sources in North America. We analyzed the lipid content of 765 summer breeding and fall migrant monarch butterflies collected at 1 nectaring site in central Virginia over 4 years (1998-2001), and compared them with 16 additional published and unpublished datasets from other sites, dating back to 1941. Virginia migrants store significantly more lipid than summer butterflies, and show significant intraseason and between-year variation. None of the Virginia samples, and none of the historical samples, with one exception, had lipid levels comparable with those found in migrants that had reached Texas and northern Mexico. This evidence suggests that upon reaching Texas, the butterflies undergo a behavioral shift and spend more time nectaring. The one exceptional sample led us to the discovery that monarchs that form roosts along their migratory routes have higher lipid contents than monarchs collected while nectaring at flowers. We propose that for much of their journey monarchs are opportunistic migrants, and the variation within and between samples reflects butterflies' individual experiences. The stored lipids appear to be of less importance as fuel for the butterflies' migration than for their survival during their overwintering period, in part because soaring on favorable winds reduces the energetic cost of flying. The conservation of nectar plants in Texas and northern Mexico is crucial to sustaining the monarch's migratory spectacle, and nectar abundance throughout eastern North America is also important. As generalists in their selection of nectar sources and nectaring habitats, monarchs are unlikely to be affected by small changes in plant communities. Agricultural transformations of natural communities in the eastern United States and Great Plains, however, and especially the extensive planting of genetically modified herbicide-resistant soybeans and corn, may be changing the availability of nectar for monarchs and other pollinators. This new technology is eliminating virtually all forbs in and surrounding agricultural fields, including the monarch's larval hostplants (milkweeds) and native and nonnative nectar sources. To evaluate whether changes in nectar availability are altering the butterflies' ability to accumulate energy, we recommend that monarchs' lipid contents be assayed annually at sites throughout eastern North America.
41319650|The sensory capacity of bacteria and macroalgae (seaweeds) is limited with respect to many modalities (visual, auditory) common in "higher" organisms such as animals. Thus, we expect that other modalities, such as chemical signaling and sensing, would play particularly important roles in their sensory ecology. Here, we discuss two examples of chemical signaling in bacteria and seaweeds: (1) the role of chemical defenses and quorum-sensing (QS) regulatory systems in bacterial colonization and infection of the red alga Delisea pulchra and their ecological consequences, and (2) the regulation of dispersal and differentiation by nitric oxide (NO) in bacterial biofilms. Consistent with the goals of neuroecology, in both cases, we investigate the links between specific signal-mediated molecular mechanisms, and ecological outcomes, for populations or assemblages of bacteria or seaweeds. We conclude by suggesting that because of the fundamental role played by chemical signaling in bacteria, bacterial systems, either by themselves or in interactions with other organisms, have much to offer for understanding general issues in neuroecology. Thus, further integration of microbiology with the biology of eukaryotes would seem warranted and is likely to prove illuminating.
3884963|Survival and reproductive success hinge on the perception of environmental stimuli. In this regard, foraging efficiency depends on discerning predictive signals in food. A widespread occurrence of ethanol in fruits indicates a sustained historical exposure of frugivores to this compound. Accordingly, Dudley (2000, Quart. Rev. Biol. 75:3-15) proposed that ethanol could represent a prominent sensory cue to primates because of direct and indirectly associated caloric and physiological rewards. However, little is known regarding the extent to which ethanol correlates with such parameters. This information is essential to estimating the importance of detecting and detoxifying ethanol in fruits. Here I present a preliminary analysis of fruits from Southeast Asia; low levels of ethanol were present in fruits of all developmental stages (range: 0.005-0.48%). Moreover, ethanol correlated positively with concentrations of soluble sugars, suggesting that it could be a valuable foraging cue. Recent findings on the sensitivity of primate olfaction and gustation to ethanol are consistent with this notion. However, when primates smell fruits deliberately, it often occurs together with digital and/or dental evaluation of texture. Here I show that softening texture also characterizes the fruit ripening process, and that color is of ambiguous importance to primates possessing trichromatic vision. I discuss the relevance of these findings to the origins of primates and the ecology of key sensory systems and deduce that detecting and selecting fruits on the basis of cues other than color is a persistent theme in primate evolution. Ethanol has likely played a significant and underestimated role in the regulation of primate foraging behavior.
3884737|Larvae have been difficult to study because their small size limits our ability to understand their behavior and the conditions they experience. Questions about larval transport focus largely on (a) where they go [dispersal] and (b) where they come from [connectivity]. Mechanisms of transport have been intensively studied in recent decades. As our ability to identify larval sources develops, the consequences of connectivity are garnering more consideration. Attention to transport and connectivity issues has increased dramatically in the past decade, fueled by changing motivations that now include management of fisheries resources, understanding of the spread of invasive species, conservation through the design of marine reserves, and prediction of climate-change effects. Current progress involves both technological advances and the integration of disciplines and approaches. This review focuses on insights gained from physical modeling, chemical tracking, and genetic approaches. I consider how new findings are motivating paradigm shifts concerning (1) life-history consequences; (2) the openness of marine populations, self-recruitment, and population connectivity; (3) the role of behavior; and (4) the significance of variability in space and time. A challenge for the future will be to integrate methods that address dispersal on short (intragenerational) timescales such as elemental fingerprinting and numerical simulations with those that reflect longer timescales such as gene flow estimates and demographic modeling. Recognition and treatment of the continuum between ecological and evolutionary timescales will be necessary to advance the mechanistic understanding of larval and population dynamics.
3884942|Recent studies have shown that most tetrapod groups (mammals, birds, chelonians, amphibians) show general intraspecific tendencies for increasing body size with latitude, whereas squamates (lizards and snakes) show an intraspecific tendency towards decreasing body size with latitude. Here I evaluate whether these size trends are general by using independent contrasts analysis to investigate the dependence of intraspecific size-latitude relationships (r), and the magnitude alone of size-latitude relationships ([r]), for tetrapod vertebrates, on sample size, range of latitudes sampled, average latitude sampled, and body size. Range of latitudes sampled, average latitude sampled, and body size did not influence body size-latitude relationships (r) or the magnitude alone of body size-latitude relationship ([r]). Sample size did not influence size-latitude relationships (r), but did influence the magnitude alone of size-latitude relationships ([r]), possibly indicating increased precision of estimating size-latitude relationships with increased sampling. In short, intraspecific size-latitude relationships are similar for species of different sizes, occurring at different latitudes, sampled over different latitudinal ranges, and differing in number of populations sampled (though magnitude alone is influenced by sample size). These results suggest that intraspecific size-latitude trends are general, and biologically significant (i.e., are not artifacts of sampling), thus deserving explanation.
4485872|Since tools of molecular genetics became readily available, our understanding of bird mating systems has undergone a revolution. The majority of passerine species investigated are socially monogamous, but have been shown to be genetically polygamous. Data sets from natural populations of juncos suggest that multiple mating by females results in a sexual selection gradient as steep for females as for males (a result that does not support Bateman's predictions). However, in males, fitness is enhanced directly through fertilization success with multiple matings; in females fitness benefits may be enhanced immediately through direct access to food, protection against predators, or other resources received from males, or they may be delayed through improvement in offspring quality (e.g., through good genes, or greater genetic compatibility between the female and the extra-pair male). But a steep sexual selection gradient for females can be difficult to interpret. If all females copulate with multiple partners that are equally likely to fertilize eggs, then females that produce larger clutch sizes, for any reason, will appear to have copulated with more males. That is, multiple sires have a higher probability of detection in larger clutches than in smaller ones, giving the impression that females that mate with multiple males increase their reproductive success. Yet, in most studies in which there is a correlation between number of offspring produced by females and number of extra-pair males, causation has not been clearly established and other factors may explain the results. Additional complications in understanding male and female reproductive strategies are: (1) Molecular studies cannot detect extra-pair copulations that did not result in fertilizations; yet if a female acquires food or other resources from extra-pair males, such extra-pair matings may have significant effects on female fitness. Thus, molecular studies provide only a conservative estimate of the number of extra-pair copulations or "mates" that a female has. (2) Clutch size affects the probability that any given male will be successful in fertilizing a female's eggs. Specifically, at any given point, a male's chances of fertilizing at least one egg in the female's clutch will be greater as clutch size increases. We predict that in avian species with small clutch sizes, males may be selected to be choosy and avoid extra-pair copulations, while females should be selected to be less discriminating. Moreover, if extra-pair males provide resources that increase female fitness, the females should seek extra-pair copulations, whether or not the males are likely to fertilize any of her eggs. Laboratory studies with insects have yielded clearer evidence of the causal relationship between multiple mating and increased female fitness. We review studies on a tenebrionid beetle in which female fecundity increases directly with number of mates. In these experiments, the nutritive value of the spermatophores does not fully explain the increase in female reproductive success.
3884891|Early embryonic mortality accounts for a substantial portion of reproductive failure in agriculturally important livestock, including the dairy cow. The maintenance of early pregnancy requires a fully functional corpus luteum (CL) that is not susceptible to regression following fertilization, yet the cellular mechanisms of luteal regression are not clearly understood. Immune-cell accumulation within the CL at the time of regression is a well-documented phenomenon in a variety of species. In the dairy cow, immune-cell accumulation precedes luteal regression by several days and coincides with an increase in expression of the chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (CCL2), suggesting that immune-mediated events promote tissue destruction. Recent studies indicate that endothelial cells comprising the CL are a primary source of CCL2 secretion. Moreover, although uterine-derived prostaglandin F
23016123|Synopsis Research on speciation of marine organisms has lagged behind that of terrestrial ones, but the study of the evolution of molecules involved in the adhesion of gametes in free-spawning invertebrates is an exception. Here I review the function, species-specificity, and molecular variation of loci coding for bindin in sea urchins, lysin in abalone and their egg receptors, in an effort to assess the degree to which they contribute to the emergence of reproductive isolation during the speciation process. Bindin is a protein that mediates binding of the sperm to the vitelline envelope (VE) of the egg and the fusion of the gametes' membranes, whereas lysin is a protein involved only in binding to the VE. Both of these molecules are important in species recognition by the gametes, but they rarely constitute absolute blocks to interspecific hybridization. Intraspecific polymorphism is high in bindin, but low in lysin. Polymorphism in bindin is maintained by frequency-dependent selection due to sexual conflict arising from the danger of polyspermy under high densities of sperm. Monomorphism in lysin is the result of purifying selection arising from the need for species recognition. Interspecific divergence in lysin is due to strong positive selection, and the same is true for bindin of four out of seven genera of sea urchins studied to date. The differences between the sea urchin genera in the strength of selection can only partially be explained by the hypothesis of reinforcement. The egg receptor for lysin (VERL) is a glycoprotein with 22 repeats, 20 of which have evolved neutrally and homogenized by concerted evolution, whereas the first two repeats are under positive selection. Selection on lysin has been generated by the need to track changes in VERL, permitted by the redundant structure of this molecule. Both lysin and bindin are important in reproductive isolation, probably had a role in speciation, but it is hard to determine whether they meet the strictest criteria of "speciation loci," defined as genes whose differentiation has caused speciation.
3884598|The use of fossils in the phylogenetics of extant clades traditionally has been a contentious issue. Fossils usually are relatively incomplete, and their use commonly leads to an increase in the number of equally most parsimonious trees and a decrease in the resolution of phylogenies. Fossils alone, however, provide certain kinds of information about the biological history of a clade, and computer simulations have shown that even highly incomplete material can, under certain circumstances, increase the accuracy of a phylogeny, rather than decrease it. Because empirical data are still scarce on the effects of the inclusion of fossils on phylogenetic reconstructions, we attempted to investigate this problem by using a relatively well-known group of acanthomorph fishes, the Tetraodontiformes (triggerfishes, pufferfishes, and ocean sunfishes), for which robust phylogenies using extant taxa already exist and that has a well-studied fossil record. Adding incomplete fossil taxa of tetraodontiforms usually increases the number of equally most parsimonious trees and often decreases the resolution of consensus trees. However, adding fossil taxa may help to correctly establish relationships among lineages that have experienced high degrees of morphological diversification by allowing for a reinterpretation of homologous and homoplastic features, increasing the resolution rather than decreasing it. Furthermore, taxa that were scored for 25% or more of their characters did not cause a significant loss of resolution, while providing unique biological information.
4540226| Chaetognaths are transparent marine animals that are ubiquitous and abundant members of oceanic zooplanktonic communities. Their phylogenetic position within the Metazoa, however, has remained obscure since their discovery. Morphology and embryology have traditionally allied chaetognaths with deuterostomes, but molecular evidence suggests otherwise. Two recent multigene expressed sequence tag (EST) molecular phylogenomic studies suggest that chaetognaths are either sister to the Lophotrochozoa (Matus et al. 2006) or to all protostomes (Marltaz et al. 2006). We have isolated eight Hox genes, one Parahox gene, and Mox, a related homeodomain gene, from the pelagic chaetognath, Flaccisagitta enflata. Although chaetognath central class Hox genes lack the Lox5 or "spiralian" parapeptide, a diagnostic amino-acid motif that has been utilized previously to assign lophotrochozoan affinity, they do possess a central class Hox gene that has a partial "Ubd-A peptide" found in both ecdysozoan and lophotrochozoan Ubx/Abd-A/Lox2/Lox4 genes. Additionally, we report the presence of two distinct chaetognath posterior Hox genes that possess both ecdysozoan and lophotrochozoan signature amino-acid motifs. The phylogenetic position of chaetognaths, as well as the evolution of the Hox cluster, is discussed in light of these data. 
3884785|Morphological features of the Acoela appear to be quite plastic, including those of the copulatory organs, which provide the principle characteristics used for the systematics of this group. Consequently, classification schemes of the Acoela comprise numerous polyphyletic groupings. In this review, we detail recent revisions of acoel systematics using molecular sequence data and new and reevaluated morphological characteristics. Gene trees are discordant with traditional systematic schemes but strongly concordant with new morphological characteristics obtained through the use of transmission electron microscopy and confocal laser scanning microscopy, namely, characteristics of body-wall and copulatory organ musculature, sperm, sperm ducts, sagittocysts, and immunocytochemistry of the nervous system. This merger of molecular and morphological data has led to significant changes in acoel classification, including a major emendation of the largest family of the Acoela, the Convolutidae, whereby half of its members were transferred to a newly created family, the Isodiametridae.
40306101|A renaissance in organismal biology has been sparked by recent conceptual, theoretical, methodological, and computational advances in the life sciences, along with an unprecedented interdisciplinary integration with Mathematics, Engineering, and the physical sciences. Despite a decades-long trend toward reductionist approaches to biological problems, it is increasingly recognized that whole organisms play a central role in organizing and interpreting information from across the biological spectrum. Organisms represent the nexus where sub-and supra-organismal processes meet, and it is the performance of organisms within the environment that provides the material for natural selection. Here, we identify five "grand challenges" for future research in organismal biology. It is intended that these challenges will spark further discussion in the broader community and identify future research priorities, opportunities, and directions, which will ultimately help to guide the allocation of support for and training in organismal biology.
25160221|Populations of species that inhabit a range of environments frequently display divergent morphologies that correlate with differences in ecological parameters. The velocity of water flow (i.e., flow velocity) is a critical feature of aquatic environments that has been shown to influence morphology in a broad range of taxa. The focus of this study was to evaluate the relationship between flow velocity and shell morphology for males and females of the semi-aquatic freshwater turtle Pseudemys concinna. For both sexes, the carapace and plastron show significant morphological differences between habitats characterized by slow-flowing (i.e., lentic) and fast-flowing (i.e., lotic) water. In general, the most prominent pattern for both sexes is that the shells of individuals from lotic habitats are more streamlined (small height-to-length ratio) than the shells of individuals from lentic habitats. Of the two shell components (carapace and plastron), the carapace shows greater divergence between habitats, particularly for males. These results are consistent with adaptations to flow velocity, and suggest that variation in shape may be more constrained in females. I also provide empirical evidence for an adaptive benefit of the observed shape change (i.e., drag reduction) and a brief comment on the relative roles of genetic divergence and phenotypic plasticity in generating shape differences observed in this species.
40793115|Thyroid hormones (THs), and more precisely the 3,3',5-triiodo-L-thyronine (T) acetic derivative 3,3',5-triiodothyroacetic acid (TRIAC), have been shown to activate metamorphosis in amphioxus. However, it remains unknown whether TRIAC is endogenously synthesized in amphioxus and more generally whether an active TH metabolism is regulating metamorphosis. Here we show that amphioxus naturally produces TRIAC from its precursors T and L-thyroxine (T), supporting its possible role as the active TH in amphioxus larvae. In addition, we show that blocking TH production inhibits metamorphosis and that this effect is compensated by exogenous T, suggesting that a peak of TH production is important for advancement of proper metamorphosis. Moreover, several amphioxus genes encoding proteins previously proposed to be involved in the TH signaling pathway display expression profiles correlated with metamorphosis. In particular, thyroid hormone receptor (TR) and deiodinases gene expressions are either up-or down-regulated during metamorphosis and by TH treatments. Overall, these results suggest that an active TH metabolism controls metamorphosis in amphioxus, and that endogenous TH production and metabolism as well as TH-regulated metamorphosis are ancestral in the chordate lineage.
3884585|The dictionary definition of stability as "Firmly established, not easily to be changed" immediately indicates the conflict between stability and maneuverability in aquatic locomotion. The present paper addresses several issues resulting from these opposing requirements. Classical stability theory for bodies moving in fluids is based on developments in submarine and airship motions. These have lateral symmetry, in common with most animals. This enables the separation of the equations of motion into two sets of 3 each. The vertical (longitudinal) set, which includes motions in the axial (surge), normal (heave) and pitching directions, can thus be separated from the lateral-horizontal plane which includes yaw, roll and sideslip motions. This has been found useful in the past for longitudinal stability studies based on coasting configurations but is not applicable to the analysis of turning, fast starts and vigorous swimming, where the lateral symmetry of the fish body is broken by bending motions. The present paper will also examine some of the aspects of the stability vs. maneuverability tradeoff for these asymmetric motions. An analysis of the conditions under which the separation of equations of motions into vertical and horizontal planes is justified, and a definition of the equations to be used in cases where this separation is not accurate enough is presented.
40793139|Ecologists have long known that certain organisms fundamentally modify, create, or define habitats by altering the habitat's physical properties. In the past 15 years, these processes have been formally defined as "ecosystem engineering", reflecting a growing consensus that environmental structuring by organisms represents a fundamental class of ecological interactions occurring in most, if not all, ecosystems. Yet, the precise definition and scope of ecosystem engineering remains debated, as one should expect given the complexity, enormity, and variability of ecological systems. Here I briefly comment on a few specific current points of contention in the ecosystem engineering concept. I then suggest that ecosystem engineering can be profitably subdivided into four narrower functional categories reflecting four broad mechanisms by which ecosystem engineering occurs: structural engineers, bioturbators, chemical engineers, and light engineers. Finally, I suggest some conceptual model frameworks that could apply broadly within these functional groups.
4540229|Gymnosomatous pteropods are highly specialized planktonic predators that feed exclusively on their thecosomatous relatives. Feeding behavior and the morphology of gymnosome feeding structures are diverse and have evolved in concert with the size, shape, and consistency of the thecosome shell. Here, we show that the metabolic capacity and locomotory behaviors of gymnosomes are similarly diverse and vary with those of their prey. Both gymnosomes and thecosomes range from gelatinous sit-and-wait forms to active predators with high-performance locomotory muscles. We find more than 10-fold variation in size-adjusted and temperature-adjusted metabolic rates within both the Gymnosomata and Thecosomata and a strong correlation between the metabolic rates of predators and of prey. Furthermore, these characteristics are strongly influenced by environmental parameters and predator and prey converge upon similar physiological capacities under similar selection. For example, compensation of locomotory capacity in cold waters leads to elevated metabolic rates in polar species. This highly coevolved system is discussed in terms of a predatorprey "arms race" and the impending loss of both predator and prey as elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide levels threaten to dissolve prey shells via oceanic acidification.
3884811|The annelids are an excellent group in which to investigate the evolution of regeneration abilities. They exhibit qualitative and quantitative variation in regeneration ability, including among closely related species, and their segmental body organization makes comparing results among species relatively straightforward. Here, I compile information on the presence/absence of segment regeneration ability across the annelids. The ability to regenerate posteriorly appears to be nearly universal in the annelids. It is almost certainly ancestral for the phylum and may have been lost only a few times. The ability to regenerate anteriorly is common but less widespread. It is absent in about a dozen groups, almost surely representing multiple independent losses of this ability. Several non-regenerating species are closely related to regenerating species, indicating very recent losses (or gains). Despite the fact that lack of this ability is unusual, there is a publication bias against reporting the lack of regeneration ability, and in many cases the judgment that a particular species is unable to regenerate is based on incomplete or unpublished data. Thus, in order to build rigorous frameworks for future comparative studies of annelid regeneration, there is a need for published studies clearly documenting the lack of regeneration abilities in annelid species. The review of regeneration data presented here is especially useful in highlighting annelid groups that possess both regenerating and non-regenerating representatives. Investigations of these groups may be particularly useful for elucidating the mechanisms leading to the loss (or perhaps gain) of segment regeneration ability.
40931221|The perciform suborder Notothenoidei provides a compelling opportunity to study the adaptive radiation of a marine species-flock in the cold Southern Ocean that surrounds Antarctica. To facilitate genome-level studies of the diversification of these fishes, we present estimates of the genome sizes of 11 Antarctic species and describe the production of high-quality bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries for two, the red-blooded notothen Notothenia coriiceps and the white-blooded icefish Chaenocephalus aceratus. Our results indicate that evolution of phylogenetically derived notothenioid families (e.g., the crown group Channichthyidae [icefishes]), was accompanied by genome expansion. Six species from the basal family Nototheniidae had C-values between 0.98 and 1.20 pg, a range that is consistent with the genome sizes of proposed outgroups (e.g., percids) of the notothenioid suborder. In contrast, four icefishes had C-values in the range 1.661.83pg. The BAC libraries VMRC-19 (N. coriiceps) and VMRC-21 (C. aceratus) comprise 12  and 10  coverage of the respective genomes and have average insert sizes of 138 and 168 kb. Paired BAC-end reads representing ~0.1% of each genome showed that the repetitive element landscapes of the two genomes (13.4% of the N. coriiceps genome and 14.5% for C. aceratus) were similar. The availability of these high-quality and well-characterized BAC libraries sets the stage for targeted genomic analyses of the unusual anatomical and physiological adaptations of the notothenioids, some of which mimic human diseases. Here we consider the evolution of secondary pelagicism by various taxa of the group and illustrate the utility of Antarctic icefishes as an evolutionary-mutant model of human osteopenia (low-mineral density of bones).
3884929|The article summarizes current knowledge mainly about the (functional) morphology and ultrastructure, but also about the biology, development, and evolution of the Kinorhyncha. The Kinorhyncha are microscopic, bilaterally symmetrical, exclusively free-living, benthic, marine animals and ecologically part of the meiofauna. They occur throughout the world from the intertidal to the deep sea, generally in sediments but sometimes associated with plants or other animals. From adult stages 141 species are known, but 38 species have been described from juvenile stages. The trunk is arranged into 11 segments as evidenced by cuticular plates, sensory spots, setae or spines, nervous system, musculature, and subcuticular glands. The ultrastructure of several organ systems and the postembryonic development are known for very few species. Almost no data are available about the embryology and only a single gene has been sequenced for a single species. The phylogenetic relationships within Kinorhyncha are unresolved. Priapulida, Loricifera, and Kinorhyncha are grouped together as Scalidophora, but arguments are found for every possible sister-group relationship within this taxon. The recently published Ecdysozoa hypothesis suggests a closer relationship of the Scalidophora, Nematoda, Nematomorpha, Tardigrada, Onychophora, and Arthropoda.
4540209|Synopsis Biologists are amazed by the intricacy and complexity of biological interactions between molecules, cells, organisms, and ecosystems. Yet underlying all this biodiversity is a universal common ancestry. How does evolution proceed from common starting points to generate the riotous biodiversity we see today? This "novelty problem"-understanding how novelty and common ancestry relate-has become of critical importance, especially since the realization that genes and developmental processes are often conserved across vast phylogenetic distances. In particular, two processes have emerged as the primary generators of diversity in organismal form: duplication plus divergence and co-option. In this article, we first illustrate how phylogenetic methodology and "tree-thinking" can be used to distinguish duplication plus divergence from co-option. Second, we review two case studies in photoreceptor evolution-one suggesting a role for duplication plus divergence, the other exemplifying how co-option can shape evolutionary change. Finally, we discuss how our tree-thinking approach differs from other treatments of the origin of novelty that utilized a "linear-thinking" approach in which evolution is viewed as a linear and gradual progression, often from simple to complex phenotype, driven by natural selection.
3884637|The pteropod mollusk Clione limacina swims by dorsal-ventral flapping movements of its wing-like parapodia. Two basic swim speeds are observed-slow and fast. Serotonin enhances swimming speed by increasing the frequency of wing movements. It does this by modulating intrinsic properties of swim interneurons comprising the swim central pattern generator (CPG). Here we examine some of the ionic currents that mediate changes in the intrinsic properties of swim interneurons to increase swimming speed in Clione. Serotonin influences three intrinsic properties of swim interneurons during the transition from slow to fast swimming: baseline depolarization, postinhibitory rebound (PIR), and spike narrowing. Current clamp experiments suggest that neither I
40405997|Modern genomic approaches have facilitated great progress in our understanding of the molecular and genetic underpinnings of ecological and evolutionary processes. Analysis of gene expression through heterologous hybridization in particular has enabled genome-scale studies in many ecologically and evolutionarily interesting species. However, these studies have been hampered by the difficulty of comparingon a common array platformgene-expression profiles across species due to sequence divergence altering the dynamics of hybridization. All too often, comparisons of expression profiles across species were limited to contrasting lists of gene or even of just functional categories. Here we review these issues and propose a novel solution. Exploiting the diverse cichlid lineages of East Africa as our model-system, we then present results from an experimental case study that compares the neural gene-expression profiles of males and females of two species that differ in mating system. Using a single microarray platform that contains genes from one species, Astatotilapia burtoni, we conducted a total of 16 direct comparisons for neural gene-expression level between individual males and females from a pair of sister species, the polygynous Enantiopus melanogenys and the monogamous Xenotilapia flavipinnis. Next, we conducted a meta-analysis with previously published data from two different intra-specific expression studies to determine whether sex-specific neural gene expression is more closely associated with behavioral phenotype than it is with gonadal sex. Our results indicate that the gene expression profiles are species-specific to a large extent, as relatively few genes show conserved expression patterns associated with either sex. Finally, we describe how competitive genomic DNA hybridizations between the two focal species allow us to assess the degree to which divergence of sequences biases the results. We propose a masking technique that correlates interspecific expression ratios obtained with cDNA with hybridization ratios obtained with genomic DNA for the same set of species and determines threshold sequence divergence to reduce false positives. Our approach should be applicable to a wide range of interesting questions related to the evolution and ecology of gene expression.
40863365|The anthozoan sub-class Octocorallia, comprising approximately 3000 species of soft corals, gorgonians, and sea pens, remains one of the most poorly understood groups of the phylum Cnidaria. Efforts to classify the soft corals and gorgonians at the suprafamilial level have long thwarted taxonomists, and the subordinal groups in current use are widely recognized to represent grades of colony forms rather than clades. Molecular phylogenetic analyses of the sub-class do not support either the current morphologically based subordinal or familial-level taxonomy. To date, however, the resolution necessary to propose an alternative, phylogenetic classification of Octocorallia or to elucidate patterns of morphological evolution within the group is lacking. Attempts to understand boundaries between species and interspecific or intraspecific phylogenetic relationships have been hampered by the very slow rate of mitochondrial gene evolution in Octocorallia, and a consequent dearth of molecular markers with variation sufficient to distinguish species (or sometimes genera). A review of the available ITS2 sequence data for octocorals, however, reveals a yet-unexplored phylogenetic signal both at sequence and secondary-structure levels. In addition, incongruence between mitochondrial and nuclear gene trees suggests that hybrid speciation and reticulate evolution may be an important mechanism of diversification in some genera. Emerging next-generation genomic-sequencing technologies offer the best hope for a breakthrough in our understanding of phylogenetic relationships and of evolution of morphological traits in Octocorallia. Genome and transcriptome sequencing may provide enough characters to resolve relationships at the deepest levels of the octocoral tree, while simultaneously offering an efficient means to screen for new genetic markers variable enough to distinguish species and populations.
4540227|A number of hypotheses have been presented regarding the origins of the metazoans and, more specifically, the Bilateria. Using various phylogenetic analyses, characteristics have been mapped on phylogenetic trees to infer ancestral body plans and life history strategies of those ancestors. Many arguments on the evolution of the Bilateria are based on the presumed homology of certain characteristics of extant larva and adults, including various ciliated bands involved in feeding and locomotion. This article considers a recent study indicating that the second, downstream-collecting, ciliated band in the veliger larva of the gastropod mollusc, Crepidula fornicata, is actually derived from secondary trochoblasts (derived from second quartet micromeres), that normally form part of the prototrochal band found in other spiralian phyla (Hejnol et al. 2007). Despite previous arguments, these new findings suggest that the second ciliated band in the veliger larva is not homologous to the metatroch found in the trochophore larva of some other spiralians, such as the annelid, Polygordius lacteus. In the latter case, the metatroch was reported to be formed by a different set of lineage precursors (derived from third quartet micromeres) (Woltereck 1904). These findings have important implications for the interpretation of various hypotheses related to the evolution of metazoan phyla.
3885006|Intertidal zonation, observed from earliest studies of the marine littoral zone, was first studied in the U.S. by ecologists with a botanical orientation. Using the physiological methods favored by Cowles, Clements, and Shelford, these early studies sought causal and deterministic explanations. By the 1930s, the limitations of these studies became apparent and ecologists returned to more descriptive approaches. With the creation of year round research laboratories on the west coast, ecologists soon shed the botanical orientation and began to adopt more stochastic and non-deterministic approaches to intertidal ecology, approaches that still characterize the research tradition.
3884752|We review some adhesion mechanisms that have been understood in the field of synthetic adhesives, and more precisely for adhesives that adhere instantaneously (a property named tackiness) and whose adhesive strength usually depends on the applied pressure (pressure-sensitive adhesives). The discussion includes effects of surface roughness, elasticity, cavitation, viscous and elastic fingering, substrate flexibility.
41319646|Neuroecology combines physiological and ecological principles toward understanding behavioral mechanisms and their roles in establishing patterns of organismal abundances and species distributions. This amalgamation of research approaches incorporates the strengths of neuroethology to determine the cellular basis of behavior. It, however, treads where neuroethology does not by establishing critical linkages between neural processes and the population-and community-level consequences of individual behavior. Neuroecology also promotes understanding of nervous systems within a strong environmental context by encouraging use of keystone and foundation species as critical "ecological models" for studies of electrically excitable cells. Previous investigations of environmental stress, metabolism, and energy relations have proven the value of a combined cellular biochemical and biophysical approach toward predicting natural patterns of organismal abundances and species distributions. Borrowing from this approach, neuroecology would coalesce neuroscience with population and community ecology to establish how individual behavior functions, and how such behavior acts to determine higher-order biological processes.
3884638|Attempts to understand the neural mechanisms which produce behaviour must consider both prevailing sensory cues and the central cellular and synaptic changes they direct. At each level, neuromodulation can additionally shape the final output. We have investigated neuromodulation in the developing spinal motor networks in hatchling tadpoles of two closely related amphibians, Xenopus laevis and Rana temporaria to examine the subtle differences in their behaviours that could be attributed to their evolutionary divergence. At the point of hatching, both species can swim in response to a mechanosensory stimulus, however Rana embryos often display a more forceful, non-locomotory coiling behaviour. Whilst the synaptic drive that underlies these behaviours appears similar, subtle inter-specific differences in neuronal properties shape motor outputs in different ways. For example, Rana neurons express N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)/serotonin (5-HT)-dependent oscillations, not present in hatchling Xenopus and many also exhibit a prominent slow spike after-hyperpolarisation. Such properties may endow the spinal circuitry of Rana with the ability to produce a more flexible range of outputs. Finally, we compare the roles of the neuromodulators 5-HT, noradrenaline (NA) and nitric oxide (NO) in shaping motor outputs. 5-HT increases burst durations during swimming in both Xenopus and Rana, but 5-HT dramatically slows the cycle period in Rana with little effect in Xenopus. Three distinct, but presumably homologous NO-containing brainstem clusters of neurons have been described, yet the effects of NO differ between species. In Xenopus, NO slows and shortens swimming in a manner similar to NA, yet in Rana NO and NA elicit the non-rhythmic coiling pattern.
4485828|The extraordinary navigational ability of homing pigeons provides a unique spatial cognitive system to investigate how the brain is able to represent past experiences as memory. In this paper, we first summarize a large body of lesion data in an attempt to characterize the role of the avian hippocampal formation (HF) in homing. What emerges from this analysis is the critical importance of HF for the learning of map-like, spatial representations of environmental stimuli used for navigation. We then explore some interesting properties of the homing pigeon HF, using for discussion the notion that the homing pigeon HF likely displays some anatomical or physiological specialization(s), compared to the laboratory rat, that account for its participation in homing and the representation of large-scale, environmental space. Discussed are the internal connectivity among HF subdivisions, the occurrence of neurogenesis, the presence of rhythmic theta activity and the electrophysiological profile of HF neurons. Comparing the characteristics of the homing pigeon HF with the hippocampus of the laboratory rat, two opposing perspectives can be supported. On the one hand, one could emphasize the subtle differences in the properties of the homing pigeon HF as possible departure points for exploring how the homing pigeon HF may be adapted for homing and the representation of large-scale space. Alternatively, one could emphasize the similarities with the rat hippocampus and suggest that, if homing pigeons represent space in a way different from rats, then the neural specializations that would account for the difference must lie outside HF. Only future research will determine which of these two perspectives offers a better approximation of the truth.
3884581|The morphological designs of animals represent a balance between stability for efficient locomotion and instability associated with maneuverability. Morphologies that deviate from designs associated with stability are highly maneuverable. Major features affecting maneuverability are positions of control surfaces and flexibility of the body. Within odontocete cetaceans (i.e., toothed whales), variation in body design affects stability and turning performance. Position of control surfaces (i.e., flippers, fin, flukes, peduncle) provides a generally stable design with respect to an arrow model. Destabilizing forces generated during swimming are balanced by dynamic stabilization due to the phase relationships of various body components. Cetaceans with flexible bodies and mobile flippers are able to turn tightly at low turning rates, whereas fast-swimming cetaceans with less flexibility and relatively immobile flippers sacrifice small turn radii for higher turning rates. In cetaceans, body and control surface mobility and placement appear to be associated with prey type and habitat. Flexibility and slow, precise maneuvering are found in cetaceans that inhabit more complex habitats, whereas high-speed maneuvers are used by cetaceans in the pelagic environment.
3884910|Until recently, the study and understanding of plant and animal signalling and response mechanisms have developed independently. Recent biochemical and molecular work is producing a growing list of elements involved in responses to biotic and abiotic stimuli that are very similar across kingdoms. Some of the more interesting examples of these include prostaglandin/octadecanoid-mediated responses to wounding, steroid-based signalling systems, and pathogen-recognition mechanisms. Some of these similarities probably represent evolutionary convergence; others may be ancestral to plants and animals. Ecological and evolutionary implications of such overlaps include the existence of pathogens that can cause disease in plants and animals, the ability of herbivores to manipulate plant responses, usurpation of microbial mechanisms and genes by herbivorous animals and plants, evolution of plant defenses exploiting shared signals in animals, and the medicinal use of plants by humans. Comparative study of the signalling and response mechanisms used by plants, animals, and microbes provides novel and useful insights to the ecology and evolution of interactions across kingdoms.
3884884| Regulation of the molting cycle in decapod crustaceans involves 2 endocrine organs: the X-organ/sinus gland (XO/SG) complex located in the eyestalk ganglia and the Y-organ (YO) located in the cephalothorax. Two neuropeptides [molt-inhibiting hormone (MIH) and crustacean hyperglycemic hormone (CHH)] are produced in the XO/SG complex and inhibit ecdysteroidogenesis in the YO. Thus, YO activation is induced by eyestalk ablation (ESA), which removes the primary source of MIH and CHH. Cyclic nucleotides (cAMP and cGMP) and nitric oxide (NO) appear to mediate neuropeptide suppression of the YO. Proteomics was used to identify potential components of signal transduction pathways ("targeted" or cell-map proteomics) as well as assess the magnitude of protein changes in response to activation ("global" or expression proteomics) in the tropical land crab, Gecarcinus lateralis. Total proteins in YOs from intact and ES-ablated animals were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and expression profiles were assessed by image analysis and gene clustering software. ESA caused a >3-fold increase in the levels of 170 proteins and >3-fold decrease in the levels of 89 proteins; a total of 543 proteins were quantified in total YO extracts. ESA induced significant changes in the levels of 3 groups of proteins eluting from a phosphoprotein column and detected with phosphoprotein staining of two-dimensional gels; 17 kDa and 150 kDa phosphoproteins increased in activated YOs, while 12 kDa phosphoproteins decreased. A 150 kDa phosphoprotein, which was isolated only from activated YO, was identified as NO synthase by western blotting and mass spectrometry of trypsin peptides. These data show that phosphorylation of NO synthase is associated with activation of the YO. A neuropeptide signaling pathway involving NO synthase and NO-sensitive guanylyl cyclase is proposed. 
40306089|A host's defensive response to a pathogen is a phylogenetically ancient reaction that consists of a CNS-mediated series of autonomic, hormonal and behavioral responses that combine to combat infection. The absence of such defense results in greater morbidity and mortality and thus, these responses are essential for survival. The postnatal period represents a malleable phase in which the long-term behavior and physiology of the developing organism, including its immune responses, can be influenced. Postnatal challenge of the immune system by introduction of live replicating infections, or administration of bacterial and viral mimetics, can result in a multidomain alteration to the defenses of the adult host. Findings from our laboratory and others' indicate that the postnatal administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or polyinosinic: polycytidylic acid (Polyl: C), which mimic bacterial and viral infections respectively, can influence the neuroimmune response (generation of fever and production of cytokines) to a second challenge to the immune system in adulthood. This long-lasting alteration in the innate immune response is associated with myriad other effects on the animas physiology and appears to be primarily mediated by a sensitized hypothalamic-pituitaryadrenal axis. Thus, a transient immunological perturbation to a developing animal may program the organism for subsequent health complications as an adult. In this review we discuss some of the potential mechanisms for these phenomena.
25160137|Teaching college students about the nature of science should not be a controversial exercise. College students are expected to distinguish between astronomy and astrology, chemistry and alchemy, evolution and creationism. In practice, however, the conflict between creationism and the nature of science may create controversy in the classroom, even walkouts, when the subject of evolution is raised. The authors have grappled with the meaning of such behaviors. They surveyed 538 students in a public, library arts college. Pre/post course surveys were analyzed to track changes in student responses to questions that were either consistent or inconsistent with the Theory of Evolution after a semester of instruction in a college biology or zoology course in which evolution was taught. Many students who were initially undecided about issues regarding evolution had shifted in their viewpoints by the end of the course. It was found that more education about the evidence for and the mechanics of evolutionary processes did not necessarily move students toward a scientific viewpoint. The authors also discovered a "wedge" effect among students who were undecided about questions pertaining to human ancestry at the beginning of the course. About half of these students to a scientific viewpoint at the end of the course; the other half shifted toward agreement with statements consistent with creationism.
40405967|Since all life processes depend on energy, the endocrine control of energy metabolism is one of the driving forces for the performance of an individual. Here, we review the literature on the key players in the endocrine regulation of energy homeostasis in insects, the adipokinetic hormones. These pleiotropic peptides not only control dynamic performance traits (flight, swimming, walking) but also regulatory performance traits (egg production, larval growth, and molting). Adipokinetic hormone is released into the hemolymph during intense muscular activity (flight) and also during apparently less energy-demanding locomotory activities, such as swimming and even walking, and, finally, activates the catabolic enzymes phosphorylase and/or triacylglycerol lipase that mobilize carbohydrates and/or lipids and proline, respectively. At the same time, anabolic processes such as the synthesis of protein, lipid, and glycogen are inhibited. Furthermore, adipokinetic hormones affect locomotory activity via neuromodulatory mechanisms that apparently employ biogenic amines. During oogenesis, it is thought that adipokinetic hormone performs similar tasks, because energetic substrates have to be mobilized and transported from the fat body to the ovaries in order to support oocyte growth. Inhibition of anabolic processes by exogenous adipokinetic hormone results in females that lay fewer and smaller eggs. Much less is known about the role of adipokinetic hormones during larval development and during molting but in this case energy homeostasis has to be tightly regulated as well: in general, during the early phase of a larval instar intake of food prevails and the energy stores of the fat body are established, whereas, prior to the molt, insects stop feeding and mobilize energy stores in the fat body, thereby fueling energy-demanding processes such as the formation of the new cuticle and the emergence from the old one. From the few data available to date, it is clear that adipokinetic hormones are involved in the regulation of these events in larvae.
40931197|Although aging is a ubiquitous process that prevails in all organisms, the mechanisms governing both the rate of decline in functionality and the age of onset remain elusive. A profound constitutively upregulated cytoprotective response is commonly observed in naturally long-lived species and experimental models of extensions to lifespan (e.g., genetically-altered and/or experimentally manipulated organisms), as indicated by enhanced resistance to stress and upregulated downstream components of the cytoprotective nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-signaling pathway. The transcription factor Nrf2 is constitutively expressed in all tissues, although levels may vary among organs, with the key detoxification organs (kidney and liver) exhibiting highest levels. Nrf2 may be further induced by cellular Stressors including endogenous reactive-oxygen species or exogenous electrophiles. The Nrf2-signaling pathway mediates multiple avenues of cytoprotection by activating the transcription of more than 200 genes that are crucial in the metabolism of drugs and toxins, protection against oxidative stress and inflammation, as well as playing an integral role in stability of proteins and in the removal of damaged proteins via proteasomal degradation or autophagy. Nrf2 interacts with other important cell regulators such as tumor suppressor protein 53 (p53) and nuclear factor-kappa beta (NF-KB) and through their combined interactions is the guardian of healthspan, protecting against many age-related diseases including cancer and neurodegeneration. We hypothesize that this signaling pathway plays a critical role in the determination of species longevity and that this pathway may indeed be the master regulator of the aging process.
4540223|Among metazoans, crustaceans display the greatest disparity between body plans and are second only to the insects in overall species diversity. Within the crustaceans, the Amphipoda rank as one of the most speciose extant orders. Amphipods have successfully invaded a variety of ecosystems, including the pelagic midwater environment. Despite their abundance in varied and dissimilar habitats, and the use of traditional morphological and systematic comparative analyses, phylogenetic relationships among amphipods remain uncertain. The pelagic amphipods, hyperiids, have highly divergent life histories and morphological attributes in comparison to more familiar benthic, nearshore, intertidal, and terrestrial amphipods. Some of these adaptations are likely correlated with their pelagic life history and include features such as hypertrophied olfactory and visual systems, duplications of the eyes, and an array of modifications to the appendages. Many of these morphological features may represent homoplasies, thus masking the true phylogenetic relationships among extant hyperiid amphipods. Here, we sample a wide range of amphipod taxa for the COI gene and present the first preliminary molecular phylogeny among the hyperiids.
41319642|Thermal performance curves (TPCs) describe the effects of temperature on biological rate processes. Here, we use examples from our work on common killifish (Fundulus heter oclitus) to illustrate some important conceptual issues relating to TPCs in the context of using these curves to predict the responses of organisms to climate change. Phenotypic plasticity has the capacity to alter the shape and position of the TPCs for acute exposures, but these changes can be obscured when rate processes are measured only following chronic exposures. For example, the acute TPC for mitochondrial respiration in killifish is exponential in shape, but this shape changes with acclimation. If respiration rate is measured only at the acclimation temperature, the TPC is linear, concealing the underlying mechanistic complexity at an acute time scale. These issues are particularly problematic when attempting to use TPCs to predict the responses of organisms to temperature change in natural environments. Many TPCs are generated using laboratory exposures to constant temperatures, but temperature fluctuates in the natural environment, and the mechanisms influencing performance at acute and chronic time scales, and the responses of the performance traits at these time scales may be quite different. Unfortunately, our current understanding of the mechanisms underlying the responses of organisms to temperature change is incomplete, particularly with respect to integrating from processes occurring at the level of single proteins up to whole-organism functions across different time scales, which is a challenge for the development of strongly grounded mechanistic models of responses to global climate change.
3884771|During the evolutionary transition to Metazoa, cell-cell- as well as cell-matrix recognition molecules have been formed, which made a further step in evolution possible, the establishment of an immune system. Sponges [Porifera] represent the oldest still extant metazoan phylum and consequently testify to major features of the common metazoan ancestor, the Urmetazoa. Most studies with respect to evolution and phylogeny in sponges have been performed with the marine demosponges Suberites domuncula and Geodia cydonium. These animals possess effective defense systems against microbes and parasites which involve engulfment of bacteria into specific cells, but also signal transduction pathways which actively kill bacteria. Among those is the LPS-mediated pathway, with the stress-responsive kinases. In addition, sponges are provided with an interferon-related system, with the (2-5)A synthetase as controlling enzyme. Transplantation studies have been performed on tissue, as well as at the cellular level ("mixed sponge cell reaction assay") which demonstrate the complex molecular strategy by which sponges respond to allogeneic- and/or autogeneic signals. Among the molecules involved in histo(in)compatibility response of sponges, cytokines e.g., the allograft inflammatory factor 1, have been identified which control rejection of allografts. Furthermore, transcription factors, with Tcf-like factor as an example, have been identified which very likely control gene expression during histocompatibility reactions. The immune reactions in sponges can be modulated by FK506, a drug which has been successfully used as immunosuppressant in humans. One further surprising finding is the fact that G. cydonium has several molecules containing polymorphic Ig-like domains of the variable type. It is concluded that the successful evolutionary transition to the Metazoa, with the sponges as the oldest still extant phylum, and the subsequent rapid radiation into the other metazoan phyla, became possible because of the acquisition of modular molecules, involved in cell adhesion and the immune system.
4540185|Both the gradual rise in atmospheric oxygen over the Proterozoic Eon as well as episodic fluctuations in oxygen over several million-year time spans during the Phanerozoic Era, have arguably exerted strong selective forces on cellular and organismic respiratory specialization and evolution. The rise in atmospheric oxygen, some 2 billion years after the origin of life, dramatically altered cell biology and set the stage for the appearance of multicelluar life forms in the Vendian (Ediacaran) Period of the Neoproterozoic Era. Over much of the Paleozoic, the level of oxygen in the atmosphere was near the present atmospheric level (21%). In the Late Paleozoic, however, there were extended times during which the level of atmospheric oxygen was either markedly lower or markedly higher than 21%. That these Paleozoic shifts in atmospheric oxygen affected the biota is suggested by the correlations between: (1) Reduced oxygen and the occurrences of extinctions, a lowered biodiversity and shifts in phyletic succession, and (2) During hyperoxia, the corresponding occurrence of phenomena such as arthropod gigantism, the origin of insect flight, and the evolution of vertebrate terrestriality. Basic similarities in features of adaptation to hyopoxia, manifest in living organisms at levels ranging from genetic and cellular to physiological and behavioral, suggest the common and early origin of a suite of adaptive mechanisms responsive to fluctuations in ambient oxygen. Comparative integrative approaches addressing the molecular bases of phenotypic adjustments to cyclic oxygen fluctuation provide broad insight into the incremental steps leading to the early evolution of homeostatic respiratory mechanisms and to the specialization of organismic respiratory function.
4540157|Synopsis One demand placed exclusively on the musculoskeletal system of females is maintaining locomotor performance with an increasing load over the reproductive cycle. Here, we examine whether gravid (i.e., "pregnant") iguanas can increase their force and power production to support, stabilize, and accelerate the additional mass of a clutch of eggs. At any acceleration, gravid iguanas produced very high mechanical power (average total power = 673 w/kg; total peak power = 1175 w/kg). While the increase in total power was partly a result of greater propulsive power (average propulsive power = 25% higher, peak propulsive power = 38% higher), increased vertical power (roughly 200% increase) was the main contributor. Gravid iguanas were also able to increase peak forces (propulsive = 23%, mediolateral = 44%, vertical = 42%), and step duration (44%) resulting in greater impulses (i.e., the sum of force produced during a step) to accelerate, balance, and support their increased mass. The increase in step duration and smaller increase in peak propulsive force suggests that gravid iguanas may be force-limited in the direction of motion. We discuss how biomechanical constraints due to females' reproductive role may influence the evolution of the female musculoskeletal systems and contribute to the evolution and maintenance of ecological dimorphism in lizards.
3884776|It is widely recognized that humoral and phagocyte-associated lectins constitute critical components of innate immunity in vertebrates and invertebrates. Their functions include not only self/non-self recognition but also engaging associated effector mechanisms, such as complement-mediated opsonization and killing of potential pathogens. One of the unresolved questions concerns the diversity in recognition capacity of the lectin repertoire, particularly in those organisms lacking adaptive immunity. In this paper, we discuss evidence suggesting that lectin repertoire in invertebrates and protochordates is highly diversified, and includes most of the lectin classes described so far in vertebrate species, as well as associated effector pathways.
40405985|With progressively faster global change, shifts in phenology, and distributional ranges are reported for an increasing number of species. The success of organisms at coping with novel seasonal conditions depends on the mechanisms that determine their schedules. Species that rely on fixed schedules and those that time their activities by predictive cues may be particularly constrained in their ability to accommodate changes. The present study examines rigid scheduling and its implications for breeding in captivity in an avian model taxon, the Stonechat (Saxicola torquata). Within their extensive breeding range, Stonechats differ geographically in migratory behavior and reproduce and molt under a wide range of daylengths (10-17 h). Stonechats time their activities by programs that involve circannual rhythms and photoperiodism. The study reports reproductive timing of four taxa (central European, Irish, Siberian, and Kenyan), relates it to laydates in the field, and investigates modifying influences of housing conditions and of social context. Reproductive consequences of timing programs were then tested by crossbreeding of taxa with different schedules. The study revealed persistent, population-specific breeding windows in captivity. Resident Stonechats from equatorial Kenya synchronized their reproductive cycles with the European summer, presumably in response to local photoperiod, and bred at similar times as northern migrants. In all other taxa schedules matched those in the field, but were timed slightly earlier in captivity and advanced by indoor keeping conditions. Influences of social context were negligible. In pairs with clutches, testes regressed slightly later than in pairs without clutches, but presence of a mate per se had no influence on breeding cycles. Accordingly, crossbreeding Stonechats were predicted to have limited capacity to adjust schedules to those of their mates. This prediction was tested by crossbreeding of single-clutched Siberian long-distance migrants with multiple-clutched European short-distance migrants. Males and females of both taxa retained their characteristic breeding schedules, regardless of their mate's activities. This led to dramatic loss of reproductive success in the population with the longer breeding season, European Stonechats. Siberian Stonechats were unable to profit from the presence of a sexually active mate, but they suffered no disadvantage from crossbreeding. In a changing world, inherited timing programs may severely constrain responses to novel conditions, impose schedule-dependent, asymmetric costs of hybridization, and contribute to directional gene flow or to reproductive isolation.
3884586|Accelerations and directional changes of flying animals derive from interactions between aerodynamic force production and the inertial resistance of the body to translation and rotation. Anatomical and allometric features of body design thus mediate the rapidity of aerial maneuvers. Both translational and rotational responsiveness of the body to applied force decrease with increased total mass. For flying vertebrates, contributions of the relatively heavy wings to whole-body rotational inertia are substantial, whereas the relatively light wings of many insect taxa suggest that rotational inertia is dominated by the contributions of body segments. In some circumstances, inertial features of wing design may be as significant as are their aerodynamic properties in influencing the rapidity of body rotations. Stability in flight requires force and moment balances that are usually attained via bilateral symmetry in wingbeat kinematics, whereas body roll and yaw derive from bilaterally asymmetric movements of both axial and appendicular structures. In many flying vertebrates, use of the tail facilitates the generation of aerodynamic torques and substantially enhances quickness of body rotation. Geometrical constraints on wingbeat kinematics may limit total force production and thus accelerational capacity in certain behavioral circumstances. Unitary limits to animal flight performance and maneuverability are unlikely, however, given varied and context-specific interactions among anatomical, biomechanical, and energetic features of design.
3885019|Environmental stress and nutrient/productivity models predict the responses of community structure along gradients of physical conditions and bottom-up effects. Although both models have succeeded in helping to understand variation in ecological communities, most tests have been qualitative. Until recently, two roadblocks to more quantitative tests in marine environments have been a lack of (1) inexpensive, field-deployable technology for quantifying (e.g.) temperature, light, salinity, chlorophyll, and productivity, and (2) methods of quantifying the sub-organismal mechanisms linking environmental conditions to their ecological expression. The advent of inexpensive remote-sensing technology, adoption of molecular techniques such as quantification of heat-shock proteins and RNA:DNA ratios, and the formation of interdisciplinary alliances between ecologists and physiologists has begun to overcome these roadblocks. An integrated ecophysiological approach focuses on the determinants of: distributional limits among microhabitat patches and along (local-scale) environmental gradients (e.g., zonation); among-site (mesoscale) differences in community pattern; and geographic (macroscale) differences in ecosystem structure. These approaches promise new insights into the physiological mechanisms underlying variation in processes such as species interactions, physical disturbance, survival and growth. Here, we review two classes of models for community dynamics, and present examples of ecological studies of these models in consumer-prey systems. We illustrate the power of new molecular tools to characterize the sub-organismal responses of some of the same consumers and prey to thermal stress and food concentration. Ecological and physiological evidence tends to be consistent with model predictions, supporting our argument that we are poised to make major advances in the mechanistic understanding of community dynamics along key environmental gradients.
25160147|Recordings of naturally occurring Electromyographic (EMG) signals are variable. One of the first formal and successful attempts to quantify variation in EMG signals was Shaffer and Lauder's (1985) study examining several levels of variation but not within muscle. The goal of the current study was to quantify the variation that exists at different levels, using more detailed measures of EMG activity than did Shaffer and Lauder (1985). The importance of accounting for different levels of variation in an EMG study is both biological and statistical. Signal variation within the same muscle for a stereotyped action suggests that each recording represents a sample drawn from a pool of a large number of motor units that, while biologically functioning in an integrated fashion, showed statistical variation. Different levels of variation for different muscles could be related to different functions or different tasks of those muscles. The statistical impact of unaccounted or inappropriately analyzed variation can lead to false rejection (type I error) or false acceptance (type II error) of the null hypothesis. Type II errors occur because such variation will accrue to the error, reducing power, and producing an artificially low F-value. Type I errors are associated with pseudoreplication, in which the replicated units are not truly independent, thereby leading to inflated degrees of freedom, and an underestimate of the error mean square. To address these problems, we used a repeated measures, nested multifactor model to measure the relative contribution of different hierarchical levels of variation to the total variation in EMG signals during swallowing. We found that variation at all levels, among electrodes in the same muscle, in sequences of the same animal, and among individuals and between differently named muscles, was significant. These findings suggest that a single intramuscular electrode, recording from a limited sample of the motor units, cannot be relied upon to characterize the activity of an entire muscle. Furthermore, the use of both a repeated-measures model, to avoid pseudoreplication, and a nested model, to account for variation, is critical for a correct testing of biological hypotheses about differences in EMG signals.
3884599|Fishes represent an extremely diverse group of vertebrates with a deeply rooted evolutionary history. An understanding of their biology is being enriched by advancements in phylogenetic analysis and genomics, which are providing the framework for deciphering their evolutionary relationships and the molecular details that govern their evolution. Recent discoveries about the structure and function of fish genomes suggest the occurrence of large-scale genome level duplications within the stem lineage of the Actinopterygii (ray-finned fishes). However, little is understood about the effects, if any, of this event in relation to organismal complexity or species diversity. In this manuscript, I propose a hypothesis to test whether there is a likely relationship linking vertebrate genomes, organisms and species diversity. In so doing, I discuss the problems inherent in defining the complexity of genomes and organisms and provide simplifying assumptions that enable a preliminary test of the hypothesis. Results of this test suggest the likelihood of linkage between large-scale genome changes and organismal complexity early in vertebrate evolution but not in the evolution of the ray-finned fishes. A particularly interesting implication of the results is that there may be a limit to the effects of genome level duplications on organismal complexity and species diversity.
40306091|Bidirectional communication between the immune system and the brain is essential for mounting the appropriate immunological, physiological, and behavioral responses to immune activation. Aging, however, may impair this important bi-directional interaction. In support of this notion, peripheral infection in the elderly is associated with an increased frequency of behavioral and cognitive complications. Recent findings in animal models of aging and neurodegenerative disease indicate that microglia, innate immune cells of the brain, become primed or reactive. Understanding age-and disease-associated alterations in microglia is important because glia (microglia and astrocytes) play an integral role in propagating inflammatory signals that are initiated in the periphery. In this capacity, brain glia produce inflammatory cytokines that target neuronal substrates and elicit a sickness-behavior syndrome that is normally beneficial to the host organism. Increased reactivity of microglia sets the stage for an exaggerated neuroinflammatory cytokine response following activation of the peripheral innate immune system, which may underlie subsequent long-lasting behavioral and cognitive deficits. In support of this premise, recent findings indicate that stimulation of the peripheral immune system in aged rodents causes exaggerated neuroinflammation that is paralleled by cognitive impairment, prolonged sickness, and depressive-like complications. Therefore, the purpose of this review is to discuss the new evidence that age-associated priming of microglia could play a pathophysiological role in exaggerated behavioral and cognitive sequelae to peripheral infection.
40863369|The diversity of hydrozoan life cycles, as manifested in the wide range of polyp, colony, and medusa morphologies, has been appreciated for centuries. Unraveling the complex history of characters involved in this diversity is critical for understanding the processes driving hydrozoan evolution. In this study, we use a phylogenetic approach to investigate the evolution of morphological characters in Hydrozoa. A molecular phylogeny is reconstructed using ribosomal DNA sequence data. Several characters involving polyp, colony, and medusa morphology are coded in the terminal taxa. These characters are mapped onto the phylogeny and then the ancestral character states are reconstructed. This study confirms the complex evolutionary history of hydrozoan morphological characters. Many of the characters involving polyp, colony, and medusa morphology appear as synapomorphies for major hydrozoan clades, yet homoplasy is commonplace.
23016042|Synopsis Embryonic growth and development are impacted by environmental conditions. In avian systems, parents tightly control these environments through provisioning of nutrients to the egg and through incubation. Parents can influence embryonic development through egg size, eggshell conductance, hormones, or other substances deposited in eggs and through the onset and temperature of incubation. In addition to these parental influences, evidence suggests that avian embryos are able to perceive and actively respond to their environment during incubation and adjust their own development. Evolution of embryos' responses to developmental environments in birds can be understood in the context of parentoffspring conflicts. When parental investments favor future reproduction over current reproduction, current offspring pay fitness costs, which result in strong selection for offspring that can respond to developmental environments independent of their parents. Here, we review literature indicating that avian embryos actively respond to maternally derived components of the egg, vocalizations, and differences in day length, and we explore these responses in the context of three situations where the consequence of these environments to the fitnesses of offspring and parents differ: the degree of synchrony in hatching, the deposition of hormones in yolks, and seasonal timing of breeding. However, the adaptive significance of responses of embryos to developmental environments arising from parentoffspring conflict has not been adequately explored in birds.
23016037|Synopsis Most animals begin life in eggs, protected and constrained by a capsule, shell, or other barrier. As embryos develop, their needs and abilities change, altering the costs and benefits of encapsulation, and the risks and opportunities of the outside world. When the cost/benefit ratio is better outside the egg, animals should hatch. Adaptive timing of hatching evolves in this context. However, many environmental variables affect the optimal timing of hatching so there is often no consistent best time. Across a broad range of animals, from flatworms and snails to frogs and birds, embryos hatch at different times or at different developmental stages in response to changing risks or opportunities. Embryos respond to many types of cues, assessed via different sensory modalities. Some responses appear simple. Others are surprisingly complex and sophisticated. Parents also manipulate the timing of hatching. The number and breadth of examples of cued hatching suggest that, in the absence of specific information, we should not assume that hatching timing is fixed. Our challenge now is to integrate information on the timing of hatching across taxa to better understand the diversity of patterns and how they are structured in relation to different types of environmental and developmental variation. As starting points for comparative studies, I: (1) suggest a framework based on heterokairyindividual, plastic variation in the rate, timing, or sequence of developmental events and processesto describe patterns and mechanisms of variation in the timing of hatching; (2) briefly review the distribution of environmentally cued hatching across the three major clades of Bilateria, highlighting the diverse environmental factors and mechanisms involved; and (3) discuss factors that shape the diversity of plastic and fixed timing of hatching, drawing on evolutionary theory on phenotypic plasticity which directs our attention to fitness trade-offs, environmental heterogeneity, and predictive cues. Combining mechanistic and evolutionary perspectives is necessary because development changes organismal interactions with the environment. Integrative and comparative studies of the timing of hatching will improve our understanding of embryos as both evolving and developing organisms.
4485827|The ability to process in parallel multiple forms of sensory information, and link sensory-sensory associations to behavior, presumably allows for the opportunistic use of the most reliable and predictive sensory modalities in diverse behavioral contexts. Evolutionary considerations indicate that such processing may represent a fundamental operating principle underlying complex sensory associations and sensory-motor integration. Here, we suggest that animal navigation is a particularly useful model of such opportunistic use of sensory and motor information because it is possible to study directly the effects of memory on neural system functions. First, comparative evidence for parallel processing across multiple brain structures during navigation is provided from the literatures on fish and rodent navigation. Then, based on neurophysiological evidence of coordinated, multiregional processing, we provide a neurobiological explanation of learning and memory effects on neural circuitry mediating navigation.
4485845|Vertebrates and arthropods share the common problem of controlling a rigid, articulated skeleton using neurally-controlled, striated muscle. Since this condition has arisen independently in the two groups, there is no reason to assume, a priori, that the control mechanisms used by the two groups will be the same. Indeed, there appear to be fundamental differences in the tactics used by the two groups. Insects and crustaceans use small numbers of heterogeneous motoneurons, while vertebrates (mammals especially) use many, more homogeneous, motor axons. In particular, arthropods make extensive use of peripheral neuromodulation to alter the properties of both neuromuscular junctions and muscle fibers. There has been little consideration of the functional consequences of these differences. I suggest that, faced with a size constraint on the number of motor units available, arthropods use peripheral modulation of muscle properties to achieve the flexibility and dynamic range that vertebrates achieve through recruitment of motor units.
41319658|Neuronal networks are highly plastic and reconfigure in a state-dependent manner. The plasticity at the network level emerges through multiple intrinsic and synaptic membrane properties that imbue neurons and their interactions with numerous nonlinear properties. These properties are continuously regulated by neuromodulators and homeostatic mechanisms that are critical to maintain not only network stability and also adapt networks in a short-and long-term manner to changes in behavioral, developmental, metabolic, and environmental conditions. This review provides concrete examples from neuronal networks in invertebrates and vertebrates, and illustrates that the concepts and rules that govern neuronal networks and behaviors are universal.
40931232|In fishes the shape of the body and the swimming mode generally are correlated. Slender-bodied fishes such as eels, lampreys, and many sharks tend to swim in the anguilliform mode, in which much of the body undulates at high amplitude. Fishes with broad tails and a narrow caudal peduncle, in contrast, tend to swim in the carangiform mode, in which the tail undulates at high amplitude. Such fishes also tend to have different wake structures. Carangiform swimmers generally produce two staggered vortices per tail beat and a strong downstream jet, while anguilliform swimmers produce a more complex wake, containing at least two pairs of vortices per tail beat and relatively little downstream flow. Are these differences a result of the different swimming modes or of the different body shapes, or both? Disentangling the functional roles requires a multipronged approach, using experiments on live fishes as well as computational simulations and physical models. We present experimental results from swimming eels (anguilliform), bluegill sunfish (carangiform), and rainbow trout (subcarangiform) that demonstrate differences in the wakes and in swimming performance. The swimming of mackerel and lamprey was also simulated computationally with realistic body shapes and both swimming modes: the normal carangiform mackerel and anguilliform lamprey, then an anguilliform mackerel and carangiform lamprey. The gross structure of simulated wakes (single versus double vortex row) depended strongly on Strouhal number, while body shape influenced the complexity of the vortex row, and the swimming mode had the weakest effect. Performance was affected even by small differences in the wakes: both experimental and computational results indicate that anguilliform swimmers are more efficient at lower swimming speeds, while carangiform swimmers are more efficient at high speed. At high Reynolds number, the lamprey-shaped swimmer produced a more complex wake than the mackerel-shaped swimmer, similar to the experimental results. Finally, we show results from a simple physical model of a flapping fin, using fins of different flexural stiffness. When actuated in the same way, fins of different stiffnesses propel themselves at different speeds with different kinematics. Future experimental and computational work will need to consider the mechanisms underlying production of the anguilliform and carangiform swimming modes, because anguilliform swimmers tend to be less stiff, in general, than are carangiform swimmers.
4540140|By any standard, bats are a successful group of mammals and the evolution of flight and echolocation were certainly key innovations behind their success. That is only part of the story, however. Bats have diversified into trophic niches that range from insectivory to feeding on blood, fruit, or nectar. While flight places fundamental constraints on the shape of the postcranial skeleton, skull shape in bats is remarkably diverse. Morphological studies of individual families and sympatric assemblages demonstrate that variation in skull shape is clearly associated with trophic specialization. Field experiments demonstrate that species-specific biting behaviors during feeding are common and analyses indicate that the evolution of cranial morphology and feeding behavior are correlated. Modeling experiments further suggest that feeding (loading) behaviors and skull shape are functionally linked. If the skulls of bats are under selective pressure for minimal mass because of the energetic demands of flight, then they may be more "optimized" to meet mechanical demands than are the skulls of other mammals. This would make bats a unique model system for studying the evolution of diversity in skull shape and its functional implications for the evolution of feeding strategies in mammals.
25160116|Organisms in the aerosphere have been detected by radar since its development in the 1940s. The national network of Doppler weather radars (WSR-88D) in the United States can readily detect birds, bats, and insects aloft. Level-II data from the radar contain information on the reflectivity and radial velocity of targets and on width of the spectrum (SD of radial velocities in a radar pulse volume). Information on reflectivity can be used to quantify density of organisms aloft and radial velocity can be used to discriminate different types of targets based on their air speeds. Spectral width can also provide some useful information when organisms with very different air speeds are aloft. Recent work with dual-polarization radar suggests that it may be useful for discriminating birds from insects in the aerosphere, but more development and biological validation are required.
3884893| Reports that elasmobranchs (sharks, skates, and rays) may have a low incidence of disease have stimulated interest in understanding the role of their immune system in this apparent resistance. Although research in this area may potentially translate into applications for human health, a basic understanding of the elasmobranch immune system components and how they function is essential. As in higher vertebrates, elasmobranch fishes possess thymus and spleen, but in the absence of bone marrow and lymph nodes, these fish have evolved unique lymphomyeloid tissues, namely epigonal and Leydig organs. As conditions for short-term culture of elasmobranch immune cells have become better understood, the opportunity to examine functional activity of cytokine-like factors derived from conditioned culture medium has resulted in the identification of growth inhibitory activity against a variety of tumor cell lines. Specifically, the medium enriched by short term culture of bonnethead shark (Sphyrna tiburo) epigonal cells (epigonal conditioned medium, ECM) has been shown to inhibit the growth of mammalian tumor cell lines, including fibrosarcoma (WEHI-164), melanoma (A375.S2), B-cell lymphoma (Daudi), T-cell leukemia (Jurkat), pancreatic cancer (PANC-1), ovarian cancer (NIH:OVCAR-3), and three breast carcinoma cell lines (MCF7, HCC38, Hs578T). Of the cell lines tested, WEHI-164, A375.S2, Daudi, and Jurkat cells were among the most sensitive to growth inhibitory activity of ECM whereas PANC-1 and NIH:OVCAR-3 cells were among the least sensitive. In addition, ECM demonstrated preferential growth inhibition of malignant cells in assays against two different malignant/non-malignant cell line pairs (HCC38/HCC38 BL and Hs 578T/Hs 578Bst). Separation of protein components of ECM using SDS-PAGE resulted in a very reproducible pattern of three major bands corresponding to molecular sizes of approximately 40-42 kD, 24 kD, and 17 kD. Activity is lost after heating at 75C for 30 min, and can be diminished by treatment with proteinase K and protease. Activity is not affected by treating with trypsin, DNase I or RNase A. 
25160217|Like many reefs worldwide, reefs in French Polynesia are experiencing a shift from coral-dominated to algal-dominated systems. The macroalga Turbinaria ornata comprises the majority of the increasing algal biomass on the barrier reefs surrounding these islands, and its distribution is increasing throughout this region. Aspects of the ecomorphology of Turbinaria make it ideally suited to thrive under the physical conditions found across barrier reefs throughout French Polynesia. Spatial morphological variation allows Turbinaria to produce morphotypes that are suited either to the calm, unidirectional, slowly flowing water in the backreef or to the high-energy wave-driven flow of the forereef. Backreef plants are flexible and produce airbladders that make them buoyant, whereas forereef plants are not buoyant, but strong and stiff. Production of bladders and resulting buoyancy has been found to be a phenotypically plastic trait in response to movement of water and confers advantages to backreef plants and plays an important role in dispersal. Ontogenetic variation of buoyancy, material properties, and reproductive capacity is part of a dispersal strategy whereby fertile, buoyant fronds drift between oceanic islands and form new populations, thereby contributing to the recent expansion of range of T. ornata across French Polynesia.
3884897| The expansion of Africanized honeybees (AHB) through the Americas has been one of the most spectacular and best-studied invasions by a biotype. African and European honeybees (EHB) hybridize, but with time, tropical and subtropical American environments have become dominated by AHB that exhibit only 20-35% genetic contribution from western European bees, and a predominance of African behavioral and physiological traits. EHB persist in temperate environments. Clines between AHB and EHB exist in ecotones of South and Central America, and are forming in North America. What individual-level genetic, behavioral and physiological traits determine the relative success of the AHB as an invader in the neotropics, and of the EHB in temperate areas? Preference for pollen versus nectar may be an important trait mediating these ecological trade-offs, as preference for pollen enhances nutrient intake and brood production for the AHB in the tropics, while a relative preference for nectar enhances honey stores and winter survival for EHB. AHB exhibit morphological (higher thorax-to-body mass ratios) and physiological (higher thorax-specific metabolic rates) traits that may improve flight capacity, dispersal, mating success and foraging intake. Enhanced winter longevity, linked with higher hemolymph vitellogenin levels, may be a key factor improving winter survival of EHB. Data from South America and distributions of AHB in the southwestern United States suggest that AHB-EHB hybrids will extend 200 km north of regions with a January maximal temperatures of 15-16C. The formation of biotypic clines between AHB and EHB represents a unique opportunity to examine mechanisms responsible for the range limit of invaders. 
40863401|The ability to regenerate lost or damaged body parts is widespread among animals and provides obvious potential benefits. It is therefore perplexing that this ability has become greatly restricted or completely lost in many lineages. Despite growing interest in the cellular and molecular basis of regeneration, our understanding of how and why regenerative abilities are lost remains rudimentary. In an effort to develop a framework for studying losses of regeneration, here I outline an approach for rigorously identifying such losses, review broad patterns of regenerative ability across animals, describe some of the clearest examples of regeneration loss, discuss some possible scenarios by which regeneration may be lost, and review recent work in annelids that is providing new insights into loss of regenerative ability.
4540179|This brief review summarizes progress that has been made in the study of muscle fatigue since a review published 15 years ago (Enoka RM, Stuart DG. 1992. Neurobiology of muscle fatigue. J Appl Physiol 72:1631-48.). The present review first discusses progress on the four themes identified in the 1992 review and then describes a new approach that can be used to identify the functionally significant physiological adjustments that occur during fatiguing contractions. As described in the previous review, it is currently not possible to develop a comprehensive model of muscle fatigue because the prevailing mechanism that impairs performance varies with the characteristics of the task that is being performed. An alternative approach is to focus on the mechanisms that cause failure to complete the task. This task-failure approach involves comparing two performances and identifying the adjustments that limit the rate for the more difficult condition. With this approach, initial studies have demonstrated that the time to failure of a sustained contraction can be influenced by such variables as the type of load supported by the limb, the posture of the limb, and the group of muscles involved in the task. The challenge is to identify the mechanisms that enable these different variables influence the time to task failure.
25160157| There are surprisingly few experimental models of neural growth and cranial integration. This, and the dearth of information regarding fetal brain development, detracts from a mechanistic understanding of cranial integration and its relevance to the ontogenetic and interspecific patterning of the form of the skull. To address this shortcoming, our research uses transgenic mice expressing a stabilized form of -catenin to isolate the effects of encephalization on the development of the basi- and neuro-cranium. These mice develop highly enlarged brains due to an increase in neural precursor cells, and differences between transgenic and wild-type mice are predicted to result solely from variation in relative brain size. By focusing on prenatal growth, this project adds to our understanding of a critically important period when major structural and functional interrelationships are established in the skull. Comparisons of wild-type and transgenic mice were performed using microcomputed tomography (microCT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). These analyses show that the larger brains of the transgenic mice are associated with a larger neurocranium and an altered basicranial morphology. However, body size and postcranial ossification do not seem to be affected by the transgene. Comparisons of the rate of postcranial and cranial ossification also point to an unexpected effect of neural growth on skull development: increased fetal encephalization may result in a compensatory decrease in the level of cranial ossification. Therefore, if other life-history factors are held constant, the ontogeny of a metabolically costly structure, such as a brain, may occur at the expense of other cranial structures. These analyses indicate the benefits of a multifactorial approach to cranial integration using a mouse model. 
23016324|Synopsis Ancient lakes have provided considerable insights into the drivers of speciation and adaptive radiation in aquatic organisms. Most studies of species-flocks, however, focus only on a single group of organisms, and few have attempted to integrate geological, limnological, ecological, and genetic drivers of speciation on multiple species-flocks at various trophic levels. As such, there is a need for a comprehensive model system for research on speciation in aquatic environments where multiple radiations are investigated at various levels of biological organization (e.g., individual, population, and ecosystem) and placed in light of geographical and geological setting. The ancient Malili Lakes of Sulawesi, Indonesia, are ideal candidates for such a model, and represent the only hydrologically connected ancient lakes in the world. These lakes are characterized by ultra-oligotrophy and unique physicochemical conditions that govern the composition and production of planktonic communities. At higher trophic levels, there are three recurring trends: (1) low taxonomic richness and simple community structures, (2) adaptive radiations with trophic specialization, and (3) remarkably high endemism with evolutionary innovations throughout the lakes and species-flocks. Furthermore, the restricted geographic distributions of species-flocks within the Malili Lakes indicate that each lake constitutes a unique environment, and dispersal among lakes is limited, despite close contemporary connectivity. These observations suggest that ecological and evolutionary processes are regulated from the bottom up, and speciation is primarily facilitated by interspecific and intraspecific competition for limited resources. The Malili Lakes represent an outstanding natural model for integrative research into speciation as they offer the opportunity to explore the roles of geography, dispersal, and selection in the radiation of aquatic organisms.
4540201|Synopsis The goal of this review is to highlight what little is known, and point to the bulk of what is yet to be learned, about the natural history of placozoans in the field-in order to stimulate a broader search for placozoans and a fuller exploration of their distribution, diversity, and all other aspects of their enigmatic lives. The documented geographic distribution of placozoans lies mostly in the nearshore, warm, marine waters of the tropics and subtropics. Although placozoans have long been viewed as benthic organisms, they can be more readily collected from the water column, well above the sea bottom. The full life-history of placozoans is unknown, including the nature of this abundant pelagic phase and all details of sexual reproduction and development. We note observations on the biota associated with placozoans in field collections, in particular the other regular members of the microcommunity in which placozoans occur on our collecting plates and on some factors influencing this assemblage. Among the animals found are some potential predators against which placozoans appear to be defended, although the mechanisms are still to be examined. Also yet to be uncovered is the full breadth of diversity in this phylum, certainly underrepresented by its single named species. We report here greatly expanded distributions for known haplotypes and fresh specimens that include a new haplotype, and we review the evidence that many more almost certainly await discovery. We also describe some methods for collecting and handling these small, fragile animals.
4540186|Aerobic organisms maintain O<sub>2</sub> homeostasis by responding to changes in O<sub>2</sub> supply and demand in both short and long time domains. In this review, we introduce several specific examples of respiratory plasticity induced by chronic changes in O<sub>2</sub> supply (environmental hypoxia or hyperoxia) and demand (exercise-induced and temperature-induced changes in aerobic metabolism). These studies reveal that plasticity occurs throughout the respiratory system, including modifications to the gas exchanger, respiratory pigments, respiratory muscles, and the neural control systems responsible for ventilating the gas exchanger. While some of these responses appear appropriate (e.g., increases in lung surface area, blood O<sub>2</sub> capacity, and pulmonary ventilation in hypoxia), other responses are potentially harmful (e.g., increased muscle fatigability). Thus, it may be difficult to predict whole-animal performance based on the plasticity of a single system. Moreover, plastic responses may differ quantitatively and qualitatively at different developmental stages. Much of the current research in this field is focused on identifying the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying respiratory plasticity. These studies suggest that a few key molecules, such as hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) and erythropoietin, may be involved in the expression of diverse forms of plasticity within and across species. Studying the various ways in which animals respond to respiratory challenges will enable a better understanding of the integrative response to chronic changes in O<sub>2</sub> supply and demand.
3884689|Cytoplasmic incompatibility (CI) induced by intracellular bacteria is a possible mechanism for speciation. Growing empirical evidence suggests that bacteria of the group Wolbachia may indeed act as isolating factors in recent insect speciation. Wolbachia are cytoplasmically transmitted and can cause unior bidirectional CI. We present a mainland-island model to investigate how much impact Wolbachia can have on genetic divergence between populations. In the first scenario we assume that the island population has diverged at a selected locus and ask whether genetic divergence will be maintained after introduction of migration from the mainland. In the second we explore whether divergence will originate under migration. For simplicity, the host organisms are modeled as haploid sexuals. Simulations show that if each population is initially infected with a different strain of Wolbachia, then higher levels of divergence occur at the locally selected locus than in the absence of Wolbachia. A weaker effect is seen when there is only unidirectional CI caused by a single strain of Wolbachia on the island. CI increases divergence because it reduces effective migration between mainland and island. Migrants suffer from being confronted with the wrong CI system and this also applies to their matrilineal descendants. Moreover, there is a strong linkage disequilibrium between host genotype and infection state, which helps to maintain Wolbachia differences between the populations in the face of migration A sex bias in migration can either increase or decrease the effect of Wolbachia on divergence. Results support the view that Wolbachia has the potential for increasing divergence between populations and thus could enhance probabilities of speciation.
3884778|The antigen receptors on cells of innate immune systems recognize broadly expressed markers on non-host cells while the receptors on lymphocytes of the adaptive immune system display a higher level of specificity. Adaptive immunity, with its exquisite specificity and immunological memory, has only been found in the jawed vertebrates, which also display innate immunity. Jawless fishes and invertebrates only have innate immunity. In the adaptive immune response, T and B-lymphocytes detect foreign agents or antigens using T cell receptors (TCR) or immunoglobulins (Ig), respectively. While Ig can bind free intact antigens, TCR only binds processed antigenic fragments that are presented on molecules encoded in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). MHC molecules display variation through allelic polymorphism. A diverse repertoire of Ig and TCR molecules is generated by gene rearrangement and junctional diversity, processes carried out by the recombinase activating gene (RAG) products and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT). Thus, the molecules that define adaptive immunity are TCR, Ig, MHC molecules, RAG products and TdT. No direct predecessors of these molecules have been found in the jawless fishes or invertebrates. In contrast, the complement cascade can be activated by either adaptive or innate immune systems and contains examples of molecules that gradually evolved from non-immune functions to being part of the innate and then adaptive immune system. In this paper we examine the molecules of the adaptive immune system and speculate on the existence of direct predecessors that were part of innate immunity.
4485770|Over the past thirty years, a global occurrence of sexual aberration has occurred whereby females among populations of prosobranch snails exhibit male sex characteristics. This condition, called imposex, has been causally associated with exposure to the biocide tributyltin. Tributyltin-exposed, imposex snails typically have elevated levels of testosterone which have led to the postulate that this endocrine dysfunction is responsible for imposex. This overview describes recent evidence that supports this postulate. Gastropods maintain circulating testosterone levels and administration of testosterone to females or castrates stimulates male sex differentiation in several snail species. Studies in the mud snail (Ilyanassa obsoleta) have shown that gastropods utilize a unique strategy for regulating free testosterone levels. Excess testosterone is converted to fatty acid esters by the action of a testosterone-inducible, high capacity/low affinity enzyme, acyl-CoA:testosterone acyl transferase, and stored within the organisms. Free testosterone levels are regulated during the reproductive cycle apparently due to changes in esterification/desterification suggesting that testosterone functions in the reproductive cycle of the organisms. Testosterone esterification provides a unique target in the testosterone regulatory machinery of snails that is altered by tributyltin. Indeed, imposex and free testosterone levels were elevated in field collected snails containing high tin levels, while testosterone-fatty acid ester pools were reduced in these organisms. These observations indicate that tributyltin elevates free testosterone by reducing the retention of testosterone as fatty acid-esters. This endocrine effect of tributyltin may be responsible for imposex.
4485840|An in-depth understanding of the biology of animals will require the generation of genomics resources from organisms from all phyla in the metazoan phylogenetic tree. Such resources will ideally include complete genome sequences and comprehensive EST (expressed sequence tag) datasets for each species of interest. Of particular interest in this regard are animals in the early diverging non-bilaterian phyla Porifera, Placozoa, Cnidaria, and Ctenophora. Publications describing the results from the use of genomics approaches in these phyla have only recently begun to appear (Kortschak et al., 2003; Yang et al., 2003; Steele et al., 2004). Issues to be considered here include choosing the basal metazoan species to examine with genomics approaches, the relative advantages and disadvantages of genome sequencing versus EST projects, and the resources and infrastructure required to carry out such projects successfully.
3884686|All animals, including humans, are adapted to life in a microbial world. Anaerobic habitats have existed continuously throughout the history of the earth, the gastrointestinal tract being a contemporary microniche. Since microorganisms colonize and grow rapidly under the favorable conditions in the gut they could compete for nutrients with the host. This microbial challenge has modified the course of evolution in animals, resulting in selection of complex animal-microbe relationships that vary tremendously, ranging from competition to cooperation. The ecological and evolutionary interactions between herbivorous dinosaurs and the first mammalian herbivores and their food plants are reconstructed using knowledge gained during the study of modern living vertebrates, especially foregut and hindgut fermenting mammals. The ruminant is well adapted to achieve maximal digestion of roughage using the physiological mechanism at the reticulo-omasal orifice which selectively retains large particles in the reticulo-rumen. However, the most obvious feature of all ruminants is the regurgitation, rechewing and reswallowing of foregut digesta termed rumination. Foregut fermenting mammals also share interesting and unique features in two enzymes, stomach lysozyme and pancreatic ribonuclease which accompany and are adaptations to this mode of digestion. The microbial community inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract is represented by all major groups of microbes (bacteria, archaea, ciliate protozoa, anaerobic fungi and bacteriophage) and characterized by its high population density, wide diversity and complexity of interactions. The development and application of molecular ecology techniques promises to link distribution and identity of gastrointestinal microbes in their natural environment with their genetic potential and in situ activities.
4540189|The sensing of blood gas tensions and/or pH is an evolutionarily conserved, homeostatic mechanism, observable in almost all species studied from invertebrates to man. In vertebrates, a shift from the peripheral <tex-math>$O_2-oriented$</tex-math> sensing in fish, to the central <tex-math>$CO_2/pH$</tex-math> sensing in most tetrapods reflects the specific behavioral requirements of these two groups whereby, in teleost fish, a highly <tex-math>$O_2-oriented$</tex-math> control of breathing matches the ever-changing and low oxygen levels in water, whilst the transition to air-breathing increased the importance of acid-base regulation and <tex-math>$O_2-related$</tex-math> drive, although retained, became relatively less important. The South American lungfish and tetrapods are probably sister groups, a conclusion backed up by many similar features of respiratory control. For example, the relative roles of peripheral and central chemoreceptors are present both in the lungfish and in land vertebrates. In both groups, the central <tex-math>$CO_2/pH$</tex-math> receptors dominate the ventilatory response to hypercarbia (60-80%), while the peripheral <tex-math>$CO_2/pH$</tex-math> receptors account for 20-30%. Some basic components of respiratory control have changed little during evolution. This review presents studies that reflect the current trends in the field of chemoreceptor function, and several laboratories are involved. An exhaustive review on the previous literature, however, is beyond the intended scope of the article. Rather, we present examples of current trends in respiratory function in vertebrates, ranging from fish to humans, and focus on both O<sub>2</sub> sensing and CO<sub>2</sub> sensing. As well, we consider the impact of chronic levels of hypoxia-a physiological condition in fish and in land vertebrates resident at high elevations or suffering from one of the many cardiorespiratory disease states that predispose an animal to impaired ventilation or cardiac output. This provides a basis for a comparative physiology that is informative about the evolution of respiratory functions in vertebrates and about human disease. Currently, most detail is known for mammals, for which molecular biology and respiratory physiology have combined in the discovery of the mechanisms underlying the responses of respiratory chemoreceptors. Our review includes new data on nonmammalian vertebrates, which stresses that some chemoreceptor sites are of ancient origin.
40793145|Many ecosystems are created by the presence of ecosystem engineers that play an important role in determining species' abundance and species composition. Additionally, a mosaic environment of engineered and non-engineered habitats has been shown to increase biodiversity. Non-native ecosystem engineers can be introduced into environments that do not contain or have lost species that form biogenic habitat, resulting in dramatic impacts upon native communities. Yet, little is known about how non-native ecosystem engineers interact with natives and other non-natives already present in the environment, specifically whether non-native ecosystem engineers facilitate other non-natives, and whether they increase habitat heterogeneity and alter the diversity, abundance, and distribution of benthic species. Through sampling and experimental removal of reefs, we examine the effects of a non-native reef-building tubeworm, Ficopomatus enigmaticus, on community composition in the central Californian estuary, Elkhorn Slough. Tubeworm reefs host significantly greater abundances of many non-native polychaetes and amphipods, particularly the amphipods Monocorophium insidiosum and Melita nitida, compared to nearby mudflats. Infaunal assemblages under F. enigmaticus reefs and around reefs edges show very low abundance and taxonomie diversity. Once reefs are removed, the newly exposed mudflat is colonized by opportunistic non-native species, such as M. insidiosum and the polychaete Streblospio henedicti, making removal of reefs a questionable strategy for control. These results show that provision of habitat by a non-native ecosystem engineer may be a mechanism for invasional meltdown in Elkhorn Slough, and that reefs increase spatial heterogeneity in the abundance and composition of benthic communities.
40863363|The Brazilian free-tailed bat (Tadarida brasiliensis) experiences challenging thermal conditions while roosting in hot caves, flying during warm daylight conditions, and foraging at cool high altitudes. Using thermal infrared cameras, we identified hot spots along the flanks of free-ranging Brazilian free-tailed bats, ventral to the extended wings. These hot spots are absent in syntopic cave myotis (Myotis velifer), a species that forages over relatively short distances, and does not engage in long-distance migration. We hypothesized that the hot spots, or "radiators," on Brazilian free-tailed bats may be adaptations for migration, particularly in this long-distance, high-flying species. We examined the vasculature of radiators on Brazilian free-tailed bats with transillumination to characterize the unique arrangements of arteries and veins that are positioned perpendicular to the body in the proximal region of the wing. We hypothesized that these radiators aid in maintaining heat balance by flushing the uninsulated thermal window with warm blood, thereby dissipating heat while bats are flying under warm conditions, but shunting blood away and conserving heat when they are flying in cooler air at high altitudes. We also examined fluid-preserved specimens representing 122 species from 15 of 18 chiropteran families and radiators appeared present only in species in the family Molossidae, including both sedentary and migratory species and subspecies. Thus, the radiator appears to be a unique trait that may facilitate energy balance and water balance during sustained dispersal, foraging, and long-distance migration.
41319671|Aerodynamic studies using physical models of fossil organisms can provide quantitative information about how performance of defined activities, such as gliding, depends on specific morphological features. Such analyses allow us to rule out hypotheses about the function of extinct organisms that are not physically plausible and to determine if and how specific morphological features and postures affect performance. The purpose of this article is to provide a practical guide for the design of dynamically scaled physical models to study the gliding of extinct animals using examples from our research on the theropod dinosaur, Microraptor gut, which had flight feathers on its hind limbs as well as on its forelimbs. Analysis of the aerodynamics of M. gui can shed light on the design of gliders with large surfaces posterior to the center of mass and provide functional information to evolutionary biologists trying to unravel the origins of flight in the dinosaurian ancestors and sister groups to birds. Measurements of lift, drag, side force, and moments in pitch, roll, and yaw on models in a wind tunnel can be used to calculate indices of gliding and parachuting performance, aerodynamic static stability, and control effectiveness in maneuvering. These indices permit the aerodynamic performance of bodies of different shape, size, stiffness, texture, and posture to be compared and thus can provide insights about the design of gliders, both biological and man-made. Our measurements of maximum lift-to-drag ratios of 2.5-3.1 for physical models of M. gui suggest that its gliding performance was similar to that of flying squirrels and that the various leg postures that might have been used by M. gui make little difference to that aspect of aerodynamic performance. We found that body orientation relative to the movement of air past the animal determines whether it is difficult or easy to maneuver.
3884819| The crystallins comprise 80-90% of the water-soluble proteins of the transparent, cellular, refractive eye lens and are responsible for its optical properties. Comparative studies have established that the crystallins are surprisingly diverse and often differ among species in a taxon-specific fashion. In general, the crystallins are derived from or identical to metabolic enzymes or stress (small heat shock) proteins that are expressed to a lesser extent in other tissues where they have non-refractive roles. We call the phenomenon of having the small heat shock protein or enzyme and lens crystallin encoded in the identical gene "gene sharing"; examples include small heat shock protein/B-crystallin, -enolase/-crystallin and argininosuccinate lyase/2-crystallin. Lens crystallins have evolved by gene sharing in vertebrates (all) and invertebrates (cephalopods, scallops, jellyfish). Similar cis-elements and transcription factors (including Pax6 among others) appear to unify lens expression of crystallin genes in vertebrates and mollusks (especially scallops). Instead of Pax6, cnidarians have a PaxB gene encoding a Pax2 DNA-binding paired domain and octapeptide, and a Pax6 homeodomain; PaxB appears important for ocellus (eye) development and crystallin gene expression in the cubomedusan jellyfish, Tridpedalia cystophora. Finally, we speculate on the basis of our current studies on Tripedalia that eyes and statocysts (associated with mechanoreceptors in many cnidarians and thus possibly ears in vertebrates) are evolutionarily related. Numerous examples indicate that gene sharing is widely used, consistent with changes in gene regulation being an evolutionary driving force for innovation of protein function. 
4540193|This review summarizes recent highlights of our joint work on the structure, evolution, and function of a family of highly complex proteins, the hemocyanins. They are blue-pigmented oxygen carriers, occurring freely dissolved in the hemolymph of many arthropods and molluscs. They are copper type-3 proteins and bind one dioxygen molecule between two copper atoms in a side-on coordination. They possess between 6 and 160 oxygen-binding sites, and some of them display the highest molecular cooperativity observed in nature. The functional properties of hemocyanins can be convincingly described by either the Monod-Wyman-Changeux (MWC) model or its hierarchical extension, the Nested MWC model; the latter takes into account the structural hierarchies in the oligomeric architecture. Recently, we applied these models to interpret the influence of allosteric effectors in detailed terms. Effectors shift the allosteric equilibria but have no influence on the oxygen affinities characterizing the various conformational states. We have shown that hemocyanins from species living at different environmental temperatures have a cooperativity optimum at the typical temperature of their natural habitat. Besides being oxygen carriers, some hemocyanins function as a phenoloxidase (tyrosinase/catecholoxidase) which, however, requires activation. Chelicerates such as spiders and scorpions lack a specific phenoloxidase, and in these animals activated hemocyanin might catalyse melanin synthesis in vivo. We propose a similar activation mechanism for arthropod hemocyanins, molluscan hemocyanins and tyrosinases: amino acid(s) that sterically block the access of phenolic compounds to the active site have to be removed. The catalysis mechanism itself can now be explained on the basis of the recently published crystal structure of a tyrosinase. In a series of recent publications, we presented the complete gene and primary structure of various hemocyanins from different molluscan classes. From these data, we deduced that the molluscan hemocyanin molecule evolved ca. 740 million years ago, prior to the separation of the extant molluscan classes. Our recent advances in the 3D cryoelectron microscopy of hemocyanins also allow considerable insight into the oligomeric architecture of these proteins of high molecular mass. In the case of molluscan hemocyanin, the structure of the wall and collar of the basic decamers is now rapidly becoming known in greater detail. In the case of arthropod hemocyanin, a 10- structure and molecular model of the Limulus 8 x 6mer shows the amino acids at the various interfaces between the eight hexamers, and reveals histidine-rich residue clusters that might be involved in transferring the conformational signals establishing cooperative oxygen binding.
3884861|Metamorphosis in marine invertebrate larvae is a dynamic, environmentally dependent process that integrates ontogeny with habitat selection. The capacity of many marine invertebrate larvae to survive and maintain metamorphic competence in the absence of environmental cues has been hypothesized to be an adaptive convergence (Hadfield and others 2001). A survey of the literature reveals that a single generalized hypothesis about metamorphic competence as an adaptive convergence is not sufficient to account for interspecific variation in this character. In an attempt to capture this variation, we discuss the "desperate larva hypothesis" and propose two additional hypotheses called the "variable retention hypothesis" and the "death before dishonor hypothesis." To validate these additional hypotheses we collected data on taxa from the published literature and performed a contingency analysis to detect correlations between spontaneous metamorphosis, habitat specificity and/or larval life-history mode, three characters relevant to environmentally induced settlement and metamorphosis. In order to account for phylogenetic bias in these correlations, we also constructed a phylogeny of these taxa and again performed a character-correlation analysis. Both these tests suggest that juvenile habitat specificity is correlated to the capacity of individuals to retain the competent larval state in the absence of substrate cues and therefore validate the existence of more than one hypothesis about metamorphic competence. We provide new data from the sea urchin Lytechinus pictus that suggest that nitric oxide (NO) and thyroxine hormone signaling interact to determine the probability of settlement in response to a settlement cue. Similarly, we provide evidence that thyroxine signaling in the sand dollar Dendraster excentricus increases spontaneous metamorphosis in the absence of cues from adult conspecifics in a manner that is independent of larval age.
4540141|The fossil record of the order Carnivora extends back at least 60 million years and documents a remarkable history of adaptive radiation characterized by the repeated, independent evolution of similar feeding morphologies in distinct clades. Within the order, convergence is apparent in the iterative appearance of a variety of ecomorphs, including cat-like, hyena-like, and wolf-like hypercarnivores, as well as a variety of less carnivorous forms, such as foxes, raccoons, and ursids. The iteration of similar forms has multiple causes. First, there are a limited number of ways to ecologically partition the carnivore niche, and second, the material properties of animal tissues (muscle, skin, bone) have not changed over the Cenozoic. Consequently, similar craniodental adaptations for feeding on different proportions of animal versus plant tissues evolve repeatedly. The extent of convergence in craniodental form can be striking, affecting skull proportions and overall shape, as well as dental morphology. The tendency to evolve highly convergent ecomorphs is most apparent among feeding extremes, such as sabertooths and bone-crackers where performance requirements tend to be more acute. A survey of the fossil record indicates that large hypercarnivores evolve frequently, often in response to ecological opportunity afforded by the decline or extinction of previously dominant hypercarnivorous taxa. While the evolution of large size and carnivory may be favored at the individual level, it can lead to a macroevolutionary ratchet, wherein dietary specialization and reduced population densities result in a greater vulnerability to extinction. As a result of these opposing forces, the fossil record of Carnivora is dominated by successive clades of hypercarnivores that diversify and decline, only to be replaced by new hypercarnivorous clades. This has produced a marvelous set of natural experiments in the evolution of similar ecomorphs, each of which start from phylogenetically and morphologically unique positions.
23016069|Synopsis Kinematic analyses of mandibular movement in humans demonstrate that the mandibular instantaneous center of rotation (ICoR) is commonly located near the level of the occlusal plane and varies in its position during a chewing sequence. Few data are available regarding the location of the ICoR in nonhuman primates and it remains unclear how the position of the ICoR varies in association with mastication and/or gape behaviors. ICoR was quantified throughout the gape cycle in five species of nonhuman primates (Macaca mulatta, Cebus apella, Chlorocebus aethiops, Eulemur fulvus, and Varecia variegata). The ICoR is commonly located below the mandibular condyle close to the occlusal plane and varies considerably both superoinferiorly and anteroposteriorly through the gape cycle. The path of the ICoR, and by inference condylar movement, in Macaca and Chlorocebus differs from humans whereas movement in Cebus resembles that of humans. Similarities between humans and Cebus in articular eminence and occlusal morphology may explain these resemblances. Food material properties had little influence on ICoR movement parameters.
4485863|The loss of water from cells is a stress that was likely imposed very early in evolution. An understanding of the sensitivity or tolerance of cells to depletion of intracellular water is relevant to the study of quiescence, longevity and aging, because one consequence of air-drying is full metabolic arrest, sometimes for extended periods. When considering the adaptation of cells to physiological extremes of pH, temperature or pressure, it is generally assumed that evolution is driven toward optimum function rather than maximum stability. However, adaptation to desiccation has the singular and crucial distinction that dried cells do not grow, and the time the cell is dried may represent the greater part of the life (the time the cell remains viable) of that cell and its component macromolecules. Is a consideration of "function" relevant in the context of desiccated cells? The response of prokaryotic cells to desiccation, and the mechanisms they employ to tolerate this stress at the level of the cell, genome and proteome are considered. Fundamental principles were then implemented in the design of strategies to achieve air-dry stabilization of sensitive eukaryotic (human) cells. The responses of the transcriptomes and proteomes of prokaryotic cells and eukaryotic cells (yeast and human) to drying in air are compared and contrasted to achieve an evolutionary context. The concept of the "desiccome" is developed to question whether there is common set of structural, physiological and molecular mechanisms that constitute desiccation tolerance.
3884912|Because of anthropogenic increases in atmospheric CO
4485869|Bateman's principle states that reproductive success is limited a) in females by the resources available for egg production; and b) in males, only by access to females and/or eggs. The principle has been used to generate predictions for two aspects of hermaphroditism; a) the advantage of hermaphroditism and b) sexual conflict. Comparing these predictions to the empirical data offers tests of Bateman's principle. Charnov's prediction that hermaphroditism would occur under circumstances where Bateman's principle does not apply is found to be largely correct. However, the prediction as to the association of hermaphroditism and low fixed costs is inconsistent with the data. Alternative explanations that predict that hermaphroditism is a strategy for reducing variance in reproductive success may better explain the data. Probability theory demonstrates that where two strategies have equal mean fitness, which must be the case for male and female function, the strategy with the lower variance in reproductive success must have higher fitness (Gillespie's principle). Bateman's principle predicts that this will be the female role in hermaphrodites. However, Charnov, assuming Bateman's principle, predicted that sexual conflict stemming from a preference for the male role would be important in hermaphrodite mating systems, creating a paradox. Many hermaphrodite mating systems are based on conditional reciprocity with a preferred sexual role indicating sexual conflict. The data demonstrate that the preferred role varies among taxa, contrary to the predictions of Bateman's principle. It has been suggested that Bateman's principle can explain cases in which the female role is preferred (sperm-trading) as involving energy rather than gamete trading. However, energetic considerations suggest that energy trading would only be adaptive if Bateman's principle does not apply, paradoxically. The gamete trading model, based on the prediction that the role that offers control of fertilization will be preferred, is more consistent with the data. Application of Bateman's principle to hermaphrodites leads to contradictory predictions and does not offer the basis for a coherent theory of sexual selection, as Bateman proposed.
3884993|Many aspects of physiological and organismal performance vary with some continuous environmental variable: e.g., photosynthetic rate as a function of light intensity; growth rate or sprint speed as a function of temperature. For such 'performance curves', the environment plays two roles: it affects both the levels of performance expressed, and the relationship between performance and fitness. How does environmental variation within a generation determine natural selection on performance curves? We describe an approach to this question that has three components. First, we quantify natural environmental variation and assess its impact on performance in the field. Second, we develop a simple theoretical model that predicts how fine-grained environmental variation determines selection on performance curves. Third, we describe how directional selection on performance curves may be estimated and compared to theoretical predictions. We illustrate these steps using data on performance curves of short-term growth rate as a function of temperature (thermal performance curves) in Pieris caterpillars. We use this approach to explore whether selection acts primarily on growth rate at specific temperatures, or on more integrated aspects of growth.
3884691|Fungal endophytes are extremely common and highly diverse microorganisms that live within plant tissues, but usually remain asymptomatic. Endophytes traditionally have been considered plant mutualists, mainly by reducing herbivory via production of mycotoxins, such as alkaloids. However, the vast majority of endophytes, especially horizontally-transmitted ones commonly found in woody plants, apparently have little or no effect on herbivores. For the systemic, vertically-transmitted endophytes of grasses, mutualistic interactions via increased resistance to herbivores and pathogens are more common, as predicted by evolutionary theory. However, even in these obligate symbioses, endophytes are often neutral or even pathogenic to the host grass, depending on endophyte and plant genotype and environmental conditions. We present a graphical model based upon variation in nitrogen flux in the host plant. Nitrogen is a common currency in endophyte/host and plant/herbivore interactions in terms of limitations to host plant growth, enhanced uptake by endophytes, demand for synthesis of nitrogen-rich alkaloids, and herbivore preference and performance. Our graphical model predicts that low alkaloid-producing endophytes should persist in populations when soil nutrients and herbivory are low. Alternatively, high alkaloid endophytes are favored under increasing herbivory and increasing soil nitrogen, at least to some point. At very high soil nitrogen levels, uninfected plants may be favored over either type of infected plants. These predictions are supported by patterns of infection and alkaloid production in nature, as well by a manipulative field experiment. However, plant genotype and other environmental factors, such as available water, interact with the presence of the endophyte to influence host plant performance.
23016066|Synopsis In the masticatory system, activities of muscles are the main source of force. The daily activity of the jaw muscle is a measure of the total daily loading of the tissues involved. This article gives an overview on the recent assessments of the physiology and ontogeny of the daily use of the jaw muscles. Variations in the characteristics of daily activity could be linked to differences in the types of fibers composing the muscles as well as to the properties of the underlying bone, although these relationships are not absolute. Experimental decrease of the hardness of foods eaten by rats and rabbits showed a significant decrease in the number of daily bursts of feeding. These reductions in daily muscular activity were accompanied by higher mineralization of bone and by a transition toward "faster" fiber types in the muscles. It was revealed in rabbits that the characteristics of the daily activities of muscles (total duration of activity, number and lengths of bursts) were not altered during the transition from suckling to chewing and remained largely unaffected during further postnatal development. These results suggest that, despite large anatomical and functional changes, the average daily load on the jaw muscles by the masticatory system appears to be established before chewing develops and remains largely unchanged all the way through development. Whenever the daily muscular activity changes, this seems to have a significant effect on the properties of the tissues involved.
25160204| The morphology of the vertebrate head is extremely complex and comprises numerous iterative structures that arise from each of the embryonic germ layers. The search for a fundamental plan uniting all of these serial structures spans 200 years. The earliest attempt to identify a common plan was J. W. Goethe's vertebral theory of skull organization, in which the skull was interpreted as being formed by a series of trunk vertebrae. This theory was rejected by T. H. Huxley in the 1858 Croonian Lecture and was replaced by the segmented mesodermal model of Francis Balfour, which was elaborated subsequently by A. Marshall, Gavin de Beer, and Edwin Goodrich. This model assumes that the head of the earliest vertebrates consisted of eight segments. It further assumes that each segment contained dorsal muscles arising from the somitic mesoderm, and ventral muscles arising from lateral plate mesoderm, except for the first segment, which lacked ventral muscles derived from the lateral plate mesoderm. The muscles of each head segment were believed to be innervated by two pairs of cranial nerves, homologous to the dorsal and ventral spinal nerves of lampreys. The validity of this theory, known as the Goodrich model, came into question, however, after the discovery that the branchiomeric muscles associated with each pharyngeal arch do not arise from lateral plate mesoderm, as initially proposed by Marshall and subsequently accepted by Goodrich and de Beer, but, rather, arise from paraxial mesoderm. Furthermore, segmentation of the brain into some 14 neuromeres cannot be accommodated by any model involving eight segments. Finally, there is also clear evidence that at least one, if not two, additional series of placodally derived sensory nerves occurs in the head and has no counterpart in the trunk. At present, there is no theory of segmentation that can account for all cephalic iterative structures. 
4485814| Artificial selection experiments are potentially powerful, yet under-utilized tool of evolutionary and physiological ecology. Here we analyze and review three important aspects of such experiments. First, we consider the effects of instrumental measurement errors and random fluctuations of body mass on the total phenotypic variation. We illustrate this with the analysis of measurements of oxygen consumption in an open-flow respirometry set-ups. We conclude that measurement errors and fluctuations of body mass are likely to reduce the repeatability of oxygen consumption by about one third. Using published estimates of repeatability of metabolic rates we also showed that it does not tend to decline with increasing time between measurements. Second, we review data on narrow sense heritability (h) of metabolic rates in mammals. The results are equivocal: many studies report very low (0.1) h, whereas some recent studies (including our own estimates of h in laboratory mice, obtained by means of parent-offspring regression) report significant h0.4. Finally, we discuss consequences of the lack of replicated lines in artificial selection experiments. We focus on the confounding effect of genetic drift on statistical inferences related to primary (selected) and secondary (correlated) traits, in the absence of replications. We review literature data and analyze them following the guidelines formulated by Henderson (1989, 1997). We conclude that most results obtained in unreplicated experiments are probably robust enough to ascribe them to the effect of selection, rather than genetic drift. However, Henderson's guidelines by no means should be treated as a legitimate substitute of the analysis of variance, based on replicated lines. 
3884718|The study of fireflies makes an ideal subject for introducing students of all ages to the world of science, conservation biology, field studies and the importance of observation and understanding connections in the natural world. The synchronous fireflies, Photinus carolinus of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park's Elkmont Historic District can be used as a basis for classroom and field activities in subjects as diverse as conservation biology, economics, geography, ecology, governmental policy, zoology, history, taxonomy and animal behavior. Having been fascinated with the synchronous fireflies for over two decades, I will use the life cycle of the Elkmont Phontinus carolinus found in the Great Smokt Mountains National Park as an example.
3884812|The hunchback (hb) gene is a member of the gap class of segmentation genes first identified in the dipteran insect Drosophila melanogastor. The hb gene encodes a C
4485864|The Center for Biostabilization at UC Davis is attempting to stabilize mammalian cells in the dry state. We review here some of the lessons from nature that we have been applying to this enterprise, including the use of trehalose, a disaccharide found at high concentrations in many anhydrobiotic organisms, to stabilize biological structures, both in vitro and in vivo. Trehalose has useful properties for this purpose and in at least in one case-human blood platelets-introducing this sugar may be sufficient to achieve useful stabilization. Nucleated cells, however, are stabilized by trehalose only during the initial stages of dehydration. Introduction of a stress protein obtained from an anhydrobiotic organism, Artemia, improves the stability markedly, both during the dehydration event and following rehydration. Thus, it appears that the stabilization will require multiple adaptations, many of which we propose to apply from studies on anhydrobiosis.
4485764|Aquatic pollution has led to the accumulation of various xenobiotics in crustaceans. A number of these environmental chemicals have been found to interfere with molting of crustaceans. Results of initial mechanistic studies with Uca pugilator suggest that the disruption of molting results from the disturbance to the Y-organ-ecdysteroid receptor (EcR) axis by xenobiotics. Such disturbance to the Y-organ-EcR axis can be caused by interference with epidermal ecdysteroid signaling and/or alterations in ecdysteroidogenesis and/or ecdysteroid disposition. Because the adverse impacts on crustacean molting cannot be readily seen in the wild, the disruption of molting represents an invisible form of endocrine disruption.
3884952|The majority of ectotherms grow slower but mature at a larger body size in colder environments. This phenomenon has puzzled biologists because classic theories of life-history evolution predict smaller sizes at maturity in environments that retard growth. During the last decade, intensive theoretical and empirical research has generated some plausible explanations based on nonadaptive or adaptive plasticity. Nonadaptive plasticity of body size is hypothesized to result from thermal constraints on cellular growth that cause smaller cells at higher temperatures, but the generality of this theory is poorly supported. Adaptive plasticity is hypothesized to result from greater benefits or lesser costs of delayed maturation in colder environments. These theories seem to apply well to some species but not others. Thus, no single theory has been able to explain the generality of temperature-size relationships in ectotherms. We recommend a multivariate theory that focuses on the coevolution of thermal reaction norms for growth rate and size at maturity. Such a theory should incorporate functional constraints on thermal reaction norms, as well as the natural covariation between temperature and other environmental variables.
3884681|Performance studies have long been a cornerstone of evolutionary studies of adaptation because of their purported importance for fitness. Nevertheless, for most systems, the mechanistic link among habitat use, morphology and performance is poorly understood. Further, few studies consider how behavior affects the relationship between morphology and performance. Here, I highlight the utility of considering both of these neglected areas by discussing studies in two systems: (1) the evolution of habitat use in Caribbean Anolis lizards, and (2) the evolution of limb function in desert lizards. Caribbean Anolis lizards partition the habitat via selection of different perch diameters, and surface diameter also exerts a strong effect on locomotor performance. Phylogenetic analyses show that Anolis species tend to avoid using perches in which their performance is submaximal, and also show that species with large performance breadths use a greater range of habitats. The underlying basis of this performance to habitat use link is a trade-off between the ability to sprint quickly on broad surfaces and the ability to move effectively on narrow surfaces. Studies of the kinematics of high-speed locomotion in five morphologically distinct lizard species reveal that some species exhibited behaviors that greatly enhanced their performance abilities relative to other species, suggesting that behavior can play a key role in the link between morphology and performance. Overall, these findings underscore the value of using a mechanistic approach for studying the links between habitat use, morphology and behavior.
3884864|Metamorphosis is broadly defined as a more or less radical morphological change between 2 multicellular life stages within an organism's life phase, often marking the transition from pre-reproductive to reproductive stages. It involves structural reorganization and major physiological changes, generally under the control of endogenous and exogenous factors and often resulting in changes in habitat use. This concept has been applied to the crustose-to-erect thallus transition of some red algae and the present study evaluates the validity of such hypotheses. Available literature suggests that the crustose-to-erect thallus transition involves significant morphological and habitat changes, separating pre-reproductive and reproductive stages. The onset of the morphological changes (for example axis differentiation) appears regulated by endogenous signals (growth factors) and growth is modified by environmental factors. The algae do not exhibit structural reorganization, however, probably due to their simple morphological structure and the lack of several cell and tissue mechanisms involving cell motility. The presence of cell walls in the algae impairs cell motility and maintains the cell in a fixed position within the plant. These are important differences restricting the extension of the definition of metamorphosis to the crust-to-erect thallus transition. The above restrictions also seem to apply to other macroalgae, fungi, and terrestrial plants.
3884712|Japanese fireflies range from nocturnal luminescent species to diurnal non-luminescent species. Their communication systems are classified into 6 types based on the following criteria: 1) Female responds to male's flashes after a fixed delay; 2) Male is directly attracted by female's light signal, the male perches on a leaf near the female, then the male changes his flashes with twinkling, and copulation behavior is released. However, the female may not respond to the male; 3) Male seeks female calling signal during the male's flying and synchronous flashing, then the male approaches the female, emitting flashes with various patterns, displaying walking-luminescing, sedentary signaling, chasing, and copulating; 4) Male is attracted by continuous luminescent signals of the female, and male perches near the female, then the male distinguishes the female's light organs shape. Thereafter, the male couplation behavior is released by her sex pheromone; 5) Male and female flight occurs in the daytime; when the male approaches the female, copulation is released by the female's pheromone; weak luminescent signals may be fulfilling the function of supplementary communication signals; 6) Luminescent signals have nothing to do with communication between male and female, and copulation is released by a sex pheromone.
4540181|Integrative movement neuroscience involves blending "inside-out" and "outside-in" approaches in the study of posture and movement. The former is characterized by determining the properties of single cells within the central nervous system (CNS) and then ascertaining how these properties influence the operation of CNS microcircuits, single reflexes, groups of reflexes, and generators of central pattern. This information is then used to theorize about CNS control of overt motor behavior. In contrast, the outside-in approach begins with analysis of the biomechanics of posture and movement and then uses this information to theorize how the mechanics are solved by the CNS and its pathways, circuitry, and even single cells. Studies conducted in the 1960s on CNS circuitry generating locomotor patterns in several invertebrate and vertebrate species, together with work on the treadmill locomotion of brain-stimulated decerebrate cats, led to a subsequent convergence of inside-out and outside-in understanding of the neural control of locomotion in invertebrates, nonmammalian vertebrates, and mammalian vertebrates, even including humans. This convergence of integrative and comparative approaches has been facilitated by modeling and simulation studies. These developments have important implications for doctoral and postdoctoral training programs in movement neuroscience. They can profit greatly by use of a multidisciplinary university-wide faculty who place a strong emphasis on integrative and comparative biology. Furthermore, the next generation of movement neuroscientists will require more familiarity with modeling and simulation than are being provided in most current training programs. To achieve the above, it will be advantageous if university culture and structure truly champion university-wide interdisciplinary research.
4485761|Field endocrinology techniques allow the collection of samples (i.e., blood, urine, feces, tissues) from free-living animals for analysis of hormones, receptors, enzymes, etc. These data reveal mechanisms by which individuals respond to environmental challenges, breed, migrate and regulate all aspects of their life cycles. Field endocrinology techniques can also be used to address many issues in conservation biology. We briefly review past and current ways in which endocrine methods are used to monitor threatened species, identify potential stressors and record responses to environmental disturbance. We then focus on one important aspect of conservation: how free-living populations respond to human disturbance, particularly in relation to ecotourism. Breeding adult Magellanic penguins, Spheniscus magellanicus, appear to habituate well to tourists, and breed in an area where about 70,000 people visit during the season. Baseline levels of corticosterone return to normal after exposure of nave birds to humans. However, penguin chicks appear to show a heightened adrenocortical response to handling stress in nests exposed to tourists, compared to chicks living in areas isolated from human intrusions. Given that developmental exposure to stress can have profound influences on how individuals cope with stress as adults, this potential effect of tourists on chicks could have long-term consequences. This field endocrine approach identified a stressor not observed through monitoring behavior alone.
4540153|Synopsis Evolutionary diversifications are commonly attributed to the continued modifications of a conserved genetic toolkit of developmental pathways, such that complexity and convergence in organismal forms are assumed to be due to similarity in genetic mechanisms or environmental conditions. This approach, however, confounds the causes of organismal development with the causes of organismal differences and, as such, has only limited utility for addressing the cause of evolutionary change. Molecular mechanisms that are closely involved in both developmental response to environmental signals and major evolutionary innovations and diversifications are uniquely suited to bridge this gap by connecting explicitly the causes of within-generation variation with the causes of divergence of taxa. Developmental pathways of bone formation and a common role for bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) in both epigenetic bone remodeling and the evolution of major adaptive diversifications provide such opportunity. We show that variation in timing of ossification can result in similar phenotypic patterns through epigenetically induced changes in gene expression and propose that both genetic accommodation of environmentally induced developmental pathways and flexibility in development across environments evolve through heterochronic shifts in bone maturation relative to exposure to unpredictable environments. We suggest that such heterochronic shifts in ossification can not only buffer development under fluctuating environments while maintaining epigenetic sensitivity critical for normal skeletal formation, but also enable epigenetically induced gene expression to generate specialized morphological adaptations. We review studies of environmental sensitivity of BMP pathways and their regulation of formation, remodeling, and repair of cartilage and bone to examine the hypothesis that BMP-mediated skeletal adaptations are facilitated by evolved reactivity of BMPs to external signals. Surprisingly, no empirical study to date has identified the molecular mechanism behind developmental plasticity in skeletal traits. We outline a conceptual framework for future studies that focus on mediation of phenotypic plasticity in skeletal development by the patterns of BMP expression.
3884807|By highlighting and merging the frameworks of sexual selection envisioned by Arnold (1994) and Murphy (1998), we discuss how sexual selection can occur in plants even though individuals do not directly interact. We review studies on traits that influence pollen export and receipt in a variety of hermaphroditic and gynodioecious plants with the underlying premise that pollination dynamics influences mate acquisition. Most of the studies reviewed found that phenotypes that enhance pollen export are in harmony with those that enhance pollen receipt suggesting that in many cases pollinator visitation rates limit both male and female function. In contrast, fewer traits were under opposing selection; but when they were, the traits most often were associated with enhancing the specific aspects of a given sex function. Our review helps clarify and illustrate why sexual selection can be a component of trait evolution in hermaphrodite plants.
4485774|Methoprene is a pesticide that acts as a juvenile hormone agonist. Although developed initially against insects, it has since been shown to have toxic effects on larval and adult crustaceans. Methoprene was one of several pesticides applied to the Western Long Island Sound (WLIS) watershed area during the summer of 1999; the other pesticides were malathion, resmethrin, and sumethrin. These pesticides were applied as part of a county-by-county effort to control the mosquito vector of West Nile Virus. Subsequently, the seasonal lobster catches from the WLIS have decreased dramatically. The lethality of the pesticides to lobsters had been unknown. We studied the effects of methoprene while other investigators studied effects of the other pesticides. We questioned whether methoprene, through its effects on larvae, adults or both, could have contributed to this decline. We found that low levels of methoprene had adverse effects on lobster larvae. It was toxic to stage II larvae at 1 ppb. Stage IV larvae were more resistant, but did exhibit significant increases in molt frequency beginning at exposures of 5 ppb. Juvenile lobsters exhibited variations in tissue susceptibility to methoprene: hepatopancreas appeared to be the most vulnerable, reflected by environmental concentrations of methoprene inhibiting almost all protein synthesis in this organ. Our results indicated that methoprene concentrates in the hepatopancreas, nervous tissue and epidermal cells of the adult lobster. Methoprene altered the synthesis and incorporation of chitoproteins (cuticle proteins) into adult postmolt lobster explant shells. SDS PAGE analyses of adult post-molt shell extracts revealed changes in the synthesis of chitoproteins in the methoprene-treated specimens, suggesting that methoprene affects the normal pathway of lobster cuticle synthesis and the quality of the post-molt shell. Although it is likely that a combination of factors led to the reduced lobster population in WLIS, methoprene may have contributed both by direct toxic effects and by disrupting homeostatic events under endocrine control.
3885018| Ecologists and physiologists working on rocky shores have emphasized the effects of environmental stress on the distribution of intertidal organisms. Although consumer stress models suggest that physical extremes may often reduce predation and herbivory through negative impacts on the physiological performance of consumers, few field studies have rigorously tested how environmental variation affects feeding rates. I review and analyze field experiments that quantified per capita feeding rates of a keystone predator, the sea star Pisaster ochraceus, in relation to aerial heat stress, wave forces, and water temperature at three rocky intertidal sites on the Oregon coast. Predation rates during 14-day periods were unrelated to aerial temperature, but decreased significantly with decreasing water temperature. There was suggestive but inconclusive evidence that predation rates also declined with increasing wave forces. Data-logger records suggested that thermal stress was rare in the wave-exposed habitats that I studied; sea star body temperatures likely reached warm levels (>24C) on only 9 dates in 3 yr. In contrast, wind-driven upwelling regularly generated 3 to 5C fluctuations in water temperature, and field and laboratory results suggest that such changes significantly alter feeding rates of Pisaster. These physiological rate effects, near the center of an organism's thermal range, may not reduce growth or fitness, and thus are distinct from the effects of environmental stress. This study underscores the need to consider organismal responses both under "normal" conditions, as well as under extreme conditions. Examining both kinds of responses is necessary to understand how different components of environmental variation regulate physiological performance and the strength of species interactions in intertidal communities. 
40931199|For vertebrates, body mass underlies much of the variation in metabolism, but among animals of the same body mass, metabolism varies six-fold. Understanding how natural selection can influence variation in metabolism remains a central focus of Physiological Ecologists. Life-history theory postulates that many physiological traits, such as metabolism, may be understood in terms of key maturational and reproductive characteristics over an organism's life-span. Although it is widely acknowledged that physiological processes serve as a foundation for life-history trade-offs, the physiological mechanisms that underlie the diversification of life-histories remain elusive. Data show that tropical birds have a reduced basal metabolism (BMR), field metabolic rate, and peak metabolic rate compared with temperate counterparts, results consistent with the idea that a low mortality, and therefore increased longevity, and low productivity is associated with low mass-specific metabolic rate. Mass-adjusted BMR of tropical and temperate birds was associated with survival rate, in accordance with the view that animals with a slow pace of life tend to have increased life spans. To understand the mechanisms responsible for a reduced rate of metabolism in tropical birds compared with temperate species, we summarized an unpublished study, based on data from the literature, on organ masses for both groups. Tropical birds had smaller hearts, kidneys, livers, and pectoral muscles than did temperate species of the same body size, but they had a relatively larger skeletal mass. Direct measurements of organ masses for tropical and temperate birds showed that the heart, kidneys, and lungs were significantly smaller in tropical birds, although sample sizes were small. Also from an ongoing study, we summarized results to date on connections between whole-organism metabolism in tropical and temperate birds and attributes of their dermal fibroblasts grown in cell culture. Cells derived from tropical birds had a slower rate of growth, consistent with the hypothesis that these cells have a slower metabolism. We found that dermal fibroblasts from tropical birds resisted chemical agents that induce oxidative and non-oxidative stress better than do cells from temperate species, consistent with the hypothesis that birds that live longer invest more in self-maintenance such as antioxidant properties of cells.
4540163|Modern agnathans include only two groups, the lampreys and the hagfish, that collectively comprise the group Cyclostomata. Although accumulating molecular data support the cyclostomes as a monophyletic group, there remain some unsettled questions regarding the evolutionary relationships of these animals in that they differ greatly in anatomical and developmental patterns and in their life histories. In this review, we summarize recent developmental data on the lamprey and discuss some questions related to vertebrate evolutionary development raised by the limited information available on hagfish embryos. Comparison of the lamprey and gnathostome developmental patterns suggests some plesiomorphic traits of vertebrates that would have already been established in the most recent common ancestor of the vertebrates. Understanding hagfish development will further clarify the, as yet, unrecognized ancestral characters that either the lampreys or hagfishes may have lost. We stress the immediate importance of hagfish embryology in the determination of the most plausible scenario for the early history of vertebrate evolution, by addressing questions about the origins of the neural crest, thyroid, and adenohypophysis as examples.
4485812|Laboratory natural selection and artificial selection are vital tools for addressing specific questions about evolutionary patterns of variation. Laboratory natural selection can illuminate whether a putative selective agent is capable of generating long-term, sustained changes in individual traits and suites of traits. Artificial selection is the essential tool for understanding the general evolvability of traits and the extent to which genetic correlations constrain evolution. We review the contexts in which each type of experiment seems capable of offering key insights into important evolutionary issues. We also discuss theoretical and methodological considerations that play critical roles in designing selection experiments that are relevant to evolutionary patterns of trait variation. In particular, we focus on the critical role of selection intensity and the consequences of experiments with different intensities. While selection experiments are not practical in many cases, sophisticated selection experiments-designed with careful consideration of the theory of selection-should be taken beyond model organisms and used in well-chosen natural systems to understand natural patterns of variation.
4485852|Studies in anhydrobiotic plants have defined many genes which are upregulated during desiccation, but comparable studies in invertebrates are at an early stage. To develop a better understanding of invertebrate anhydrobiosis, we have begun to characterise dehydration-inducible genes and their proteins in anhydrobiotic nematodes and bdelloid rotifers; this review emphasises recent findings with a hydrophilic nematode protein. Initial work with the fungivorous nematode Aphelenchus avenae led to the identification of two genes, both of which were markedly induced on slow drying (90-98% relative humidity, 24 hr) and also by osmotic stress, but not by heat or cold or oxidative stresses. The first of these genes encodes a novel protein we have named anhydrin; it is a small, basic polypeptide, with no counterparts in sequence databases, which is predicted to be natively unstructured and highly hydrophilic. The second is a member of the Group 3 LEA protein family; this and other families of LEA proteins are widely described in plants, where they are most commonly associated with the acquisition of desiccation tolerance in maturing seeds. Like anhydrin, the nematode LEA protein, Aav-LEA-1, is highly hydrophilic and a recombinant form has been shown to be unstructured in solution. In vitro functional studies suggest that Aav-LEA-1 is able to stabilise other proteins against desiccation-induced aggregation, which is in keeping with a role of LEA proteins in anhydrobiosis. In vivo, however, Aav-LEA-1 is apparently processed into smaller forms during desiccation. A processing activity was found in protein extracts of dehydrated, but not hydrated, nematodes; these shorter polypeptides are also active anti-aggregants and we hypothesise that processing LEA protein serves to increase the number of active molecules available to the dehydrating animal. Other LEA-like proteins are being identified in nematodes and it seems likely therefore that they will play a major role in the molecular anhydrobiology of invertebrates, as they are thought to do in plants.
23016118|Synopsis The success of migration of small passerine birds depends largely on effective refueling at stopover sites. In our previous studies, we found that hypothermia facilitates accumulation of fuel at the beginning of a stopover. Later we found that blackcaps, Sylvia atricapilla, might further reduce their energy expenditure by huddling while at rest. Here, we report experimental results supporting our hypothesis that huddling is beneficial to small migrating passerines both from energetic and thermoregulatory points of view. To test this hypothesis we measured metabolic rates and body temperatures of seven blackcaps placed in respirometry chambers overnight, either solitarily or in groups of three or four at ambient temperatures of 5, 10, and 15C. Concurring with our predictions, huddling blackcaps maintained higher body temperatures than did solitary birds, but had mass-specific metabolic rates lower by 30% than those of solitary individuals. Based on our previous studies, we estimated energy savings through huddling to be comparable to energy savings through hypothermia in solitary blackcaps and suggest that huddling may be an important way of saving energy for small passerine birds resting at migratory stopovers. At the same time it might offer the additional benefit of lower risk of predation. In this light, we predict that huddling occurs frequently in nature, leading to significant savings of energy, faster accumulation of fuel, presumably lower risk of becoming a prey, more successful migration, and eventually increased fitness.
3884626|Cephalopods are uniquely suited to field energetic studies. Their hollow mantles that pump water for respiration and jetting also can accommodate differential transducer-transmitters. These transmitters indicate pressure-flow power output, which can be calibrated against oxygen consumption by swim-tunnel respirometry. Radio-acoustic positioning telemetry (RAPT) records pressure-flow power and animal movements with meter accuracy in nature. Despite inherent inefficiencies, jetting is the primary mode of locomotion for both primitive nautilus and powerful, migratory oceanic squids. In between, large-finned squid and cuttlefish mix jetting with fin undulation in complex gaits that increase locomotor efficiency. Our studies show that the complex nervous systems cephalopods evolved to control mixed gaits are also sensitive to flow and density fields in nature and that they use these to further reduce locomotion costs. Buoyed up by evacuated shells, nautilus and cuttlefish live in boundary layers and navigate cheaply through them like balloonists. Large-finned, negatively buoyant squid soar like eagles in rising currents, but lose control in currents above one body length per second. Many muscular squids have life histories linked to current systems. Neutrally buoyant ammoniacal cephalopods in the mesopelagic are a limiting case in need of study. The small density differential between seawater and isotonic ammonium chloride trebles their volume, making them blimp-like with very low power densities. Some species live entirely in this restricted habitat, but most become ammoniacal late in ontogeny, as they approach semelparous reproduction. Ammonium retained for buoyancy as carbon is terminally mobilized from muscle protein for gametes and energy, compensates for lost muscle power.
3884829|The fundamental dichotomy between incoherent (phase independent) and coherent (phase dependent) light scattering provides the best criterion for a classification of biological structural color production mechanisms. Incoherent scattering includes Rayleigh, Tyndall, and Mie scattering. Coherent scattering encompasses interference, reinforcement, thin-film reflection, and diffraction. There are three main classes of coherently scattering nanostructures-laminar, crystal-like, and quasi-ordered. Laminar and crystal-like nanostructures commonly produce iridescence, which is absent or less conspicuous in quasi-ordered nanostructures. Laminar and crystal-like arrays have been analyzed with methods from thin-film optics and Bragg's Law, respectively, but no traditional methods were available for the analysis of color production by quasi-ordered arrays. We have developed a tool using two-dimensional (2D) Fourier analysis of transmission electron micrographs (TEMs) that analyzes the spatial variation in refractive index (available from the authors). This Fourier tool can examine whether light scatterers are spatially independent, and test whether light scattering can be characterized as predominantly incoherent or coherent. The tool also provides a coherent scattering prediction of the back scattering reflectance spectrum of a biological nanostructure. Our applications of the Fourier tool have falsified the century old hypothesis that the non-iridescent structural colors of avian feather barbs and skin are produced by incoherent Rayleigh or Tyndall scattering. 2D Fourier analysis of these quasi-ordered arrays in bird feathers and skin demonstrate that these noniridescent colors are produced by coherent scattering. No other previous examples of biological structural color production by incoherent scattering have been tested critically with either analysis of scatterer spatial independence or spectrophotometry. The Fourier tool is applied here for the first time to coherent scattering by a laminar array from iridescent bird feather barbules (Nectarinia) to demonstrate the efficacy of the technique on thin films. Unlike previous physical methods, the Fourier tool provides a single method for the analysis of coherent scattering by a diversity of nanostructural classes. This advance will facilitate the study of the evolution of nanostructural classes from one another and the evolution of nanostructure itself. The article concludes with comments on the emerging role of photonics in research on biological structural colors, and the future directions in development of the tool.
40931235|Environmental pressures may vary over the geographic range of a species, exposing subpopulations to divergent functional demands. How does exposure to competing demands shape the morphology of species and influence the divergence of populations? We explored these questions by performing selection experiments on juveniles of the Hawaiian goby Sicyopterus stimpsoni, an amphidromous fish that exhibits morphological differences across portions of its geographic range where different environmental pressures predominate. Juvenile S. stimpsoni face two primary and potentially opposing selective pressures on body shape as they return from the ocean to freshwater streams on islands: (1) avoiding predators in the lower reaches of a stream; and (2) climbing waterfalls to reach the habitats occupied by adults. These pressures differ in importance across the Hawaiian Islands. On the youngest island, Hawai'i, waterfalls are close to shore, thereby minimizing exposure to predators and placing a premium on climbing performance. In contrast, on the oldest major island, Kaua'i, waterfalls have eroded further inland, lengthening the exposure of juveniles to predators before migrating juveniles begin climbing. Both juvenile and adult fish show differences in body shape between these islands that would be predicted to improve evasion of predators by fish from Kaua'i (e.g., taller bodies that improve thrust) and climbing performance for fish from Hawai'i (e.g., narrower bodies that reduce drag), matching the prevailing environmental demand on each island. To evaluate how competing selection pressures and functional tradeoffs contribute to the divergence in body shape observed in S. stimpsoni, we compared selection imposed on juvenile body shape by (1) predation by the native fish Eleotris sandwicensis versus (2) climbing an artificial waterfall (~100 body lengths). Some variables showed opposing patterns of selection that matched predictions: for example, survivors of predation had lower fineness ratios than did control fish (i.e., greater body depth for a given length), whereas successful climbers had higher fineness ratios (reducing drag) than did fish that failed. However, most morphological variables showed significant selection in only one treatment rather than opposing selection across both. Thus, functional tradeoffs between evasion of predators and minimizing drag during climbing might influence divergence in body shape across subpopulations, but even when selection is an important contributing mechanism, directly opposite patterns of selection across environmental demands are not required to generate morphological divergence.
3884934|The study of parasite evolution relies on the identification of free-living sister taxa of parasitic lineages. Most lineages of parasitic helminths are characterized by an amazing diversity of species that complicates the resolution of phylogenetic relationships. Acanthocephalans offer a potential model system to test various long-standing hypotheses and generalizations regarding the evolution of parasitism in metazoans. The entirely parasitic Acanthocephala have a diversity of species that is manageable with regards to constructing global phylogenetic hypotheses, exhibit variation in hosts and habitats, and are hypothesized to have close phylogenetic affinities to the predominately free-living Rotifera. In this paper, I review and test previous hypotheses of acanthocephalan phylogenetic relationships with analyses of the available 18S rRNA sequence database. Maximum-parsimony and maximum-likelihood inferred trees differ significantly with regard to relationships among acanthocephalans and rotifers. Maximum-parsimony analysis results in a paraphyletic Rotifera, placing a long-branched bdelloid rotifer as the sister taxon of Acanthocephala. Maximum-likelihood analysis results in a monophyletic Rotifera. The difference between the two optimality criteria is attributed to long-branch attraction. The two analyses are congruent in terms of relationships within Acanthocephala. The three sampled classes are monophyletic, and the Archiacanthocephala is the sister taxon of a Palaeacanthocephala + Eoacanthocephala clade. The phylogenetic hypothesis is used to assess the evolution of host and habitat preferences. Acanthocephalan lineages have exhibited multiple radiations into terrestrial habitats and bird and mammal definitive hosts from ancestral aquatic habitats and fish definitive hosts, while exhibiting phylogenetic conservatism in the type of arthropod intermediate host utilized.
3884789|The development of an organism consists of processes occurring in space and time. To analyze this 4-dimensional development in embryogenesis, an appropriate method should be chosen. We present here a sophisticated method, 4D microscopy (3D time-lapse microscopy), initially developed to analyze the cell lineage of wild-type and mutant embryos of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Our method records the entire development of an embryo and allows detailed analyses of events such as cleavage, cell migration, cell death (apoptosis), and cell differentiation during development. The 4D microscopy system has 3 main parts: a motorized microscope, trigger software, and a database that facilitates the analysis of recordings. Adopting the 4D microscopy technique for uses beyond the analysis of C. elegans makes it possible to discern the cell lineage of other small embryos. Our method fills a gap in the study of the development of diverse organisms that are impossible to observe with fluorescent labeling techniques using single blastomeres. The use of this technique to investigate the development of organisms such as tardigrades, acoelomorphs, rotifers, and gastrotrichs provides fresh insight into the evolution of developmental processes and the phylogenetic relationships between such taxa. Using tardigrade development as an example, we demonstrate that the use of 4D microscopy can reveal new characters and corroborate or disapprove old characters. We discuss the results in the light of recent phylogenetic hypotheses regarding the Arthropoda and their probable sister group, the Cycloneuralia, which together form the Ecdysozoa.
3884659|Important drivers for emergence of infectious disease in wildlife include changes in the environment, shrinking habitats or concentration of wildlife, and movement of people, animals, pathogens, or vectors. In this paper we present three case-studies of emerging parasitic infections and diseases in ungulates in the Canadian north. First we discuss climate warming as an important driver for the emergence of disease associated with Umingmakstrongylus pallikuukensis, a nematode lungworm of muskoxen. Then we examine how Protostrongylus stilesi, the sheep lungworm, emerged (or re-emerged) in muskoxen after re-introduction of this host into its historical range made it sympatric with Dall's sheep. Finally, we consider Teladorsagia boreoarcticus, a newly described and common abomasal nematode of muskoxen that is emerging as a disease-causing parasite and may be an important regulator for muskox populations on Banks Island, Northwest Territories. These and other arctic host-parasite systems are exquisitely tuned and constrained by a harsh and highly seasonal environment. The dynamics of these systems will be impacted by climate change and other ecological disruptions. Baseline knowledge of parasite biodiversity and parasite and host ecology, together with predictive models and long-term monitoring programs, are essential for anticipating and detecting altered patterns of host range, geographic distribution, and the emergence of parasitic infections and diseases.
3884701|For almost a century, biologists have used trait scaling relationships (bi-variate scatter-plots of trait size versus body size) to characterize phenotypic variation within populations, and to compare animal shape across populations or species. Scaling relationships are a popular metric because they have long been thought to reflect underlying patterns of trait growth and development. However, the physiological mechanisms generating animal scaling are not well understood, and it is not yet clear how scaling relationships evolve. Here we review recent advances in developmental biology, genetics, and physiology as they pertain to the control of growth of adult body parts in insects. We summarize four mechanisms known to influence either the rate or the duration of cell proliferation within developing structures, and suggest how mutations in these mechanisms could affect the relative sizes of adult body parts. By reviewing what is known about these four processes, and illustrating how they may contribute to patterns of trait scaling, we reveal genetic mechanisms likely to be involved in the evolution of insect form.
4485798| Billions of songbirds migrate between continents each year, but we have yet to obtain enough information on in-flight physiology and energetics to fully understand the migratory behavior of any one species. New World Catharus thrushes are common nocturnal migrants amenable to biotelemetry, allowing us to measure physiological parameters during migratory flight in the wild. Here, we review work by the authors on Catharus thrush in-flight physiology during spring migration in continental North America and present new data on individual variation in energy use during migratory flight. Previous work demonstrated that (1) a number of simple behavioral rules are sufficient to explain the initiation of individual migratory flights made by Catharus thrushes, (2) the thrushes used a magnetic compass to orient during the night rather than celestial cues and that they calibrated this magnetic compass each day using cues associated with the setting sun, (3) in total, Catharus thrushes used approximately twice as much energy during stopovers than they used during migratory flight, and (4) thrushes may use more energy when thermoregulating on cold days than on days when they make short migratory flights. Recently, we built upon this work and used newly-developed transmitters to measure heart rate, wingbeat frequency and respiration rate of freeflying Swainson's Thrushes (C. ustulatus). We found a large amount of between-individual variation in average heart rate after ascent (range 12.06-14.81 Hz, mean  SD, 13.48  0.75, n = 10), average wingbeat frequency after ascent (10.25-11.75 Hz, 10.82  0.49, n = 10), and the difference between the two variables (1.5-3.84 Hz, 2.53  0.76, n = 8). Both heart rate and wingbeat frequency were significantly higher during ascent than later in the flight. We propose biotelemetry as a means to understand energetic trade-offs and decisions during natural migratory flight in songbirds. To further our knowledge of intercontinental songbird migration and the connectivity between wintering and breeding sites, we outline plans for a satellitebased global tracking system for <1 g transmitters. 
4540152|Synopsis A tremendous diversity of avian color displays has stimulated numerous studies of natural and sexual selection. Yet, the developmental mechanisms that produce such diversification, and thus the proximate targets of selection pressures, are rarely addressed and poorly understood. In particular, because feathers are colored during growth, the dynamics of feather growth play a deterministic role in the variation in ornamentation. No study to date, however, has addressed the contribution of feather growth to the expression of carotenoid-based ornamentation. Here, we examine the developmental basis of variation in ornamental feather shapes in male house finches (Carpodacus mexicanus)-a species in which carotenoid displays are under strong natural and sexual selection. First, we use geometric morphometrics to partition the observed shape variation in fully grown feathers among populations, ages, degrees of elaboration, ornamental body parts, and individuals. Second, we use a biologically informed mathematical model of feather growth to predict variation in shape of ornamental feathers due to simulated growth rate, angle of helical growth of feather barbs, initial number of barb ridges, rate of addition of new barbs, barb diameter, and ramus-expansion angle. We find close concordance between among-individual variation in feather shape and hue of entire ornament, and show that this concordance can be attributed to a shared mechanism-growth rate of feather barbs. Predicted differences in feather shape due to rate of addition of barbs and helical angle of feather growth explained observed variation in ornamental area both among individuals and between populations, whereas differences in helical angle of growth and the number of barbs in the feather follicle explained differences in feather shape between ornamental parts and among males of different ages. The findings of a close association of feather growth dynamics and overall ornamentation identify the proximate targets of selection for elaboration of sexual displays. Moreover, the close association of feather growth and pigmentation not only can reinforce condition-dependence in color displays, but can also enable phenotypic and genetic accommodation of novel pigments into plumage displays providing a mechanism for the observed concordance of within-population developmental processes and between-population diversification of color displays.
3884749|Many animals that locomote by legs possess adhesive pads. Such organs are rapidly releasable and adhesive forces can be controlled during walking and running. This capacity results from the interaction of adhesive with complex mechanical systems. Here we present an integrative study of the mechanics and adhesion of smooth attachment pads (arolia) in Asian Weaver ants (Oecophylla smaragdina). Arolia can be unfolded and folded back with each step. They are extended either actively by contraction of the claw flexor muscle or passively when legs are pulled toward the body. Regulation of arolium use and surface attachment includes purely mechanical control inherent in the arrangement of the claw flexor system. Predictions derived from a 'wet' adhesion mechanism were tested by measuring attachment forces on a smooth surface using a centrifuge technique. Consistent with the behavior of a viscid secretion, frictional forces per unit contact area linearly increased with sliding velocity and the increment strongly decreased with temperature. We studied the nature and dimensions of the adhesive liquid film using Interference Reflection Microscopy (IRM). Analysis of 'footprint' droplets showed that they are hydrophobic and form low contact angles. In vivo IRM of insect pads in contact with glass, however, revealed that the adhesive liquid film not only consists of a hydrophobic fluid, but also of a volatile, hydrophilic phase. IRM allows estimation of the height of the liquid film and its viscosity. Preliminary data indicate that the adhesive secretion alone is insufficient to explain the observed friction and that rubbery deformation of the pad cuticle is involved.
4540196|The innate immune response is a conserved trait shared by invertebrates and vertebrates. In crustaceans, circulating hemocytes play significant roles in the immune response, including the release of prophenoloxidases. Activated phenoloxidase (tyrosinase) participates in encapsulation and melanization of foreign organisms as well as sclerotization of the new exoskeleton after wound-repair or molting. Hemocyanin functions as a phenoloxidase under certain conditions and thus also participates in the immune response and molting. The relative contributions of hemocyte phenoloxidase and hemocyanin in the physiological ratio at which they occur in hemolymph have been investigated in the crab Cancer magister. Differences in activity, substrate affinity, and catalytic ability between the two enzymes indicate that hemocytes are the predominant source of phenoloxidase activity in crabs. In contrast, hemocyanin is the primary source of phenoloxidase activity in isopods and chelicerates whose hemocytes show no phenoloxidase activity. Quantitative PCR studies on the distribution of prophenoloxidase mRNA in the tissues of Carcinus maenas showed little effect relative to salinity stress. Phylogenetic analysis of hemocyanin, phenoloxidase, and other members of this arthropod gene family are consistent with the possibility that a common ancestral molecule had both phenoloxidase and oxygen-binding capabilities.
3884901|Biologists have developed a wide range of morphological, biochemical and physiological metrics to assess the health and, in particular, the energetic status of individual animals. These metrics originated to quantify aspects of human health, but have also proven useful to address questions in life history, ecology and resource management of game and commercial animals. We review the application of condition indices (CI) for conservation studies and focus on measures that quantify fat reserves, known to be critical for energetically challenging activities such as migration, reproduction and survival during periods of scarcity. Standard methods score fat content, or rely on a ratio of body mass rationalized by some measure of size, usually a linear dimension such as wing length or total body length. Higher numerical values of these indices are interpreted to mean an animal has greater energy reserves. Such CIs can provide predictive information about habitat quality and reproductive output, which in turn can help managers with conservation assessments and policies. We review the issues about the methods and metrics of measurement and describe the linkage of CIs to measures of body shape. Debates in the literature about the best statistical methods to use in computing and comparing CIs remain unresolved. Next, we comment on the diversity of methods used to measure body composition and the diversity of physiological models that compute body composition and CIs. The underlying physiological regulatory systems that govern the allocation of energy and nutrients among compartments and processes within the body are poorly understood, especially for field situations, and await basic data from additional laboratory studies and advanced measurement systems including telemetry. For now, standard physiological CIs can provide supporting evidence and mechanistic linkages for population studies that have traditionally been the focus of conservation biology. Physiologists can provide guidance for the field application of conditions indices with validation studies and development of new instruments.
3884639|Optical and genetic tools are beginning to revolutionize the studies of neuronal circuits. Neurons can now be labeled with conventional or genetically encoded indicators that allow their activity to be monitored during behavior in intact animals. Laser ablations and genetic inactivation offer ways to perturb activity of specific cells to test their contributions to behavior. These approaches promise to speed progress in the understanding of vertebrate networks in genetic model systems such as mice and zebrafish. Here we review some of the progress in applying these tools, with an emphasis on our work to develop and apply these approaches in the zebrafish model.
3884692|Mutualistic interactions are widespread and obligatory for many organisms, yet their evolutionary persistence in the face of cheating is theoretically puzzling. Nutrient-acquisition symbioses between plants and soil microbes are critically important to plant evolution and ecosystem function, yet we know almost nothing about the evolutionary dynamics and mechanisms of persistence of these ancient mutualisms. Partner-choice and partner-fidelity are mechanisms for dealing with cheaters, and can theoretically allow mutualisms to persist despite cheaters. Many models of cooperative behavior assume pairwise interactions, while most plant-microbe nutrient-acquisition symbioses involve a single plant interacting with numerous microbes. Market models, in contrast, are well suited to mutualisms in which single plants attempt to conduct mutually beneficial resource exchange with multiple individuals. Market models assume that one partner chooses to trade with a subset of individuals selected from a market of potential partners. Hence, determining whether partner-choice occurs in plant-microbe mutualisms is critical to understanding the evolutionary persistence and dynamics of these symbioses. The nitrogen-fixation/carbon-fixation mutualism between leguminous plants and rhizobial bacteria is widespread, ancient, and important for ecosystem function and human nutrition. It also involves single plants interacting simultaneously with several to many bacterial partners, including ineffective ("cheating") strains. We review the existing literature and find that this mutualism displays several elements of partner-choice, and may match the requirements of the market paradigm. We conclude by identifying profitable questions for future research.
3884845|The "Ediacaran organisms," which preceded and overlapped the Cambrian radiation of metazoans, include many fossils whose systematic positions remain contentious after over fifty years of study. It might seem that nothing particularly useful can be learned from a biota full of oddballs. However, analyses of the distribution of the Ediacaran organisms in time and space can be carried out without having to guess at the systematic position of the organisms. Combining these results with data on paleotectonics, paleoenvironmental parameters, and the ages of various assemblages sheds light on the origins, ecology, and even the systematic positions of the Ediacaran organisms. Parsimony Analysis of Endemism (PAE) confirms earlier studies in grouping Ediacaran biotas into three major clusters: the Avalon, White Sea, and Nama Assemblages. The available radiometric and stratigraphic data suggest that the Avalon is the oldest, the White Sea is next oldest, and the Nama extends to the base of the Cambrian. The "frondlike" Ediacaran taxa, and to a lesser extent the "medusoids," collectively show significantly longer stratigraphic ranges, broader geographical and paleoenvironmental ranges, and less provinciality than "bilaterian" and tubular taxa. Almost all tubular Ediacarans appear to be confined to equatorial areas, whereas other Ediacaran organisms show weak or no latitudinal diversity gradients. I conclude that the Ediacaran organisms show a diverse range of responses to various environmental parameters. There is no basis for classifying them all as having a single body plan and mode of life, as has often been done in the past.
40931202|Plant and animal biomechanists have much in common. Although their frame of reference differs, they think about the natural world in similar ways. While researchers studying animals might explore airflow around flapping wings, the actuation of muscles in arms and legs, or the material properties of spider silk, researchers studying plants might explore the flow of water around fluttering seaweeds, the grasping ability of climbing vines, or the material properties of wood. Here we summarize recent studies of plant biomechanics highlighting several current research themes in the field: expulsion of high-speed reproductive projectiles, generation of slow movements by shrinking and swelling cell walls, effects of ontogenetic shifts in mechanical properties of stems, flexible reconfiguration and material properties of seaweeds under crashing waves, and the development of botanically-inspired commercial products. Our hope is that this synopsis will resonate with both plant and animal biologists, encourage cross-pollination across disciplines, and promote fruitful interdisciplinary collaborations in the future.
41319666|Directed aerial descent (DAD) is used by a variety of arboreal animals to escape predators, to remain in the canopy, and to access resources. Here, we build upon the discovery of DAD in ants of tropical canopies by summarizing its known phylogenetic distribution among ant genera, and within both the subfamily Pseudomyrmecinae and the genus Cephalotes. DAD has multiple evolutionary origins in ants, occurring independently in numerous genera in the subfamilies Myrmicinae, Formicinae, and Pseudomyrmecinae. Ablation experiments and video recordings of ants in a vertical wind tunnel showed that DAD in Cephalotes atratus is achieved via postural changes, specifically orientation of the legs and gaster. The occurrence of DAD in Formicinae indicates that the presence of a postpetiole is not essential for the behavior. Evidence to date indicates that gliding behavior is accomplished by visual targeting mediated by the compound eyes, and is restricted to diurnally active ants that nest in trees. Occlusion of ocelli in Pseudomyrmex gracilis workers had no effect on their success or performance in gliding. Experimental assessment of the fate of ants that fall to the understory showed that ants landing in water are 15 times more likely to suffer lethal attacks than are ants landing in leaf litter. Variation in both the aerodynamic mechanisms and selective advantages of DAD merits further study given the broad taxonomie diversity of arboreal ants that engage in this intriguing form of flight.
25160122|The physical environment of the aerosphere is both complex and dynamic, and poses many challenges to the locomotor systems of the three extant evolutionary lineages of flying animals. Many features of the aerosphere, operating over spatial and temporal scales of many orders of magnitude, have the potential to be important influences on animal flight, and much as marine ecologists have studied the relationship between physical oceanography and swimming locomotion, a subfield of aeroecology can focus attention on the ways the biology of flight is influenced by these characteristics. Airflows are altered and modulated by motion over and around natural and human-engineered structures, and both vortical flow structures and turbulence are introduced to the aerial environment by technologies such as aircraft and wind farms. Diverse aspects of the biology of flight may be better understood with reference to an aeroecological approach, particularly the mechanics and energetics of flight, the sensing of aerial flows, and the motor control of flight. Moreover, not only does the abiotic world influence the aerospheric conditions in which animals fly, but flying animals also, in turn, change the flow environment in their immediate vicinity, which can include the air through which other animals fly, particularly when animals fly in groups. Flight biologists can offer considerable insight into the ecology of the aerial world, and an aeroecological approach holds great promise for stimulating and enriching the study of the biology of flight.
3884608| I contrast mitochondrial DNA genealogies based on 612 bp of the cytochrome b gene across four co-distributed species of frogs in Northeastern Brazil. They are Hyla albomarginata, Hyla branneri, Proceratophrys boiei, and Scinax nebulosus. Samples were collected from the core or edge of six rainforest remnants in the states of Pernambuco and Alagoas. Three fragments are located within the humid Atlantic Forest morphoclimatic domain (municipalities of Cabo de Santo Agostinho, Ibateguara, and Jaqueira), two are located in the transition zone between the Atlantic Forest domain and the semi-arid Caatinga (Caruaru and Timbaba), and one is found within the Caatinga (Brejo da Madre de Deus). Results show that local patterns and levels of genetic diversity are influenced by taxon-specific habitat requirements. Populations of the montane, closed-canopy species P. boiei show strong geographical structure, reflecting barriers to gene flow that predate human-driven habitat destruction. Species occurring along forest edges, such as H. albomarginata and S. nebulosus, show genetic patterns similar to those of P. boiei, but lower levels of genetic divergence. The more generalist Hyla branneri shows no geographic pattern. The data are in agreement with distribution and fossil data gathered for other groups of organisms, suggesting that mesic forests occupied the currently arid Caatinga in the recent past. 
4485838|Colonial basal metazoans often encounter members of their own species as they grow on hard substrata, with the encounters typically resulting in either fusion of close relatives or rejection between unrelated colonies. These allorecognition responses play a critical role in maintaining the genetic and physiological integrity of the colony. Allorecognition responses in basal metazoans are controlled by highly variable genetic systems. The molecular nature of such systems, however, remains to be determined. Current efforts to identify the genes and molecules controlling allorecognition in basal metazoans have followed two pathways: identification of molecules differentially expressed in incompatible interactions, and positional or map-based cloning of allorecognition genes. Most studies following the first approach have been performed with marine demosponges, while those following the second approach have centered on the cnidarian of the genus Hydractinia. Here, I discuss the latter, focusing primarily on the genetic control of allorecognition responses.
3884827|Diurnal and nocturnal hawkmoths (Sphingidae, Lepidoptera) have three spectral types of receptor sensitive to ultraviolet, blue and green light. As avid flower visitors and pollinators, they use olfactory and visual cues to find and recognise flowers. Moths of the diurnal species Macroglossum stellatarum and the nocturnal species Deilephila elpenor, Hyles lineata and Hyles gallii use and learn the colour of flowers. Nocturnal species can discriminate flowers at starlight intensities when humans and honeybees are colourblind. M. stellatarum can use achromatic, intensity-related cues if colour cues are absent, and this is probably also true for D. elpenor. Both species can recognise colours even under a changed illumination colour.
40793141|Biogenic forces alter sediment characteristics along several axes with important consequences for structure of benthic communities. The usual axes discussed are those of sediment stabilization versus resuspension and mobile versus temporally persistent organisms. A third axis of bioadvection is typically subsumed within the others. Here we argue that given the complex fluid dynamics resulting from the bidirectional forces that organisms exert on porewater, bioadvection needs to be examined separately. The probable major players in generation of bioadvection are described with impacts on transport both of materials and heat. Illustrations are given of the bidirectionality of bioadvection and the resultant changes in oxygnation either surficially or at depth, as well as of heat transport both laterally within the sediment and vertically.
4485854|Encysted embryos (cysts) of the primitive crustacean, Artemia franciscana, are among the most resistant of all animal life history stages to extremes of environmental stress. These embryos, extremophiles of the animal kingdom, are the main focus of this paper. Previous work has revealed the importance of biochemical and biophysical adaptations that provide a significant part of the basis of their resistance, and I consider some of these here. In the present paper the critical role played by the outer layer of the shell in desiccation tolerance will be one focus. Another involves studies on the response of dried cysts to high temperatures that, among other things, implicate one or more volatile factors released from the cysts that determines the extent of thermotolerance under a given heating regime. A hypothetical scheme is given to account for these peculiar results. Based on western immunoblotting analysis, and data from the literature, the scheme also implicates the heat-induced translocation of the stress protein p26 to nuclei as a potential cause of the reduction in hatching level.
3884862|The biphasic (pelagobenthic) life cycle is found throughout the animal kingdom, and includes gametogenesis, embryogenesis, and metamorphosis. From a tangled web of hypotheses on the origin and evolution of the metazoan pelagobenthic life cycle, current opinion appears to favor a simple, larval-like holopelagic ancestor that independently settled multiple times to incorporate a benthic phase into the life cycle. This hypothesis derives originally from Haeckel's (1874) Gastraea theory of ontogeny recapitulating phylogeny, in which the gastrula is viewed as the recapitulation of a gastraean ancestor that evolved via selection on a simple, planktonic hollow ball of cells to develop the capacity to feed. Here, we propose an equally plausible hypothesis that the origin of the metazoan pelagobenthic life cycle was a direct consequence of sexual reproduction in a likely holobenthic ancestor. In doing so, we take into account new insights from poriferan development and from molecular phylogenies. In this scenario, the gastrula does not represent a recapitulation, but simply an embryological stage that is an outcome of sexual reproduction. The embryo can itself be considered as the precursor to a biphasic lifestyle, with the embryo representing one phase and the adult another phase. This hypothesis is more parsimonious because it precludes the need for multiple, independent origins of the benthic form. It is then reasonable to consider that multilayered, ciliated embryos ultimately released into the water column are subject to natural selection for dispersal/longevity/feeding that sets them on the evolutionary trajectory towards the crown metazoan planktonic larvae. These new insights from poriferan development thus clearly support the intercalation hypothesis of bilaterian larval evolution, which we now believe should be extended to discussions of the origin of biphasy in the metazoan last common ancestor.
4485775|Synthetic insecticides have been used intensively for the past 50 years in many parts of the world. Insect populations, both target and nontarget, have responded by evolving resistance. One of the nontarget insects is Drosophila melanogaster, which is well-suited for genetic analysis and has been particularly well-studied in both laboratory and field populations. Resistance to several insecticides, including two for which significant resistance in field populations has not been found, has been generated in susceptible laboratory strains following mutagenesis, allowing comprehensive study of the resistance genes. Field populations of D. melanogaster have evolved resistance to many, but not all, insecticides in use today. Both the genetic and biochemical mechanisms that underlie resistance in this insect are similar to those in other insects. Therefore, D. melanogaster can be a sentinel organism for long-term release of toxicants into the environment. While it remains useful for genetic analysis of resistance, a better understanding of the movement and population structures of this insect will be a prerequisite for its sentinel utilization at specific locales.
4485797|Vertebrate intestinal tracts possess an array of structural and functional adaptations to the wide diversity of food and feeding habits. In addition to well-described differences in form and function between herbivores and carnivores, the intestine exhibits adaptive plasticity to variation in digestive demand. The capacity to which intestinal performance responds to changes in digestive demands is a product of evolutionary and cellular mechanisms. In this report, I have taken an integrative approach to exploring the mechanisms responsible for the regulation of intestinal performance with feeding and fasting among amphibians and reptiles. Intestinal performance is presented as the total small intestinal capacity to absorb nutrients, quantified as a product of small intestinal mass and mass-specific rates of nutrient uptake. For sit-and-wait foraging snakes and estivating anurans, both of which naturally experience long episodes of fasting, the dramatic downregulation of intestinal morphology and function with fasting reduces energy expenditure during extended fasts. In contrast, frequently-feeding species modestly regulate intestinal performance with fasting and feeding, trading higher basal rates of metabolism during fasting for the frequent expense of upregulating the gut with feeding. Surveying the magnitude by which intestinal uptake capacity is regulated among 26 families of amphibians and reptiles has revealed potentially five lineages that have independently evolved the capacity to widely regulate intestinal performance. The extent to which intestinal performance is downregulated with fasting among amphibians and reptiles, ranging from 0 to 90%, is largely a function of the degree by which mass-specific rates of nutrient transport are depressed, given that loss of intestinal mass with fasting is a common characteristic of vertebrates. In exploring the underlying mechanisms regulating intestinal nutrient uptake, use of the Burmese python has revealed a temporal match between microvillus surface area and intestinal nutrient transport. With feeding, pythons experience a fivefold lengthening of intestinal microvilli, with subsequent reduction after completing digestion. Identifying for the python the cellular processes responsible for the dramatic remodeling of the microvilli would assist in elucidating the mechanisms by which intestinal performance is regulated, as well as identify whether similar steps are employed by other species to regulate their intestines. In finishing, I propose three studies of digestive response: (1) investigate the responses of the ectotherm intestine to hibernation; (2) evaluate whether functional capacities of tissues are matched to digestive demands; and, (3) apply microarray technology to explore the functional genomics of intestinal adaptation.
3884943|Two seemingly opposite evolutionary patterns of clinal variation in body size and associated life history traits exist in nature. According to Bergmann's rule, body size increases with latitude, a temperature effect. According to the converse Bergmann rule, body size decreases with latitude, a season length effect. A third pattern causally related to the latter is countergradient variation, whereby populations of a given species compensate seasonal limitations at higher latitudes by evolving faster growth and larger body sizes compared to their low latitude conspecifics. We discuss these patterns and argue that they are not mutually exclusive because they are driven by different environmental causes and proximate mechanisms; they therefore can act in conjunction, resulting in any intermediate pattern. Alternatively, Bergmann and converse Bergmann clines can be interpreted as over- and undercompensating countergradient variation, respectively. We illustrate this with data for the wide-spread yellow dung fly, Scathophaga stercoraria (Diptera: Scathophagidae), which in Europe shows a Bergmann cline for size and a converse Bergmann cline (i.e., counter-gradient variation) for development time. A literature review of the available evidence on arthropod latitudinal clines further shows a patterned continuum of responses. Converse Bergmann clines due to end-of-season time limitations are more common in larger species with longer development times. Our study thus provides a synthesis to the controversy about the importance of Bergmann's rule and the converse Bergmann rule in nature.
4485834|In comparative studies using model organisms, extant taxa are often referred to as basal. The term suggests that such taxa are descendants of lineages that diverged early in the history of some larger taxon. By this usage, the basal metazoans comprise just four phyla (Placozoa, Porifera, Cnidaria, and Ctenophora) and the large clade Bilateria. We advise against this practice because basal refers to a region at the base or root of a phylogenetic tree. Thus, referring to an extant taxon or species as basal, or as more basal than another, can be misleading. While much progress has been made toward understanding some of the phylogenetic relationships within these groups, the relationships among them are still largely not known with certainty. Thus, sound inferences from comparative studies of model organisms demand continued illumination of phylogeny. Hypotheses about the mechanisms underlying metazoan evolution can be drawn from the study of model organisms in Cnidaria, Ctenophora, Placozoa, and Porifera, but it is clear that these model organisms are likely to be derived in many respects. Therefore, testing these hypotheses requires the study of yet additional model organisms. The most effective tests are those that investigate model organisms with phylogenetic positions among two sister groups comprising a larger clade of interest.
4485772|Comparative developmental and reproductive studies were performed on several species of estuarine crustaceans in response to three juvenile hormone agonists (pyriproxyfen, methoprene and fenoxycarb). Larval development of the grass shrimp, Palaemonetes pugio, was greater than two orders of magnitude more sensitive to disruption by methoprene and fenoxycarb than was embryonic development. Developing larvae of the mud crab, Rhithropanopeus harrisii, exhibited reduced metamorphic success at lower concentrations of methoprene and pyriproxyfen than grass shrimp larvae. These responses suggest that the more rigidly controlled metamorphic process in crabs is more sensitive to compounds acting as endocrine disruptors than is the more flexible metamorphic pattern in shrimp. The final crab larval stage, the megalopa, was more sensitive to methoprene and fenoxycarb exposure than earlier zoeal stages. Mud crab larvae exposed to fenoxycarb had reduced biomass and lipid content, particularly triglycerides and sterols. Concentrations of fenoxycarb which reduced the reproductive capacity in single life-cycle exposures of the estuarine mysid, Americamysis bahia, were similar to those concentrations which inhibited metamorphosis in grass shrimp. Juvenile mysids released by exposed adults and reared through maturation without further exposure produced fewer young and had altered sex ratios (lower percentages of males) at lower parental-exposure concentrations than directly affected parental reproduction. These transgenerational responses may well be a product of irreversible effects during developmental exposures which become apparent following maturation and initiation of reproduction. These findings support using a functional approach as an appropriate screening procedure to evaluate potential environmental endocrine-disrupting chemicals in aquatic environments.
4485860|The life histories of holo-anhydrobiotic animals differ from those of all other organisms by a regular or irregular entrance into an ametabolic state induced by desiccation. Such ametabolic periods will arrest growth and reproduction completely and thus affect primary life history parameters dramatically. The selective forces and the genetic and physiological trade-offs acting on anhydrobiotic animals are to a large extent unknown. Assuming low growth rates and low juvenile to adult survival, general theoretical models on life history responses to stress predict that anhydrobiotic animals will be selected for a high degree of iteroparity, with low fecundity, large egg size, and low total reproductive investment. A high degree of variability in growth and reproduction should create a selective force in the same direction. Although basic empirical data on life history parameters are very scarce, available observations seem to be consistent with this prediction.
40863405|The pelagic environment is characterized by unevenly distributed resources and risks. Such unpredictability presents adaptive challenges to diverse planktonic organisms including the larvae of benthic marine invertebrates. Estimates of mortality during planktonic development are highly variable, ranging from 0% to 100% per day. Predation is considered a significant source of this mortality, but what explains the variability in estimates of the mortality of marine invertebrate larvae? While differential exposure of larval prey to predators may explain these widely variable estimates, adaptations that reduce vulnerability of marine larvae to predators may also be important. Although there are excellent reviews of prdation upon larvae and of larval mortality and defenses, nearly 15 years have elapsed since these topics were formally reviewed. Here, we highlight recent advances in understanding the behavioral, chemical, and orphological defenses that larvae possess and assess their effectiveness in reducing the risk of prdation. While recent work confirms that larval mortality is generally high, it also demonstrates that larvae can reduce their risk of prdation in several ways, including: (1) temporarily escaping the benthos during vulnerable early stages, (2) producing chemical compounds that reduce palatability, (3) possessing morphological defenses such as spines and shells, and (4) exhibiting induced defensive responses whereby larvae can alter their behavior, morphology, and life histories in the presence of predators. Taken together, these studies indicate that marine invertebrate larvae possess a sophisticated suite of defensive phenotypes that have allowed them to persist in the life cycle of benthic invertebrates for eons.
40863360|Wind tunnels allow researchers to investigate animals' flight under controlled conditions, and provide easy access to the animals during flight. These increasingly popular devices can benefit integrative migration biology by allowing us to explore the links between aerodynamic theory and migration as well as the links between flight behavior and physiology. Currently, wind tunnels are being used to investigate many different migratory phenomena, including the relationship between metabolic power and flight speed and carry-over effects between different seasons. Although biotelemetry is also becoming increasingly common, it is unlikely that it will be able to completely supplant wind tunnels because of the difficulty of measuring or varying parameters such as flight speed or temperature in the wild. Wind tunnels and swim tunnels will therefore continue to be important tools we can use for studying integrative migration biology.
3884821|The molecular genetic dissection of Drosophila eye development led to the exciting discovery of a surprisingly large panel of genes and gene activities, which are functionally conserved across phyla. Little effort has yet been made towards pinpointing non-conserved gene functions in the developing Drosophila eye. This neglects the fact that Drosophila visual system development is a highly derived process. The comparative analysis of Drosophila eye development within insects can be expected to enhance resolution and accuracy of between phyla comparisons of eye development, and to reveal molecular developmental changes that facilitated the evolutionary transition from hemimetabolous to holometabolous insect development. Here we review aspects of early Drosophila eye development, which are likely to have diverged from the situation in more primitive insects, as indicated by results from work in the flour beetle Tribolium castaneum and the grasshopper Schistocerca americana.
40793116|Operons are clusters of genes that are co-regulated from a common promoter. Operons are typically associated with prokaryotes, although a small number of eukaryotes have been shown to possess them. Among metazoans, operons have been extensively characterized in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans in which ~ 15% of the total genes are organized into operons. The most recent genome assembly for the ascidian Ciona intestinalis placed ~ 20% of the genes (2909 total) into 1310 operons. The majority of these operons are composed of two genes, while the largest are composed of six. Here is reported a computational analysis of the genes that comprise the Ciona operons. Gene ontology (GO) terms were identified for about two-thirds of the operon-encoded genes. Using the extensive collection of public EST libraries, estimates of temporal patterns of gene expression were generated for the operon-encoded genes. Lastly, conservation of oprons was analyzed by determining how many operon-encoded genes were present in the ascidian Ciona savignyi and whether these genes were organized in orthologous operons. Over 68% of the operon-encoded genes could be assigned one or more GO terms and 697 of the 1310 oprons contained genes in which all genes had at least one GO term. Of these 697 oprons, GO terms were shared by all of the genes within 146 individual operons, suggesting that most oprons encode genes with unrelated functions. An analysis of operon gene expression from nine different EST libraries indicated that for 587 operons, all of the genes that comprise an individual operon were expressed together in at least one EST library, suggesting that these genes may be co-regulated. About 50% (74/146) of the operons with shared GO terms also showed evidence of gene co-regulation. Comparisons with the savignyi genome identified orthologs for 1907 of 2909 operon genes. About 38% (504/1310) of the operons are conserved between the two Ciona species. These results suggest that like C. elegans, operons in Ciona are comprised of a variety of genes that are not necessarily related in function. The genes in only 50% of the operons appear to be co-regulated, suggesting that more complex gene regulatory mechanisms are likely operating.
3884627|Porpoising is the popular name for the high-speed surface piercing motion of dolphins and other species, in which long, ballistic jumps are alternated with sections of swimming close to the surface. The first analysis of this behavior (Au and Weihs, 1980) showed that above a certain "crossover" speed this behavior is energetically advantageous, as the reduction in drag due to movement in the air becomes greater than the added cost of leaping. Since that publication several studies documented porpoising behavior at high speeds. The observations indicated that the behavior was more complex than previously assumed. The leaps were interspersed with relatively long swimming bouts, of about twice the leap length. In the present paper, the possibility of dolphins using a combination of leaping and burst and coast swimming is examined. A three-phase model is proposed, in which the dolphin leaps out of the water at a speed
40931193|Laboratory models have suggested a link between metabolism and life span in vertebrates, and it is well known that the evolution of specific life histories can be driven by metabolic factors. However, little is known regarding how the adoption of specific life-history strategies can shape aging and life span in populations facing different energetic demands from either a theoretical or a mechanistic viewpoint but significant insight can be gained by using a comparative approach. Comparative biology plays several roles in our understanding of the virtually ubiquitous phenomenon of aging in animals. First, it provides a critical evaluation of broad hypotheses concerning the evolutionary forces underlying the modulation of aging rate. Second, it suggests mechanistic hypotheses about processes of aging. Third, it illuminates particularly informative species because of their exceptionally slow or rapid aging rates to be interrogated about potentially novel mechanisms of aging. Although comparative biology has played a significant role in research on aging for more than a century, the new comparative biology of aging is poised to dwarf those earlier contributions, because: (1) new cellular and molecular techniques for investigating novel species are in place and more are being continually generated, (2) molecular systematics has resolved the phylogenetic relationships among a wide range of species, which allow for the implementation of analytic tools specialized for comparative biology, and (3) in addition to facilitating the construction of accurate phylogenies, the dramatic acceleration in DNA-sequencing technology is providing us with new tools for a comparative genomic approach to understanding aging.
3884878|Ecogenomics is a convenient descriptor for the application of advanced molecular technologies to studies of organismal responses to environmental challenges in their natural settings. The development of molecular tools to survey changes in the transcript profile of thousands of genes has presented scientists with enormous analytical challenges. In the main, these center about the reduction of massively paralleled data to statistics or indices comprehensible to the human mind. Historically, scientists have used linear statistics such as ANOVA to accomplish this task, but the sheer volume of information available from microarrays severely limits this approach. In addition, important information in microarrays may not reside solely in the up or down regulation of individual genes, but rather in their dynamic, and probably nonlinear, interactions. In this presentation, we will explore alternative approaches to extracting of these signals using artificial neural networks and fractal geometry. The goal is to produce predictive models of gene dynamics in individuals and populations under environmental stress and reduce the number of genes that must be surveyed in order to recover transcript profile patterns of environmental challenges.
3884909|We explore in this paper how animals can be affected by variation in climate, topography, vegetation characteristics, and body size. We utilize new spatially explicit state-of-the-art models that incorporate principles from heat and mass transfer engineering, physiology, morphology, and behavior that have been modified to provide spatially explicit hypotheses using GIS. We demonstrate how temporal and spatial changes in microclimate resulting from differences in topography and vegetation cover alter animal energetics, and behavior. We explore the impacts of these energetic predictions on elk energetics in burned and unburned stands of conifer in winter in Yellowstone National Park, chuckwalla lizard distribution limits in North America, California Beechey Ground squirrel and Dusky Footed woodrat mass and energy requirements and activity patterns on the landscape, their predator prey interactions with a rattlesnake, Crotalus viridis, and shifts in that food web structure due to topographic and vegetative variation. We illustrate how different scales of data/observation provide different pieces of information that may collectively define the real distributions of a species. We then use sensitivity analyses of energetic models to evaluate hypotheses about the effects of changes in core temperature (fever) global climate (increased air temperature under a global warming scenario) and vegetation cover (deforestation) on winter survival of elk, the geographic distribution of chuckwallas and the activity overlap of predator and prey species within a subset of commonly observed species in a terrestrial food web. Variation in slope and aspect affect the spatial variance in solar radiation incident on the ground, hence ground surface temperature, at the same elevation, same hourly 2 m air temperatures, and wind speeds. We illustrate visually how spatial effects and landscape heterogeneity make statistical descriptions of animal responses problematic, since multiple distributions of their responses to climate, topography, and vegetation on the landscape can yield the same descriptive statistics, especially at high (30 m) resolution. This preliminary analysis suggests that the model has far-reaching implications for hypothesis testing in ecology at a variety of spatial and temporal scales.
3884674|The functional significance of many features of the reptilian cardiopulmonary system remains unknown; particularly the importance of cardiac shunts. One hypothesis for a physiological function for shunts is that they play a role in myocardial oxygenation and are therefore important when cardiac work is elevated. In this study we examined cardiac function by monitoring electrocardiograms in red-eared slider turtles (Trachemys scripta) with a reduced myocardial oxygen supply. Exposing the animals to a hypoxic gas mixture reduced oxygen levels in the pulmonary venous return. When cardiac work was elevated during hypoxia, the electrocardiogram changed in a manner consistent with myocardial hypoxia, suggesting enrichment of the luminal blood with oxygen by the intracardiac shunt facilitates cardiac performance.
40863398|Many marine invertebrates are able to regenerate lost tissue following injury, but regeneration can come at a cost to individuals in terms of reproduction, behavior and physiological condition, and can have effects that reach beyond the individual to impact populations, communities, and ecosystems. For example, removal and subsequent regeneration of clams' siphons, polychaetes' segments, and brittlestars' arms can represent significant energetic input to higher trophic levels. In marine soft-sediment habitats, injury changes infaunal bioturbation rates and thus secondarily influences sediment-mediated competition, adult-larval interactions, and recruitment success. The importance of injury and regeneration as factors affecting the ecology of marine invertebrate communities depends on the frequency of injury, as well as on individual capacity for, and speed of, regeneration. A key question to answer is: "How frequently are marine benthic invertebrates injured?" Here, I review the sources and the frequencies of injury in a variety of marine invertebrates from different benthic habitats, discuss challenges, and approaches for accurately determining injury rates in the field, consider evidence for species-specific, temporal and geographic variation in injury rates, and present examples of indirect effects of injury on marine invertebrates to illustrate how injury and regeneration can modify larger-scale ecological patterns and processes.
4540180|The neural control of locomotion involves a constant interplay between the actions of a central pattern generator (CPG) and sensory input elicited by bodily movement. With respect to the CPG, recent analysis of fictive locomotion has shown that durations of flexion and extension tend to covary along specific lines in plots of phase duration versus cycle duration. The slopes of these lines evidently depend on internal states that vary among preparations, but, within a preparation, remain rather steady from one sequence to the next. These relationships can be reproduced in a simple oscillator model having two pairs of preset parameters, suggesting that steady internal drives to flexor and extensor half-centers determine how phase durations covary. Regarding the role of sensory inputs, previous experiments have revealed state-dependent rules that govern phase-switching independently of the CPG rhythm. In addition, sensory input is known to modulate motoneuronal activation through stretch reflexes. To explore how sensory input combines with the locomotor CPG, we used a neuromechanical model with muscle actuators, proprioceptive feedback, sensory phase-switching rules, and a CPG. Interestingly, sequences of stable locomotion were always associated with phase durations that conformed to an extensor-dominated phase-duration characteristic (where extension durations vary more than flexion durations). This is the characteristic seen in normal animals, but not necessarily in fictive locomotion, where movement and associated sensory input are absent. This suggests that to produce the biomechanical events required for stability, an extensor-dominated phase-duration characteristic is required. In the model, when the preset CPG phase durations were well matched to coincide the biomechanical requirements, CPG-mediated phase switching produced stable cycles. When CPG phase durations were too short, phases switched prematurely and the model soon fell. When CPG phase durations were too long, sensory rules fired and overrode the CPG, maintaining stability. We posit that under normal circumstances, descending input from higher centers continually adjusts the operating point of the CPG on the preset phase-duration characteristic according to anticipated biomechanical requirements. When the predictions are good, CPG-generated phase durations closely match those required by the kinetics and kinematics, and little or no sensory adjustment occurs. We propose the term "neuromechanical tuning" to describe this process of matching the CPG to the biomechanical requirements.
4485781|Multicellular animals, which evolved about 700 to 1,000 myr ago, contain many of the genes found in yeast. Important for the evolution of multicellular animals were new pathways for intercellular signaling that regulated more complex physiological responses. Here we focus on the contribution to this process of lipophilic molecules that interact with nuclear receptors and the aryl hydrocarbon receptor, as well as enzymes that regulate the concentrations of these molecules. Both nuclear receptors and the aryl hydrocarbon receptor are found in invertebrates and vertebrates. We propose that environmental chemicals (xenobiotics) have been an important influence on the evolution of multicellular animals through a process involving the co-evolution of ligand-activated transcription factors and enzymes that detoxify xenobiotics. Indeed, this conversion of "xenobiotic swords" into "adaptive plowshares" contributed to the diverse physiology found in multicelluar animals. An important implication of this analysis is that enzymes as well as hormone receptors are vulnerable targets for endocrine disruptors. That is, some toxic chemicals act by inhibiting the enzymes that catalyze the formation or degradation of lipophilic signals, such as steroids, thus, disrupting hormone action.
3884723| Clearly the brain controls behavior but can behavior also "control" the brain? On an evolutionary time scale, selective ecological pressures shape the sensory and motor capacities as well as the body and behavior. Correspondingly, in development, behavior acts in concert with the environment to cause structural changes in the brain lasting a lifetime. Surprisingly, in "real time" social behavior can also cause changes, typically reversible, in the brain in adult animals. Changes caused by behavioral interactions can be dramatic, and in many instances, these interactions are directly related to reproductive behavior. Understanding how behavior sculpts the brain in the course of behavioral interactions is a major challenge. Analyzing such changes requires a model system allowing control of the biological and behavioral environment of many animals simultaneously yet allowing access to physiological, cellular and molecular processes being regulated. The mouthbrooding cichlid Haplochromis (Astatotilapia) burtoni (Gnther) from Lake Tanganyika lends itself to the study of social influences on the brain. It has complex, though easily observable individual and social behaviors regulated by two distinct classes of males, those with territories and those without. Many features of the animals are shaped by social encounters including the maturation of juveniles, the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, the growth rate, the basal stress level among others. How does social information effect change in the brain and body? Animals must attend to the social scene to identify their chances. Learning how social information is transduced into cellular changes in this species should help understand how this happens in other social animals. 
4540200|Synopsis Unraveling the root of the metazoan tree of life has been a difficult task since the time of Haeckel and the invention of phylogenetics. Even considerable amounts of recent molecular data have not provided a generally accepted answer. Here, we review the major problems of this phylogenetic conundrum and provide some directions for solving it.
25160124| Existing information on the activity of bats in the aerosphere is restricted almost exclusively to altitudes that are within a few tens of meters above the ground. We report a total of 50.2 h of ultrasonic recordings made using radio microphonic bat detectors suspended from free-floating helium balloons and from kites. The data include a total of 22 353 echolocative calls from ground-level to 1118 m above ground level (AGL). These calls are attributed to Brazilian free-tailed bats based on acoustic features and the large numbers and high-altitude aerial dispersion of these bats over the local landscape. Bat activity varied significantly throughout the air column and was greatest at 400-500 m AGL and near ground level. Feeding buzzes, indicating feeding on aerial prey, were most abundant near ground level and at 400-500 m, and were detected to altitudes of 900 m AGL. The peak activity of bats at 400-500 m AGL is concordant with the altitude of the atmospheric boundary layer and the seasonal formation of the low-elevation southerly wind jet that has been identified as a major aeroecological corridor for the nocturnal dispersal of noctuid moths and other insects. 
40863409|All organisms face two fundamental trade-offs in the allocation of energetic resources: one between many small versus a few large offspring, and the second between present and future reproduction. Nowhere are these trade-offs more apparent than in the vast range of variation in the sizes of eggs and offspring exhibited among species of marine invertebrates. It has become increasingly clear that, in many taxa of marine organisms, there is also substantial intraspecific variation in the size of eggs and hatchings. This variation has largely been attributed to adaptive maternal effects. In theory, however, the inevitable conflicts of interest that arise in families of sexually reproducing organisms over the optimal distribution of parental resources among siblings could also account for much of this variation in egg and offspring size. Here, we explore the potential impacts of family conflict on offspring traits by comparing the life histories of two exemplar species of marine organisms, the polychaete Boccardia proboscidea and the gastropod Solenosteira macrospira, emphasizing how differences in modes of fertilization and parental care might influence the phenotype and, consequently, the fitness of offspring.
3884949|In temperate insects the evolution of growth strategies and the optimal age and size at maturity will depend strongly on seasonal variation in temperature and other resources. However, compared to photoperiod, temperature itself is a relatively poor predictor of seasonal change and timing decisions in insects are often most strongly influenced by the photoperiod. Here I review the evolution of seasonal growth strategies in the butterfly tribe Pararginii (Satyrinae: Nymphalidae) and relate it to life history theory. The results indicate that individual larvae may adjust their growth trajectories in relation to information on time horizons obtained from the photoperiod. The growth strategies can be characterized by a set of state-dependent decision rules that specify how an individual should respond to its internal state and external circumstances. These decision rules may also influence how individual growth change with a rise in temperature, showing that the standard expectation of increased growth rates with increasing temperatures may not always be true. With less time available individual larvae increase growth rates and thereby achieve shorter development times, most often without any effects on final sizes. One reason for the apparent optimization of growth rate seems to be that growing fast may incur costs that larvae developing under lower time limitations chose to avoid. The patterns of growth found in these and many other studies are difficult to reconcile with common assumptions of what typically determines optimal body size in insects. In particular it seems as if there should be some costs of a large body size that, so far, have been poorly documented.
4540183|Traditionally the process of respiration is divided into three phases: (1) cellular respiration, (2) transport of respiratory gases and (3) ventilation of the gas exchange organs (breathing). Thereby organisms assimilate chemical energy from the environment, and within their cells transfer it from molecule to molecule in a stepwise fashion. Although studied separately, these phases represent a continuum and cellular respiration in all life forms has much in common. Ironically, these respiratory foci have been artificially delineated by their own practitioners, who tend to publish in their own journals, and attend their own conferences. The goal of modern respiratory biology should be to understand biological connectivity and complexity by viewing an organism as a series of interconnecting systems from molecule to ecosystem. The future of science in general, and biology in particular, lies in disciplinary networking: combining the results of traditional disciplines to better understand the whole. Because of its universality, Respiratory Biology can best provide this bridge and improve interdisciplinary studies in biology generally. To this end, the First International Congress of Respiratory Biology was held from August 14 to 16, 2006, at Bonn, Germany. As evident from the success of this inaugural meeting, these are exciting times for Respiratory Biology. The explosion of "X-omics" and systems biology, the powerful genetic approaches to disease treatment, and the long-standing and newly emerging questions in evolutionary biology and ecology; all portend a continuing role of respiratory biology as a key integrative discipline.
3884847|We propose that some of the more conspicuous Ediacaran fossils from the Avalon Peninsula of Newfoundland, including Aspidella, Charnia, and Charniodiscus, were biologically similar to members of the Kingdom Fungi. These organisms were multicellular or multinuclear, lived below the photic zone, could not move or defoul themselves, did not exhibit taphonomic shrinkage, and were not transported or moved. Aspidella, in particular, appears to exhibit indeterminate growth without a maximum size constraint, and appears to show growth zonations similar to modern mycelia. Other fossils from this deposit exhibit a fractal-like growth pattern. Together, these features falsify algal, lichen, and metazoan interpretations of these fossils, yet reflect characteristics of modern fungal mycelia. We emphasize that although no Mistaken Point fossil appears to be a metazoan, not all of the Mistaken Point taxa, and not all of the Ediacaran organisms in general, can reasonably be interpreted using a fungal analogy. Furthermore, the hypothesis that these fossils were functionally fungus-like need not imply that the organisms were members of the crown-group Fungi. We propose further tests for evaluating both this functional hypothesis and the phylogenetic hypothesis that these organisms were members of the total-group Fungi.
3884580| Animals must make "decisions" (e.g., when or whether to breed, the effort to put into a breeding episode) by integrating physiological, environmental and social inputs. This integration can be studied only in a field context. In Adlie penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) reproduction is constrained by foraging ecology, mode of transport, and the extreme latitude at which they live. The decision whether to breed in a given year is influenced by body conditions. Adlie penguins must fast for several weeks during the early reproductive stages and use stored fat for metabolic energy. Females that return to the colony, but do not breed, are 10-12% lighter than females that do breed. Birds that are relatively low in body mass tend to have lower reproductive success than heavier birds, and an individual's reproductive success is positively correlated with the body fat stores it had on arrival. After eggs are laid, parents alternate in attending the nest. Nest failure occurs if one parent does not make a timely return and its fasting partner must eventually leave. During normal-length fasts plasma corticosterone and glucose levels do not change. Blood -hydroxybutyrate levels gradually increase during the fast while uric acid levels remain low, but in birds with the longest fasts (>50 days), ketone levels may fall and uric acid levels increase, indicative of a switch from using fat to using body proteins for metabolism. In incubating males, hematocrit and hemoglobin concentrations also increase, suggesting dehydration can accompany energy stress during the breeding fast. 
40863400|Loss of arms has energetic consequences for stellate echinoderms (crinoids, ophiuroids, and asteroids). The energetic cost of losing an arm includes loss of investment, decrease in ability to obtain nutrients and allocation of nutrients to regeneration of the lost arms at a cost to other body compartments. The cost to other body compartments is low when food availability is very low or very high. The cost becomes apparent when food availability is sufficient to support production but not high enough that the cost of regeneration has no effect on production of other body compartments. Loss of investment is greater in asteroids than in crinoids and ophiuroids because of greater development of the body wall and presence of gonads and pyloric caeca in the arms. The cost of regeneration of organic matter in an arm can be estimated from the amount of organic matter present in intact arms and the cost of anabolism. Protein production is the primary cost of regeneration of an arm because of the high concentration of protein in the regenerated arm and the high anabolic cost of protein production. A major energetic cost of loss of arms that affects regeneration is decrease in food consumption. It is necessary to separate cost of decrease in consumption from cost of regeneration. Comparison of intact and regenerating individuals requires they consume the same amount of food. The cost of regeneration will also be affected by the quality of food because of the nutrient requirements for growth. Because the quantity and quality of the food ingested is not known, it is not possible to quantify the cost of regeneration in the field. Asteroids appear to be a good model for the study of regeneration in the laboratory because it is possible to control the quantity and quality of food they ingest. They are also a good model for the study of the evolutionary significance of regeneration by comparing individuals that have lost arms and are regenerating them to those that have lost arms and are not. The difference in the frequency of loss of arms of species is related to the difference in availability of food and the ability to feed that affect the capacity for re-investment in the lost arm. This is important in considering life-history strategies.
3884738|Egg size is a critical life-history trait because it can profoundly influence offspring fitness and the number of offspring that can be produced. Recently, interest has grown in how egg size influences fertilization rate and in turn how sperm availability might influence the evolution of egg size among broadcast-spawning marine invertebrates. In this article I review the empirical evidence on the ways in which egg size and egg accessory structures influence fertilization and theoretical models of the ways sperm availability might influence the evolution of egg size. Evidence suggests that egg size does influence the collision frequency with sperm, and models suggest that sperm availability can influence selection on egg size. Sperm availability appears to be one of the several factors that influence optimal egg size in broadcast-spawning marine invertebrates.
3884680|Researchers strive to understand what makes species different, and what allows them to survive in the time and space that they do. Many models have been advanced which encompass an array of ecological, evolutionary, mathematical, and logical principles. The goal has been to develop ecological theories that can, among other things, make specific and robust predictions about how and where organisms should live and what organisms should utilize. The role of functional morphology is often an under-appreciated parameter of these models. A more complete understanding of how anatomical features work to allow the organism to accomplish certain tasks has allowed us to revisit some of these ideas with a new perspective. We illustrate our view of this role for functional morphology in ecology by considering the issue of specialization: we attempt to align several definitions of specialization based upon shared ecological and evolutionary principles, and we summarize theoretical predictions regarding why an organism might specialize. Kinematic studies of prey capture in several types of fishes are explored with regard to the potential ecological and evolutionary consequences of specialization, most notably in the area of trade-offs. We suggest that a functional morphological perspective can increase our understanding of the ecological concepts of specialization and it consequences. The kinds of data that functional morphologists collect can help us to quantify organismal performance associated with specialization and the union of functional morphology with ecology can help us to better understand not just how but why organisms interact in the manner that they do.
3884885|A blue crab (Callinectes sapidus) expressed sequence tag project was designed for multiple purposes including discovery of genes for cuticular (exoskeletal) proteins, some of which may regulate mineralization. One of the expression libraries sequenced was from the hypodermis (the epithelium depositing the cuticle). RNAs used for cDNA synthesis were pooled from arthrodial and mid-dorsal hypodermis at both pre-ecdysis and post-ecdysis. This ensured representation from both calcifying and non-calcifying regions and from layers of cuticle deposited both before and after ecdysis. The EST database was mined for cuticular protein sequences in three ways. First, we searched for sequences coding for known cuticle-specific motifs like the Rebers-Riddiford chitin-binding sequence and a motif known only from proteins extracted from mineralized exoskeletons of other decapods. Second, we checked the associated annotations in the EST project for similarity to known cuticular proteins, often from insects. Third, BLAST was used to search the EST data for significant homology to published cuticular protein sequences from other crustaceans. In all, the database contains at least 73 contigs or singlets representing transcripts of cuticular proteins. Forty-five of these distribute among ten clusters of very similar transcripts, possibly representing alternative splicing or recent gene duplications. The rest share less similarity. We have obtained complete sequences for 25 of the transcripts, have produced phylogenetics trees comparing them with similar proteins from insects and other crustaceans, and have determined expression patterns across the molt in calcifying versus non-calcifying cuticle. The combination of homology analysis and gene expression analysis allows us to infer putative functions in cuticle synthesis and calcification.
25160178|The evolution of sex determination has long fascinated biologists, as it has paramount consequences for the evolution of a multitude of traits, from sex allocation to speciation and extinction. Explaining the diversity of sex-determining systems found in vertebrates (genotypic or GSD and temperature-dependent or TSD) requires a comprehensive and integrative examination from both a functional and an evolutionary perspective. Particularly revealing is the examination of the gene network that regulates gonadogenesis. Here, I review some advances in this field and propose some additional hypotheses about the composition of the gene network underlying sexual development, the functional links among some of its elements and their evolution in turtles. I focus on several pending questions about: (1) What renders TSD systems thermo-sensitive? (2) Is there one developmentally conserved or multiple TSD mechanisms? (3) Have evolutionarily derived GSD species lost all ancestral thermal-sensitivity? New data are presented on embryonic expression of Dax1 (the dosage-sensitive sex-reversal adrenal hypoplasia congenital on the X chromosome gene in the turtles Chrysemys picta (TSD) and Apalone mutica (GSD). No differential Dax1 expression was detected in C. picta at any of the stages examined, consistent with reports on two other TSD turtles and alligators. Notably, significantly higher Dax1 expression was found at 30C than at 25C at stage 15 in A. mutica (GSD), likely caused by Wt1's identical expression pattern previously reported. Because Sf1 is an immediate downstream target of Dax1 and its expression is not affected by temperature, it is proposed that Sf1 renders Dax1's differential signal ineffective to induce biased sex ratios in A. mutica, as previously proposed for Wt1's thermosensitive expression. Thus, it is hypothesized that Sf1 plays a major role in the lack of response of sex ratio to temperature of A. mutica, and may function as a sex-determining gene in this GSD species. These and previous data permit formulating several mechanistic hypotheses: (1) the postulation of Wt1 as a candidate thermal master switch alone, or in combination with Sf1, in the TSD turtle C. picta; (2) the proposition of Sf1 as a sex-determining gene in the GSD turtle A. mutica; and (3) the hypothesis that differing patterns of gene expression among TSD taxa reflect multiple traits from a developmental perspective. Moreover, the recent finding of relic differential Wt1 expression in A. mutica and the results for Dax1 in this species provide empirical evidence that GSD taxa can harbor thermal sensitivity at the level of gene expression, potentially co-optable during TSD evolution.
4485820|One of the enduring temptations of evolutionary theory is the extrapolation from short-term to long-term, from a few species to all species. Unfortunately, the study of experimental evolution reveals that extrapolation from local to general patterns of evolution is not usually successful. The present article supports this conclusion using evidence from the experimental evolution of life-history in Drosophila. The following factors demonstrably undermine evolutionary correlations between functional characters: inbreeding, genotype-by-environment interaction, novel foci of selection, long-term selection, and alternative genetic backgrounds. The virtual certainty that at least one of these factors will arise during evolution shreds the prospects for global theories of the effects of adaptation. The effects of evolution apparently don't generalize, even though evolution is a global process.
4485858|Persistence of anhydrous organisms in nature may depend on how long they remain viable in dry environments. Longevity is determined by interactions of humidity, temperature, and unknown cellular factors that affect the propensity for damaging reactions. Here we describe our research to elucidate those cellular factors and to ultimately predict how long a population can survive under extreme conditions. Loss of viability typically follows a sigmoidal pattern, where a period of small changes precedes a cataclysmic decline. The time for viability to decrease to 50% (P50) varied among seed species and among 10 phylogenetically diverse organisms. When stored at elevated temperatures of 35C and 32% relative humidity (RH), P50 ranged from about a week for spores of Serratia marcescens to several years for fronds of Selaginella lepidophylla. Most of the species studied survived longest at low humidity (10-20% RH), but suffered under complete dryness. Temperature dependencies of aging kinetics appeared similar among diverse organisms despite the disparate longevities. The effect of temperature on seed aging rates was consistent with the temperature dependency of molecular mobility of aqueous glasses, with both showing a reduction by several orders of magnitude when seeds were cooled from 60C to 0C. Longevity is an inherited trait in seeds, but its complex expression among widely divergent taxa suggests that it developed through multiple pathways.
3884973|Research on humans at high-altitudes contributes to understanding the processes of human adaptation to the environment and evolution. The unique stress at high altitude is hypobaric hypoxia caused by the fall in barometric pressure with increasing altitude and the consequently fewer oxygen molecules in a breath of air, as compared with sea level. The natural experiment of human colonization of high-altitude plateaus on three continents has resulted in two-perhaps three-quantitatively different arterial-oxygen-content phenotypes among indigenous Andean, Tibetan and Ethiopian high-altitude populations. This paper illustrates these contrasting phenotypes by presenting evidence for higher hemoglobin concentration and percent of oxygen saturation of hemoglobin among Andean highlanders as compared with Tibetans at the same altitude and evidence that Ethiopian highlanders do not differ from sea-level in these two traits. Evolutionary processes may have acted differently on the colonizing populations to cause the different patterns of adaptation. Hemoglobin concentration has significant heritability in Andean and Tibetan samples. Oxygen saturation has no heritability in the Andean sample, but does among Tibetans where an autosomal dominant major gene for higher oxygen saturation has been detected. Women estimated with high probability to have high oxygen saturation genotypes have more surviving children than women estimated with high probability to have the low oxygen saturation genotype. These findings suggest the hypothesis that ongoing natural selection is increasing the frequency of the high saturation allele at this major gene locus.
4540165|Cranial placodes give rise to many evolutionary novelties of the vertebrate head, such as its specialized paired sense organs and cranial ganglia. There is an increasing evidence that all placodes originate from a common primordium located around the anterior neural plate and defined by the expression of transcription factors of the Six1/2, Six4/5, and Eya families. These transcription factors continue to be expressed in the different placodes and appear to control similar developmental processes (e.g., proliferation, cell shape changes, and neurogenesis) in the different placodes suggesting that they play a central role for generic placodal development. Elucidating the central role of Six and Eya genes for placodal development requires an understanding of (1) how these genes are induced in the pre-placodal ectoderm at the right place and time and (2) how they subsequently affect and promote placodal development. The first part of this review gives a brief overview of what is currently known about these upstream and downstream regulatory linkages of Six and Eya genes. The second part of the review then discusses the distribution and function of Six and Eya genes in other deuterostomes in order to infer changes of upstream and downstream linkages in the course of deuterostome evolution by which Six and Eya genes adopted their new role in vertebrate placode development. It is argued that these genes were probably recruited to the neural plate border in the ancestor of urochordates and vertebrates, and adopted novel roles in the regulation of neuronal differentiation and possibly other pathways of cytodifferentiation as well in the vertebrate lineage.
23016125|Synopsis Hybridizing populations of blue mussels, Mytilus edulis and Mytilus trossulus, in Cobscook Bay (eastern Maine) have been used by our laboratory to study the evolution of gamete incompatibility and molecular evolution of the vitelline coat lysin proteins expressed in sperm. The M7 lysin locus has been the most studied of the three lysins, but evidence for positive selection necessary to help confirm its role in gamete recognition in western Atlantic hybrid zones is contradictory. We developed an alternative test, based on rates of introgression at M7 lysin. Contrary to expectations, introgression at this locus is much higher (instead of much lower) than is introgression at neutral markers. In this article, we present simulations, constructed using synthetic populations of combinations of admixed genotypes, representing various hybrid offspring categories. Simulations produced variation in introgression across loci, but did not generate the massive introgression at M7 lysin observed in natural populations in Cobscook Bay. We consider these results in the context of selection operating on gamete recognition loci, both within and between species, during the third stage of allopatric speciation in Mytilus.
40863358|Across the geographic area that a species uses for reproduction, the density of breeding individuals is typically highest in locations where ecological factors promote reproductive success. For migratory animals, fitness depends, in part, on producing offspring that migrate successfully to habitats suitable for the next life-history stage. Thus, natural selection might favor reproduction in locations with conditions that facilitate the migration of offspring. To investigate this concept, we studied the Kemp's ridley sea turtle (Lepidochelys kempii) to determine whether coastal areas with the highest levels of nesting have particularly favorable conditions for hatchling migration. We modeled the passive drift of young Kemp's ridley turtles from seven nesting regions within the Gulf of Mexico to foraging grounds using the particle-tracking program ICHTHYOP and surface-current output from HYCOM (HYbrid Coordinate Ocean Model). Results revealed that geographic regions with conditions that facilitate successful migration to foraging grounds typically have higher abundance of nests than do regions where ocanographie conditions are less favorable and successful migration is difficult for hatchlings. Thus, our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that, for the Kemp's ridley turtle and perhaps for other migrants, patterns of abundance across the breeding range are shaped in part by conditions that promote or impede the successful migration of offspring.
3884660| We examined the role of trophic interactions in structuring a high arctic tundra community characterized by a large breeding colony of greater snow geese (Chen caerulescens atlantica). According to the exploitation ecosystem hypothesis of Oksanen et al. (1981), food chains are controlled by top-down interactions. However, because the arctic primary productivity is low, herbivore populations are too small to support functional predator populations and these communities should thus be dominated by the plant/ herbivore trophic-level interaction. Since 1990, we have been monitoring annual abundance and productivity of geese, the impact of goose grazing, predator abundance (mostly arctic foxes, Alopex lagopus) and the abundance of lemmings, the other significant herbivore in this community, on Bylot Island, Nunavut, Canada. Goose grazing consistently removed a significant proportion of the standing crop (40%) in tundra wetlands every year. Grazing changed plant community composition and reduced the production of grasses and sedges to a low-level equilibrium compared to the situation where the presence of geese had been removed. Lemming cyclic fluctuations were strong and affected fox reproduction. Fox predation on goose eggs was severe and generated marked annual variation in goose productivity. Predation intensity on geese was closely related to the lemming cycle, a consequence of an indirect interaction between lemming and geese via shared predators. We conclude that, contrary to the exploitation ecosystem hypothesis, both the plant/herbivore and predator/prey interactions are significant in this arctic community. 
4485765|To clarify the effect of environmental endocrine disruptors on the induction of secondary sexual characteristics in wild animals, we observed 1,527 male and 1,847 female specimens of sexually mature Japanese freshwater crabs, Geothelphusa dehaani, collected at 12 sample points from 10 rivers in Sasebo City, Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan. The results obtained were as follows: 1. Abnormal males, with external appearance of a complete male, but having female genital openings, were observed at frequencies of 8-32% of males collected at all sample points. In contrast to this, all females collected were normal. 2. The frequency of abnormal males increased significantly with the increase in individual carapace width. This species inhabits mountain streams in Japan, which are free from tributyltin that is known to induce the sexual mosaic phenomenon in mollusks. The streams are most likely polluted by some agricultural chemicals and chemicals present in waste gases from cars and especially particulate materials from diesel engines. The clear relationship of the frequencies of abnormal males to size (or age) suggests that the sexual mosaic phenomenon is induced not only at early stages of male development but after sexual maturation, in response to long-term exposure to chemical(s) during the whole life cycle of males. The definitive causal factors and mechanisms inducing sexual mosaics in this species are still unclear.
40793118|Lampreys are agnathans (vertebrates without jaws). They occupy a key phylogenetic position in the emergence of novelties and in the diversification of morphology at the dawn of vertebrates. We have used lampreys to investigate the possibility that embryonic midline signaling systems have been a driving force for the evolution of the forebrain in vertebrates. We have focused on Sonic Hedgehog/Hedgehog (Shh/Hh) signaling. In this article, we first review and summarize our recent work on the comparative analysis of embryonic expression patterns for Shh/Hh, together with Fgf8 (fibroblast growth factor 8) and Wnt (wingless-Int) pathway components, in the embryonic lamprey forebrain. Comparison with nonvertebrate chordates on one hand, and jawed vertebrates on the other hand, shows that these morphogens/growth factors acquired new expression domains in the most rostral part of the neural tube in lampreys compared to nonvertebrate chordates, and in jawed vertebrates compared to lampreys. These data are consistent with the idea that changes in Shh, Fgf8 or Wnt signaling in the course of evolution have been instrumental for the emergence and diversification of the telencephalon, a part of the forebrain that is unique to vertebrates. We have then used comparative genomics on Shh/Hh loci to identify commonalities and differences in noncoding regulatory sequences across species and phyla. Conserved noncoding elements (CNEs) can be detected in lamprey Hh introns, even though they display unique structural features and need adjustments of parameters used for in silico alignments to be detected, because of lamprey-specific properties of the genome. The data also show conservation of a ventral midline enhancer located in Shh/Hh intron 2 of all chordates, the very species which possess a notochord and a floor plate, but not in earlier emerged deuterostomes or protostomes. These findings exemplify how the Shh/Hh locus is one of the best loci to study genome evolution with regards to developmental events.
3884663|Climate change will likely alter the distribution and abundance of northern mammals through a combination of direct, abiotic effects (e.g., changes in temperature and precipitation) and indirect, biotic effects (e.g., changes in the abundance of resources, competitors, and predators). Bioenergetic approaches are ideally suited to predicting the impacts of climate change because individual energy budgets integrate biotic and abiotic influences, and translate individual function into population and community outcomes. In this review, we illustrate how bioenergetics can be used to predict the regional biodiversity, species range limits, and community trophic organization of mammals under future climate scenarios. Although reliable prediction of climate change impacts for particular species requires better data and theory on the physiological ecology of northern mammals, two robust hypotheses emerge from the bioenergetic approaches presented here. First, the impacts of climate change in northern regions will be shaped by the appearance of new species at least as much as by the disappearance of current species. Second, seasonally inactive mammal species (e.g., hibernators), which are largely absent from the Canadian arctic at present, should undergo substantial increases in abundance and distribution in response to climate change, probably at the expense of continuously active mammals already present in the arctic.
3884797|Interpretations of hermaphroditism have been influenced by the old idea that organisms can be arranged in a series from lower to higher, with human beings at the top, leading toward the angels and God (the scala naturae). The consequent notion that hermaphroditism is a primitive condition is still with us. Such issues need to be addressed empirically, in a phylogenetic context. Darwin's theory of sexual selection provided the key to understanding sex switches, but it was not invoked until 1969 when it was conjoined with ideas about relative size influenced by the work of Bernhard Rensch. In principle the problem could have been solved a century earlier, and genetics was misleading rather than helpful. What really helped was an appreciation of Darwin's nonteleological way of thinking.
23016052|Synopsis Bony fish swim with a level of agility that is unmatched in human-developed systems. This is due, in part, to the ability of the fish to carefully control hydrodynamic forces through the active modulation of the fins' kinematics and mechanical properties. To better understand how fish produce and control forces, biorobotic models of the bluegill sunfish's (Lepomis macrochirus) caudal fin and pectoral fins were developed. The designs of these systems were based on detailed analyses of the anatomy, kinematics, and hydrodynamics of the biological fins. The fin models have been used to investigate how fin kinematics and the mechanical properties of the fin-rays influence propulsive forces and to explore kinematic patterns that were inspired by biological motions but that were not explicitly performed by the fish. Results from studies conducted with the fin models indicate that subtle changes to the kinematics and mechanical properties of fin rays can significantly impact the magnitude, direction, and time course of the 3D forces used for propulsion and maneuvers. The magnitude of the force tends to scale with the fin's stiffness, but the direction of the force is not invariant, and this causes disproportional changes in the magnitude of the thrust, lift, and lateral components of force. Results from these studies shed light on the multiple strategies that are available to the fish to modulate fin forces.
3884805|Mating behavior in simultaneously hermaphroditic seabasses has been often cited as an example of cooperation among unrelated conspecifics. The predominant mating behavior in this group involves egg trading, where individuals reciprocally fertilize parcels of eggs from a partner. Egg trading has been suggested as a good example of a tit-for-tat cooperative mating strategy. Although simultaneous hermaphroditic fishes are often held up as strong examples of cooperation in mating behavior, a closer examination reveals significant sexual selection and sexual conflict between male and female roles among individuals. In the 7 species where data exist, there is a significant increase in male reproductive success with individual size, and in all but 1 species success through male function increases faster than reproductive success through female function. Despite this male-size advantage in simultaneous hermaphrodites, most species maintain their hermaphroditism for their entire life, and the increased male allocation while engaging in biased forms of reciprocation appear to increase the evolutionary stability of hermaphroditism in these species. Thus, egg-trading behavior is probably more complicated than was initially recognized, with individuals releasing different numbers of eggs in spawns, spawning at different rates as males and females, and partitioning male effort between pair and alternative mating tactics. The departures from equal reciprocity can probably be best understood by including aspects of traditional mating-system theory, with individuals increasing male mating success through a variety of behavioral tactics.
40863364|The mitochondrial genome of basal animals is generally more slowly evolving than that of bilaterians. This difference in rate complicates the study of relationships among members of these lineages and the discovery of cryptic species or the testing of morphological species concepts within them. We explore the properties of mitochondrial and nuclear ribosomal genes in the cnidarian order Actiniaria, using both an ordinal-and familial-scale sample of taxa. Although the markers do not show significant incongruence, they differ in their phylogenetic informativeness and the kinds of relationships they resolve. Among the markers studied here, the fragments of 12S rDNA and 18S rDNA most effectively recover well-supported nodes; those of 16S rDNA and 28S rDNA are less effective. The general patterns we observed are similar to those in other hexacorallians, although Actiniaria alone show saturation of transitions for ordinal-scale analyses.
3884848|The idea that the last common ancestor of bilaterian animals (Urbilateria) was segmented has been raised recently on evidence coming from comparative molecular embryology. Leaving aside the complex debate on the value of genetic evidence, the morphological and developmental evidence in favor of a segmented Urbilateria are discussed in the light of the emerging molecular phylogeny of metazoans. Applying a cladistic character optimization procedure to the question of segmentation is vastly complicated by the problem of defining without ambiguity what segmentation is and to what taxa this definition applies. An ancestral segmentation might have undergone many complex derivations in each different phylum, thus rendering the cladistics approaches problematic. Taking the most general definitions of coelom and segmentation however, some remarkably similar patterns are found across the bilaterian tree in the way segments are formed by the posterior addition of mesodermal segments or somites. Postulating that these striking similarities in mesodermal patterns are ancestral, a scenario for the diversification of bilaterians from a metameric ancestor is presented. Several types of evolutionary mechanisms (specialization, tagmosis, progenesis) operating on a segmented ancestral body plan would explain the rapid emergence of body plans during the Cambrian. We finally propose to test this hypothesis by comparing genes involved in mesodermal segmentation.
3884574|Vertebrates show a diverse array of social behaviors associated with territoriality. Field and laboratory experiments indicate that underlying themes-including mechanisms-may exist. For example in birds, extensive evidence over many decades has implicated a role for testosterone in the activation of territorial aggression in reproductive contexts. Territoriality at other times of the year appeared to be independent of gonadal hormone control. One obvious question is-why this diversity of control mechanisms for an apparently similar behavior? Control of testosterone secretion during the breeding season must balance the need to compete with other males (that tends to increase testosterone secretion), and the need to provide parental care (that requires lower testosterone concentrations). Regulation of aggressive behaviors by testosterone in the non-breeding season may incur substantial costs. A series of experiments on the male song sparrow, Melospiza melodia morphna, of western Washington State have revealed possible mechanisms to avoid these costs. Song sparrows are sedentary and defend territories in both breeding and non-breeding seasons. Dominance interactions, territorial aggression and song during the non-breeding season are essentially identical to those during the breeding season. Although in the non-breeding season plasma testosterone and estradiol levels are very low, treatment with an aromatase inhibitor decreases aggression and simultaneous implantation of estradiol restores territorial behavior. These data suggest that the mechanism by which testosterone regulates territorial behavior at the neural level remains intact throughout the year. How the hormonal message to activate such behavior gets to the brain in different season does, however, appear to be different.
40931198|Aging affects a myriad of genetic, biochemical, and metabolic processes, and efforts to understand the underlying molecular basis of aging are often thwarted by the complexity of the aging process. By taking a systems biology approach, network analysis is well-suited to study the decline in function with age. Network analysis has already been utilized in describing other complex processes such as development, evolution, and robustness. Networks of gene expression and protein-protein interaction have provided valuable insight into the loss of connectivity and network structure throughout lifespan. Here, we advocate the use of metabolic networks to expand the work from genomics and proteomics. As metabolism is the final fingerprint of functionality and has been implicated in multiple theories of aging, metabolomic methods combined with metabolite network analyses should pave the way to investigate how relationships of metabolites change with age and how these interactions affect phenotype and function of the aging individual. The metabolomic network approaches highlighted in this review are fundamental for an understanding of systematic declines and of failure to function with age.
4485859|Bdelloid rotifers are aquatic microinvertebrates common in water bodies and in unstable "terrestrial" habitats, such as mosses and lichens. The key to the adaptability to live in unstable habitats is their capacity to tolerate habitat desiccation through anhydrobiosis, that is assumed apomorphic to the taxon. The life history traits of some "moss" and "water" species of bdelloid are compared, showing that the water species have shorter life span, higher fecundity and earlier age at first reproduction than the moss species. These traits are discussed in the light of current life history theories. Contrary to the assumptions of the models, anhydrobiosis of bdelloids does not appear to imply energy demand. Past research on bdelloid anhydrobiosis is briefly reviewed, focusing on the factors that affect anhydrobiosis success, like morphological and physiolog adjustments, and on the effect of events of anhydrobiosis during life time. Desiccation produces a time shift on the age of the bdelloid, which disregards the time spent as anhydrobiotic, following the so-called "Sleeping Beauty" model. Average fecundity is never found to decrease as a consequence of anhydrobiosis, but is either equal or even higher than that of a hydrated rotifer. Bdelloid populations seem to benefit from anhydrobiosis; fitness of a bdelloid is found to decline, if populations are maintained hydrated for several generations, but not if populations are cyclically desiccated. We hypothesize that anhydrobiosis can be an essential event for long-term survival of bdelloid populations.
25160182|Reptiles (sauropsids) represent the sister group to mammals, and the basal members of Reptilia may provide a good model for the condition of the common ancestor of both groups. Sex-determining mechanisms (SDM) and organizations of sex chromosomes among genotypically sex-determining (GSD) species vary widely across reptiles. Birds and snakes, for example, are entirely GSD whereas other reptiles, like all crocodilians, exhibit temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD). Here we explore the evolution of sex chromosomes and SDM within reptiles, using family-level analyses of character evolution and applying parsimony, likelihood, Bayesian, and stochastic methods. We find support for the common ancestor of amphisbaenians and whiptail lizards (Laterata) possessing the XY (male heterogametic) GSD mechanism, while the ancestors of Testudines and Crocodylia, as well as the larger group Archosauromorpha (here containing turtles) are inferred to have exhibited TSD. We also find evidence consistent with the hypothesis that the XY system is more labile and evolves faster than does the ZW (female heterogametic) system. Phylogenetic-based speciation tests do not support an association between GSD and speciation, and reject the hypothesis that the presence of the XY system is associated with speciation in reptiles.
23016043|Synopsis Plasticity in hatching potentially adjusts risks of benthic and planktonic development for benthic marine invertebrates. The proportionate effect of hatching plasticity on duration of larval swimming is greatest for animals that can potentially brood or encapsulate offspring until hatching near metamorphic competence. As an example, early hatching of the nudibranch mollusk Phestilla sibogae is stimulated by scattering of encapsulated offspring, as by a predator feeding on the gelatinous egg ribbon. When egg ribbons are undisturbed, hatching is at or near metamorphic competence. Disturbance of an unguarded benthic egg mass can insert 4 or more days of obligate larval dispersal into the life history. As another example, the spionid annelid Boccardia proboscidea broods capsules, each with both cannibalistic and developmentally arrested planktivorous siblings plus nurse eggs. Early hatching produces mainly planktivorous larvae with a planktonic duration of 15 days. Late hatching produces mainly adelphophages who have eaten their planktivorous siblings and metamorphose with little or no period of swimming. Mothers actively hatch their offspring by tearing the capsules, and appeared to time hatching in response to their environment and not to the stage of development of their offspring. Higher temperature increased the variance of brooding time. Females appeared to hatch capsules at an earlier developmental stage at lower temperatures. Species that release gametes or zygotes directly into the plankton have less scope for plasticity in stage at hatching. Their embryos develop singly with little protection and hatch at early stages, often as blastulae or gastrulae. Time of hatching cannot be greatly advanced, and sensory capabilities of blastulae may be limited.
3884649|For benthic marine organisms with complex life cycles, conditions experienced by pelagic larvae can influence juvenile survival. Trait-specific selective mortality has been documented in the laboratory and field, yet our knowledge of the factors contributing to the existence, strength, and consistency of natural selective mortality is limited. We compiled previously published and unpublished data on the common Caribbean coral reef fish, Thalassoma bifasciatum, recruiting to Barbados, West Indies, and the upper Florida Keys to examine how environmental variability during pelagic larval life influences the distribution of early life-history traits exhibited by new recruits. We explored how the scope of variability in otolith-derived traits such as larval growth, pelagic larval duration (PLD), size and condition at settlement, and early juvenile growth influences the degree to which mortality of juveniles is selective. At both locations, contrasting oceanographic conditions (periodic passage of large low-salinity North Brazil Current [NBC] rings near Barbados and seasonal variation in water temperature at Florida) led to significant differences in the early life-history traits of recruits. Mortality was most frequently selective for the two most variable traits, condition at settlement and early juvenile growth. Environmental variability (including variation in predation pressure and stress-inducing conditions) also likely influences juvenile mortality and consequently the degree to which selective loss of particular traits occurs. As we begin to better understand the spatial, temporal, and species-specific circumstances in which events occurring during larval life influence juvenile performance, studies must also be extended to examine how these processes are translated into adult fitness.
40793143|In this article, we consider the potential effects of anthropogenic disturbances on marine fish species known or suspected to be habitat engineers. The three species of interest inhabit different marine habitats at different life stages, and therefore can have significant influences across the sea floor at broad spatial scales. The primary species include the shallow-water Atlantic goliath grouper (Epinephelus itajara), which inhabits mangrove root systems as juveniles, and caves, shipwrecks, and rocky reefs as adults; red grouper (E. mono), which excavates habitat throughout its benthic life in Karst regions of the Gulf of Mexico and western Atlantic, from the coast to the shelf-edge; and tilefish (Lopholatilus chamaeleonticeps), a species that lives on the continental slope and constructs elaborate, pueblo-esque burrows. The anthropogenic disturbances of greatest interest in the Gulf of Mexico include fishing, hypoxia, red tide, oil and gas exploration, and climatic change. We suggest that to understand the broader effects of both natural and anthropogenic disturbances on biomass and productivity in these species requires that we first understand the strength of interactions between them and the other species residing within their communities (e. g., predators, prey, commensals, and mutualists).
4485842|Animals commonly modify their behavior in the presence of a conspecific or in response to signals. This is particularly true in the context of aggressive exchanges, which animals use to form networks of social relationships and to communicate social status associated with those relationships. Although hierarchical structures are a widespread phenomenon that has been studied extensively, the dynamic communication processes, specifically chemical communication in this review, is relatively overlooked. In particular, it is the exchange of information during agonistic interactions that mediates hierarchies and/or alters the outcomes of agonistic interactions. Given the theoretical appeal of these interactions, and the evolutionary importance and taxonomic diversity associated with social hierarchies, it is not surprising that the sensory mechanisms involved in the formation and maintenance of hierarchical structures have received recent attention. In crayfish, dominance is thought to be largely determined by physical superiority, where encounters are largely dyadic and fighting behavior is highly stereotyped. However, recent evidence has shown that the outcome of dyadic encounters are dependent upon a number of factors other than physical size, that include the exchange of chemical information during encounters, previous social history, and the intrinsic neurochemical state of opponents. We have attempted to provide a comprehensive analysis of the extrinsic chemical processes (previous history, sensory communication, etc.) and intrinsic chemical processes (neurochemical state) that produce and maintain dominance relations and social hierarchies in crayfish. We hope that this review will bring together a global picture of the processes that determine a crayfish's social standing and how intrinsic and extrinsic chemicals have substantial effects on aggressive states and agonistic bouts.
3884710|In light-producing cells (photocytes) of the firefly light organ, mitochondria are clustered in the cell periphery, positioned between the tracheolar air supply and the oxygen-requiring bioluminescent reactants which are sequestered in more centrally-localized peroxisomes. This relative positioning suggests that mitochondria could control oxygen availability for the light reaction. We hypothesized that active cellular respiration would make the interior regions of the photocytes relatively hypoxic, and that the "on" signal for production of bioluminescence might depend on inhibition of mitochondrial oxygen consumption, which would allow delivered oxygen to pass through the peripheral mitochondrial zone to reach peroxisomes deep in the cell interior. We published recently that exogenous NO induces bioluminescence in the intact firefly; that NO mediates octopamine-induced bioluminescence in the dissected lantern, and that nitric oxide synthase is abundant in cells of the tracheolar system of the light organ. Additional experiments showed that nitric oxide gas (NO) inhibits respiration in isolated lantern mitochondria. Inhibition is reversed by bright light, and this inhibition is relieved when the light is turned off. Altogether, the result support the idea that NO triggers light production by reversible inhibition of mitochondrial respiration in lantern cells, and probably in tracheolar cells as well. The data also suggest that the light of bioluminescence itself relieves NO inhibition thus contributing to rapid on/off switching. While other mechanisms may be in play, NO production that is directly related to neural input appears to have a key role in the oxygen gating that controls flash communication signals.
3884753|Design of attachment devices in insects varies enormously in relation to different functional loads. Many systems, located on different parts of the body, involve surfaces with particular frictional properties. Such systems evolved to attach parts of the body to each other, or to attach an insect to the substratum by providing fast and reversible attachment/detachment. Among these systems, there are some that deal with predefined surfaces, and others, in which one surface remains unpredictable. The first type of system occurs, for example, in wing-locking devices and head-arresting systems and is called probabilistic fasteners. The second type is mainly represented by insect attachment pads of two alternative designs: hairy and smooth. The relationship between surface pattersn and/or mechanical properties of materials of contact pairs results in two main working principles of the frictional devices: mechanical interlocking, or maximization of the contact area. We give an overview of the functional design of two main groups of friction-based attachment devices in insects: probabilistic fasteners and attachment pads.
3884709|The mysterious process by which fireflies can control their flashing has inspired over a century of careful observation but has remained elusive. Many studies have implicated oxygen as the controlling element in the photochemical reaction, and the discovery of nitric oxide synthetase (NOS) in the lantern has suggested that nitric oxide (NO) may control oxygen access to the light-emitting photocytes, thereby triggering the flash. However, there are several drawbacks to oxygen as a controlling agent, and in view of the prominence of peroxisomes in lantern morphology and biochemistry, we suggest that it is hydrogen peroxide that triggers the flash, and we present a model by which this may take place.
3884889|Ecoimmunologists have made many important discoveries about the immune systems of wild animals including (1) immune activity is usually costly, (2) counter-intuitive decrements in immune activity are often due to trade-offs with other physiological activities or behaviors, and (3) immune activity is a currency by which sexually selected traits are indices of individual quality. The use of single assays to characterize "immunocompetence," however, as was, and is, the common practice in ecoimmunology, ignores the inherent complexity of the immune system and may have led to inappropriate conclusions or even positive publication bias. Recently, some have suggested that ecoimmunologists measure disease resistance or the fitness consequences of immunological insults instead of the immune system itself. We propose that researchers continue to use the techniques that have already been fruitful in ecoimmunology, but better incorporate the underlying immunophysiology of such techniques into their study designs and interpretation. We review the benefits and some recent successes of such an approach. Then, we discuss several under-explored but potentially rewarding areas of ecoimmunology, including development of the immune system, immunosenescence, and immunoredistribution. All three areas are well studied in biomedicine and are likely to be relevant in ecological contexts. For instance, because of the inherent costliness of immune defense and reproduction, variation in rates of development and senescence of the immune system likely impacts the ways in which individuals of different species mature and/or breed. Likewise, differential capacity to redistribute immune resources in response to changes within the endocrine system may explain some of the inconsistencies regarding the immunocompetence handicap hypothesis of sexual selection.
3884803|Sexual selection and sexual conflict have been shown to play key roles in the evolution of species with separate sexes. Experimental evidence is accumulating that this is also true for simultaneous hermaphrodites. For example, many species of land snails forcefully stab their mating partners with love darts. In the brown garden snail (Helix aspersa, now called Cantareus asperses), this dart increases sperm storage and paternity, probably via the transfer of an allohormone that inhibits sperm digestion. A recent interspecies comparison of dart-possessing land snails revealed coevolution between darts and spermatophore-receiving organs that is consistent with counteradaptation against an allohormonal manipulation. The great pond snail (Lymnaea stagnalis) seems to use a seminal product to manipulate its partner and mates in the male role when enough seminal fluid is available in the prostate gland. Receipt of semen not only initiates egg laying in virgin animals, but also feminizes the mating partner later in life. These increases in the female function have been shown to go at the expense of growth and seminal fluid production of the sperm recipient. Although in Helix, and probably also Lymnaea, the sperm donor benefits from the induced changes through increased fertilization success, the sperm recipient may experience injury, imposed reallocation of resources, and altered sperm storage. These findings support the existence of sexual conflict in simultaneously hermaphroditic snails, and its importance for the evolution of mating behaviors and reproductive morphologies is discussed.
3884792|The use of confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) for imaging arthropod structures has the potential to profoundly impact the systematics of this group. Three-dimensional visualization of CLSM data provides high-fidelity, detailed images of minuscule structures unobtainable by traditional methods (for example, hand illustration, bright-field light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy). A CLSM data set consists of a stack of 2-D images ("optical slices") collected from a transparent, fluorescent specimen of suitable thickness. Small arthropod structures are particularly well suited for CLSM imaging owing to the autofluorescent nature of their tissues. Here, we document the practical aspects of a methodology developed for obtaining image stacks via CLSM from autofluorescent insect cuticular structures.
3884966| The substantial medical risks of heavy alcohol drinking as well as the existence of a safe drinking limit have been evident for centuries. Modern epidemiologic studies also show lower risk of both morbidity and mortality among lighter drinkers. Defining "heavy" as 3 standard drinks per day, the alcohol-mortality relationship is a J-curve with risk highest for heavy drinkers, lowest for light drinkers and intermediate for abstainers. A number of non-cardiovascular and cardiovascular problems contribute to the increased mortality risk of heavier drinkers. The lower risk of light drinkers is due mostly to lower risk of the most common cardiovascular condition, coronary heart disease (CHD). Thus, disparate relationships of alcoholic drinking to various cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular conditions constitute a modern concept of alcohol and health. Increased cardiovascular risks of heavy drinking include: 1) alcoholic cardiomyopathy, 2) systemic hypertension (high blood pressure), 3) heart rhythm disturbances in binge drinkers, and 4) hemorrhagic stroke. Lighter drinking is unrelated to increased risk of any cardiovascular condition and, in observational studies, is consistently related to lower risk of CHD and ischemic stroke. A protective hypothesis for CHD is robustly supported by evidence for plausible biological mechanisms attributable to ethyl alcohol. International comparisons and some prospective study data suggest that wine is more protective against CHD than liquor or beer. Possible non-alcohol beneficial components in wine (especially red) support possible extra protection by wine, but a healthier pattern of drinking or more favorable risk traits in wine drinkers may also be involved. 
4485769|Freshwater mussels, Elliptio complanata were collected from a reference and pollutant-impacted pond on Cape Cod, MA. Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity was measured in gill, hepatopancreas and foot. In addition, content of seven heavy metals were measured in whole bodies. GST activity was significantly elevated in hepatopancreas and foot, as was whole body cadmium level in animals from the contaminated site suggesting that these animals have been exposed to organic and inorganic contaminants. Sodium dodecyl acrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) analysis showed putative vitellogenins with molecular weight 180 and 205 kDa bands only in the ovary. In non-denatured gel electrophoresis ovarian extracts revealed two higher molecular weight bands at 550 and 700 kDa, which were reproductive stage specific. Western blotting of SDS-PAGE and non-denatured gels using the anti-scallop yolk-protein antibody confirmed the presence of cross-reacting bands of the same molecular weights in the ovary but not other tissues. Although several experiments involving steroid hormone exposure were done, no significant changes in vitellogenin protein levels were observed. However, using an anti-human ER antibody, ER positive bands were observed both in female foot, and the ovary. No cross reactivity with the antibody was observed in hepatopancreas. Additional studies are required to resolve questions of vitellogenin regulation and the role of (xeno)estrogens in bivalve molluscs.
3884824|Jellyfish belong to one of the oldest extant animal phyla, the Cnidaria. The first Cnidaria appear in the fossil record 600 million years ago, preceeding the Cambrian explosion. They are an extremely successful group present in all marine environments and some freshwater environments. In contrast to many animal phyla in which vision is a primary sense Cnidarians do not, generally, employ image forming eyes. One small class stands alone: the Cubozoa. Cubomedusae are commonly known as box jellyfish. They possess image forming eyes (Coates et al., 2001) which certainly evolved independently from other metazoans. Cubomedusae therefore offer a unique perspective on the evolution of image forming eyes. This literature review collects, into one place, what is known about: the multiple eye types of box jellyfish, cubomedusan life history and ecology, and the sensory and neural systems of box jellyfish. Here I discuss how these features set cubomedusae apart from scyphomedusae and hydromedusae. Knowledge in these areas is sparse; the work done to date inspires increased efforts.
40931186|This study describes the early expression and function of -catenin in the gastropod, Crepidula fornicata. In other bilaterians -catenin functions in cell adhesion, gastrulation, and cell signaling, which is related to the establishment of the dorso-ventral axis and mesendoderm. Here, we studied the distribution of -catenin mRNA and protein in C. fornicata via whole mount in situ hybridization and by expressing GFP-tagged -catenin in vivo. During early cleavage, -catenin mRNA and protein appear to be broadly localized to all cells in the early embryo. The mRNA tends to be concentrated at inter-phase centrosomes in these cells. At later stages, the mRNA is predominantly in the vegetal macromeres, and subsequently in the rudiment of the hindgut, stomodeum, and velar lobes. Expression of full-length GFP-tagged protein suggests that there is no active mechanism to degrade -catenin within cells of the early embryos prior to the 25-cell stage. However, by the second day of development, when the fourth quartet micromeres have formed, -catenin becomes selectively stabilized in the progeny of the 4d mesentoblast (e.g., ML and MR and their daughters) and is missing from most other blastomeres, including vegetal macromeres. Over the next 2 days of development, during subsequent divisions of 4d, -catenin protein becomes progressively degraded, along the proximo-distal axes, within the progeny of the paired mesendodermal bands. The cells located at the tips of the mesodermal bands (2 mL and 2 mR) are the last to contain this protein, which is no longer detected after 4 days of development. In animals like C. fornicata, which undergo a spiral cleavage program (e.g., molluscs, annelids, nemerteans, and polyclad flatworms), the mesentoblast or 4d cell represents the progenitor of endomesoderm (forming hindgut, internal and external kidneys, and various muscles). Therefore, the selective stabilization of -catenin in the progeny of 4d in C. fornicata is consistent with arguments that a basic, ancestral role of -catenin lies in the formation of endomesodermal fates. Experiments using a truncated -catenin clone show that the regions located in the C-terminus, distal to the 11th armadillo repeat, are required for normal stabilization/degradation of -catenin protein within the embryo. Microinjection of translation blocking -catenin morpholinos into zygotes led to the down-regulation of -catenin expression. This resulted in the subsequent failure of gastrulation, but did not interfere with the formation and early cleavage of 4d, although there were no discernable differentiated cell fates in these defective embryos. These results are compared with those obtained in other metazoans.
3884873|Serotonergic systems of invertebrate and vertebrate central nervous systems (CNS) are functionally similar in multiple characters. Serotonin (5-HT) neurons dispersed throughout the CNS of lophotrochozoan invertebrates (molluscs and leeches) are analogous to vertebrate 5-HT neurons concentrated in the raphe nuclei of mid- and hindbrain: they innervate specific central pattern generators and other circuits of the CNS, receive feedback from them, and support general behavioral arousal. In both groups 5-HT regulates excitatory gain of CNS circuitry and uses similarly diverse 5-HT receptors. Marked contrast, however, exists for roles of 5-HT in regulation of appetite. Where invertebrate 5-HT neurons promote an appetitive state, this role is supplanted in the vertebrates by a peptidergic network centered around orexins/hypocretins, to which the role of 5-HT in arousal is subordinate. In the vertebrates, 5-HT has appetite-suppressant properties. This is paralleled by differing complexities of mechanisms that bring about satiety. Lophotrozoans appear to rely on simple stretching of the gut, with no obvious feedback from true nutrient stores. In contrast, vertebrate appetite is regulated by hypothalamic sensitivity to hormonal signals reporting separately on the status of fat cells and digestive activity, and to blood glucose, in addition to gut stretch. The simple satiety mechanism of a mollusc can be used in value-based foraging decisions that integrate hunger state, taste, and experience (Gillette and others 2000). For vertebrates, where appetite and arousal are regulated by signals from long-lived nutrient stores, decisions can be based on resource need going far beyond simple gut content, enabling value estimation and risk assessment in the longer-term. Thus, connection of nutrient storage depots to CNS circuitry mediating appetite may supply critical substrate for evolving complexity in brain and behavior. This hypothesis may be tested in expanded comparative studies of 5-HT and peptidergic functions in appetite and arousal.
3884621|Vorticity control is employed by marine animals to enhance performance in maneuvering and propulsion. Studies on fish-like robots and experimental apparatus modelling rigid and flexible fins provide some of the basic mechanisms employed for controlling vorticity.
40793121|The jawless vertebrates (lamprey and hagfish) are the closest extant outgroups to all jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes) and can therefore provide critical insight into the evolution and basic biology of vertebrate genomes. As such, it is notable that the genomes of lamprey and hagfish posses a capacity for rearrangement that is beyond anything known from the gnathostomes. Like the jawed vertebrates, lamprey and hagfish undergo rearrangement of adaptive immune receptors. However, the receptors and the mechanisms for rearrangement that are utilized by jawless vertebrates clearly evolved independently of the gnathostome system. Unlike the jawed vertebrates, lamprey and hagfish also undergo extensive programmed rearrangements of the genome during embryonic development. By considering these fascinating genome biologies in the context of proposed (albeit contentious) phylogenetic relationships among lamprey, hagfish, and gnathostomes, we can begin to understand the evolutionary history of the vertebrate genome. Specifically, the deep shared ancestry and rapid divergence of lampreys, hagfish and gnathostomes is considered evidence that the two versions of programmed rearrangement present in lamprey and hagfish (embryonic and immune receptor) were present in an ancestral lineage that existed more than 400 million years ago and perhaps included the ancestor of the jawed vertebrates. Validating this premise will require better characterization of the genome sequence and mechanisms of rearrangement in lamprey and hagfish.
23016067|Synopsis Although the FEED database focuses on muscle activity patterns, it is equally suitable for other physiological recording and especially for synthesizing different types of information. The present contribution addresses the interaction between muscle activity and ligamentary stretch during mastication. The postorbital ligament is the thickened edge of a septum dividing the orbital contents from the temporal fossa and is continuous with the temporal fascia. As a tensile element, this fascial complex could support the zygomatic arch against the pull of the masseter muscle. An ossified postorbital bar has evolved repeatedly in mammals, enabling resistance to compression and shear in addition to tension. Although such ossification clearly reinforces the skull against muscle pull, the most accepted explanation is that it helps isolate the orbital contents from contractions of the temporalis muscle. However, it has never been demonstrated that the contraction of jaw muscles deforms the unossified ligament. We examined linear deformation of the postorbital ligament in minipigs, Sus scrofa, along with electromyography of the jaw muscles and an assessment of changes in pressure and shape in the temporalis. During chewing, the ligament elongated (average 0.9%, maximum 2.8%) in synchrony with the contraction of the elevator muscles of the jaw. Although the temporalis bulged outward and created substantial pressure against the braincase, the superficial fibers usually retracted caudally, away from the postorbital ligament. In anesthetized animals, stimulating either the temporalis or the masseter muscle in isolation usually elongated the ligament (average 0.40.7%). These results confirm that contraction of the masticatory muscles can potentially distort the orbital contents and further suggest that the postorbital ligament does function as a tension member resisting the pull of the masseter on the zygomatic arch.
3884865|Metamorphosis is a substantial morphological transition between 2 multicellular phases in an organism's life cycle, often marking the passage from a prereproductive to a reproductive life stage. It generally involves major physiological changes and a shift in habitat and feeding mode, and can be subdivided into an extended phase of substantial morphological change and/or remodeling, and a shorter-term phase (for example, marine invertebrate "settlement," insect "adult eclosion," mushroom fruiting body emergence) where the actual habitat shift occurs. Disparate metamorphic taxa differ substantially with respect to when the habitat shift occurs relative to the timing of the major events of morphogenetic change. I will present comparative evidence across a broad taxonomic scope suggesting that longer-term processes (morphogenetic changes) are generally hormonally regulated, whereas nitric oxide (NO) repressive signaling often controls the habitat shift itself. Furthermore, new evidence from echinoids (sea urchins, sand dollars) indicates a direct connection between hormonal and NO signaling during metamorphosis. I incorporate 2 hypotheses for the evolution of metamorphosis-one involving heterochrony, the other involving phenotypic integration and evolutionarily stable configurations (ESCs)-into a network model for metamorphosis in echinoderms (sea urchins, starfish, and their kin). Early indications are that this core regulatory network can be acted upon by natural selection to suit the diverse ecological needs of disparate metamorphic organisms, resulting in evolutionary expansions and contractions in the core network. I briefly speculate on the ways that exposure to xenobiotic pollutants and other compounds might influence successful settlement of juveniles in the wild. Indeed, environmentally regulated life history transitions-such as settlement, metamorphosis, and reproductive maturation-may be developmental periods that are especially sensitive to such pollutants.
3884992|Many plants display a characteristic suite of developmental "shade avoidance" responses, such as stem elongation and accelerated reproduction, to the low ratio of red to far-red wavelengths (R:FR) reflected or transmitted from green vegetation. This R:FR cue of crowding and vegetation shade is perceived by the phytochrome family of photoreceptors. Phytochrome-mediated responses provide an ideal system for investigating the adaptive evolution of phenotypic plasticity in natural environments. The molecular and developmental mechanisms underlying shade avoidance responses are well studied, and testable ecological hypotheses exist for their adaptive significance. Experimental manipulation of phenotypes demonstrates that shade avoidance responses may be adaptive, resulting in phenotypes with high relative fitness in the environments that induce those phenotypes. The adaptive value of shade avoidance depends upon the competitive environment, resource availability, and the reliability of the R:FR cue for predicting the selective environment experienced by an induced phenotype. Comparative studies and a reciprocal transplant experiment with Impatiens capensis provide evidence of adaptive divergence in shade avoidance responses between woodland and clearing habitats, which may result from population differences in the frequency of selection on shade avoidance traits, as well as differences in the reliability of the R:FR cue. Recent rapid progress in elucidating phytochrome signaling pathways in the genetic model Arabidopsis thaliana and other species now provides the opportunity for studying how selection on shade avoidance traits in natural environments acts upon the molecular mechanisms underlying natural phenotypic variation.
3884908|Plants respond to changes in atmospheric carbon dioxide. To herbivores, the decreased leaf protein contents and increased C/N ratios common to all leaves under elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide imply a reduction in food quality. In addition to these fine-scale adjustments, the abundance of C
4485867|Bateman's principle predicts the intensity of sexual selection depends on rates of increase of fecundity with mating success for each sex (Bateman slopes). The sex with the steeper increase (usually males) is under more intense sexual selection and is expected to compete for access to the sex under less intense sexual selection (usually females). Under Bateman and modern refinements of his ideas, differences in parental investment are key to defining Bateman slopes and thus sex roles. Other theories predict sex differences in mating investment, or any expenditures that reduce male potential reproductive rate, can also control sex roles. We focus on sexual behaviour in systems where males have low paternal investment but frequently mate only once in their lifetimes, after which they are often killed by the female. Mating effort (=terminal investment) is high for these males, and many forms of investment theory might predict sex role reversal. We find no qualitative evidence for sex role reversal in a sample of spiders that show this extreme male investment pattern. We also present new data for terminally-investing redback spiders (Latrodectus hasselti). Bateman slopes are relatively steep for male redbacks, and, as predicted by Bateman, there is little evidence for role reversal. Instead, males are competitive and show limited choosiness despite wide variation in female reproductive value. This study supports the proposal that high male mating investment coupled with low parental investment may predispose males to choosiness but will not lead to role reversal. We support the utility of using Bateman slopes to predict sex roles, even in systems with extreme male mating investment.
40931188|One of the most remarkable larval types among spiralians, and invertebrates in general, is the planktotrophic pilidium. The pilidium is found in a single clade of nemerteans, called the Pilidiophora, and appears to be an innovation of this group. All other nemerteans have either planktotrophic or lecithotrophic juvenile-like planuliform larvae or have direct development. The invention of the pilidium larva is associated with the formation of an extensive blastocoel that supports the delicate larval frame and elaborate ciliary band. Perhaps the most striking characteristic of the pilidium is the way the juvenile worm develops inside the larva from a series of isolated rudiments, called the imaginai discs. The paired cephalic discs, cerebral organ discs, and trunk discs originate as invaginations of larval epidermis and subsequently grow and fuse around the larval gut to form the juvenile. The fully formed juvenile ruptures the larval body and, more often than not, devours the larva during catastrophic metamorphosis. This review is an attempt to examine the pilidium in the context of recent data on development of non-pilidiophoran nemerteans, and speculate about the evolution of pilidial larval development. The author emphasizes the difference between the planuliform larvae of Palaeonemerteans and Hoplonemerteans, and suggest a new name for the hoplonemertean larvaethe decidula.
3884683|The nitrogen-fixing symbiosis between Rhizobiaceae and legumes is one of the best-studied interactions established between prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The plant develops root nodules in which the bacteria are housed, and atmospheric nitrogen is fixed into ammonia by the rhizobia and made available to the plant in exchange for carbon compounds. It has been hypothesized that this symbiosis evolved from the more ancient arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis, in which the fungus associates with roots and aids the plant in the absorption of mineral nutrients, particularly phosphate. Support comes from several fronts: 1) legume mutants where Nod
3884600|To investigate jaw evolution in beloniform fishes, we reconstructed the phylogeny of 54 species using fragments of two nuclear (RAG2 and Tmo-4C4) and two mitochondrial (cytochrome b and 16S rRNA) genes. Our total molecular evidence topology refutes the monophyly of needlefishes (Belonidae) and halfbeaks (Hemiramphidae), but supports the monophyly of flyingfishes (Exocoetidae) and sauries (Scomberesocidae). Flyingfishes are nested within halfbeaks, and sauries are nested within needlefishes. Optimization of jaw characters on the tree reveals a diverse array of evolutionary changes in ontogeny. During their development, needlefishes pass through a "halfbeak" stage that closely resembles the adult condition in the hemiramphid halfbeaks. The reconstruction of jaw transitions falsifies the hypothesis that halfbeaks are paedomorphic derivatives of needlefishes. Instead, halfbeaks make up a basal paraphyletic grade within beloniforms, and the needlefish jaw morphology is relatively derived. The parallel between needlefish ontogeny and beloniform phylogeny is discussed, and clades amenable to future morphological analysis are proposed.
40306105|Nonlinear mechanical properties play an important role in numerous biological functions, for instance the locomotion strategy used by terrestrial gastropods. We discuss the progress made toward bioinspired snail-like locomotion and the pursuit of an engineered fluid that imitates the nonlinear viscoelastic properties of native gastropod pedal mucus. The rheological behavior of native pedal mucus is characterized using an oscillatory deformation protocol known as large amplitude oscillatory shear, and we review recently developed techniques for appropriately describing nonlinear viscoelastic behavior. Although materials that exhibit purely elastic and purely viscous nonlinearities are amenable to standard techniques for characterization, pedal mucus samples (and biomaterials in general) are viscoelastic, exhibiting both elastic and viscous nonlinear responses simultaneously and requiring advanced techniques for characterization. We reveal the utility of these new methods by examining trail mucus from the terrestrial slug Umax maximus using oscillatory shear rheology. Material responses which previously could only be described mathematically, with little physical insight, can now be interpreted with familiar language such as strain-stifening/softening and shear-thickening/thinning. The new methodology is applicable to any complex material that can be tested using imposed oscillatory deformations. We have developed data-analysis software to enable wider use of this framework within and beyond the biomaterials community. The functionality of this software is outlined here.
3884965|Ethanol is a naturally occurring substance resulting from the fermentation by yeast of fruit sugars. The association between yeasts and angiosperms dates to the Cretaceous, and dietary exposure of diverse frugivorous taxa to ethanol is similarly ancient. Ethanol plumes can potentially be used to localize ripe fruit, and consumption of low-concentration ethanol within fruit may act as a feeding stimulant. Ripe and over-ripe fruits of the Neotropical palm Astrocaryum standleyanum contained ethanol within the pulp at concentrations averaging 0.9% and 4.5%, respectively. Fruit ripening was associated with significant changes in color, puncture resistance, sugar, and ethanol content. Natural consumption rates of ethanol via frugivory and associated blood levels are not known for any animal taxon. However, behavioral responses to ethanol may have been the target of natural selection for all frugivorous species, including many primates and the hominoid lineages ancestral to modern humans. Pre-existing sensory biases associating this ancient psychoactive compound with nutritional reward might accordingly underlie contemporary patterns of alcohol consumption and abuse.
4540164|One of the principal objectives of developmental research is to understand morphogenesis and in doing so, gain insights into the genetic basis of variation observed throughout the Animal Kingdom. In this review we take an approach, first popularized by Darwin, to understanding how diversity is created by using the domesticated pigeon as a model organism. Nearly 3000 years of selective breeding has produced an astonishing array of feather patterns, behaviors, skeletal shapes, and body sizes. Cumulatively, these features make the pigeon an exemplar of morphological variation. Our research interests center around exploiting the unique properties of domesticated pigeons to gain critical insights into the molecular and cellular basis for craniofacial variation.
23016318|Synopsis The extent to which organisms can protect themselves from disease depends on both the immune defenses they maintain and the pathogens they face. At the same time, immune systems are shaped by the antigens they encounter, both over ecological and evolutionary time. Ecological immunologists often recognize these interactions, yet ecological immunology currently lacks major efforts to characterize the environmental, host independent, antigenic pressures to which all animals are exposed. Failure to quantify relevant diseases and pathogens in studies of ecological immunology leads to contradictory hypotheses. In contrast, including measures of environmental and host-derived commensals, pathogens, and other immune-relevant organisms will strengthen the field of ecological immunology. In this article, we examine how pathogens and other organisms shape immune defenses and highlight why such information is essential for a better understanding of the causes of variation in immune defenses. We introduce the concept of "operative protection" for understanding the role of immunologically relevant organisms in shaping immune defense profiles, and demonstrate how the evolutionary implications of immune function are best understood in the context of the pressures that diseases and pathogens bring to bear on their hosts. We illustrate common mistakes in characterizing these immune-selective pressures, and provide suggestions for the use of molecular and other methods for measuring immune-relevant organisms.
40793111|This symposium focused on the evolution of chordate genomes, in particular, those events that occurred before the appearance of jawed vertebrates. The aim was to highlight insights that have come from the genome sequences of jawless chordates (lampreys, tunicates, and amphioxus) not only into evolution of chordate genomes, but also into the evolution of the organism. To this end, we brought together researchers whose recent work on these organisms spans the gap from genomics to the evolution of body forms and functions as exemplified by endocrine systems and embryonic development.
4540167|Genetic variation in functionally integrated skeletal traits can be maintained over 10 million years despite bottlenecks and stringent selection. Here, we describe an analysis of the genetic architecture of the canid axial skeleton using populations of the Portuguese Water Dog Canis familiaris) and silver fox (Vulpes vulpes). Twenty-one skeletal metrics taken from radiographs of the forelimbs and hind limbs of the fox and dog were used to construct separate anatomical principal component (PC) matrices of the two species. In both species, 15 of the 21 PCs exhibited significant heritability, ranging from 25% to 70%. The second PC, in both species, represents a trade-off in which limb-bone width is inversely correlated with limb-bone length. PC2 accounts for approximately 15% of the observed skeletal variation, ~30% of the variation in shape. Many of the other significant PCs affect very small amounts of variation (e.g., 0.2-2%) along trade-off axes that partition function between the forelimbs and hind limbs. These PCs represent shape axes in which an increase in size of an element of the forelimb is associated with a decrease in size of an element of the hind limb and vice versa. In most cases, these trade-offs are heritable in both species and genetic loci have been identified in the Portuguese Water Dog for many of these. These PCs, present in both the dog and the fox, include ones that affect lengths of the forelimb versus the hind limb, length of the forefoot versus that of the hind foot, muscle moment (i.e., lever) arms of the forelimb versus hind limb, and cortical thickness of the bones of the forelimb versus hind limb. These inverse relationships suggest that genetic regulation of the axial skeleton results, in part, from the action of genes that influence suites of functionally integrated traits. Their presence in both dogs and foxes suggests that the genes controlling the regulation of these PCs of the forelimb versus hind limb may be found in other tetrapod taxa.
25160210|We utilize a novel, transgenic cell-labeling system to assess the embryonic derivation of cartilages in the post-metamorphic skull of anuran amphibians. Many of these cartilages form de novo at metamorphosis and have no obvious precursors within the larval skeleton. Most adult cartilages are derived from mandibular- or hyoid-stream neural crest, either individually or in combination; branchial-stream neural crest makes a modest contribution. Each stream also contributes to at least one cartilage in the middle ear or external ear. Four cartilages are composite elements; each is derived from at least two distinct cell populations. Many boundaries between adjacent neural-crest territories are cryptic insofar as they do not coincide with anatomical boundaries. The system of adult cranial segmentation revealed by these fate-mapping results differs in important respects from both the segmentation of the ontogenetically earlier larval skull and the cranial segmentation in amniotes. Most striking is the rostral "inversion" of neural-crest-derived cartilages in Xenopus, such that mandibular stream-derived elements are deployed caudal to those derived from the hyoid stream, which predominate anteriorly. This novel pattern of rostral segmentation may be a consequence of the complex, biphasic life history that is characteristic of most species of living amphibians, and especially anurans, in which cranial architecture is significantly reconfigured at metamorphosis. Neural-crest derivation of the vertebrate skull is not invariant; instead, embryonic derivation of individual components of the cranial skeleton may vary widely among species.
23016050|Synopsis In this article, we identify and analyze a subsea organism to serve as a model for biologically inspired burrowing technology to be used in applications such as anchoring, installation of cables, and recovery of oil. After inspecting myriad forms of life that live on or within ocean substrates, the Atlantic razor clam, Ensis directis, stood out as an attractive basis for new burrowing technology because of its low-energy requirements associated with digging (0.21 J/cm), its speed and depth of burrrowing (~1 cm/s and 70 cm, respectively), and its size and simplicity relative to man-made machines. As anchoring is a prime application for the technology resulting from this work, the performance of an Ensis directusbased anchoring system was compared to existing technologies. In anchoring force per embedment energy, the E. directusbased anchor beats existing technology by at least an order of magnitude. In anchoring force per weight of device, the biologically inspired system weighs less than half that of current anchors. The article concludes with a review of E. directus's digging strategy, which involves motions of its valves to locally fluidize the substrate to reduce burrowing drag and energy, and the successful adaptation of E. directus's burrowing mechanisms into an engineering system: the RoboClam burrowing robot, which, like the animal, uses localized fluidization to achieve digging energy that scales linearly with depth, rather than depth squared, for moving through static soil.
23016315|Synopsis Animal behavior is unique in influencing both components of the process of transmission of disease: exposure to infectious agents, and susceptibility to infection once exposed. To date, the influence of behavior on exposure versus susceptibility has largely been considered separately. Here, we ask whether these two key mechanisms act in concert in natural populations, whereby individuals who are most exposed to infectious agents or have the most contact with conspecifics are also the most susceptible or infectious. We propose three mechanisms that can generate covariation between these two key elements of the transmission of disease within and among hosts, and we provide empirical examples of each. We then use a mathematical model to examine the effect of this covariation on the dynamics of disease at the population level. First, we show that the empirical mechanisms generating covariation between behavioral and physiological components of disease transmission are widespread and include endocrine mediators of behavior, mate choice, group size, sickness behaviors, and behavioral avoidance of infectious conspecifics. The diversity of these empirical mechanisms underscores the potential importance and breadth of covariation in the disease process. Second, we show mathematically that the variability in hosts' exposure to infectious agents and susceptibility or infectiousness, and how tightly they are coupled, strongly influences the ability of a disease to invade a host population. Overall, we propose that covariation between behavioral and physiological components of transmission is likely widespread in natural populations, and can have important consequences for the dynamics of disease at the population level as well as for our understanding of sexual selection, social behavior, and animal communication.
40405998|For over 30 years, the African cichlid fish, Astatotilapia burtoni, has been an important model system for studying the mechanisms underlying socially mediated behavioral change, with the focus being the dominance behavior of males. A recently collected wild-stock (WS) of this species invigorates interest in parallel studies of females' behavior. Here, we describe a robust 'good-mother' phenotype, increased maternal affiliation in fry, and subtle differences in males' behavior that are exhibited by this new stock. While the females of both the laboratory-stock (LS) and the WS brood the developing fry in their buccal cavity, only the WS continues to provide maternal care after initial release of the fry while the LS engage in filial cannibalism. We show that weight loss during starvation, either during brooding or with restriction of food, is greater in the LS than in the WS; thus, the observed behavioral differences may be tied to metabolic differences. The WS also exhibits a robust androgen response to challenge during the maternal care phase. Given the increasing power of genomic tools available for this species, the comparison of these two stocks will offer the opportunity to investigate the genetic and genomic basis of behavioral differences.
4485803|The last common ancestor to all extant animals possessed features shared between the most basal metazoan lineage-Porifera-and the rest of the animal kingdom. To identify ancient and conserved developmental processes, we have been investigating embryogenesis and metamorphosis in the demosponge Reniera. Many of the cardinal features of eumetazoan development are displayed during Reniera embryogenesis. Specifically, after fertilization there is a period of cell division with little to no cell growth that results in two obvious cell populations distinguished by size as micromeres and macromeres, and by fate: the small cells differentiate into ciliated cells. This is followed by a period of differential cell activities that produces an embryo consisting of two then three layers, where at least 11 populations of differentiated cells are allocated into the different layers and patterned within these layers. This organization yields a swimming larva with the capacity to sense and respond to the surrounding environment, despite a lack of neurons and a coordinating system. During Reniera embryogenesis, the clearest example of cell patterning is the formation of a ring of pigment cells at the future posterior pole of the larva. Pigment cell pattern formation has two phases, both of which may require the movement of a large number of cells apparently in response to a morphogen gradient. First, pigmented cells, which initially cover the surface of the embryo, migrate to the future posterior end and form a dark spot. Second, the cells move outwards from the spot and rearrange into a ring. Numerous and diverse transcription factor genes are expressed during Reniera embryogenesis, most of which belong to metazoan-specific families and include members of POU, LIMHD, Pax, Bar, Prox2, NK-2, T-box, MEF-2, Fox, Sox, Ets, and nuclear hormone receptor families. In combination, these observations suggest that the last common ancestor to all extant metazoan lineages already possessed the basic regulatory genetic architecture to direct the specification, patterning and differentiation of multiple cell types. Some of these differentiated cells may have been arranged into localised functional units-i.e., simple tissues.
25160180|Characterization of reptilian genomes is essential for understanding the overall diversity and evolution of amniote genomes, because reptiles, which include birds, constitute a major fraction of the amniote evolutionary tree. To better understand the evolution and diversity of genomic characteristics in Reptilia, we conducted comparative analyses of online sequence data from Alligator mississippiensis (alligator) and Sphenodon punctatus (tuatara) as well as genome size and karyological data from a wide range of reptilian species. At the whole-genome and chromosomal tiers of organization, we find that reptilian genome size distribution is consistent with a model of continuous gradual evolution while genomic compartmentalization, as manifested in the number of microchromosomes and macrochromosomes, appears to have undergone early rapid change. At the sequence level, the third genomic tier, we find that exon size in Alligator is distributed in a pattern matching that of exons in Gallus (chicken), especially in the 101-200 bp size class. A small spike in the fraction of exons in the 301 bp-1 kb size class is also observed for Alligator, but more so for Sphenodon. For introns, we find that members of Reptilia have a larger fraction of introns within the 101 bp-2 kb size class and a lower fraction of introns within the 5-30 kb size class than do mammals. These findings suggest that the mode of reptilian genome evolution varies across three hierarchical levels of the genome, a pattern consistent with a mosaic model of genomic evolution.
40793117|Stanniocalcin (STC) is present throughout vertebrates, including humans, but a structure for STC has not been identified in animals that evolved before bony fish. The origin of this pleiotropic hormone known to regulate calcium is not clear. In the present study, we have cloned three stanniocalcins from two invertebrates, the tunicate Ciona intestinalis and the amphioxus Branchiostoma floridae. Both species are protochordates with the tunicates as the closest living relatives to vertebrates. Amphioxus are basal to both tunicates and vertebrates. The genes and predicted proteins of tunicate and amphioxus share several key structural features found in all previously described homologs. Both the invertebrate and vertebrate genes have four conserved exons. The predicted length of the single pro-STC in Ciona is 237 amino acids and the two pro-hormones in amphioxus are 207 and 210 residues, which is shorter than human pro-STCs at 247 and 302 residues due to expansion of the C-terminal region in vertebrate forms. The conserved pattern of 10 cysteines in all chordate STCs is crucial for identification as amphioxus and tunicate amino acids are only 14-23% identical with human STC1 and STC2. The 11th cysteine, which is the cysteine shown to form a homodimer in vertebrates, is present only in amphioxus STCa, but not in amphioxus STCb or tunicate STC, suggesting the latter two are monomers. The expression of stanniocalcin in Ciona is widespread as shown by RT-PCR and by quantitative PCR. The latter method shows that the highest amount of STC mRNA is in the heart with lower amounts in the neural complex, branchial basket, and endostyle. A widespread distribution is present also in mammals and fish for both STC1 and STC2. Stanniocalcin is a presumptive regulator of calcium in both Ciona and amphioxus, although the structure of a STC receptor remains to be identified in any organism. Our data suggest that amphioxus STCa is most similar to the common ancestor of vertebrate STCs because it has an 11th cysteine necessary for dimerization, an N-glycosylation motif, although not the canonical one in vertebrate STCs, and similar gene organization. Tunicate and amphioxus STCs are more similar in structure to vertebrate STC1 than to vertebrate STC2. The unique features of STC2, including 14 instead of 11 cysteines and a cluster of histidines in the C-terminal region, appear to be found exclusively in vertebrates.
3884923|Basal activity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-interrenal (HPI) axis changes over development in larval amphibians, but development of the responsiveness of this axis to an external stressor has not been studied. We compared developmental changes in whole-body corticosterone content of two anuran amphibian species, Rana pipiens (family Ranidae) and Xenopus laevis (family Pipidae). We also examined developmental changes in the responsiveness of the HPI axis by subjecting tadpoles of different developmental stages to a laboratory shaking/confinement stress and to ACTH injection. We measured whole-body corticosterone content as an indicator of the activity of the HPI axis. Whole-body corticosterone content of R. pipiens remained low during premetamorphosis and prometamorphosis but increased dramatically at metamorphic climax and remained elevated in juvenile frogs. By contrast, whole-body corticosterone content of X. laevis was highest during premetamorphosis, declined at the onset of prometamorphosis, increased at metamorphic climax and remained at climax levels in juvenile frogs. Premetamorphic and prometamorphic tadpoles of both species showed strong corticosterone responses to both shaking stress and ACTH injection. The magnitude and pattern of response differed among developmental stages, with premetamorphic tadpoles of both species showing greater responsiveness to stress and ACTH. Our results show that interrenal responsiveness is developed in premetamorphic tadpoles, suggesting that at these stages tadpoles are capable of mounting an increase in stress hormone production in response to changes in the external environment. Our results also highlight the importance of comparative studies in understanding the development of the stress axis.
4485763|The goal of this study was to further investigate the role of endogenous APGWamide levels in imposex induction in snails. APGWamide is a common neurotransmittor/neuromodulator peptide found in many species of molluscs, and is often related to sex organ growth or reproductive behavior. Mud snails (Ilyanassa obsoleta) were collected from the Rachel Carson Estuarine Reserve near Beaufort, NC, and were dosed with the environmental contaminant tributyltin (TBT), testosterone (T), or solvent vehicle (EtOH/saline) controls. Both TBT and T have been shown previously to induce female snails to grow penises (a condition termed imposex), and to increase male penis size. Male normalized penis length was correlated to endogenous APGWamide levels (as measured by Western blotting of whole animal homogenates, r=0.475), and control males had significantly higher APGWamide levels than control females. All TBT-treated animals, (male, female, and imposex) had levels of APGWamide similar to control males and significantly higher than control females. In testosterone treated animals, APGWamide levels were the same as controls and it is likely that testosterone interferes with a downstream signaling event to induce imposex. In addition, immunohistochemistry for APGWamide expression in abdominal areas was done on female, male and imposex snails collected from the wild. The pattern of APGWamide in imposex snails was similar to male snails, showing large patches of immuno-reactive areas in the top portion of the visceral mass. In female snails, no areas of cross-reactivity were found.
4485779|This review briefly summarizes the latest findings on reproductive endocrinology of Atlantic hagfish (Myxine glutinosa) and implications for fisheries management. In response to a major decline or collapse of the fisheries (groundfish and anadromous species) industry in the Northeast, species that were once considered alternative or underutilized have and are being identified that may be suitable for commercial harvest, one such example is the hagfish. Hagfish in recent years have been sought after as valuable fish not only for their flesh, but also their skin. Currently, there are no regulations governing the harvesting of hagfish along the East Coast. There has been little to no information of the life history of hagfish including growth rate, age determination, reproductive biology, life span, and larval size at hatching. Thus, the level at which a sustainable fisheries for this species can be maintained is unknown. In some parts of the world, hagfish stocks are being depleted due to overfishing. In order for fisheries management to manage its hagfish stocks and develop a sustainable commercial hagfish fishery, critical information is needed to assist in determining the optimal use of this valuable resource. Key elements of the reproductive system have not been elucidated in hagfish. However, there is new evidence from recent reproductive studies that Atlantic hagfish may have a seasonal reproductive cycle. These data include seasonal changes in gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), gonadal steroids, estradiol and progesterone, corresponding to gonadal reproductive stages along with the putative identity of a functional corpus luteum. This newly acquired data may provide important information to fisheries managers of the East Coast.
23016045|Synopsis Incubation temperature plays a prominent role in shaping the phenotypes and fitness of embryos, including affecting developmental rates. In many taxa, including turtles, eggs are deposited in layers such that thermal gradients alter developmental rates within a nest. Despite this thermal effect, a nascent body of experimental work on environmentally cued hatching in turtles has revealed unexpected synchronicity in hatching behavior. This review discusses environmental cues for hatching, physiological mechanisms behind synchronous hatching, proximate and ultimate causes for this behavior, and future directions for research. Four freshwater turtle species have been investigated experimentally, with hatching in each species elicited by different environmental cues and responding via various physiological mechanisms. Hatching of groups of eggs in turtles apparently involves some level of embryoembryo communication and thus is not a purely passive activity. Although turtles are not icons of complex social behavior, life-history theory predicts that the group environment of the nest can drive the evolution of environmentally cued hatching.
40405979|Food supplementation of free-living animals has been used to address the role of availability of resources in the timing of reproduction. A meta-analysis by Schoech and Hahn suggested that responsiveness of the reproductive axis to the supplementary cue of food is lessened at higher latitudes, presumably because the brief time during which conditions are appropriate to rear offspring has led to an evolved resistance to supplementary cues with a primary reliance on photoperiod. Unfortunately, few investigators have examined the potential underlying mechanisms that mediate this differential responsiveness to supplemental food across latitudes. Considerable research, however, links nutritional state and plasma glucocorticoid levels, both of which impinge upon the reproductive axis. Long-term research on Florida scrub-jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens) in my laboratory shows that suburban birds with access to ad libitum supplemental food express early breeding and lower plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels in comparison to jays in nearby natural habitat. Furthermore, supplementation in natural habitat advances laying, with the largest effects occurring in bad years (i.e., years defined by late breeding and poor reproductive output by non-supplemented controls). Similarly, reproductive output of supplemented jays is greater and exhibits considerably less variance than do controls, suggesting fitness benefits of supplementation that are tied to advanced breeding. Generally, CORT levels in early-breeding supplemented jays are lower than are those of controls. Also, regression analysis suggests that clutch-initiation dates of non-supplemented female breeders are predicted by baseline CORT levels. Although these data are not conclusive and trends can be obscured by year-effects, they suggest a role for CORT in timing of breeding. Whether this link might help to explain the above-referenced latitudinal trends remains to be characterized.
41319644|Many organisms have complex life cycles with distinct life stages that experience different environmental conditions. How does the complexity of life cycles affect the ecological and evolutionary responses of organisms to climate change? We address this question by exploring several recent case studies and synthetic analyses of insects.First, different life stages may inhabit different microhabitats, and may differ in their thermal sensitivities and other traits that are important for responses to climate. For example, the life stages of Manduca experience different patterns of thermal and hydric variability, and differ in tolerance to high temperatures. Second, life stages may differ in their mechanisms for adaptation to local climatic conditions. For example, in Colias, larvae in different geographic populations and species adapt to local climate via differences in optimal and maximal temperatures for feeding and growth, whereas adults adapt via differences in melanin of the wings and in other morphological traits. Third, we extend a recent analysis of the temperature-dependence of insect population growth to demonstrate how changes in temperature can differently impact juvenile survival and adult reproduction. In both temperate and tropical regions, high rates of adult reproduction in a given environment may not be realized if occasional, high temperatures prevent survival to maturity. This suggests that considering the differing responses of multiple life stages is essential to understand the ecological and evolutionary' consequences of climate change.
3884575|Stable isotopes are becoming an increasingly powerful tool for studying the physiological ecology of animals. The
4540156|Synopsis The repeated, convergent evolution of body shape and microhabitat use in Greater Antillean lizards of the genus Anolis (anoles) provides compelling evidence of the importance of microhabitat specialization in shaping morphology. Interestingly, sexual dimorphism is also extensive, with males and females differing in body size as well as in shape. It is important to note that the components of shape analyzed in these studies is related to locomotion and are size-adjusted, including: relative limb and body lengths and mass of the body. Numbers of lamellae were also used and these do not vary with size. Furthermore, dimorphism in both size and shape differs by habitat type. Thus, does functionally-relevant sexual dimorphism imply that one sex is the "ecological" sex, with the other being maladapted to it's environment? Alternatively, sexual dimorphism may interact with adaptive diversification. Different classes of individuals within a species may act as separate ecological units if they play ecologically different roles. Here, I reanalyze a data set of morphological data for 15 species of Puerto Rican and Jamaican Anolis, which represent two largely independent adaptive radiations of lizards. I test for concordance between size and shape dimorphism and microhabitat (ecomorph) type, and for "parallel" patterns of sexual dimorphism among species. I integrate these results and, in the light of previous research, evaluate the relative influence that larger-scale ecological patterns have on sexual dimorphism, as well as the influence of sexual dimorphism on community structuring. I conclude that the presence of ecologically-relevant dimorphism may in fact increase the adaptive diversity present within a community.
3884577|I used three innovative, nondestructive field methods (gas dilution, doubly labeled water and radiography) to measure individual energy and water budgets of wild, female desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii). With these budgets, I evaluated whether body reserves help females produce eggs independent of rainfall and food availability. Female desert tortoises used large seasonal and annual changes in metabolism and body water, protein and energy reserves to survive and produce eggs. Although lipid reserves are important to female desert tortoises, nitrogen or crude protein appears to be the primary limiting resource for producing eggs. By reducing metabolic rates 90%, females conserved enough body reserves to produce eggs during extreme drought conditions; this is an effective bet-hedging reproductive pattern in an extreme and unpredictable environment.
25160227|Crustaceans are a diverse and ancient group of arthropods that have long been studied as interesting model systems in biology, especially for understanding animal evolution and physiology and for environmentally relevant studies. Like many model systems, advances in DNA-sequencing methodologies have led to a large amount of genomics-related projects. The purpose of this article is to highlight the genome projects and functional genomics (transcriptomics) projects that are currently underway in crustacean biology. Specifically, we have surveyed the amount of publicly available DNA sequence data (both genomic and EST data) across all crustacean taxa for which a significant number of DNA sequences have been generated. Several ongoing projects are presented including the ecology of invasive species, thermal physiology, ion and water balance, ecology and evolutionary biology, and developmental biology.
40306090|A major challenge in integrative biology is understanding the mechanisms by which organisms regulate tradeoffs among various functions competing for limiting resources. Key among these competing processes is the maintenance of health and the production of offspring. Optimizing both, given limited resources, can prove challenging. The physiological and behavioral changes that occur during reproduction have been shown to greatly influence an organism's immune system, which can have consequences for susceptibility to disease. Likewise, investing in costly immunological defenses can impair reproductive function. However, the precise nature of these physiological and behavioral interactions appears to be greatly dependent upon the environmental context in which they occur. Here we take a comparative look at interactions between the reproductive and immune systems, including current immunological approaches, and discuss how similar studies can reveal vastly disparate results. Specifically, we highlight results from the ornate tree lizard (Urosuarus ornatus) and the Siberian hamster (Phodopus sungorus) model systems, which provide an example of current research in the field. Collectively, these results emphasize the importance of resource availability and an individuas energy stores for the existence of life-history trade-offs and the efficiency of physiological processes in general. Akin to Dobzhansky's famous line, like other aspects of biology, nothing in ecoimmunology seems to make sense except in the context of an organism's environment.
3885010|The intertidal zone has historically functioned as an important natural laboratory for testing ideas about how physical factors such as temperature influence organismal physiology and in turn influence the distribution patterns of organisms. Key to our understanding of how the physical environment helps structure organismal distribution is the identification of physiological processes that have ecological relevance. We have focused on biochemical- and molecular-level physiology that would contribute to thermal tolerance and maintenance of a functional intracellular protein pool in the face of extreme and fluctuating environmental temperatures. Past research has addressed processes central to protein homeostasis (e.g., protein ubiquitination) and the molecular ecology of molecular chaperones, a.k.a. heat shock proteins (Hsps), in ectothermic animals. In this presentation, we focus on two new developments regarding the biology of heat shock proteins as molecular chaperones in intertidal organisms. First, we present data on the functional characteristics of the transcriptional factor, HSF1 and discuss how these data relate to the plasticity of Hsp gene expression observed in intertidal organisms in nature. Second, we present data on the biochemical function of heat shock proteins purified from our non-model study organisms and discuss the temperature relationships of these molecules as they assist in protein folding in situ.
41319640|Although climates are rapidly changing on a global scale, these changes cannot easily be extrapolated to the local scales experienced by organisms. In fact, such generalizations might be quite problematic. For instance, models used to predict shifts in the ranges of species during climate change rarely incorporate data resolved to < 1 km , although most organisms integrate climatic drivers at much smaller scales. Empirical studies alone suggest that the operative temperatures of many organisms vary by as much as 10-20C on a local scale, depending on vegetation, geology, and topography. Furthermore, this variation in abiotic factors ignores thermoregulatory behaviors that many animals use to balance heat loads. Through a set of simulations, we demonstrate how variability in elevational topography can attenuate the effects of warming climates. These simulations suggest that changing climates do not always impact organisms negatively. Importantly, these simulations involve well-known relationships in biophysical ecology that show how no two organisms experience the same climate in the same way. We suggest that, when coupled with thermoregulatory behavior, variation in topographic features can mask the acute effect of climate change in many cases.
41319667|Controlled aerial descent has evolved many times independently in vertebrates. Squamates (lizards and snakes) are unusual in that respect due to the large number of independent origins of the evolution of this behavior. Although some squamates such as flying geckos of the genus Ptychozoon and the flying dragons of the genus Draco show obvious adaptations including skin flaps or enlarged ribs allowing them to increase their surface area and slow down their descent, many others appear unspecialized. Yet, specializations can be expected at the level of the sensory and neural systems allowing animals to maintain stability during controlled aerial descent. The vestibular system is a likely candidate given that it is an acceleration detector and is well-suited to detect changes in pitch, roll and yaw. Here we use conventional and synchrotron CT scans to quantify the morphology of the vestibular system in squamates able to perform controlled aerial descent compared to species characterized by a terrestrial or climbing life style. Our results show the presence of a strong phylogenetic signal in the data with the vestibular system in species from the same family being morphologically similar. However, both our shape analysis and an analysis of the dimensions of the vestibular system showed clear differences among animals with different life-styles. Species able to perform a controlled aerial descent differed in the position and shape of the inner ear, especially of the posterior ampulla. Given the limited stability of squamates against roll and the fact that the posterior ampulla is tuned to changes in roll this suggests an adaptive evolution of the vestibular system in squamates using controlled aerial descent. Future studies testing for similar differences in other groups of vertebrates known to use controlled aerial descent are needed to test the generality of this observation.
40931224|Despite their strong dependence on the pelagic environment, seabirds and other top predators in polar marine ecosystems are generally studied during their reproductive phases in terrestrial environments. As a result, a significant portion of their life history is understudied which in turn has led to limited understanding. Recent advances in autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) technologies have allowed satellite-tagged Adlie penguins to guide AUV surveys of the marine environment at the Palmer Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) site on the western Antarctic Peninsula. Near real-time data sent via Iridium satellites from the AUVs to a centralized control center thousands of miles away allowed scientists to adapt AUV sampling strategies to meet the changing conditions of the subsurface. Such AUV data revealed the water masses and fine-scale features associated with Adlie penguin foraging trips. During this study, the maximum concentration of chlorophyll was between 30 and 50 m deep. Encompassing this peak in the chlorophyll concentration, within the water-column, was a mixture of nutrient-laden Upper Circumpolar Deep (UCDW) and western Antarctic Peninsula winter water (WW). Together, data from the AUV survey and penguin dives reveal that 54% of foraging by Adlie penguins occurs immediately below the chlorophyll maximum. These data demonstrate how bringing together emerging technologies, such as AUVs, with established methods such as the radio-tagging of penguins can provide powerful tools for monitoring and hypothesis testing of previously inaccessible ecological processes. Ocean and atmosphere temperatures are expected to continue increasing along the western Antarctic Peninsula, which will undoubtedly affect regional marine ecosystems. New and emerging technologies such as unmanned underwater vehicles and individually mounted satellite tracking devices will provide the tools critical to documenting and understanding the widespread ecological change expected in polar regions.
40306103|Spider silk is a high-performance biomaterial with exceptional mechanical properties and over half a century of research into its mechanics, structure, and biology. Recent research demonstrates that it is a highly variable class of materials that differs across species and individuals in complex and interesting ways. Here, we review recent literature on mechanical variation and evolution in spider silk. We then present new data on material properties of silk from nine species of spiders in the Mesothelae and Mygalomorphae, the two basal clades of spiders. Silk from spiders in the Araneomorphae (true spiders where most previous research on silk has focused) is significantly stronger and therefore much tougher than the silk produced by spiders in the basal groups. These data support the hypothesis that the success and diversity seen in araneomorph spiders is associated with the evolution of this high-performance fiber. This comparative approach shows promise as a way to understand complex, high-performance biomaterials.
4485800|Concern continues to grow over the negative impact of endocrine disrupting chemicals on environmental and public health. The number of identified endocrine disrupting chemicals is increasing, but biological endpoints, experimental design, and approaches for examining and assessing the impact of these chemicals are still debated. Although some workers consider endocrine disruption an "emerging science," I argue here that it is equally, a "merging science" developing in the tradition of integrative biology. Understanding the impact of endocrine disruptors on humans and wildlife is an examination of "context dependent development" and one that Scott Gilbert predicted would require a "new synthesis" or a "revolution" in the biological sciences. Here, I use atrazine as an example to demonstrate the importance of an integrative approach in understanding endocrine disruptors. Atrazine is a potent endocrine disruptor that chemically castrates and feminizes amphibians and other wildlife. These effects are the result of the induction of aromatase, the enzyme that converts androgens to estrogens, and this mechanism has been confirmed in all vertebrate classes examined (fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals, including humans). To truly assess the impact of atrazine on amphibians in the wild, diverse fields of study including endocrinology, developmental biology, molecular biology, cellular biology, ecology, and evolutionary biology need to be invoked. To understand fully the long-term impacts on the environment, meteorology, geology, hydrology, chemistry, statistics, mathematics and other disciplines well outside of the biological sciences are required.
40405986|Animals' lives are typically subdivided into distinct stages, some of which (e.g. breeding) contribute to fitness through enhancing current reproductive success, and some of which (e.g. molting and migration in birds; hibernation in mammals) contribute to fitness through enhancing survival and, therefore, future reproductive opportunities. There is often a trade-off between these two kinds of processes, either because they are temporally incompatible with one another (e.g. migration precludes simultaneous nesting in birds) or because they are energetically incompatible with one another (e.g. successful molting appears to be incompatible with simultaneous nesting in many birds). Consequently, adaptations facilitating appropriate timing and coordination of different life-cycle stages are arguably as important to fitness as are more obvious adaptations such as feeding morphologies and predator avoidance. Mechanisms that facilitate coordination of life-cycle events with the annual cycle of changes in the environment are therefore expected to evolve in response to selection imposed by different environmental challenges. This article focuses on how mechanisms affecting the timing of, and transitions between, life-cycle stages, particularly breeding, have evolved in birds. Through comparative analyses, we show that photorefractoriness and one neuroendocrine correlate of itplasticity of the gonadotropin releasing hormone systemhave evolved in ways that facilitate different degrees of flexibility in timing of the transition from breeding to molting in different environments. We argue that the nature of the mechanistic adaptations will affect the capacity for adaptive adjustments to changing environmental conditions both in the short term (plasticity inherent in individuals) and in the long term (evolutionary responses of populations to selection).
4540194|Mechanisms that affect thermal tolerance of ectothermic organisms have recently received much interest, mainly due to global warming and climate-change debates in both the public and in the scientific community. In physiological terms, thermal tolerance of several marine ectothermic taxa can be linked to oxygen availability, with capacity limitations in ventilatory and circulatory systems contributing to oxygen limitation at extreme temperatures. The present review briefly summarizes the processes that define thermal tolerance in a model cephalopod organism, the cuttlefish Sepia officinalis, with a focus on the contribution of the cephalopod oxygen-carrying blood pigment, hemocyanin. When acutely exposed to either extremely high or low temperatures, cuttlefish display a gradual transition to an anaerobic mode of energy production in key muscle tissues once critical temperatures (<tex-math>$T_{crit}$</tex-math>) are reached. At high temperatures, stagnating metabolic rates and a developing hypoxemia can be correlated with a progressive failure of the circulatory system, well before <tex-math>$T_{crit}$</tex-math> is reached. However, at low temperatures, declining metabolic rates cannot be related to ventilatory or circulatory failure. Rather, we propose a role for hemocyanin functional characteristics as a major limiting factor preventing proper tissue oxygenation. Using information on the oxygen binding characteristics of cephalopod hemocyanins, we argue that high oxygen affinities (<tex-math>$= low P_{50} values$</tex-math>), as found at low temperatures, allow efficient oxygen shuttling only at very low venous oxygen partial pressures. Low venous <tex-math>$PO_{2}s$</tex-math> limit rates of oxygen diffusion into cells, thus eventually causing the observed transition to anaerobic metabolism. On the basis of existing blood physiological, molecular, and crystallographical data, the potential to resolve the role of hemocyanin isoforms in thermal adaptation by an integrated molecular physiological approach is discussed.
4485766|Organisms in natural habitats must frequently respond to changes in their environments through various physiological mechanisms. My laboratory has developed several methods for the quantification of stress in crustaceans. An ELISA was developed for the crustacean hyperglycemic hormone (CHH) from the American lobster (Homarus americanus). It is sensitive to as little as 0.2 fmol of peptide. Increases in hemolymph CHH were observed under conditions of acute hypoxia, elevated temperature, and altered salinity. In addition, elevated CHH concentrations were observed in Norway lobsters (Nephrops norvegicus) that were parasitized with the dinoflagellate Hematodinium sp. Stress proteins, also known as heat-shock proteins (HSPs), comprise a highly conserved class of proteins that display elevated transcription during periods of stress. Using homologous molecular probes, my collaborators and I have examined the influence of heat-shock, osmotic stress, and the molt cycle upon HSP expression at the protein and mRNA levels. We observed a significant elevation in HSP mRNA expression after 1 hr of heat-shock or after 0.5 hr of osmotic stress. When comparing claw and abdominal muscles during molting, we observed a tissue-specific HSP response. Quantification of these different stress responses may serve as early indicators of the degradation of environmental health.
3884576|Laboratory and field studies have demonstrated that the immune system is sensitive to environmental contaminants. Testing protocols have been developed to screen for immunotoxic effects and elucidate mechanisms of toxicity in laboratory rodents. Similar methods have been applied to wildlife species in captivity and the wild. Several epizootics in wildlife have been associated with elevated exposure to contaminants. This paper discusses immunotoxicological techniques used in studies of avian wildlife. Measurements of immunological structure include peripheral white blood cell counts and the mass and cellularity of immune organs such as the thymus, spleen, and bursa of Fabricius. While contaminants can alter these measures of immunological structure, such measures do not directly assess how the immune system functions, i.e., responds to specific challenges. The two most commonly used in vivo immune function tests in birds are the phytohemagglutinin (PHA) skin response for T cell-mediated immunity and the sheep red blood cell (SRBC) hemagglutination assay for antibody-mediated immunity. In vitro tests of immune function in avian wildlife include proliferation of lymphocytes in response to various mitogens and phagocytosis of fluorescent particles by monocytes. While optimization of in vitro techniques for wildlife species is often time-consuming, these assays usually require only a single blood sample and can elucidate mechanisms of toxicity. In immunological studies of wildlife, investigators should consider factors that may influence immune responses, including age, body condition, date, developmental stage of the immune system, and time required for the progression of immune responses.
3884612|Historical biogeography and comparative phylogeography have much in common. Both seek to discover common historical patterns in the elements of biotas, although typically at different tiers of evolutionary history. Comparative phylogeography is based on phylogeographic analyses of multiple taxa, usually widespread species. By comparing the phylogeographic structures of numerous widespread sympatric species, one can infer whether the current fauna has been historically stable, as evidenced by the relative frequency of geographically congruent reciprocally monophyletic groups. Alternatively, if species distributions are ephemeral over evolutionary time, a mixture of phylogeographic structures is expected. Coalescence analyses contribute information about history irrespective of whether haplotype phylogenies are structured or not. In the aridlands of North America, several isolating events are evident in the phylogeographic patterns of birds, mammals and herps. A mid-peninsular seaway in Baja California, dated at ca. one million years before present, had a pervasive effect, with 13 of 16 assayed species showing a concordant split. Hence, this community appears to have been a stable assemblage of species over the past one million years. In contrast, the avifauna of the Sonoran-Chihuahuan deserts consists of two species with a concordant split and three other species that are undifferentiated across both deserts. Hence, the species in this area have had different histories. The Baja biota appears to resemble its ancestral configuration to a greater degree than the Sonoran-Chihuahuan one. A deeper evolutionary event separated taxa in Baja California from the eastern deserts, showing that the aridlands fauna was affected by events at different times resulting in overlain tiers of history.
4485877|Bateman identified two aspects of sexual selection. The first, called Bateman's principle, is that sexual selection favors increased promiscuity of males but not of females as a result of differences in parental investment in gametes. The second is that the variance in mate number of males is the fundamental cause of a sex difference in fitness variance. We argue that Bateman's insight about the source of sexual selection is more fundamental than his speculation about patterns of parental investment. We show that, when the sex ratio is 1:1, the average female must be as promiscuous as the average male, because each copulation involves one male and one female. Because mean male and female promiscuity are tied together in the same manner as mean male and female fitness, a sex difference in mating propensity must be the result of either (1) a sex difference in the covariance between matings and number offspring, or (2) Fisherian run-away sexual selection, wherein female reluctance to mate is a weak form of female choice. We show how female promiscuity can limit the evolution of male promiscuity, turning the central argument of parental investment theory on its head.
3884841|The maximum degree of hierarchical structure of organisms has risen over the history of life, notably in three transitions: the origin of the eukaryotic cell from symbiotic associations of prokaryotes; the emergence of the first multicellular individuals from clones of eukaryotic cells; and the origin of the first individuated colonies from associations of multicellular organisms. The trend is obvious in the fossil record, but documenting it using a high-resolution hierarchy scale reveals three puzzles: 1) the rate of origin of new levels accelerates, at least until the early Phanerozoic; 2) after that, the trend may slow or even stop; and 3) levels may sometimes arise out of order. The three puzzles and their implications are discussed; a possible explanation is offered for the first.
40931195|More than 100 years ago, Max Rubner combined the fact that both metabolic rate and longevity of mammals varies with body size to calculate that "life energy potential" (lifetime energy turnover per kilogram) was relatively constant. This calculation linked longevity to aerobic metabolism which in turn led to the "rate-of-living" and ultimately the "oxidative stress" theories of aging. However, the link between metabolic rate and longevity is imperfect. Although unknown in Rubner's time, one aspect of body composition of mammals also varies with body size, namely the fatty acid composition of membranes. Fatty acids vary dramatically in their susceptibility to peroxidation and the products of lipid peroxidation are very powerful reactive molecules that damage other cellular molecules. The "membrane pacemaker" modification of the "oxidative stress" theory of aging proposes that fatty acid composition of membranes, via its influence on peroxidation of lipids, is an important determinant of lifespan (and a link between metabolism and longevity). The relationship between membrane fatty acid composition and longevity is discussed for (1) mammals of different body size, (2) birds of different body size, (3) mammals and birds that are exceptionally long-living for their size, (4) strains of mice that vary in longevity, (5) calorie-restriction extension of longevity in rodents, (6) differences in longevity between queen and worker honeybees, and (7) variation in longevity among humans. Most of these comparisons support an important role for membrane fatty acid composition in the determination of longevity. It is apparent that membrane composition is regulated for each species. Provided the diet is not deficient in polyunsaturated fat, it has minimal influence on a species' membrane fatty acid composition and likely also on it's maximum longevity. The exceptional longevity of Homo sapiens combined with the limited knowledge of the fatty acid composition of human tissues support the potential importance of mitochondrial membranes in determination of longevity.
3884813|Annelida, one of the most successful animal phyla, exhibits an amazing variety of morphological forms. Disparity between some of the forms is so great that until molecular tools were used, some annelid lineages (for example, echiurids and pogonophorans) were not commonly recognized as belonging to the group. Although it is easy to assign annelids to a given family, understanding the deeper relationships within the group has been difficult. The main working hypothesis for annelid phylogeny is based on morphological cladistic analysis. However, the recent work using molecular tools has caused a revision of our view of annelid evolutionary history. For example, Scolecida and Palpata appear not to be natural groups, and the phylogenetic positions of some aberrant taxa (for example, Siboglinidae, Poeobius, Pisione) have been determined. Herein, we discuss some of the main molecular markers that have been used to elucidate annelid phylogeny and the contribution that such work is making to our understanding. A table highlighting the molecular literature and the genes used is included.
3884964|Humans and apes are placed together in the superfamily Hominoidea. The evolutionary trajectory of hominoids is intimately bound up with the exploitation of ripe, fleshy fruits. Fermentation of fruit sugars by yeasts produces a number of alcohols, particularly ethanol. Because of their pre-human frugivorous dietary heritage, it has been hypothesized that humans may show pre-existing sensory biases associating ethanol with nutritional rewards. This factor, in turn, could influence contemporary patterns of human ethanol use. At present, there seems little evidence to support a view of selection specifically for ethanol detection or its utilization over the course of hominoid evolution. Ethanol concentration in wild fruits consumed by monkeys and apes is predicted to be low. Wild monkeys and apes avoid consumption of over-ripe fruits, the class showing notable ethanol concentrations, and for this reason, ethanol plumes may act as deterrents rather than attractants. Any energetic benefits to wild primates from ingested ethanol appear negligible, at best. Mice and rats show patterns of ethanol self-administration similar to humans, indicating that a frugivorous dietary heritage is not necessary for such behaviors. In the natural environment, ethanol is predicted to be just one of many alcohols, esters and related compounds routinely encountered by frugivorous primates and of no particular significance. The strong attraction ethanol holds for some individuals could be due to a broad range of genetic and environmental factors. In some humans, the appetite for ethanol appears related to the appetite for sugar. The predisposition some individuals display toward excessive ethanol consumption could involve features of their genetics and biochemical similarities of ethanol and carbohydrate. Regular low ethanol intake is hypothesized to lower the incidence of cardiovascular disease in humans, perhaps through its effects on body fat distribution. Such a benefit, if confirmed, would appear to relate to features of the contemporary human rather than pre-human diet.
23016120|Synopsis Since mammalian frugivores generally choose to eat ripe fruit in which ethanol concentration ([EtOH]) increases as the fruit ripens, we asked whether ethanol acts as an appetitive stimulant in the Egyptian fruit bat, Rousettus aegyptiacus, and also studied the effects of ethanol on their skin temperature (T<sub>s</sub>). We hypothesized that the responses of fruit bats to dietary ethanol are concentration dependent and tested the predictions that the bats' response is positive, i.e., they eat more when [EtOH] in the food is in the range found in naturally ripe fruit, while it negatively affects them at higher concentrations. We also tested the prediction that in winter, even when availability of fruit is low and thermoregulatory costs are high, ingestion of ethanol by fruit bats is low because assimilated ethanol reduces shivering thermogenesis and peripheral vasodilation; these, alone or together, are detrimental to the maintenance of body temperature (T<sub>b</sub>). In summer, captive bats offered food containing 0.1% ethanol significantly increased consumption over food with no ethanol; they did not change consumption when food contained 0.01, 0.3, or 0.5% ethanol; but significantly decreased consumption at higher levels of ethanol [EtOH], i.e., 1 and 2%. In winter, captive bats ate significantly less when their food contained 0.1% ethanol than when it contained 0, 0.3, or 0.5%. During summer, freshly caught bats ate significantly more ethanol-containing food than freshly caught bats in winter. Skin temperature (T<sub>s</sub>) in Egyptian fruit bats decreased significantly at an ambient temperature (T<sub>a</sub>) of 12C (winter conditions) after gavage with liquid food containing 1% ethanol. The effect was clearly temperature-dependent, since ethanol did not have the same effect on bats gavaged with food containing 1% or no ethanol at a T<sub>a</sub> of 25C (summer conditions). In conclusion, ethanol may act as an appetitive stimulant for Egyptian fruit bats at low concentrations, but only in summer. Bats are deterred by food containing [EtOH] corresponding to that in overripe, unpalatable fruit (1 and 2%). Furthermore, during winter, Egyptian fruit bats are deterred by ethanol-rich fruit, possibly due to the potential thermoregulatory consequences of ethanol consumption.
23016047|Synopsis The production of bioinspired and biomimetic constructs has fostered much collaboration between biologists and engineers, although the extent of biological accuracy employed in the designs produced has not always been a priority. Even the exact definitions of "bioinspired" and "biomimetic" differ among biologists, engineers, and industrial designers, leading to confusion regarding the level of integration and replication of biological principles and physiology. By any name, biologically-inspired mechanical constructs have become an increasingly important research tool in experimental biology, offering the opportunity to focus research by creating model organisms that can be easily manipulated to fill a desired parameter space of structural and functional repertoires. Innovative researchers with both biological and engineering backgrounds have found ways to use bioinspired models to explore the biomechanics of organisms from all kingdoms to answer a variety of different questions. Bringing together these biologists and engineers will hopefully result in an open discourse of techniques and fruitful collaborations for experimental and industrial endeavors.
23016112|Synopsis Torpor, the most effective means of energy conservation available to endotherms, is still widely viewed as a specific adaptation in a few high-latitude, cold-climate endotherms with no adaptive function in warm regions. Nevertheless, a growing number of diverse terrestrial mammals and birds from low latitudes (030), including species from tropical and subtropical regions, are heterothermic and employ torpor. Use of torpor is especially important for bats because they are small, expend large amounts of energy when active, rely on a fluctuating food supply, and have only a limited capacity for storage of fat. Patterns of torpor in tropical/subtropical bats are highly variable, but short bouts of torpor with relatively high body temperatures (T<sub>b</sub>) are most common. Hibernation (a sequence of multiday bouts of torpor) has been reported for free-ranging subtropical tree-dwelling vespertilionids, cave-dwelling hipposiderids, and house-dwelling molossids. The observed range of minimum T<sub>b</sub> is 630C, and the reduction of energy expenditure through the use of torpor, in comparison to normothermic values, ranges from 50 to 99%. Overall, torpor in the tropics/ subtropics has been reported for 10 out of the currently recognized 18 bat families, which contain 1079 species, or 96.7% of all bats. Although it is unlikely that all of these are heterothermic, the large majority probably will be. Frequent use of torpor, including hibernation in diverse groups of tropical/subtropical bats, suggests that heterothermy is an ancestral chiropteran trait. Although data especially from the field are still scarce, it is likely that torpor, highly effective in reducing requirements for energy and water even under warm conditions, plays a crucial role in the long-term survival of the majority of small tropical and subtropical bats. Discovering how bats achieve this provides numerous opportunities for exiting new research.
40306095|We propose that the exploitation of the bioactive properties of secondary metabolites (SMs) by animals can provide a "treatment" against various challenges that perturb homeostasis in animals. The unified theoretical framework for the exploitation of SMs by animals is based on a synthesis of research from a wide range of fields and although it is focused on providing generalized predictions for herbivores that exploit SMs of plants, predictions can be applied to understand the exploitation of SMs by many animals. In this review, we argue that the probability of SM exploitation is determined by the relative difference between the cost of a homeostatic challenge and the toxicity of the SM and we provide various predictions that can be made when considering behavior under a homeostatic perspective. The notion that animals experience and respond to costly challenges by exploiting therapeutic SMs provides a relatively novel perspective to explain foraging behavior in herbivores, specifically, and behavior of animals in general. We provide evidence that animals can exploit the biological activity of SMs to mitigate the costs of infection by parasites, enhance reproduction, moderate thermoregulation, avoid predation, and increase alertness. We stress that a better understanding of animal behavior requires that ecologists look beyond their biases that SMs elicit punishment and consider a broader view of avoidance or selection of SMs relative to the homeostatic state. Finally, we explain how understanding exploitation of SMs by animals could be applied to advance practices of animal management and lead to discovery of new drugs.
4540228|Annelids are one of the most successful major animal lineages in terms of number of species and of habitats occupied. Despite annelids being common in terrestrial, aquatic, and marine environments, only a limited number of lineages have evolved a holopelagic existence. Most of these holopelagic lineages belong to Phyllodocida (nereidids, syllids, scale worms, and jawed worms) and more particularly often within the family Phyllodocidae. These worms generally appear to retain many characteristics of adult annelids. Moreover, we provide molecular evidence showing that the well-known alciopids are derived from within Phyllodocidae. In contrast, at least two lineages, Poeobius meseres/Flota flabelligera and probably Chaetopterus pugaporcinus, are derived through paedomorphic processes acting on larvae from lineages that have sedentary adult forms. Herein, we will briefly review the known diversity of holopelagic annelids with discussion of their evolutionary origins.
41319670|Gliding has evolved independently at least six times in mammals. Multiple hypotheses have been proposed to explain the evolution of gliding. These include the evasion of predators, economical locomotion or foraging, control of landing forces, and habitat structure. Here we use a combination of comparative methods and ecological and biomechanical data collected from free-ranging animals to evaluate these hypotheses. Our comparative data suggest that the origins of gliding are often associated with shifts to low-quality diets including leaves and plant exudates. Further, data from free-ranging colugos suggest that although gliding is not more energetically economical than moving through the canopy, it is much faster, allowing shorter times of transit between foraging patches and therefore more time available to forage in a given patch. In addition to moving quickly, gliding mammals spend only a small fraction of their overall time engaged in locomotion, likely offsetting its high cost. Kinetic data for both take-off and landing suggest that selection on these behaviors could also have shaped the evolution of gliding. Glides are initiated by high-velocity leaps that are potentially effective in evading arboreal predators. Further, upon landing, the ability to control aerodynamic forces and reduce velocity prior to impact is likely key to extending distances of leaps or glides while reducing the likelihood of injury. It is unlikely that any one of these hypotheses exclusively explains the evolution of gliding, but by examining gliding in multiple groups of extant animals in ecological and biomechanical contexts, new insights into the evolution of gliding can be gained.
3884825|Visual pigments, the molecules in photoreceptors that initiate the process of vision, are inherently dichroic, differentially absorbing light according to its axis of polarization. Many animals have taken advantage of this property to build receptor systems capable of analyzing the polarization of incoming light, as polarized light is abundant in natural scenes (commonly being produced by scattering or reflection). Such polarization sensitivity has long been associated with behavioral tasks like orientation or navigation. However, only recently have we become aware that it can be incorporated into a high-level visual perception akin to color vision, permitting segmentation of a viewed scene into regions that differ in their polarization. By analogy to color vision, we call this capacity polarization vision. It is apparently used for tasks like those that color vision specializes in: contrast enhancement, camouflage breaking, object recognition, and signal detection and discrimination. While color is very useful in terrestrial or shalow-water environments, it is an unreliable cue deeper in water due to the spectral modification of light as it travels through water of various depths or of varying optical quality. Here, polarization vision has special utility and consequently has evolved in numerous marine species, as well as at least one terrestrial animal. In this review, we consider recent findings concerning polarization vision and its significance in biological signaling.
4485773|Fenoxycarb and pyriproxyfen are insecticides that gain their toxicity by specifically acting as insect juvenile hormone agonists (JHA), and so are endocrine disruptors by design and effectively prevent larvae from maturing into adults. Efforts to assess the environmental effects of JHAs on nontarget populations of invertebrates have resulted in the utilization of several established estuarine crustacean models. This work was conducted to test the hypothesis that the mortality, inhibition of development and decreased fecundity reported previously in these animals from JHA exposure coincides with abnormal circulating titers of ecdysteroids. Gravid female grass shrimp (Palaemonetes pugio) and mud crabs (Rhithropanopeus harrisii), species with different developmental plasticity and JHA tolerances, were collected and held at wet lab conditions (20 ppt salinity, 25C) until larval release. Larvae were collected <12 hr after hatch and exposed to JHAs during a static renewal test through end of development with seawater or nominal concentrations of JHA previously shown to induce significant developmental delays and/or decreased body weights. Larvae were subsampled (10 larvae/sample, n=2 to 8) at each developmental stage, lyophilized, and ecdysteroids extracted by homogenization in 80% methanol and elution from C18 Sep-Pak cartridges with 25%, 60% and 100% methanol to capture the polar, free, and apolar conjugates, respectively, and then quantified by ELISA. As was expected significant differences in successful completion of development (larval survival), developmental duration, and growth (dry weight) were observed. These physiological perturbations were linked with significantly altered ecdysteroid titers, supporting a newly emerging theory that juvenoids possibly act as anti-ecdysteroids through a novel molecular mechanism involving inhibition of ecdysteroid signaling.
3884677|Why do some animals swim by rowing appendages back and forth while others fly by flapping them up and down? One hypothesis suggests the answer lies in the sharply divergent physical environments encountered by small, slow animals, and large, fast animals. Flapping appendages allow large animals to move through a fluid environment quickly and efficiently. As size and speed decrease, however, viscous drag increasingly dominates the force balance, with negative consequences for both rowing and flapping appendages. Nevertheless, comparative data suggest that flapping does not occur in animals at Reynolds numbers (Re) less than about 15. I used a computer simulation experiment to address the question, "Below what Re is rowing more effective than flapping?" The simulation, which employed a simple quasi-steady, blade-element model of virtual oscillating appendages, has several important results. First, the mechanical efficiency of both rowing and flapping decrease dramatically with scale. Second, the performance of rowing can increase substantially by taking advantage of several dynamic shape modifications, including area and span reduction during the recovery stroke. Finally, the relative performance of rowing and flapping is dependent on the advance ratio, which is a function of the travel speed relative to the oscillation frequency. The model predicts that rowing is more efficient than flapping at Re < 20 for animals moving throughout the range of typically observed advance ratios.
23016313|Synopsis Organisms must distribute sufficient energy among different and often competing physiological systems. This task can become challenging, however, as resources are often limiting, resulting in energetic trade-offs. For example, energetically based trade-offs between the reproductive and immune systems are common across taxa, yet the regulatory mechanisms underlying these trade-offs remain unclear. The adipose tissue hormone leptin is an ideal candidate for the modulation of energetic trade-offs between different physiological systems as this hormone serves as a gage of fat reserves and also modulates a range of physiological activities including the reproductive and immune processes. This article presents a review of the evidence for the role of leptin as a modulator of energetic trade-offs with the immune system and suggests its importance in disease ecology. In addition, we provide a case study of the ornate tree lizard (Urosaurus ornatus), testing whether leptin is involved in mediating a well-documented influence of energy state on the trade-off between reproductive activity and immune function. Overall, the combined results suggest that leptin serves as a proximate endocrine signal of available energy to the immune system, and therefore likely to affect susceptibility to diseases.
3884676|Functional morphology has benefited greatly from the input of techniques and thinking from other disciplines. This has been especially productive in situations where each discipline has made significant contributions to a particular research topic. A combination of methodologies from functional morphology and developmental biology has allowed us to characterize feeding mechanics of first-feeding larval zebrafish (Danio rerio). Contrary to kinematic patterns commonly seen in adult teleosts, larval zebrafish showed no lateral abduction during the expansive phase of a suction-feeding event. Instead, dorsoventral expansion of the buccal chamber, more typical of patterns seen in primitive fishes, characterized the expansive phase. Moreover, a pronounced preparatory phase during which the buccal chamber is constricted by the protractor hyoideus was consistently seen in first-feeding larval kinematics. Key kinematic variables associated with first feeding correlated significantly with the hydrodynamic regime as measured by the Reynolds number. Using the tools of both functional morphology and developmental biology we have not only determined which cranial muscles are important for successful feeding but also uncovered important physiological differences in muscle structure. Muscles necessary for the rapid dorsoventral expansion of the head are composed primarily of fast-twitch fibers while those involved in more tonic contractions such as hyoid protraction have more slow-twitch muscle fibers. While most evolutionary developmental studies have examined mechanisms responsible for large evolutionary changes in morphology, we propose that the type of data uncovered in functional studies can lead to the generation of hypotheses concerning the developmental mechanisms responsible for smaller intra- and/or interspecific changes.
3884773|Production of antimicrobial peptides and proteins is an important means of host defense in eukaryotes. The larger antimicrobial proteins, containing more than 100 amino acids, are often lytic enzymes, nutrient-binding proteins or contain sites that target specific microbial macromolecules. The smaller antimicrobial peptides act largely by disrupting the structure or function of microbial cell membranes. Hundreds of antimicrobial peptides have been found in the epithelial layers, phagocytic cells and body fluids of multicellular animals, from mollusks to humans. Some antimicrobial peptides are produced constitutively, others are induced in response to infection or inflammation. Studies of the regulation of antimicrobial peptide synthesis in Drosophila have been particularly fruitful, and have provided a new paradigm for the analysis of mammalian host defense responses. It now appears that the general patterns of antimicrobial responses of invertebrates have been preserved in vertebrates ("innate immunity") where they contribute to host defense both independently and in complex interplay with adaptive immunity.
25160154|The house mouse is one of the most successful mammals and the premier research animal in mammalian biology. The classical inbred strains of house mice have been artificially modified to facilitate identification of the genetic factors underlying phenotypic variation among these strains. Despite their widespread use in basic and biomedical research, functional and evolutionary morphologists have not taken full advantage of inbred mice as a model for studying the genetic architecture of form, function, and performance in mammals. We illustrate the potential of inbred mice as a model for mammalian functional morphology by examining the genetic architecture of maximum jaw-opening performance, or maximum gape, across 21 classical inbred strains. We find that variation in maximum gape among these strains is heritable, providing the first evidence of a genetic contribution to maximum jaw-opening performance in mammals. Maximum gape exhibits a significant genetic correlation with body size across strains, raising the possibility that evolutionary increases in size frequently resulted in correlated increases in maximum gape (within the constraints of existing craniofacial form) during mammalian evolution. Several craniofacial features that influence maximum gape share significant phenotypic and genetic correlations with jaw-opening ability across these inbred strains. The significant genetic correlations indicate the potential for coordinated evolution of craniofacial form and jaw-opening performance, as hypothesized in several comparative analyses of mammals linking skull form to variation in jaw-opening ability. Functional studies of mammalian locomotion and feeding have only rarely examined the genetic basis of functional and performance traits. The classical inbred strains of house mice offer a powerful tool for exploring this genetic architecture and furthering our understanding of how form, function, and performance have evolved in mammals.
3884840|The basic problem in an evolutionary transition is to understand how a group of individuals becomes a new kind of individual, possessing the property of heritable variation in fitness at the new level of organization. During an evolutionary transition, for example, from single cells to multicellular organisms, the new higher-level evolutionary unit (multicellular organism) gains its emergent properties by virtue of the interactions among lower-level units (cells). We see the formation of cooperative interactions among lower-level units as a necessary step in evolutionary transitions; only cooperation transfers fitness from lower levels (costs to group members) to higher levels (benefits to the group). As cooperation creates new levels of fitness, it creates the opportunity for conflict between levels as deleterious mutants arise and spread within the group. Fundamental to the emergence of a new higher-level unit is the mediation of conflict among lower-level units in favor of the higher-level unit. The acquisition of heritable variation in fitness at the new level, via conflict mediation, requires the reorganization of the basic components of fitness (survival and reproduction) and life-properties (such as immortality and totipotency) as well as the co-option of lower-level processes for new functions at the higher level. The way in which the conflicts associated with the transition in individuality have been mediated, and fitness and general life-traits have been re-organized, can influence the potential for further evolution (i.e., evolvability) of the newly emerged evolutionary individual. We use the volvocalean green algal group as a model-system to understand evolutionary transitions in individuality and to apply and test the theoretical principles presented above. Lastly, we discuss how the different notions of individuality stem from the basic properties of fitness in a multilevel selection context.
4540225|The phylum Ctenophora (known as comb jellies) consists of gelatinous marine carnivores found from the surface to several thousand meters depth. Their morphology can be simple or complex, ranging from a sac-like shape with no tentacles to large lobed forms with sinuous "auricles," papillae, and two different kinds of tentacles. This diversity appears to reflect adaptations to many different diets. For example, some species can continuously "graze" on small crustaceans or larvae, others engulf larger jellies, and some are able to snare individual larger prey through a variety of strategies. Thus feeding behavior can help explain the high morphological diversity in this relatively small phylum. Because of their fragility, comb jellies are difficult to study alive and the natural histories of many types, especially those found in the deep sea, have not been examined. This account categorizes ctenophore feeding methods using published reports as well as new observations using submersibles and blue-water scuba diving.
25160225|The local flow environment affects the shape of waterborne chemical signals through a variety of physical mechanisms and at several scales. Since crayfish rely on these chemical signals to extract information about predators, prey, and mates, one might expect the chemical sensors (aesthetascs) on crayfish antennules to be physically tuned to the presentation of chemical cues by the flow environment. This hypothesis was tested by comparing length, diameter, and spacing of antennules and aesthetascs among geographically distinct populations of Orconectes virilis. Crayfish were collected from the Chagrin river, Hebron hatchery, and Burt lake. In addition, antennules were sampled from 43 museum populations representing 12 lake, 10 creek, and 21 river populations from multiple states and river drainages. Mean velocities from the collection sites were either measured directly or calculated from United States Geological Survey (USGS) historical data. Structural parameters were measured using Scion Image software on Scanning electron microscope micrographs, and analyses of variance were performed using StatView. Structural parameters of aesthetascs were found to vary with flow environment. Aesthetascs from lake populations were inserted at a larger angle, extended out farther from the supporting antennule relative to the width of the antennule, and were more widely spaced than aesthetascs from creek, hatchery, and river populations.
3885011|An important step in connecting the organismal response to thermal stress to patterns of community structure is determining at what scale discernable levels of variation are manifested. The temperature signal to which organisms may potentially respond varies at many spatial scales including microhabitat, tidal height, site and latitude. A number of studies have taken physiological assessment of the heat shock response (HSR) into the intertidal both as a tool for examining the HSR in nature and for examining the utility of HSR molecules as population or community level indicators. Most commonly, immunodetection of the total pool of the Hsp70 family of isoforms is used. Here we present data on levels of Hsp70 in intertidal organisms from microhabitat to the mesoscale. Our data and previously published work show that Hsp70 levels vary at all scales examined, similar to other physical and biological variables of interest. This demonstrates both the potential utility of Hsp70 detection as a molecular tool for field biologists and to the care that must be taken in assessing scale of variation when looking for potential bioindicator molecules.
25160216| Organisms spanning a 10-fold range in length of the body engage in aquatic propulsion-swimming; they do so with several kinds of propulsors and take advantage of several different fluid mechanical mechanisms. A hierarchical classification of swimming modes can impose some order on this complexity. More difficult are the issues surrounding the different kinds of propulsive devices used by different organisms. These issues can be in part exposed by an examination of how speeds and accelerations scale with changes in body length, both for different lineages of swimmers and for all swimmers collectively. Clearly, fluid mechanical factors impose general rules and constraints; just as clearly, these only roughly anticipate actual scaling. Indeed, collections of data on scaling can serve as useful correctives for assumptions about functional mechanisms. They can also reveal size-dependent constraints on biological designs. 
3884783|Inspired by the emerging new view of animal phylogeny, recent comparative morphological studies have applied the range of available new and established microscopical techniques to shed new light on many received wisdoms about animal evolution. Here I review some illustrative recent work of the participants in the symposium "The New Microscopy: Toward a Phylogenetic Synthesis" held at the annual Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology meeting in San Diego in January 2005. I will discuss 6 case studies. Of these, 3 have generated new morphological insights that are significantly at odds with received wisdom about high-level animal phylogeny but congruent with emerging molecular phylogenies. These examples examine the value of characteristics of arthropod neurogenesis in supporting a controversial new hypothesis of high-level arthropod phylogeny, the insights into annelid phylogeny provided by studies on central nervous system development in clitellates, and how new data on the source of mesoderm in phoronids corroborates their placement in the Lophotrochozoa. The remaining 3 case studies shed new light particularly on the evolution of important innovations that are at the base of successful clades. The examples deal with the evolution of torsion as a major synapomorphy of the gastropods, illustrate how the origin of gastrulation could be studied in sponges, and show that trochophore larvae may characterize a larger clade of spiralians than hitherto suspected.
23016049|Synopsis The effect of wing flexibility in hoverflies was investigated using an at-scale mechanical model. Unlike dynamically-scaled models, an at-scale model can include all phenomena related to motion and deformation of the wing during flapping. For this purpose, an at-scale polymer wing mimicking a hoverfly was fabricated using a custom micromolding process. The wing has venation and corrugation profiles which mimic those of a hoverfly wing and the measured flexural stiffness of the artificial wing is comparable to that of the natural wing. To emulate the torsional flexibility at the wing-body joint, a discrete flexure hinge was created. A range of flexure stiffnesses was chosen to match the torsional stiffness of pronation and supination in a hoverfly wing. The polymer wing was compared with a rigid, flat, carbon-fiber wing using a flapping mechanism driven by a piezoelectric actuator. Both wings exhibited passive rotation around the wing hinge; however, these rotations were reduced in the case of the compliant polymer wing due to chordwise deformations during flapping which caused a reduced effective angle of attack. Maximum lift was achieved when the stiffness of the hinge was similar to that of a hoverfly in both wing cases and the magnitude of measured lift is sufficient for hovering; the maximum lift achieved by the single polymer and carbon-fiber wings was 5.9  10<sup>2</sup> N and 6.9  10<sup>2</sup> N, respectively. These results suggest that hoverflies could exploit intrinsic compliances to generate desired motions of the wing and that, for the same flapping motions, a rigid wing could be more suitable for producing large lift.
40863355|Billions of animals migrate each year. To successfully reach their destination, migrants must have evolved an appropriate genetic program and suitable developmental, morphological, physiological, biomechanical, behavioral, and life-history traits. Moreover, they must interact successfully with biotic and abiotic factors in their environment. Migration therefore provides an excellent model system in which to address several of the "grand challenges" in organismal biology. Previous research on migration, however, has often focused on a single aspect of the phenomenon, largely due to methodological, geographical, or financial constraints. Integrative migration biology asks ' big questions' such as how, when, where, and why animals migrate, which can be answered by examining the process from multiple ecological and evolutionary perspectives, incorporating multifaceted knowledge from various other scientific disciplines, and using new technologies and modeling approaches, all within the context of an annual cycle. Adopting an integrative research strategy will provide a better understanding of the interactions between biological levels of organization, of what role migrants play in disease transmission, and of how to conserve migrants and the habitats upon which they depend.
3884826|The effects of light adaptation on flicker fusion frequency were examined in the photoreceptors of 13 species of deep-sea crustaceans. Light adaptation produced a significant increase in the maximum critical flicker fusion frequency
3884822|Eyes serve as models to understand the evolution of complex traits, with broad implications for the origins of evolutionary novelty. Discussions of eye evolution are relevant at many taxonomic levels, especially within arthropods where compound eye distribution is perplexing. Either compound eyes were lost numerous times or very similar eyes evolved separately in multiple lineages. Arthropod compound eye homology is possible, especially between crustaceans and hexapods, which have very similar eye facets and may be sister taxa. However, judging homology only on similarity requires subjective decisions. Regardless of whether compound eyes were present in a common ancestor of arthropods or crustaceans + hexapods, recent phylogenetic evidence suggests that the compound eyes, today present in myodocopid ostracods (Crustacea), may have been absent in ostracod ancestors. This pattern is inconsistent with phylogenetic homology. Multiple losses of ostracod eyes are an alternative hypothesis that is statistically improbable and without clear cause. One possible evolutionary process to explain the lack of phylogenetic homology of ostracod compound eyes is that eyes may evolve by switchback evolution, where genes for lost structures remain dormant and are re-expressed much later in evolution.
3884633|Crustacean motor neurons subserving locomotion are specialized for the type of activity in which they normally participate. Neurons responsible for maintained activity ('tonic' neurons) support moderate to high frequencies of nerve impulses intermittently or continuously during locomotion, while those recruited for short-lasting rapid responses ('phasic' neurons) generally fire a few impulses in a rapid burst during rapid locomotion and are otherwise silent. The synaptic responses of the two types, recorded at their respective neuromuscular junctions, differ enormously: phasic neurons exhibit much higher quantal release per synapse and per muscle fibre, along with more rapid synaptic depression and less short-term facilitation. We have analyzed the factors that are responsible for the large difference in initial release of neurotransmitter. Several possibilities, including synapse and active zone size differences, entry of calcium at active zones, and immediately releasable vesicle pools, could not account for the large phasic-tonic difference in initial transmitter output. The most likely feature that differentiates synaptic release is the sensitivity of the exocytotic machinery to intracellular calcium. Molecular features of the phasic and tonic presynaptic nerve terminals are currently under investigation.
41319643|Genetic adaptation to temperature change can impact responses of populations and communities to global warming. Here we integrate previously published results on experimental evolution trials with follow-up experiments involving the water flea Daphnia as a model system. Our research shows (1) the capacity of natural populations of this species to genetically adapt to changes in temperature in a time span of months to years, (2) the context-dependence of these genetic changes, emphasizing the role of ecology and community composition on evolutionary responses to climatic change, and (3) the impact of micro-evolutionary changes on immigration success of preadapted genotypes. Our study involves (1) experimental evolution trials in the absence and presence of the community of competitors, predators, and parasites, (2) life-table and competition experiments to assess the fitness consequences of micro-evolution, and (3) competition experiments with putative immigrant genotypes. We use these observations as building blocks of an evolving metacommunity to understand biological responses to climatic change. This approach integrates both local and regional responses at both the population and community levels. Finally, we provide an outline of current gaps in knowledge and suggest fruitful avenues for future research.
3884800|The basic tenet of sex allocation theory is that an organism's reproductive success, through either male or female function, can be represented as a sex-specific, monotonic, increasing function of the organism's investment of resources in that function. The shapes of these curves determine what patterns of resource allocation can be evolutionarily stable. Although SA theory has stimulated creative thinking about plant sexual tactics, quantifying the shapes of male and female gain curves has proven so difficult that other approaches must be considered. I contrast sex allocation theory to a different, emerging viewpoint, pollen presentation theory (PPT), which attempts to address variation in reproductive success by measuring and modeling the quantitative fates of pollen grains. Models suggest that RS through male function depends heavily on the packaging and gradual dispensing of pollen to pollinators, even with the amount of investment held constant. Many plants do deploy pollen gradually, through morphological and "behavioral" mechanisms that range from obvious to subtle. They may thereby influence many aspects of the evolution of sexual modes in plants, including transitions between dioecy and cosexuality. After reviewing the main implications of the models, I discuss recent work aimed at testing some key assumptions and predictions by functional and comparative studies in the genus Penstemon. Species of Penstemon conform to PPT predictions that bee-adapted flowers will restrict per-visit pollen availability more than hummingbird-adapted flowers.
3884815|Progenesis is defined as the retention of ancestral juvenile characters by adult stages of descendants due to an acceleration of the sexual maturation and thus is often regarded as a fast evolutionary process. Several small, meiofaunal polychaetes, such as Dinophilidae, some "Dorvilleidae" (for example, Parapodrilus), and Protodrilida, exhibit morphological simplicity in that they lack features typical of larger polychaetes, for example, parapodia and/or head appendages. Due to the general resemblance of adult meiofaunal polychaetes to juveniles of larger forms, progenesis has been invoked to explain evolutionary origins of many smaller taxa with increasing frequency over the past 4 decades. In this review, I summarize the interstitial species of polychaetes for which progenetic origin has been suggested on the basis of morphology. However, critical examination of morphological data that includes larval features reveals that autapomorphic characters uniting supposed progenetic taxa to specific annelid lineages are often missing. Typically larval and juvenile characters, which are argued to support hypotheses of progenetic origin, are often widely dispersed, homoplastic features. Because of this situation, molecular data seem to be the most reliable source for phylogenetic inference. However, other biological data, for example, from life history and morphology, are necessities to substantiate the progenetic evolution of these species.
3884772|Long before vertebrates first appeared, protists, plants and animals had evolved diverse, effective systems of innate immunity. Ancestors of the vertebrates utilized components of the complement system, protease-inhibitors, metal-binding proteins, carbohydrate-binding proteins and other plasma-born molecules as humoral agents of defense. In these same animals, immunocytes endowed with a repertoire of defensive behaviors expressed Toll-like receptors. They made NADPH oxidase, superoxide dismutase and other respiratory burst enzymes to produce toxic oxygen radicals, and nitric oxide synthase to produce nitric oxide. Antimicrobial peptides and lytic enzymes were in their armory. Immune responses were orchestrated by cytokines. Furthermore, genes within the immunoglobulin superfamily were expressed to meet a variety of needs possibly including defense. However, recombination activating genes played no role. With the acquisition of one or more transposases and the resulting capacity to generate diverse receptors from immunoglobulin gene fragments, the adaptive (lymphoid) arm of the immune system was born. This may have coincided with the elaboration of the neural crest. Naturally, the role of the adaptive arm was initially subservient to the defensive functions of the pre-existing innate arm. The strong selective advantages that stemmed from having "sharp-shooters" (cells making antigen-specific receptors) on the defense team ensured their retention. Refined through evolution, adaptive immunity, even in mammals, remains dependent upon cells of the innate series (e.g., dendritic cells) for signals driving their functional maturation. This paper calls for some fresh thinking leading to a clearer vision of the origins and co-evolution of the two arms of modern immune systems, and suggests a possible neural origin for the adaptive immune system.
3884922|Stress may be defined as a sequence of events, that begins with a stimulus (stressor), that is recognized by the brain (stress perception), and which results in the activation of physiologic fight/flight/fright systems within the body (stress response). Many evolutionary selection pressures are stressors, and one of the primary functions of the brain is to perceive stress, warn the body of danger, and enable an organism to respond. We hypothesized that under acute conditions, just as the stress response prepares the cardiovascular and musculoskeletal systems for fight or flight, it may also prepare the immune system for challenges (e.g., wounding) which may be imposed by a stressor (e.g., an aggressor). Initial studies showed that acute (2h) stress induced a significant trafficking of immune cells to the skin. Since the skin is an organism's major protective barrier, we hypothesized that this leukocyte redistribution may serve to enhance skin immunity during acute stress. We tested this hypothesis using the delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) reaction, which mediates resistance to various infectious agents, as a model for skin immune function. Acute stress administered immediately before antigen exposure significantly enhanced skin DTH. Adrenalectomy (ADX) eliminated the stress-induced enhancement of DTH while administration of physiological doses of corticosterone and/or epinephrine to ADX animals enhanced skin DTH in the absence of stress. These studies showed that changes in leukocyte distribution and circulating stress hormones are systemic mediators of the immunoenhancing effects of acute stress. We recently identified gamma interferon as a local cytokine mediator of a stress-induced immunoenhancement. Our results suggest that during acute stress the brain sends preparatory warning signals to the immune system just as it does to other fight/flight systems of the body.
4485851|This review will focus on the acquisition of desiccation tolerance in the resurrection plant Craterostigma plantagineum. Molecular aspects of desiccation tolerance in this plant will be compared with the response of non-tolerant plants to dehydration. Unique features of C. plantagineum are described like the CDT-1 (Craterostigma desiccation tolerance gene-1) gene and the carbohydrate metabolism. Abundant proteins which are associated with the desiccation tolerance phenomenon are the late embryogenesis abundant (=LEA) proteins. These proteins are very hydrophilic and occur in several other species which have acquired desiccation tolerance.
25160198|Gonadotropin-releasing-hormone (GnRH) neurons form part of a central neural oscillator that controls sexual reproduction through intermittent release of the GnRH peptide. Activity of GnRH neurons, and by extension release of GnRH, has been proposed to reflect intrinsic properties and synaptic input of GnRH neurons. To study GnRH neurons, we used traditional electrophysiology and computational methods. These emerging methodologies enhance the elucidation of processing in GnRH neurons. We used dynamic current-clamping to understand how living GnRH somata process input fro glutamate and GABA, two key neurotransmitters in the neuroendocrine hypothalamus. In order to study the impact of synaptic integration in dendrites and neuronal morphology, we have developed full-morphology models of GnRH neurons. Using dynamic clamping, we have demonstrated that small-amplitude glutamatergic currents can drive repetitive firing in GnRH neurons. Furthermore, application of simulated GABAergic synapses with a depolarized reversal potential have revealed two functional subpopulations of GnRH neurons: one population in which GABA chronically depolarizes membrane potential (without inducing action potentials) and a second population in which GABAergic excitation results in slow spiking. Finally, when AMPA-type and GABA-type simulated inputs are applied together, action potentials occur when the AMPA-type conductance occurs during the descending phase of GABAergic excitation and at the nadir of GABAergic inhibition. Compartmental computer models have shown that excitatory synapses at &gt;300 microns from somtata are unable to drive spiking with purely passive dendrites. In models with active dendrites, distal synapses are more efficient at driving spiking than somatic inputs. We then used our models to extend the results from dynamic current clamping at GnRH somata to distribute synaptic inputs along the dendrite. We show that propagation delays for dendritic synapses alter synaptic integration in GnRH neurons by widening the temporal window of interaction for the generation of action potentials. Finally, we have shown that changes in dendrite morphology can modulate the output of GnRH neurons by altering the efficacy of action potential generation in response to after-depolarization potentials (ADPs). Taken together, the methodologies of dynamic current clamping and multi-compartmental modeling can make major contributions to the study of synaptic integration and structure-function relationships in hypothalamic GnRH neurons. Use of these methodological approaches will continue to provide keen insights leading to conceptual advances in our understanding of reproductive hormone secretion in normal and pathological physiology and open the door to understanding whether the mechanisms of pulsatile GnRH release are conserved across species.
40863408|Studies of right-left asymmetries have yielded valuable insights into the mechanisms of both development and evolution. Larvae from several groups of caddisflies (Trichoptera) build portable asymmetrical cases within which they live. In nearly all species that build spiral-walled tubular cases, the direction of wall coiling is random (equal numbers of dextral and sinistrai cases within species) whereas in all species that build helicospiral, snail-like cases the direction of coiling is exclusively dextral. Asymmetrical tubes result from handed behavior, and ~ 20% of larvae removed from a spiral-walled, tubular case build a replacement case of opposite chirality. So handed behavior (and hence direction of tube-wall spiraling) is likely learned rather than determined genetically. Asymmetrical larval cases appear to have evolved at least seven times in the Trichoptera, five times as spiral-walled tubes and twice as snail-like helicospiral cases. Helicospiral cases may reduce vulnerability to prdation by mimicking snail shells, whereas spiral arrangements of vegetation fragments in tube walls may be more robust mechanically than other arrangements, but experimental evidence is lacking. Within one family (Phryganeidae), one or perhaps two species exhibit an excess of sinistral-walled cases, suggesting that genes that bias handed behavior in a particular direction evolved after handed behaviors already existed (genetic assimilation).
3884619|The median fins of fishes consist of the dorsal, anal, and caudal fins and have long been thought to play an important role in generating locomotor force during both steady swimming and maneuvering. But the orientations and magnitudes of these forces, the mechanisms by which they are generated, and how fish modulate median fin forces have remained largely unknown until the recent advent of Digital Particle Image Velocimetry (DPIV) which allows empirical analysis of force magnitude and direction. Experimental hydrodynamic studies of median fin function in fishes are of special utility when conducted in a comparative phylogenetic context, and we have examined fin function in four ray-finned fish clades (sturgeon, trout, sunfish, and mackerel) with the goal of testing classical hypotheses of fin function and evolution. In this paper we summarize two recent technical developments in DPIV methodology, and discuss key recent findings relevant to median fin function. High-resolution DPIV using a recursive local-correlation algorithm allows quantification of small vortices, while stereo-DPIV permits simultaneous measurement of x, y, and z flow velocity components within a single planar light sheet. Analyses of median fin wakes reveal that lateral forces are high relative to thrust force, and that mechanical performance of median fins (i.e., thrust as a proportion of total force) averages 0.35, a surprisingly low value. Large lateral forces which could arise as an unavoidable consequence of thrust generation using an undulatory propulsor may also enhance stability and maneuverability. Analysis of hydrodynamic function of the soft dorsal fin in bluegill sunfish shows that a thrust wake is generated that accounts for 12% of total thrust and that the thrust generation by the caudal fin may be enhanced by interception of the dorsal fin wake. Integration of experimental studies of fin wakes, computational approaches, and mechanical models of fin function promise understanding of instantaneous forces on fish fins during the propulsive cycle as well as exploration of a broader locomotor design space and its hydrodynamic consequences.
4540151|Synopsis Males of a Croatian population of the lacertid lizard Podarcis melisellensis exhibit a striking polymorphism, with coloration of the throat and abdomen ranging from completely white, to yellow or orange. In a first attempt to explore the potential ecological and evolutionary significance of this polymorphism, we compared the three forms of males in aspects of their morphology, whole-animal performance, behavior, and ecology. Orange males are, on average, larger in snout-vent length and have disproportionately larger heads than either white or yellow males. This is reflected in orange males having higher bite force capacity and theoretically an increased access to harder prey. Residual limb length, maximal sprint speed and maximal exertion do not differ among color morphs. Body temperatures in the field are similar in the three morphs, but yellow males are caught at sites with slightly higher air temperatures than are orange and white males. Behavioral observations show no differences in time budgets or in the timing of activities among morphs. Microhabitat use is also similar in the three color morphs, but orange males were more often initially seen on rocky substrates. Our findings suggest that the observed polymorphism likely does not originate from a divergence in niche or use of resources, but possibly reflects an underlying polymorphism in mating tactics.
40306075|Isopod parasites of the subfamilies Ioninae and Pseudioninae infest the branchial chambers of brachyuran crabs. In total, 19 species of parasitic isopods infest crabs from China; they belong to 6 genera from the Ioninae and 1 genus from the Pseudioninae. Specifically, the following genera are represented: Allokepon Markham, 1982 (three species), Apocepon Nierstrasz and Brender a Brandis, 1930 (three species), Cancricepon Giard and Bonnier, 1887 (one species), Dactylokepon Stebbing, 1910 (four species), Gigantione Kossmann, 1881 (four species), Onkokepon, An et al. 2006 (two species) and Tylokepon Stebbing, 1906 (two species). The new species Tylokepon biturus from Menaethius monoceros (Latreille) collected in China is distinguished from other members of the genus by the striking shape of the head, two mid-dorsal projections on Pereomere 6, and entire pleopods and uropods without any tubercules on their surface. A list of all bopyrid species (19 species in seven families) along with their hosts and localities, is presented.
4540184|The diversification of the tetrapod stem group occurred during the late Middle through the Late Devonian, that is from the Givetian to Famennian stages about 385-365 million years ago. The relationships between the known taxa representing this radiation have currently reached a reasonable consensus so that interpretations of the order of appearance of tetrapod characters is possible. The immediate fish relatives of the earliest limbed tetrapods show what is interpreted as a progressive increase in the spiracular chamber and its opening to the outside. Here, this is inferred to be associated with an increased capacity for air-breathing. Lungs are thought to have been present in most early bony fishes, and were most likely ventilated by air-gulping. This could have brought about a facultative capacity for air-breathing, which the tetrapod stem group exploited to the greatest degree. These adaptations are shown not only in freshwater forms but also in estuarine and marginal marine forms. Estimates of oxygen levels during this period suggest that they were unprecedentedly low during the Givetian and Frasnian periods. At the same time, plant diversification was at its most rapid, changing the character of the landscape and contributing, via soils, soluble nutrients, and decaying plant matter, to anoxia in all water systems. The co-occurrence of these global events may explain the evolution of air-breathing adaptations in at least two lobe-finned groups, contributing directly to the rise of the tetrapod stem group. In contrast to recent studies, low atmospheric oxygen is not considered to be a causal factor in the lack of fossils documenting the evolution of Early Carboniferous tetrapods.
25160218|Squids encounter vastly different flow regimes throughout ontogeny as they undergo critical morphological changes to their two locomotive systems: the fins and jet. Squid hatchlings (paralarvae) operate at low and intermediate Reynolds numbers (Re) and typically have rounded bodies, small fins, and relatively large funnel apertures, whereas juveniles and adults operate at higher Re and generally have more streamlined bodies, larger fins, and relatively small funnel apertures. These morphological changes and varying flow conditions affect swimming performance in squids. To determine how swimming dynamics and propulsive efficiency change throughout ontogeny, digital particle image velocimetry (DPIV) and kinematic data were collected from an ontogenetic range of long-finned squid Doryteuthis pealeii and brief squid Lolliguncula brevis swimming in a holding chamber or water tunnel (Re=20-20 000). Jet and fin wake bulk properties were quantified, and propulsive efficiency was computed based on measurements of impulse and excess kinetic energy in the wakes. Paralarvae relied predominantly on a vertically directed, high frequency, low velocity jet as they bobbed up and down in the water column. Although some spherical vortex rings were observed, most paralarval jets consisted of an elongated vortical region of variable length with no clear pinch-off of a vortex ring from the trailing tail component. Compared with paralarvae, juvenile and adult squid exhibited a more diverse range of swimming strategies, involving greater overall locomotive fin reliance and multiple fin and jet wake modes with better defined vortex rings. Despite greater locomotive flexibility, jet propulsive efficiency of juveniles/adults was significantly lower than that of paralarvae, even when juvenile/adults employed their highest efficiency jet mode involving the production of periodic isolated vortex rings with each jet pulse. When the fins were considered together with the jet for several juvenile/adult swimming sequences, overall propulsive efficiency increased, suggesting that fin contributions are important and should not be overlooked in analyses of the swimming performance of squids. The fins produced significant thrust and consistently had higher propulsive efficiency than did the jet. One particularly important area of future study is the determination of coordinated jet/fin wake modes that have the greatest impact on propulsive efficiency. Although such research would be technically challenging, requiring new, powerful, 3D approaches, it is necessary for a more comprehensive assessment of propulsive efficiency of the squid dual-mode locomotive system.
4485785|The vertebrate endocrine system is well-characterized, with many reports of disruption by environmental chemicals. In contrast, cnidarians are less compartmentalized, physiological regulation is poorly understood, and the potential for disruption is unknown. Endocrine-like activity has not been systematically studied in cnidarians, but several classical vertebrate hormones (e.g., steroids, iodinated organic compounds, neuropeptides, and indoleamines) have been identified in cnidarian tissues. Investigators have made progress in identifying putative bioregulatory molecules in cnidarians, and testing the effects of these individual compounds. Less progress has been made in elucidating signaling pathways. For example, putative gonadotropin-releasing hormone and sex steroids have been identified in cnidarian tissues, but it is unknown whether these compounds are components of a larger signal cascade comparable to the vertebrate hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. Further, while sex steroids and iodinated organic compounds may help to regulate cnidarian physiology, the mechanisms of action are unknown. Homologs to the vertebrate steroid and thyroid receptors have not been identified in cnidarians, so more research is needed to understand the mechanisms of endocrine-like signaling in cnidarians. Elucidation of cnidarian regulatory pathways will provide insight into evolution of hormonal signaling. These studies will also improve understanding of how cnidarians respond to environmental cues and will provide a basis to investigate disruption of physiological processes by physical and chemical stressors.
4540224|Several species and developmental stages of calanoid copepods were tested for responses to environmental cues in a laboratory apparatus that mimicked conditions commonly associated with patches of food in the ocean. All species responded to the presence of phytoplankton by feeding. All species responded by increasing proportional residence time in one, but not both, of the treatments defined by gradients of velocity or density. Most species increased swimming speed and frequency of turning in response to the presence of chemical exudates or gradients of velocity. Only one species, Eurytemora affinis, increased proportional time of residence in response to gradients in density of the water. Responses of E. affinis to combined cues did not definitively demonstrate a hierarchical use of different cues as previously observed for Temora longicornis and Acartia tonsa. A simple foraging simulation was developed to assess the applicability in the field of the behavioral results observed in the laboratory. These simulations suggest that observed fine-scale behaviors could lead to copepod aggregations observed in situ. The present study demonstrates that behavioral response to cues associated with fine-scale oceanographic gradients and biological patchiness is functionally important and prevalent among copepods and likely has significant impacts on larger-scale distributional patterns.
3884892|The comparative approach in biological sciences has provided valuable insights into the role of different organ systems in adaptation and evolution, and seeks to establish unifying themes. This approach also plays a key role in identifying model species and systems for the study of specific questions and problems. Further, by applying the concept of homology, information about nonmammalian species may be used either to directly understand mammalian/human regulatory processes, or to formulate hypotheses for direct testing. Individual physiological systems function in a milieu provided by the integrated activities of all of the systems to adapt, adjust and sustain the organism in its environment. The overlapping interfaces between the different physiological systems provide fertile ground for new insights and to enhance our knowledge. These interdisciplinary areas are of great importance if we are to understand the full complexity of organismal function. Of particular interest are the interactions between the reproductive system and the immune system. The reproductive system is unique in that its primary role is to assure the continuity of the species, while the immune system provides internal protection and thus facilitates continued health and survival. The modus operandi of these 2 morphologically diffuse systems involves widely distributed chemical signals in response to environmental input, and both systems must interact for the normal functioning of each. While the major focus of reproductive-immune research has historically been with mammals, and has provided substantial insight into the interactions between these physiological systems, comparative studies offer unique perspectives. Further, dysregulation of normal physiological interactions between the reproductive and immune systems can lead to disorders and diseases effecting one system or the other. Thus, comparative studies of these interactions may shed some light upon the evolutionary mechanisms involved in such cases.
3884863| Sclerotium-forming filamentous fungi are of great agricultural and biological interest because they can be viewed as models of simple metamorphosis. They differentiate by asexually producing sclerotia but the processes involved in sclerotial metamorphosis were poorly understood. In 1997, it was shown for the first time that the sclerotial differentiation state in Sclerotium rolfsii concurred with increasing levels of lipid peroxides. This finding prompted the development of a theory supporting that sclerotial metamorphosis is induced by oxidative stress. Growth factors that reduce or increase oxidative stress are expected to inhibit or promote sclerotium metamorphosis, respectively. This theory has been verified by a series of published data on the effect of certain hydroxyl radical scavengers on sclerotial metamorphosis, on the identification and quantification of certain endogenous antioxidants (such as ascorbic acid, -carotene) in relation to the fungal undifferentiated and differentiated states, and on their inhibiting effect on sclerotial metamorphosis as growth nutrients. In 2004-2005, we developed assays for the measurement of certain redox markers of oxidative stress, such as the thiol redox state, the small-sized fragmented DNA, and the superoxide radical. These new advances allowed us to initiate studies on the exact role of glutathione, hydrogen peroxide, and superoxide radical on sclerotial metamorphosis. The emerging data, combined with similar data from other better-studied fungi, allowed us to make some preliminary postulations on the ROS-dependent biochemical signal transduction pathways in sclerotiogenic filamentous fungi. 
40793112|Genome sequencing has facilitated an understanding of gene networks but has also shown that they are only a small part of the answer to the question of how genes translate into a functional organism. Much of the answer lies in epigeneticsheritable traits not directly encoded by the genome. One such phenomenon is alternative splicing, which affects over 75% of protein coding genes and greatly amplifies the number of proteins. Although it was postulated that alternative splicing and gene duplication are inversely proportional and, therefore, have similar effects on the size of the proteome, for ancient duplications such as occurred in the Pax family of transcription factors, that is not necessarily so. The importance of alternative splicing in development and physiology is only just coming to light. However, several techniques for studying isoform functions both in vivo and in vivo have been recently developed. As examples of what is known and what is yet to be discovered, this review focuses on the evolution and roles of the Pax family of transcription factors in development and on alternative splicing of endocrine genes and the factors that regulate them.
23016068|Synopsis Chewing kinematics reflects interactions between centrally generated motor signals and peripheral sensory feedback from the constantly changing oral environment. Chewing is a strongly modulated behavior that responds to differences in material properties among different type of foods and to changes in the external physical properties of the food as the bolus gets processed. Feeding, as any complex biological behavior, presents variation at multiple hierarchical levels, from among species or higher-order levels to variation among chewing cycles within a single feeding sequence. Thus, to understand the mechanics and evolution of feeding systems requires estimation of how this variation is distributed across each of these hierarchical levels, which in turn requires large sample sizes. The development of affordable, high-resolution, three-dimensional kinematic recording systems has increased our ability to collect large amounts of data on complete or near-complete feeding sequences that can be used to shed light on the mechanisms of control in vertebrate feeding. In this study, we present data on the nature and sources of variation (from species to chewing cycle levels) in kinematics of chewing in two species of primates, Cebus and Macaca, while they feed on foods of known material properties. Variation in chewing kinematics was not evenly distributed among hierarchical levels. Most of the variation was observed among chewing cycles, most likely in response to changes in the external properties of the food bolus throughout the feeding sequence. Species differences were found in duration and vertical displacement during slow-close phase suggesting that each species exhibits different power stroke dynamics. Cebus exhibited more variable gape cycles than did Macaca, in particular when eating low-toughness foods. This increased ability to temporally and spatially modulate the gape cycle may reflect increased efficiency in processing food because Cebus monkeys use fewer, but longer cycles, than does Macaca when feeding on low-toughness foods. This is due to an increase in duration of the jaw-opening phases of the gape cycle, when the tongue repositions the food bolus in the oral cavity.
40406001|Fish exhibit many behaviors that involve sensing water flows with their lateral-line system. In many situations, viscosity affects how the flow interacts with the body of the fish and the neuromasts of the lateral line. Here we discuss how viscosity influences the stimulus to the fish lateral-line system. The movement of a fish's body creates flows that can interfere with the detection of external signals, but these flows can also serve as a source of information about nearby obstacles and the fish's own hydrodynamic performance. The viscous boundary layer on the surface of the skin alters external signals by attenuating the low-frequency components of stimuli. The stimulus to each neuromast depends on the interaction of the fluid surrounding the neuromast and the structural properties of that neuromast, including the number of mechanosensory hair cells it contains. A consideration of the influences of viscosity on flow, at both the whole-body and receptor levels, offers the promise of a more comprehensive understanding of the signals involved in behaviors mediated by the lateral-line system.
25160125|Directed aerial displacement requires that a volant organism's airspeed exceeds ambient wind speed. For biologically relevant altitudes, wind speed increases exponentially with increased height above the ground. Thus, dispersal of most insects is influenced by atmospheric conditions. However, insects that fly close to the Earth's surface displace within the flight boundary layer where insect airspeeds are relatively high. Over the past 17 years, we have studied boundary-layer insects by following individuals as they migrate across the Caribbean Sea and the Panama Canal. Although most migrants evade either drought or cold, nymphalid and pierid butterflies migrate across Panama near the onset of the rainy season. Dragonflies of the genus Pantala migrate in October concurrently with frontal weather systems. Migrating the furthest and thereby being the most difficult to study, the diurnal moth Urania fulgens migrates between Central and South America. Migratory butterflies and dragonflies are capable of directed movement towards a preferred compass direction in variable winds, whereas the moths drift with winds over water. Butterflies orient using both global and local cues. Consistent with optimal migration theory, butterflies and dragonflies adjust their flight speeds in ways that maximize migratory distance traveled per unit fuel, whereas the moths do not. Moreover, only butterflies adjust their flight speed in relation to endogenous fat reserves. It is likely that these insects use optic flow to gauge their speed and drift, and thus must migrate where sufficient detail in the Earth's surface is visible to them. The abilities of butterflies and dragonflies to adjust their airspeed over water indicate sophisticated control and guidance systems pertaining to migration.
4540139|The mammalian masticatory apparatus is distinguished from the intra-oral processing systems of other amniotes by a number of morphological and functional features, including transverse movements of the teeth during the power stroke, precise occlusion, suspension of the teeth in the socket by a periodontal ligament, diphyodonty (reduction to two generations of teeth), a hard palate, and the presence of a single bone (the dentary) in the lower jaw which articulates with the skull at the temporomandibular jaw joint. The evolution of these features is commonly argued to have improved the efficiency of food processing in the oral cavity. The present aricle highlights the existence in mammals of the fusimotor system and afferent fibers from the periodontal ligament through which the CNS modulates the responses by the muscle spindles. Published data suggest that the fusimotor system and the periodontal afferents are important components in feed-forward (or anticipatory) control of chewing behavior. We hypothesize that this feedforward control is used to maintain relatively constant cycle lengths in mammals in the face of intra-sequence and intersequence variation in material properties of the food, and that this enables them to maintain a higher average chewing frequency than that of lizards. These predictions were evaluated using data on mean cycle length and its variance from the literature and from our own files. On average, mammals have less variable cycle lengths than do lizards and shorter cycle lengths than do lizards of similar size. We hypothesize that by decreasing variance in cycle length, presumably close to the natural frequency of their feeding systems, mammals minimize energy expenditure during chewing, allowing them to chew for longer, thereby maintaining the high rates of food intake required for their high metabolic rates.
25160205|The fossil record has been an invaluable aid for reconstructing the major events of vertebrate evolution. There is no comparable record for protochordates, however, which severely limits our knowledge of their ancestral morphology, habits, and mode of life. The alternative is inference based on an interpretation of living protochordates but this is fraught with problems, not least being our own biases of what we think an ancestral chordate ought to look like. Relevant to the present symposium is the problem of head/trunk relationships and whether or not the myotomes of the trunk originally extended into the head in vertebrates. I will review what is currently known of patterns of innervation in tunicates and amphioxus in relation to Romer's somaticovisceral concept of the vertebrate body to show how little progress has been made in resolving this problem. There are, in contrast, surprisingly good prospects for solving some other puzzles concerning chordate origins. Dorsoventral inversion provides a good example. A consensus is now emerging, based largely on molecular data from hemichordates that casts new light on the asymmetry of the head in amphioxus. Specifically, the morphogenetic growth process that reestablishes symmetry in late-stage larvae can now be seen, at least in part, as a recapitulation of past evolutionary events, and this has important implications for the origin and basic organization of the brain.
3884715|Ever since Darwin identified it as the force responsible for the evolution of exaggerated male characters, sexual selection has been the focus of research aimed at understanding the most bizarre and intriguing morphologies and behaviors in Nature. Two congeneric species in the firefly genus Photinus, P. pyralis and P. macdermotti, afford a unique opportunity to examine the interaction between sexual and countervailing natural selection that act to shape the evolution of mating behavior and body size in closely related species with very different courtship strategies. Photinus pyralis males emit very bright flashes during their extended patrolling flights and form 'love knots' of competing suitors, while P. macdermotti males, whose courtships seldom exceed two competing males, produce weaker flashes during a shorter patrolling period. Possibly as a consequence of their scramble competition and long flights, not only is there an extremely wide range of body sizes in P. pyralis males, but they also exhibit wing allometric slopes greater than one, and lantern allometries less than one. In contrast, P. macdermotti males do not have allometric slopes significantly different from one. Small males, when tested in an artificial scramble situation move faster than large males, an advantage in the intense competition that ensues once a female is located. Females answer several males in alternation and fail to respond to all male flashes, with the evident consequence that love knots frequently develop around such fickle females. Allometric relationships in two non-luminescent beetle species with non-visual courtship protocols are compared. Visual, sexually selected characters showed positive allometric slopes, while non-visual characters showed isometry or negative slopes. Data presented here support the existence of distinct patterns in modality-specific sexual selection.
25160206|Whether or not the vertebrate head is fundamentally segmented has been controversial for over 150 years. Beginning in the late 19th century, segmentalist theories proposed that the vertebrate head evolved from an amphioxus-like ancestor in which mesodermal somites extended the full length of the body with remnants of segmentation persisting as the mesodermal head cavities of sharks and lampreys. Antisegmentalists generally argued either that the vertebrate ancestors never had any mesodermal segmentation anteriorly or that they lost it before the origin of the vertebrates; in either case, the earliest vertebrates had an unsegmented head and the embryonic cranial mesoderm of vertebrates is at best pseudo-segmented, evolving independently of any pre-vertebrate segmental pattern. Recent morphologic studies have generally confirmed the accuracy of the major classical studies of head development in lampreys and sharks, yet disagree with their theoretical conclusions regarding the evolution of head segmentation. Studies of developmental genes in amphioxus and vertebrates, which have demonstrated conservation of the mechanisms of anterior-posterior patterning in the two groups, have shed new light on this controversy. Most pertinently, some homologs of genes expressed in the anterior amphioxus somites, which form as outpocketings of the gut, are also expressed in the walls of the head cavities of lampreys, which form similarly, and in their major derivatives (the velar muscles) as well as in the eye and jaw muscles of bony gnathostomes, which derive from unsegmented head mesoderm. These muscles share gene expression with the corresponding muscles of the shark, which derive from the walls of head cavities that form, not as outpocketings of the gut, but as secondary cavities within solid blocks of tissue. While molecular data that can be compared across all the relevant taxa remain limited, they are consistent with an evolutionary scenario in which the cranial paraxial mesoderm of the lamprey and shark evolved from the anterior somites of an amphioxus-like ancestor. Although, bony vertebrates have lost the mesodermal head segments present in the shark and lamprey, their remnants persist in the muscles of the eye and jaw.
3884765|Volvox and its relatives provide an exceptional model for integrative studies of the evolution of multicellularity and cellular differentiation. The volvocine algae range in complexity from unicellular Chlamydomonas through several colonial genera with a single cell type, to multicellular Volvox with its germsoma division of labor. Within the monophyletic family Volvocaceae, several species of Volvox have evolved independently in different lineages, the ultimate cause presumably being the advantage that large size and cellular differentiation provide in competing for limiting resources such as phosphorous. The proximate causes of this type of evolutionary transition are being studied in V. carteri. All volvocine algae except Volvox exhibit biphasic development: cells grow during a motile, biflagellate phase, then they lose motility and divide repeatedly during the reproductive phase. In V. carteri three kinds of genes transform this ancestral biphasic program into a dichotomous one that generates non-motile reproductive cells and biflagellate somatic cells with no reproductive potential: first the gls genes act in early embryos to cause asymmetric division and production of large-small sister-cell pairs; then lag genes act in the large cells to repress the biflagellate half of the ancestral program, while regA acts in the small cells to repress the reproductive half of the program. Molecular-genetic analysis of these genes is progressing, as will be illustrated with regA, which encodes a transcription factor that acts in somatic cells to repress nuclear genes encoding chloroplast proteins. Repression of chloroplast biogenesis prevents these obligately photoautotrophic cells from growing, and since they cannot grow, they cannot reproduce.
4485876|An alternative to classic sexual selection hypotheses for sex differentiated pre-mating behavior is that time available for mating-as individuals experience it-along with fitness differences among alternative potential mates, induces choosy versus indiscriminate mating behavior. This alter hypothesis says that selection has acted so that all individuals flexibly express fitness-enhancing choosy, indiscriminate, and competitive mating behavior, induced by time-varying life histories, environmental and social cues. Key predictions of DYNAMATE, the formal model of adaptively flexible sex role behavior of individuals of both sexes within dynamically changing populations, include: (1) All individuals regardless of sex assess likely fitness outcomes from mating with alternative potential mates before expressing choosy or indiscriminate behavior. (2) Males and females express adaptively flexible, choosy and indiscriminate behavior so that individuals may change their behavior-from moment to moment-to fit dynamically changing circumstances. (3) Indiscriminate behavior of males and (4) choosy behavior of females would often be maladaptive even in species with greater female than male parental investment, when females have longer latencies to receptivity to re-mating than males, and when the relative reproductive rate of males is greater than in females. (5) Whether or not females show choosy behavior will not affect whether or not males exhibit choosy or indiscriminate behavior, and vice versa. (6) When other model parameters are equal, the proportion of individuals of a given sex expressing choosy or indiscriminate mating behavior is a function of the distribution of fitness ratios (a distribution of all fitness differences that would be conferred on an individual by mating with any two sequentially or simultaneously encountered alternative potential mates). (7) Whether same-sex individuals behaviorally compete is a function of the fitness that would be conferred if the strategist won access to a potential mate, but not a function of relative reproductive rate or its proxy, the operational sex ratio. We call for re-evaluation of sex differences in choosy, indiscriminate, and competitive behavior under strong experimental controls that level the ecological playing fields of males and females, i.e., under experimental conditions informing the mechanisms of phenotypic expression. We end with comments on the classic question of questions: why are the sexes as they are?
3884787| More than a century of speculation about the evolutionary origin of the contorted gastropod body plan has been inspired by adult anatomy and by long-standing developmental observations. The result has been a concept of gastropod torsion that I call the "rotation hypothesis." Under the rotation hypothesis, gastropods originated when all components of the visceropallium (shell, mantle, mantle cavity with contained structures, and viscera) rotated by 180 relative to the head and foot. This evolutionary rotation is echoed during early development of patellogastropods and vetigastropods and occurs to some extent during development of more derived clades. However, comparative developmental data on ontogenetic torsion are minimal and I argue that the rotation hypothesis is a tautological argument. More recent studies on representatives from 3 major clades of gastropods suggest that the highly conserved aspect of gastropod development is not synchronous rotation of all components of the visceropallium relative to the head and foot but rather a state of anatomical organization in which the developing mantle cavity is on the right but the shell coil is posterior (endogastric orientation). This conserved state of developmental anatomy has inspired an alternative hypothesis for the evolutionary origin of the gastropod body plan, the "asymmetry hypothesis." Under the asymmetry hypothesis, the gastropod mantle cavity originated from 1 side only of a bilateral set of mantle cavities. The asymmetry hypothesis does not require a saltation event to explain the origin of gastropods, nor does it require that the ancient molluscan precursor of gastropods carried the shell coil over the head (exogastric orientation). 
3884944|Bivalve molluscs have a highly plastic feeding and growth physiology. The increasing availability of families artificially selected for faster growth has enabled physiological experiments to investigate the genetic basis for variable rates of growth. Fast growth is achieved by a combination of increased rates of feeding, reduced metabolic rates and lower metabolic costs of growth. In at least one species there is a trade-off between growth in protein and the storage of lipids that are utilized in gametogenesis. Energy requirements for maintenance are also higher in slow-growing individuals. Reduced costs of growth are due in part to increased efficiencies of protein turnover. Nevertheless, high protein turnover (and therefore high metabolic cost) may benefit fitness in the later stages of gametogenesis. Faster feeding rates do not impair flexibility in feeding behavior which compensates for changes in the food environment. Both inter- and intraspecies differences in feeding behavior are evident and suggest possible constraints imposed by faster feeding on the efficiency of selection between food particles of different nutritional value.
3884786| In Annelida, as well as in other invertebrate taxa, the nervous system is considered to be a very conservative organ system. Immunohistochemical investigations [use of anti-5-HT (serotonin), FMRFamide, and acetylated -tubulin anti-bodies] in combination with laser scanning microscopy enable more detailed reanalyses of known structures and detection of new characteristics that are useful for phylogenetic analyses. One hypothesis enabled by such studies is outlined for the evolution of arrangements of the dorsal circumesophageal roots in polychaetes and oligochaetes. These roots are not a unique feature of polychaetes; they also occur in oligochaetes. According to the Articulata hypothesis of metazoan relationships, the specific structure of the rope-ladder-like nervous system is, among others, an autapomorphic characteristic that unifies Annelida and Arthropoda. Recent studies applying the techniques mentioned here, however, demonstrate that the annelidan bauchmark (central nervous system of the trunk), in contrast to the arthropod pattern, is highly variable in terms of the number and position of connectives and the number of commissures per segment. The variability of the neuronal architecture as well as a hypothesis on how it evolved will be introduced with the aid of regeneration and developmental studies. Furthermore, it is shown that hitherto unknown nerves are present in the peripheral nervous system. 
4485853|The African chironomid Polypedilum vanderplanki exhibits anhydrobiosis, i.e., the larvae can survive complete desiccation. Recovery rate and trehalose content were investigated in larvae desiccated slowly or at a rate more than 3 times faster. Upon slow desiccation (evaporation rate 0.22 ml day) larvae synthesized 38 g trehalose/individual before complete desiccation, and all of them recovered after rehydration, whereas larvae that were dehydrated quickly (evaporation rate 0.75 ml day) accumulated only 6.8 g trehalose/individual and none of them revived after rehydration. In the pools that are their natural habitat P. vanderplanki larvae make tubes by incorporating detritus or soil with their sticky saliva. This tubular structure is a physical barrier not only to protect the larva from natural enemies but also induces successful anhydrobiosis by reducing the dehydration rate. When larvae were dehydrated with 100 l distilled water (DW) in soil tubes, they accumulated 37 g trehalose/individual and more than half of them could revive after rehydration, whereas larvae without tubes accumulated lower level of trehalose and none recovered after rehydration.
3884883| We have constructed directional and randomly primed cDNA libraries from mRNAs isolated during progressive stages of fiddler crab (Uca pugilator) limb regeneration. Data from these libraries are being assembled into an on-line database (http://www.genome.ou.edu/crab.html) that is both BLAST and keyword searchable; the data set is also available through GenBank. The first characterized library was made from mRNA isolated 4 days post-autotomy, when the first sign of morphological differentiation, cuticle secretion, is observed. Analysis of 1698 cDNA clones led to assignment of 473 contigs and 417 singlets, for a total of 890 sequences. Of these, 86% showed no assignments to characterized genes on database searching, while 14% could be assigned to a known ortholog in the COG (Clusters of Orthologous Groups) database. BLAST searches to specific protein domains in the Gene Ontology database led to assignments for 40% of the assembled sequences. Sequence similarity searches of other crustacean EST databases produced hits to 13-30% of the Uca query sequences. The ESTs include several genes that may be potentially ecdysteroid-responsive, such as homologs to chaperone proteins and cuticle protein genes, as well as homologs to arthropod proteins involved in retinoid/terpenoid metabolism. We have tested 3 potential candidate genes for their ability to be induced by ecdysteroid in limb bud explants; an arthropodial cuticle protein gene, and the nuclear receptor genes EcR and RXR. A subset of early blastemal limb buds (8 days post autotomy) show a positive response to ecdysteroid by 1-1.5 h, followed by a decrease in transcript abundance at longer periods of sustained incubation. Later stage buds (12 days post autotomy-late premolt) show decreases in steady-state mRNA levels by 1.5 h, or are completely refractory to ecdysteroid exposure. 
41319645|Determining how species' geographic ranges are governed by current climates and how they will respond to rapid climatic change poses a major biological challenge. Geographic ranges are often spatially fragmented and composed of genetically differentiated populations that are locally adapted to different thermal regimes. Tradeoffs between different aspects of thermal performance, such as between tolerance to high temperature and tolerance to low temperature or between maximal performance and breadth of performance, suggest that the performance of a given population will be a subset of that of the species. Therefore, species-level projections of distribution might overestimate the species' ability to persist at any given location. However, current approaches to modeling distributions often do not consider variation among populations. Here, we estimated genetically-based differences in thermal performance curves for growth among 12 populations of the scarlet monkeyflower, Mimulus cardinalis, a perennial herb of western North America. We inferred the maximum relative growth rate (RGR<sub>max</sub>), temperature optimum (T<sub>opt</sub>), and temperature breadth (T<sub>breadth</sub>) for each population. We used these data to test for tradeoffs in thermal performance, generate mechanistic population-level projections of distribution under current and future climates, and examine how variation in aspects of thermal performance influences forecasts of range shifts. Populations differed significantly in RGR<sub>max</sub> and had variable, but overlapping, estimates of T<sub>opt</sub> and Tb<sub>readth</sub>  T<sub>opt</sub> declined with latitude and increased with temperature of origin, consistent with tradeoffs between performances at low temperatures versus those at high temperatures. Further, T<sub>breadth</sub> was negatively related to RGR<sub>max</sub>, as expected for a specialist-generalist tradeoff. Parameters of the thermal performance curve influenced properties of projected distributions. For both current and future climates, T<sub>opt</sub> was negatively related to latitudinal position, while T<sub>breadth</sub> was positively related to projected range size. The magnitude and direction of range shifts also varied with T<sub>opt</sub> and T<sub>breadth</sub>, but sometimes in unexpected ways. For example, the fraction of habitat remaining suitable increased with T<sub>optbut</sub> decreased with T<sub>breadth</sub>. Northern limits of all populations were projected to shift north, but the magnitude of shift decreased with T<sub>opt</sub> and increased with T<sub>breadth</sub>  Median latitude was projected to shift north for populations with high r brea dth and low T<sub>opt</sub>, but south for populations with low T<sub>breadth</sub> and high T<sub>opt</sub>. Distributions inferred by integrating population-level projections did not differ from a species-level projection that ignored variation among populations. However, the species-level approach masked the potential array of divergent responses by populations that might lead to genotypic sorting within the species' range. Thermal performance tradeoffs among populations within the species' range had important, but sometimes counterintuitive, effects on projected responses to climatic change.
23016065|Synopsis All infant mammals make a transition from suckling milk to eating solid foods. Yet, the neuromuscular implications of the transition from a liquid-only diet to solid foods are unknown even though the transport and swallowing of liquids is different from that of solids. We used legacy electromyography (EMG) data to test hypotheses concerning the changes in motor pattern and neuromuscular control that occur during the transition from an all-liquid diet to consumption of solid food in a porcine model. EMG signals were recorded from five oropharyngeal muscles in pigs at three developmental stages (infants, juveniles, and adults) feeding on milk, on food of an intermediate consistency (porridge), and on dry chow (juveniles and adults only). We measured cycle frequency and its variation in "transport cycles" and "swallow cycles". In the swallow cycles, a measure of variation of the EMG signal was also calculated. Variation in cycle frequency for transport and swallow cycles was lowest in adults, as predicted, suggesting that maturation of feeding mechanisms occurs as animals reach adulthood. Infants had lower variation in transport cycle frequency than did juveniles drinking milk, which may be due to the greater efficiency of the infant's tight oral seal against the teat during suckling, compared to a juvenile drinking from a bowl where a tight seal is not possible. Within juveniles, variation in both transport and swallow cycle frequencies was directly related to food consistency, with the highest variation occurring when drinking milk and the lowest when feeding on solid food. There was no difference in the variation of the EMG activity between intact infants and juveniles swallowing milk, although when the latter swallow porridge the EMG signals were less variable than for milk. These results suggest that consistency of food is a highly significant determinant of the variation in motor pattern, particularly in newly weaned animals.
3884920|The hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis is recruited by the organism in response to real or perceived threats to homeostasis ("stress"). Regulation of this neuroendocrine system is accomplished by modulation of secretory tone in hypophysiotrophic neurons of the medial parvocellular paraventricular nucleus. Excitation of these neurons is mediated by several sources: direct (and perhaps indirect) inputs from brainstem neurons regulating autonomic tone/arousal; circumventricular organs monitoring blood and CSF constituents; and local-circuit neurons within the hypothalamus and basal forebrain. The latter are predominantly GABAergic; notably, these areas are targets for descending GABAergic input from limbic structures, and may promote PVN secretory activity via disinhibition. Neurosecretory paraventricular nucleus neurons are inhibited by glucocorticoid-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Glucocorticoid negative feedback appears to act both locally and in extrahypothalamic loci, and is likely integrated in a region- and stressor-specific manner. Inhibitory input to the medial parvocellular paraventricular nucleus emanate predominantly from the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and hypothalamus, and are likely regulated by neuroendocrine homeostats. Descending limbic inhibitory information appears to act through excitation of these inhibitory inputs. Overall, integration of stressful information is a multi-faceted process integrating prior experience and real or anticipated homeostatic disruption into appropriate activation and deactivation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis.
4485806|Sponges are important components of marine benthic communities of Antarctica. Numbers of species are high, within the lower range for tropical latitudes, similar to those in the Arctic, and comparable or higher than those of temperate marine environments. Many have circumpolar distributions and in some habitats hexactinellids dominate benthic biomass. Antarctic sponge assemblages contribute considerable structural heterogeneity for colonizing epibionts. They also represent a significant source of nutrients to prospective predators, including a suite of spongivorous sea stars whose selective foraging behaviors have important ramifications upon community structure. The highly seasonal plankton blooms that typify the Antarctic continental shelf are paradoxical when considering the planktivorous diets of sponges. Throughout much of the year Antarctic sponges must either exploit alternate sources of nutrition such as dissolved organic carbon or be physiologically adapted to withstand resource constraints. In contrast to predictions that global patterns of predation should select for an inverse correlation between latitude and chemical defenses in marine sponges, such defenses are not uncommon in Antarctic sponges. Some species sequester their defensive metabolites in the outermost layers where they are optimally effective against sea star predation. Secondary metabolites have also been shown to short-circuit molting in sponge-feeding amphipods and prevent fouling by diatoms. Coloration in Antarctic sponges may be the result of relict pigments originally selected for aposematism or UV screens yet conserved because of their defensive properties. This hypothesis is supported by the bioactive properties of pigments examined to date in a suite of common Antarctic sponges.
41319663|Multiple deficits have been described in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), from the first changes in normal functioning of the motoneurons and glia to the eventual loss of spinal and cortical motoneurons. In this review, current results, including changes in size, and electrical properties of motoneurons, glutamate excitotoxicity, calcium buffering, deficits in mitochondrial and cellular transport, impediments to proteostasis which lead to stress of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and glial contributions to motoneuronal vulnerability are recapitulated. Results are mainly drawn from the mutant SODI mouse model of ALS, and emphasis is placed on early changes that precede the onset of symptoms and the interplay between molecular and electrical processes.
3884625|Simple models are presented of the energetics of annual migration and of central place foraging, taking account of the speed and energy cost of the journeys. They are applied to insects, fish, birds and mammals of a wide range of sizes, which travel by flapping or soaring flight, by swimming or by running. It is shown that annual migrations of several thousand kilometres are unlikely to be beneficial except for marine mammals and flying birds. Marine mammals and large flying birds are the animals most likely to be able to benefit from foraging over very large distances. Observed migration and foraging ranges generally lie within the limits predicted by the models.
40405983|There are many parallels between the neural regulation of seasonal breeding in birds and puberty in primates, but most studies of the regulation of puberty in vertebrates involve the use of rodents. The findings from rodent studies are often perceived as being typical of mammals and therefore pertinent to human reproductive biology and in many cases, rodent models have a great deal to offer in terms of an understanding of the regulation of puberty and reproductive biology. However, knowledge available from comparative work perhaps highlights mechanistic similarities that may not exist between rodent and primate systems. In this short review, we highlight some of the advantages of studying avian reproductive biology in this regard. We discuss disparities between rodent puberty and primate puberty, and similarities between primates and birds. Thus, understanding the mechanisms regulating avian puberty and seasonal breeding might in some cases provide greater insight into the mechanistic control of puberty in nonrodent mammals. We also describe in detail the neuroendocrine regulation of reproduction in birds and aim to provoke discussion of the possible roles of thyroid hormones and multiple forms of gonadotropin-releasing hormone in avian and mammalian reproduction.
4540170|The origin of the turtle plastron is not well understood, and these nine bones have been homologized to the exoskeletal components of the clavicles, the interclavicular bone, and gastralia. Earlier data from our laboratory showed that the plastral bone-forming cells stained positively for HNK-1 and
3885017| Geographic limits of species are commonly associated with climatic or physical boundaries, but the mechanisms of exclusion at the limits of distribution are poorly understood. In some intertidal populations, the strengths of interactions with natural enemies are mediated by microclimate, and determine geographic limits. The northern limit of the barnacle Chthamalus fragilis in New England is the south side of Cape Cod, Massachusetts. South of the cape, Chthamalus has a refuge from competition in the high intertidal, which is too hot for survival of its superior competitor Semibalanus balanoides. North of the cape, the high intertidal is cooler, and Semibalanus survives, so Chthamalus has no refuge. Thus, geographic variation in the strength of competition may determine the geographic limit of Chthamalus. Intolerance of cold by Chthamalus cannot account for the geographic limit: transplants of Chthamalus 80 km beyond its northern limit survived up to 8 yr in the absence of competition with Semibalanus. At the geographic limit of Chthamalus in the Cape Cod Canal there are two bridges, 5 km apart. On the southern bridge, Chthamalus is abundant and occupies a refuge above Semibalanus. On the northern bridge in 2001, only 7 individual Chthamalus were present. Despite the proximity of the bridges, their microclimates are very different. The southern bridge, where Chthamalus is abundant, is up to 8C hotter than the northern bridge. This higher temperature creates a refuge in the high intertidal for Chthamalus. On the cooler northern bridge, there is no refuge for Chthamalus. Because of the difference in temperatures of the water masses that meet in the canal, heat storage in the rock of the bridge piers causes the temperatures to differ between the bridges. Thus, geographic change in microclimate alters the strength of competition, and determines the geographic limit. "When we travel from south to north, or from a damp region to a dry, we invariably see some species gradually getting rarer and rarer, and finally disappearing; and the change in climate being conspicuous, we are tempted to attribute the whole effect to its direct action. But this is a very false view: we forget that each species, even where it most abounds, is constantly suffering enormous destruction at some period of its life, from enemies or from competitors for the same place and food; and if these enemies or competitors be in the least degree favoured by any slight change of climate, they will increase in numbers, and as each area is already fully stocked with inhabitants, the other species will decrease."-Charles Darwin, On the Origin of Species, 1859, p. 69. 
4540159|Synopsis Pathogens and their host organisms share a wide range of resource needs that are required to support normal metabolism and growth. Because the development of infectious disease on or within the host involves the processes of invasion and resource consumption, competition for growth-limiting resources potentially may occur between pathogens and cellular or sub-cellular components of the host ecosystem. Examples from the plant, animal, and microbiological literature provide unambiguous evidence that external resource supplies to the host organism can have profound effects on the outcome of infection by a broad diversity of bacterial, fungal, metazoan, protozoan, and viral pathogens.
3884846|Various modes of preservation of Ediacaran fossils in different sediments, quartz sand at Zimnie Gory in northern Russia and lime mud at Khorbusuonka in northern Yakutia, show that the sediment was liquid long after formation of the imprints and that its mineralogy did not matter. A laminated 2 mm thick microbial mat is preserved intact at Zimnie Gory. It stabilized the sediment surface allowing formation of imprints on it. The soft body impressions on the under surface of the sand bed and within it developed owing to formation of a less than 1 mm thin "death mask" by precipitation of iron sulfide in the sediment. Fossils of the same species or even parts of the same organism may be preserved differently. Internal organs either collapsed, their cavities being filled with sediment from above, or resisted compression more effectively than the rest of the body. This allows restoration of the original internal anatomy of Ediacaran organisms. At Zimnie Gory numerous series of imprints of Yorgia on the clay bottom surface with the collapsed body at their end represent death tracks. The environment of formation of the Ediacaran fossils was thus inhospitable to most organisms. Those adapted to it, namely the radially organized frondose Petalonamae (of possible ctenophoran affinities), anchored in the mat with their basal bulbs. They evolved towards sessile life possibly in symbiosis with photo- or chemoautotrophic microorganisms. Vagile Ediacaran organisms belong mostly to the Dipleurozoa (somewhat resembling chordates and nemerteans), characterized by a segmented dorsal hydraulic skeleton, intestine with metameric caeca, and serial gonads. Only a fraction of the actual Precambrian faunal diversity is represented in the Ediacaran biota.
3884755|Octopus suckers consist of a tightly packed three-dimensional array of muscle with three major muscle fiber orientations: 1) radial muscles that traverse the wall; 2) circular muscles arranged circumferentially around the sucker; and 3) meridional muscles oriented perpendicular to the circular and radial muscles. The sucker also includes inner and outer fibrous connective tissue layers and an array of crossed connective tissue fibers embedded in the musculature. Adhesion results from reducing the pressure inside the sucker cavity. This can be achieved by the three-dimensional array of muscle functioning as a muscularhydrostat. Contraction of the radial muscles thins the wall, thereby increasing the enclosed volume of the sucker. If the sucker is sealed to a surface the cohesiveness of water resists this expansion. Thus, the pressure of the enclosed water decreases instead. The meridional and circular muscles antagonize the radial muscles. The crossed connective tissue fibers may store elastic energy, providing an economical mechanism for maintaining attachment for extended periods. Measurements using miniature flush-mounted pressure transducers show that suckers can generate hydrostatic pressures below 0 kPa on wettable surfaces but cannot do so on non-wettable surfaces. Thus, cavitation, the failure of water in tension, may limit the attachment force of suckers. As depth increases, however, cavitation will cease to be limiting because ambient pressure increases with depth while the cavitation threshold is unchanged. Structural differences between suckers will then determine the attachment force.
3884644|Complex life cycles involve a set of discrete stages that can differ dramatically in form and function. Transitions between different stages vary in nature and magnitude; likewise, the degree of autonomy among stages enabled by these transitions can vary as well. Because the selective value of traits is likely to shift over ontogeny, the degree of autonomy among stages is important for understanding how processes at one life-history stage alter the conditions for performance and selection at others. We pose 3 questions that help to define a research focus on processes that integrate function across life cycles. First, to what extent do particular transitions between life-history stages allow those stages to function as autonomous units? We identify the roles that stages play in the life history, types of transitions between stages, and 3 forces (structural, genetic/epigenetic, and experiential) that can contribute to integration among stages. Second, what are the potential implications of integration across life cycles for assumptions and predictions of life-history theory? We provide 3 examples where theory has traditionally focused on processes acting within stages in isolation from others. Third, what are the long-term consequences of carryover of experience from one life cycle stage to the next? We distinguish 3 scenarios: persistence (effects of prior experience persist through subsequent stages), amplification (effects persist and are magnified at subsequent stages), and compensation (effects are compensated for and diminish at subsequent stages). We use these scenarios to differentiate between effects of a carryover of state and carryover into subsequent processes. The symposium introduced by our discussion is meant to highlight how discrete stages can be functionally coupled, such that life cycle evolution becomes a more highly integrated response to selection than can be deduced from the study of individual stages.
3884985|The morphology-performance-fitness paradigm is usually explored by determining whether natural or "phenotypically engineered" variation among individuals in morphology (physiology) or performance covaries with an index of fitness such as survival. Here we study between-line covariation between performance and fitness for 44 lines of flies that had undergone mutation accumulation (in the absence of natural selection) on the second chromosome for 62 generations, plus 13 control lines. These mutation accumulation (MA) lines were known to have reduced competitive fitness and life history scores, and to have positive between-line covariances among life history traits. We measured several performance traits of larvae and adults (and a life history trait), examined covariances among those trait means, and also examined covariances of traits with competitive fitness. MA lines had significantly lower performances than did control lines in most traits. However, because control lines had been unknowingly contaminated, a conclusion that MA reduces performance must be tentative. Correlations among performance traits were highly variable in sign, suggesting that MA does not negatively affect all traits equivalently. Even so, correlation matrices for MA and for control lines were very similar. In bivariate comparisons, only one performance trait (a "get-a-grip index," which measures the ability of a falling fly to catch itself on baffles) was positively correlated with competitive fitness. Multivariate analyses again suggested the importance primarily of get-a-grip. Two main patterns emerge from this study. First, MA negatively affects diverse aspects of physiological performance, but does so differentially across traits. Second, except for GAG, MA-induced variation in performance is at best weakly correlated with competitive fitness.
3884937|This paper reviews progress in developmental biology and phylogeny of the Nemertea, a common but poorly studied spiralian taxon of considerable ecological and evolutionary significance. Analyses of reproductive biology (including calcium dynamics during fertilization and oocyte maturation), larval morphology and development and developmental genetics have significantly extended our knowledge of spiralian developmental biology. Developmental genetics studies have in addition provided characters useful for reconstructing metazoan phylogeny. Reinvestigation of the cell lineage of Cerebratulus lacteus using fluorescent tracers revealed that endomesoderm forms from the 4d cell as in other spiralians and that ectomesoderm is derived from the 3a and 3b cells as in annelids, echiurans and molluscs. Studies examining blastomere specification show that cell fates are established precociously in direct developers and later in indirect developers. Morphological characters used to estimate the phylogenetic position of nemerteans are critically re-evaluated, and cladistic analyses of morphology reveal that conflicting hypotheses of nemertean relationships result because of different provisional homology statements. Analyses that include disputed homology statements (1, gliointerstitial cell system 2, coelomic circulatory system) suggest that nemerteans form the sister taxon to the coelomate spiralian taxa rather than the sister taxon to Platyhelminthes. Analyses of small subunit rRNA (18S rDNA) sequences alone or in combination with morphological characters support the inclusion of the nemerteans in a spiralian coelomate clade nested within a more inclusive lophotrochozoan clade. Ongoing evaluation of nemertean relationships with mitochondrial gene rearrangements and other molecular characters is discussed.
23016063|Synopsis The establishment of a publicly-accessible repository of physiological data on feeding in mammals, the Feeding Experiments End-user Database (FEED), along with improvements in reconstruction of mammalian phylogeny, significantly improves our ability to address long-standing questions about the evolution of mammalian feeding. In this study, we use comparative phylogenetic methods to examine correlations between jaw robusticity and both the relative recruitment and the relative time of peak activity for the superficial masseter, deep masseter, and temporalis muscles across 19 mammalian species from six orders. We find little evidence for a relationship between jaw robusticity and electromyographic (EMG) activity for either the superficial masseter or temporalis muscles across mammals. We hypothesize that future analyses may identify significant associations between these physiological and morphological variables within subgroups of mammals that share similar diets, feeding behaviors, and/or phylogenetic histories. Alternatively, the relative peak recruitment and timing of the balancing-side (i.e., non-chewing-side) deep masseter muscle (BDM) is significantly negatively correlated with the relative area of the mandibular symphysis across our mammalian sample. This relationship exists despite BDM activity being associated with different loading regimes in the symphyses of primates compared to ungulates, suggesting a basic association between magnitude of symphyseal loads and symphyseal area among these mammals. Because our sample primarily represents mammals that use significant transverse movements during chewing, future research should address whether the correlations between BDM activity and symphyseal morphology characterize all mammals or should be restricted to this "transverse chewing" group. Finally, the significant correlations observed in this study suggest that physiological parameters are an integrated and evolving component of feeding across mammals.
23016320|Synopsis Although a number of recent studies of marine holoplankton have reported significant genetic structure among populations, little is currently known about the biological and oceanographic processes that influence population connectivity in oceanic plankton. In order to examine how depth preferences influence dispersal in oceanic plankton, I characterized the genetic structure of a copepod with diel vertical migration (DVM) (Pleuromamma xiphias), throughout its global distribution, and compared these results to those expected given the interaction of this species' habitat depth with ocean circulation and bathymetry. Mitochondrial COI sequences from 651 individuals from 28 sites in the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic Oceans revealed highly significant genetic differentiation both within and among ocean basins. Limited dispersal among distinct pelagic provinces seems to have played a major role in population differentiation in this species, with strong genetic breaks observed across known oceanographic fronts or current systems in all three ocean basins. The Indo-West Pacific (IWP) holds a highly distinct genetic population of this species that was sampled in both the western Pacific and eastern Indian Oceans. This suggests that the IWP does not act as a strong barrier to gene flow between basins, as expected, despite the relatively shallow water depth (<200 m) and vertically extensive (>400 m) diel migration of this species. A pattern of isolation by distance was observed in the Indian Ocean with genetic differentiation among samples down to spatial scales of ~800 km, indicating that realized dispersal in P. xiphias occurs over much smaller spatial scales than in previously reported oceanic holoplankton. Given its highly regionalized population genetic structure, P. xiphias may have some capacity to adapt to local oceanographic conditions, and it should not be assumed that populations of this species in distinct pelagic biomes will respond in the same way to shared physical or climatic forcing.
3884768|Integrative Biology is exemplified by a diversity of recently established collaborations to study the genetic diversity of the European rabbit, Oryctolagus cuniculus. Molecular markers were developed and used to investigate the link between wild population decreases or domestication procedures and possible losses of genetic diversity. Simultaneously, a European programme was launched for the management of genetic resources. The Integrative Biology approach shows that changes in genetic diversity are often buffered by the flexibility of rabbit reproductive systems. It appears, also, that all domestic animals belong to a subset of the wild genetic pool of their species without major loss of diversity despite exposure to severe viral infections. Consequently, management of genetic resources for production purposes and conservation or protection of declining Iberian wild populations require different approaches and measures.
40306077|The parasitic isopod Orthione griffenis Markham, 2004 was originally described from thalassinid mud shrimp hosts collected in Oregon. Subsequently, O. griffenis has been cited as a non-indigenous species in estuaries of the Pacific Northwest of North America; however, no taxonomic work has provided evidence that specimens from the western coast of the United States and other localities are conspecific. We report the first record of O. griffenis from Chinese waters based on collections made in the 1950s, which pre-date any records of the species from the United States by at least 20 years. Females of the Chinese specimens match the original description except in the number of articles on antennae 2 (six and five articles in the Chinese material and holotype, respectively). However, newly examined material from the United States showed females are variable in this character, exhibiting 56 articles on antennae 2. Although males of O. griffenis from Oregon were originally described as having second antennae with five articles, reexamination of the allotype showed that antennae 2 were damaged and missing terminal articles. Thus, the number of articles in the second antennae of males is six, as found in both the Chinese and new samples from the United States. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of males from USA and China revealed curled setae on the distolateral margins of the uropods, which were not reported in the original description. In China the species is found on Austinogebia wuhsienweni (Yu) from Shandong province, whereas along the western coast of North America the species extends from British Columbia to California on Upogebia pugettensis (Dana) and U. macginitieorum Williams (the latter species replacing U. pugettensis south of Pt. Conception, California). Orthione griffenis has also been reported from Japan on Upogebia issaeffi (Balss) and Austinogebia narutensis (Sakai). In Coos Bay, Oregon, the prevalence of the species was ^ 65% in the mature U. pugettensis. The species was presumably introduced as larvae released in ballast water from ships originating in Asia. The epicaridium larvae of O. griffenis were examined with SEM, and aspects of the life history of the species are reviewed.
23016116|Synopsis During migration, birds undergo alternating periods of fasting and re-feeding that are associated with dynamic changes in body mass (m<sub>b</sub>) and in organ size, including that of the digestive tract. After arrival at a migratory stopover site, following a long flight, a bird must restore the tissues of its digestive tract before it can refuel. In the present study we examined how the availability of dietary protein influences refueling of migrating blackcaps (Sylvia atricapilla) during a migratory stopover. We tested the following predictions in blackcaps deprived of food and water for 12 days to induce stopover behavior: (1) birds provided with a low-protein diet will gain m<sub>b</sub>, lean mass and fat mass, and increase in pectoral muscle size slower than do birds fed a high-protein diet; (2) since stopover time is shorter in spring, birds will gain m<sub>b</sub> and build up fat tissue and lean tissue faster than in autumn; and (3) if low dietary protein limits a bird's ability to gain m<sub>b</sub> and fat reserves, then birds that do not obtain enough protein will initiate migratory restlessness (Zugunruhe) earlier than will birds with adequate dietary protein. These predictions were tested by providing captured migrating blackcaps with semisynthetic isocaloric diets differing only in their protein content. Each day, we measured m<sub>b</sub>, and food intake; also lean mass and fat mass were measured using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry. In addition, we monitored nocturnal activity with a video recording system. In both spring and autumn, birds fed diets containing either 3 or 20% protein increased in m<sub>b</sub>, lean mass and fat mass at similar rates during the experiment. However, the group receiving 3% protein ate more than did the group receiving 20% protein. In support of our predictions, m<sub>b</sub>, lean mass, fat mass, and intake of food all were higher in spring than in autumn. We also found that in spring all birds had higher levels of migratory restlessness, but birds fed 3% protein were less active at night than were birds fed 20% protein, possibly an adaptation conserving energy and protein. We conclude that protein requirements of migrating blackcaps during stopover are lower than expected, and that birds can compensate for low dietary protein by behavioral responses, i.e. hyperphagia and decreased migratory restlessness, that ensure rapid refueling.
3884828|While transparency, cryptic coloration, and counterillumination are all highly successful cryptic strategies for pelagic species, they become less effective when confronted with varying optical conditions. Transparent species are susceptible to detection by reflections from their body surface, particularly at shallow depths. Colored and mirrored species are vulnerable to detection when viewed from certain angles, or at certain times of day. Counterilluminating species must cope with the changes in the angular distribution and spectra of downwelling light at different depths. In all cases the vulnerabilities are more pronounced at shallow depths and essentially negligible at depths greater than 200 m. The results suggest interesting adaptations both for crypsis (e.g., anti-reflection coatings, variable coloration, variable filters for photophores) and for visual detection (e.g., circling, crepuscular predation), all of which are potentially fruitful topics for future research.
40863411|Differences in larval developmental mode are predicted to affect ecological and evolutionary processes ranging from gene flow and population bottlenecks to rates of population recovery from anthropogenic disturbance and capacity for local adaptation. The most powerful tests of these predictions use comparisons among species to ask how phylogeographic patterns are correlated with the evolution and loss of prolonged planktonic larval development. An important and largely untested assumption of these studies is that interspecific differences in population genetic structure are mainly caused by differences in dispersal and gene flow (rather than by differences in divergence times among populations or changes in effective population sizes), and that species with similar patterns of spatial genetic variation have similar underlying temporal demographic histories. Teasing apart these temporal and spatial patterns is important for understanding the causes and consequences of evolutionary changes in larval developmental mode. New analytical methods that use the coalescent history of allelic diversity can reveal these temporal patterns, test the strength of traditional population-genetic explanations for variation in spatial structure based on differences in dispersal, and identify strongly supported alternative explanations for spatial structure based on demographic history rather than on gene flow alone. We briefly review some of these recent analytical developments, and show their potential for refining ideas about the correspondence between the evolution of larval developmental mode, population demographic history, and spatial genetic variation.
3884915|Even though water is required for the maintenance of biological integrity, numerous organisms are capable of surviving loss of virtually all their cellular water and existing in a state known as anhydrobiosis. Over the past three decades we and others have established that disaccharides such as trehalose and sucrose are almost certainly involved in stabilizing the dry cells. We discuss here some of the evidence behind the mechanism of this stabilization. Until the past few years this mechanism has been sufficiently appealing that a consensus has been developing that acquisition of these sugars in the cytoplasm may be both necessary and sufficient for anhydrobiosis. We show here that there are other routes to achieve the effects conferred by the sugars and that other adaptations are almost certainly required, at least in environmental conditions that are less than optimal. Under optimal storage conditions, the presence of the sugars alone may be sufficient to stabilize even mammalian cells in the dry state, findings that are already finding use in human clinical medicine.
3884673|Comparative physiologists and ecologists have searched for a specific morphological, physiological or biochemical parameter that could be easily measured in a captive, frozen, or preserved animal, and that would accurately predict the routine behavior or performance of that species in the wild. Many investigators have measured the activity of specific enzymes in the locomotor musculature of marine fishes, generally assuming that high specific activities of enzymes involved in aerobic metabolism are indicators of high levels of sustained swimming performance and that high activities of anaerobic metabolic enzymes indicate high levels of burst swimming performance. We review the data that support this hypothesis and describe two recent studies we have conducted that specifically test the hypothesis that biochemical indices of anaerobic or aerobic capacity in fish myotomal muscle correlate with direct measures of swimming performance. First, we determined that the maximum speed during escapes (C-starts) for individual larval and juvenile California halibut did not correlate with the activity of the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase, an index of anaerobic capacity, in the myotomal muscle, when the effects of fish size are factored out using residuals analysis. Second, we found that none of three aerobic capacity indices (citrate synthase activity, 3-hydroxy-o-acylCoA dehydrogenase activity, and myoglobin concentration) measured in the slow, oxidative muscle of juvenile scombrid fishes correlated significantly with maximum sustained speed. Thus, there was little correspondence between specific biochemical characteristics of the locomotor muscle of individual fish and whole animal swimming performance. However, it may be possible to identify biochemical indices that are accurate predictors of animal performance in phylogenetically based studies designed to separate out the effects of body size, temperature, and ontogenetic stage.
3884802|Biomphalaria glabrata are simultaneous hermaphroditic freshwater snails that act as intermediate hosts for the macroparasitic trematode Schistosoma mansoni, a causative agent of schistosomiasis. Heritability and strain-specificity of both snail resistance and susceptibility to schistosome infection have been demonstrated, genetic variability for which is maintained, in part, through trade-offs between high fitness costs associated with infection and those associated with resistance. However, despite such a high cost of resistance and a low prevalence of infection in natural snail populations, genes for resistance are maintained within snail populations over successive generations, including in the complete absence of parasite pressure in laboratory populations. This may be indicative of alternative benefits of resistance genes, in addition to parasite defense, such as differential mating success between genotypes. Here we examined the mate and gender choice of snails across a multi-factorial range of potential partner combinations. These included host-resistance or susceptibility genotype, host genotype frequency within the population, current parasite infection status, and parasite genotype. We demonstrate recognition and discrimination by host snails depending on host and/or parasite genotype for each of these factors. In particular, our results suggest that a rare mating advantage to resistant genotypes may be a potential explanation for the maintenance of highly costly resistance genes within intermediate host populations under conditions of low or zero parasite pressure.
25160139|Despite denials by proponents of intelligent design (ID) that ID is creationism, critical analysis by scientists and scholars, as well as statements by the proponents of ID themselves, has established beyond any doubt ID's true identity as neo-creationism. Despite de-emphasizing elements of earlier creationism such as belief in a young earth and "flood geology," ID bears marks of its descent from "creation science" and is defined by its leading proponents in overtly religious, and specifically Christian, terms. These facts enabled the plaintiffs in the first ID legal case, Kitzmiller et al. v. Dover Area School District (2005), to win a decisive victory over the Dover, PA, school board, which had required that a pro-ID statement be read to biology students at Dover High School. Kitzmiller was also a defeat for ID proponents at the Discovery Institute's Center for Science and Culture (CSC). Yet, although the CSC continues efforts to undermine the teaching of evolution even in the wake of this defeat, their tactics are increasingly stale and transparent. Their current strategy, disguising pro-ID policy proposals with code language to avoid using the term "intelligent design," is yet another tactic used by earlier creationists after consistent legal defeats. Moreover, the ID movement's continued execution of their agenda has enabled ID critics to compile an ever-lengthening list of further congruencies between ID and creation science. Such powerful evidence of ID's identity as neo-creationism, combined with modest but promising demographic changes in the United States, suggest that increased public support for teaching evolution is possible through effective outreach to the relevant demographic groups. Scientists must take advantage of this opportunity to cultivate such support and to counteract ID by engaging in pro-science activism, making use of the many resources available to support their efforts.
4540135|The batoid fishes (electric rays, sawfishes, skates, guitarfishes, and stingrays) are a trophically and morphologically diverse clade in which the observed range of diets is a product of a feeding mechanism with few parts and therefore a limited number of functional interactions. This system allows an intriguing comparison to the complex network of associations in the feeding apparatus of bony fishes and an anatomically simple framework for investigations of the mechanisms underlying the evolution of functional and phenotypic diversity. We quantified morphology from reconstructed CT scans of 40 batoid species, representing more than half of the extant genera. We used pairwise comparisons to evaluate the extent of coevolution among components of the feeding apparatus and among morphologies and diets. These relationships were then used to predict diets in poorly studied taxa and in a reconstruction of the batoid ancestor. Although functionally there are fewer examples of convergence in the batoid feeding mechanism than in bony fishes, our data show multiple evolutions of similar dietary compositions underlain by a broad morphological diversity. Elements of the feeding apparatus evolved independently of one another, suggesting that decoupling components of the head skeleton created separate but interacting evolutionary modules that allowed trophic diversification. Our data imply that food habits exhibit strong independent and convergent evolution and that suites of morphologies are associated with certain diets; however, lack of behavioral data for this clade, and one example of divergent diets underlain by convergent morphology, caution against the assumption of simplistic relationships between form and function. We therefore urge future work to ground truth our study by testing the functional, dietary and evolutionary hypotheses suggested by our data.
3884740|For many years ecologists have documented the remarkable within-species variation inherent in natural systems-for example, variability in juvenile growth rates, mortality rates, fecundities, time to reproductive maturity, the outcomes of competitive interactions, and tolerance to pollutants. Over the past 20 years, it has become increasingly apparent that at least some of this variation may reflect differences in embryonic or larval experiences. Such experiences may include delayed metamorphosis, short term starvation, short term salinity stress, or exposure to sublethal concentrations of pollutants or sublethal levels of ultra violet irradiation. Latent effects-effects that have their origins in early development but that are first exhibited in juveniles or adults-have now been documented among gastropods, bivalves, echinoderms, polychaetes, crustaceans, bryozoans, urochordates, and vertebrates. The extent to which latent effects alter ecological outcomes in natural populations in the field, and the mechanisms through which they are mediated are largely unexplored.
3884607|At the 2002 SICB meeting in Anaheim, we brought together some of the leaders in terrestrial and marine phylogeography for a day-long symposium. This symposium combined presentations from ten scientists whose question-driven research focuses on testing hypotheses about patterns and processes in biogeography in both vertebrate and invertebrate animals and including marine, terrestrial, and freshwater systems. The papers gathered here cover the breadth of the presentations. By explicitly seeking to combine marine and terrestrial workers into a single symposium we hoped that the different patterns and processes that predominate in major biomes and the different assumptions made by the workers in those areas would be highlighted.
4485762|The last three decades have brought clear recognition that many populations of animals are experiencing severe declines or local and global extinctions. Many examples have become common knowledge to the general public, such as worldwide declines in amphibian populations and extensive loss of coral reefs. The mechanisms underlying these and other changes are poorly understood. However, a growing literature indicates that a wide array of chemical contaminants have the potential to disrupt normal cell-to-cell signaling mechanisms. A global pollutant of most aquatic systems, nitrate has the potential to be an endocrine disrupting contaminant. This paper reviews studies performed on vertebrates demonstrating that nitrate and/or nitrite have the potential to alter endocrine function. Further, a retrospective study of our work on alligators from various lakes in Florida suggests that nitrate could contribute to some of the altered endocrine parameters previously reported in juvenile animals. We propose hypotheses suggesting that nitrate could alter steroidogenesis by 1) conversion to nitrite and nitric oxide in the mitochondria, the site of initial steroid synthesis, 2) altering Cl ion concentrations in the cell by substituting for Cl in the membrane transport pump or 3) binding to the heme region of various P450 enzymes associated with steroidogenesis and altering enzymatic action. Future studies are needed to examine the endocrine disruptive action of this ubiquitous pollutant. A growing literature indicates that all biologists studying natural systems, whether they choose to or not, must now consider contaminant exposure as a direct influence on their studies. That is, ubiquitous global contamination has the potential to alter the endocrine, nervous and immune systems of all organisms with resulting changes in gene expression and phenotypes.
3884820|Laboratory synthesis of ancestral proteins offers an intriguing opportunity to study the past directly. The development of Bayesian methods to infer ancestral sequences, combined with advances in models of molecular evolution, and synthetic gene technology make this an increasingly promising approach in evolutionary studies of molecular function. Visual pigments form the first step in the biochemical cascade of events in the retina in all animals known to possess visual capabilities. In vertebrates, the necessity of spanning a dynamic range of light intensities of many orders of magnitude has given rise to two different types of photoreceptors, rods specialized for dim-light conditions, and cones for daylight and color vision. These photoreceptors contain different types of visual pigment genes. Reviewed here are methods of inferring ancestral sequences, chemical synthesis of artificial ancestral genes in the laboratory, and applications to the evolution of vertebrate visual systems and the experimental recreation of an archosaur rod visual pigment. The ancestral archosaurs gave rise to several notable lineages of diapsid reptiles, including the birds and the dinosaurs, and would have existed over 200 MYA. What little is known of their physiology comes from fossil remains, and inference based on the biology of their living descendants. Despite its age, an ancestral archosaur pigment was successfully recreated in the lab, and showed interesting properties of its wavelength sensitivity that may have implications for the visual capabilities of the ancestral archosaurs in dim light.
25160203|Classic theories of vertebrate head segmentation clearly exemplify the idealistic nature of comparative embryology prior to the 20th century. Comparative embryology aimed at recognizing the basic, primary structure that is shared by all vertebrates, either as an archetype or an ancestral developmental pattern. Modern evolutionary developmental (Evo-Devo) studies are also based on comparison, and therefore have a tendency to reduce complex embryonic anatomy into overly simplified patterns. Here again, a basic segmental plan for the head has been sought among chordates. We convened a symposium that brought together leading researchers dealing with this problem, in a number of different evolutionary and developmental contexts. Here we give an overview of the outcome and the status of the field in this modern era of Evo-Devo. We emphasize the fact that the head segmentation problem is not fully resolved, and we discuss new directions in the search for hints for a way out of this maze.
41319669|The flying lizards of the genus Draco are among the most remarkable and successful clades of gliding vertebrates. Here, we evaluate the evolution of gliding in Draco and other lizards, describe the suite of morphological innovations that characterize Draco, discuss the ecological context of gliding in this genus, describe functions of their patagial membranes that are not related to gliding, and summarize the interspecific allometry of the Draco gliding apparatus, as well as the corresponding consequences for their now empirically quantified gliding performance. Several fossil reptilian lineages had morphologies similar to that of modern Draco, with patagial membranes supported by elongated ribs or rib-like dermal structures. Using Draco's snout-vent length/mass relationships, we provide improved estimates of wing loading for three of these fossil gliders (Icarosaurus seifkeri, Kuehneosaurus sp., Coelurosauravus elivensis) and then estimate absolute gliding performance for each taxon by extrapolating from Draco's wing loading/glide performance relationship. We find that I. seifkeri likely represented the best nonflapping terrestrial vertebrate glider yet described, whereas the larger Kuehneosaurus and Coelurosauravus probably required high descent velocities to achieve sufficient lift for gliding, with commensurately greater height loss with each glide.
3884754|Many organisms have evolved a fibrillated interface for contact and adhesion as shown by several of the papers in this issue. For example, in the Gecko, this structure appears to give them the ability to adhere and separate from a variety of surfaces by relying only on weak van der Waals forces. Despite the low intrinsic energy of separating surfaces held together by van der Waals forces, these organisms are able to achieve remarkably strong adhesion. To help understand adhesion in such a case, we consider a simple model of a fibrillar interface. For it, we examine the mechanics of contact and adhesion to a substrate. It appears that this structure allows the organism, at the same time, to achieve good, 'universal' contact and adhesion. Due to buckling, a carpet of fibrils behaves like a plastic solid under compressive loading, allowing intimate contact in the presence of some roughness. As an adhesive, we conjecture that energy in the fibrils is lost upon decohesion and unloading. This mechanism can add considerably to the intrinsic work of fracture, resulting in good adhesion even with only van der Waals forces. Analysis of the mechanics of adhesion through such a fibrillar interface provides rules for the design of the microstructure for desired performance as an adhesive.
3884917|Stress involves real or perceived changes within an organism in the environment that activate an organism's attempts to cope by means of evolutionarily ancient neural and endocrine mechanisms. Responses to acute stressors involve catecholamines released in varying proportion at different sites in the sympathetic and central nervous systems. These responses may interact with and be complemented by intrinsic rythms and responses to chronic or intermittent stressors involving the hypothalamic-pituitaryadrenal axis. Varying patterns of responses to stressors are also affected by an animal's assessment of their prospects for successful coping. Subsequent central and systemic consequences of the stress response include apparent changes in affect, motivation, and cognition that can result in an altered relationship to environmental and social stimuli. This review will summarize recent developments in our understanding of the causes and consequences of stress. Special problems that need to be explored involve the manner in which ensembles of adaptive responses are assembled, how autonomic and neurohormonal reflexes of the stress response come under the influence of environmental stimuli, and how some specific aspects of the stress response may be integrated into the life history of a species.
3884978|The process of diversification since the late Tertiary was studied by linking together well-resolved phylogenies and species distributions for tanagers (Aves, Thraupini). Species richness patterns reveal very high densities of range-restricted species in the Andes, and to a lesser extent in the Atlantic forests of south-eastern Brazil, and moderate densities of widespread species in the tropical lowlands. Contemporary climate explains well the variation in species richness for the 25% most widespread species; for the remaining 75% of species with more restricted distributions, variation can only be explained well from topography and landscape complexity. Phylogenetically old species are mainly found along the Andes and along the Rio coast of Brazil. Most other areas outside the Andes probably had very moderate rates of later diversification. In contrast, the humid tropical Andes region was a centre of intensive speciation throughout the evolutionary history of the group, and species richness patterns here seem largely to be driven by the rate of speciation, with further diversification from the highlands into adjacent lowlands. The diversification process in montane areas may be related to high persistence of lineages in specific areas, something that may be related to how climatic changes are moderated by local topography.
3884921|Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) is a critical integrator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in response to stress. CRF and its related molecule urocortin (UCN) bind CRF receptor 1 (CRFR1) and CRFR2 with distinct affinities. Mice deficient for CRFR1 or CRFR2 were generated in order to determine the physiological role of these receptors. While CRFR1-mutant mice show a depleted stress response and display anxiolytic-like behavior, CRFR2-mutant mice are hypersensitive to stress and display anxiogenic-like behavior. Both CRFR1- and CRFR2-mutant mice show normal basal feeding and weight gain, but CRFR2-mutant mice exhibit decreased food intake following a stress of food deprivation. While CRFR2-mutant mice display increased levels of CRF mRNA in the central nucleus of the amygdala (cAmyg) but not in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), the CRFR1-mutant mice express high levels of CRF in the PVN but normal levels in the cAmyg. CRFR2-mutant mice also display increased levels of Ucn mRNA and protein in the edinger westphal nucleus (EW) as well as an increased number of cells expressing Ucn. The levels of these CRF-receptor ligands reflect the state of the receptor-deficient mice. These results demonstrate a possible modulatory function of CRFR2 in response to CRFR1 stimulation of the HPA axis or anxiety.
3884972|In 1967 Daniel Janzen published an influential paper titled "Why Mountain Passes Are Higher in the Tropics." Janzen derived a simple climatic-physiological model predicting that tropical mountain passes would be more effective barriers to organismal dispersal than would temperate-zone passes of equivalent altitude. This prediction derived from a recognition that the annual variation in ambient temperature at any site is relatively low in the tropics. Such low variation within sites not only reduces the seasonal overlap in thermal regimes between low- and high-altitude sites, but should also select for organisms with narrow physiological tolerances to temperature. As a result, Janzen predicted that tropical lowland organisms are more likely to encounter a mountain pass as a physiological barrier to dispersal (hence "higher"), which should in turn favor smaller distributions and an increase in species turnover along altitudinal gradients. This synthetic hypothesis has long been at the center of discussions of latitudinal patterns of physiological adaptation and of species diversity. Here we review some of the key assumptions and predictions of Janzen's hypothesis. We find general support for many assumptions and predictions, but call attention to several issues that somewhat ameliorate the generality of Janzen's classic hypothesis.
3884748|Insects foraging on plant surfaces must attach to the layer of lipophilic materials known as epicuticular waxes (EW) that cover these surfaces. In this paper, we briefly review the evidence that variation in EW morphology can influence the ecology of herbivorous insects directly, by affecting their attachment to plant surfaces, and indirectly by affecting attachment by actively foraging predatory insects to plant surfaces. We then present new data examining how EW micromorphology and chemical composition of Brassica oleracea influence attachment by the predatory beetle, Hippodamia convergens (Coccinellidae). Bioassays with genotypes of B. oleracea differing in wax characteristics, and with EW extracts from these plants applied to glass, show that wax crystals disrupt attachment. In addition, bioassays show that attachment by H. convergens differs among EW extracts prepared to have smooth surfaces without crystals. The differences in attachment under these conditions are evidently due to the chemical composition of the waxes. Bioassays with two pure wax constituents show that wax composition can significantly affect attachment by H. convergens. The study opens the way for using a similar approach to understand attachment by insects to waxy plant surfaces.
40931222|Top predators integrate resources over time and space, and depending on the particular species they represent, different components of the marine environment. The habitat utilization of top predators has been studied using electronic tags to follow their movements and foraging behavior. In addition, these tags provide information on the physical characteristics of the water column (temperature and salinity) at a scale and resolution that is coincident with the animals' behavior. In addition to data on the animals' behavior, these tags provide physical ocanographie data in regions or at times they cannot be collected using other currently available technologies. These data inform us on how these important top predators are likely to respond to climatic change, as well as about how the Southern Ocean is changing.
3884688|A PCR based quantitative assay was used to determine Wolbachia infection levels in three different Drosophila strains. In addition, confocal microscopy was used to confirm and calibrate these results. Wolbachia infection levels ranged from 2,600 to 18,500 per egg. Single ovaries and testes from each of the three strains were also assayed using the calibrated quantitative PCR assay. A general correlation was found between bacterial levels in eggs and those found in ovaries and testis. These infection levels were consistent with the expression of cytoplasmic incompatibility (CI). In two strains of D. simulans, although the overall bacterial numbers were not significantly different, they exhibited different levels of CI. A direct correlation between the number of infected developing sperm cysts in these strains and CI levels was observed. This calibrated assay should provide a useful baseline for future comparative work, particularly between laboratories.
40863399|Sponges, simple and homogeneous relative to other animals, are particularly adept at regeneration. Although regeneration may appear to be obviously beneficial, and many specific advantages to regeneration of lost portions have been demonstrated, comparisons of regeneration among species of sponges have consistently revealed substantial differences in style (i.e., relative rates of reconstituting surface features, infilling depressions, regaining lost primary substratum), and overall time course, raising questions about adaptive significance of variations in patterns of regeneration. Do sponges simply regenerate as quickly as possible, given constraints imposed by skeletal construction, morphology, or other traits that are determined primarily by evolutionary heritage? Does allocation of energy or materials impose trade-offs between regeneration versus competing processes such as growth or reproduction? Is regeneration time-course and style an integral part of coherent life history and morphological strategies? One approach to answering these questions is to compare regeneration among species that represent a spectrum of higher taxa within the demosponges as well as different growth forms and life-history strategies. Because detailed ecological studies of sponges have tended to focus on small sets of species of the same growth form, community-wide comparisons have been hampered. Data on growth rate, colonization, mortality, susceptibility to prdation, and competitive ability have recently been accumulated for species of sponges typical of the Caribbean mangrove prop-root community. Experimentally generated wounds in individuals of 13 of these species allow comparison of the timing and style of regeneration among sponge species that span a range of life histories and growth forms. The species chosen represent four orders of the class Demospongiae, and include four sets of congeneric species, allowing distinction of patterns related to life history and morphology from those determined by shared evolutionary heritage.
3884635|Many organisms are exposed to harsh environmental conditions that may impair the operation of vital neuronal circuits and imperil the animal before these conditions directly cause cell and tissue death. Prior exposure to extreme but sub-lethal stress has long-term effects on neural circuit function enabling motor pattern generators to operate under previously non-permissive conditions. Using several model systems we have been investigating the mechanisms underlying stress-mediated neuroprotection, particularly thermotolerance imparted by a prior heat shock. Prior anoxia and cold shock also impart thermotolerance of motor pattern generation suggesting that different stressors activate common protective pathways. Synaptic transmission, action potential generation and neuronal potassium conductance are modulated by prior heat shock. Pharmacological block of potassium channels, which increases the duration of action potentials and the amplitude of postsynaptic potentials, mimics the thermoprotective effect of a prior heat shock. A universal consequence of heat shock and other stresses is the increased expression of a suite of heat shock proteins of which HSP70 is most closely linked to organismal thermotolerance. Increased levels of HSP70 are sufficient, but not necessary for synaptic thermoprotection. Accumulating evidence suggests the existence of multiple, overlapping pathways for protection and that these mechanisms may be neuron specific depending on their functional roles.
41319668|Although many cylindrical animals swim through water, flying snakes of the genus Chrysopelea are the only limbless animals that glide through air. Despite a lack of limbs, these snakes can actively launch by jumping, maintain a stable glide path without obvious control surfaces, maneuver, and safely land without injury. Jumping takeoffs employ vertically looped kinematics that seem to be different than any other behavior in limbless vertebrates, and their presence in a closely related genus suggests that gap-crossing may have been a behavioral precursor to the evolution of gliding in snakes. Change in shape of the body by dorsoventral flattening and high-amplitude aerial undulation comprise two key features of snakes' gliding behavior. As the snake becomes airborne, the body flattens sequentially from head to vent, forming a cross-sectional shape that is roughly triangular, with a flat surface and lateral "lips" that protrude ventrally on each side of the body; these may diminish toward the vent. This shape likely provides the snake with lift coefficients that peak at high angles of attack and gentle stall characteristics. A glide trajectory is initiated with the snake falling at a steep angle. As the snake rotates in the pitch axis, it forms a wide "S" shape and begins undulating in a complex threedimensional pattern, with the body angled upward relative to the glide path. The head moves side-to-side, sending traveling waves posteriorly toward the tail, while the body (most prominently, the posterior end) oscillates in the vertical axis. These active movements while gliding are substantially different and more dynamic than those used by any other animal glider. As the snake gains forward speed, the glide path becomes less steep, reaching minimally recorded glide angles of 13. In general, smaller snakes appear to be more proficient gliders. Chrysopelea paradisi can also maneuver and land either on the ground or on vegetation, but these locomotor behaviors have not been studied in detail. Future work aims to understand the mechanisms of production and control of force in takeoff, gliding, and landing, and to identify the musculoskeletal adaptations that enable this unique form of locomotion.
40306108|Plants use the orientation of cellulose microfibrils to create cell walls with anisotropic properties related to specific functions. This enables organisms to control the shape and size of cells during growth, to adjust the mechanical performance of tissues, and to perform bending movements of organs. We review the key function of cellulose orientation in defining structural-functional relationships in cell walls from a biomechanics perspective, and illustrate this by examples mainly from our own work. First, primary cell-wall expansion largely depends on the organization of cellulose microfibrils in newly deposited tissue and model calculations allow an estimate of how their passive re-orientation may influence the growth of cells. Moreover, mechanical properties of secondary cell walls depend to a large extent on the orientation of cellulose fibrils and we discuss strategies whereby plants utilize this interrelationship for adaptation. Lastly, we address the question of how plants regulate complex organ movements by designing appropriate supramolecular architectures at the level of the cell wall. Several examples, from trees to grasses, show that the cellulose architecture in the cell wall may be used to direct the swelling or shrinking of cell walls and thereby generate internal growth stress or movement of organs.
41319661|Animals produce a variety of behaviors using a limited number of muscles and motor neurons. Rhythmic behaviors are often generated in basic form by networks of neurons within the central nervous system, or central pattern generators (CPGs). It is known from several invertebrates that different rhythmic behaviors involving the same muscles and motor neurons can be generated by a single CPG, multiple separate CPGs, or partly overlapping CPGs. Much less is known about how vertebrates generate multiple, rhythmic behaviors involving the same muscles. The spinal cord of limbed vertebrates contains CPGs for locomotion and multiple forms of scratching. We investigated the extent of sharing of CPGs for hind limb locomotion and for scratching. We used the spinal cord of adult red-eared turtles. Animals were immobilized to remove movement-related sensory feedback and were spinally transected to remove input from the brain. We took two approaches. First, we monitored individual spinal cord interneurons (i.e., neurons that are in between sensory neurons and motor neurons) during generation of each kind of rhythmic output of motor neurons (i.e., each motor pattern). Many spinal cord interneurons were rhythmically activated during the motor patterns for forward swimming and all three forms of scratching. Some of these scratch/swim interneurons had physiological and morphological properties consistent with their playing a role in the generation of motor patterns for all of these rhythmic behaviors. Other spinal cord interneurons, however, were rhythmically activated during scratching motor patterns but inhibited during swimming motor patterns. Thus, locomotion and scratching may be generated by partly shared spinal cord CPGs. Second, we delivered swim-evoking and scratch-evoking stimuli simultaneously and monitored the resulting motor patterns. Simultaneous stimulation could cause interactions of scratch inputs with subthreshold swim inputs to produce normal swimming, acceleration of the swimming rhythm, scratch-swim hybrid cycles, or complete cessation of the rhythm. The type of effect obtained depended on the level of swim-evoking stimulation. These effects suggest that swim-evoking and scratch-evoking inputs can interact strongly in the spinal cord to modify the rhythm and pattern of motor output. Collectively, the single-neuron recordings and the results of simultaneous stimulation suggest that important elements of the generation of rhythms and patterns are shared between locomotion and scratching in limbed vertebrates.
3884927|In addition to seasonal changes in morphology, physiology and behavior that occur in predictable annual cycles, there are facultative responses to unpredictable events known as labile (i.e., short-lived) perturbation factors (LPFs). These rapid behavioral and physiological changes have been termed the "emergency" life history stage (ELHS) and serve to enhance life-time fitness. Glucocorticosteroids interacting with other hormones in the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) cascade, initiate and orchestrate the ELHS within minutes to hours. Components of the ELHS include: redirection of behavior from a normal life history stage to increased foraging, irruptive-type migration during the day, enhanced restfulness at night, elevated gluconeogenesis and recovery once the perturbation passes. These physiological and behavioral changes allow an individual to avoid potential deleterious effects of stress that may result from chronically elevated levels of circulating glucocorticosteroids over days and weeks. In other words, acute rises in glucocorticosteroids following perturbations of the environment may actually avoid chronic stress and serve primarily as "anti-stress" hormones. Several field studies in diverse habitats indicate that free-living populations have elevated circulating levels of corticosteroids when in an ELHS. However, expression of an ELHS may not always be advantageous and there is accumulating evidence from birds that the adrenocortical responses to LPFs are modulated both on seasonal and individual levels. These data suggest that glucocorticosteroid secretions in response to LPFs not only trigger physiological and behavioral responses but also allow flexibility so that the response is integrated in relation to time of year (normal LHS) as well as individual differences owing to body condition, disease and social status.
3884843|Growth in colonial organisms by iteration of modules inherently provides for an increase in available morpho-ecospace relative to their solitary relatives. Therefore, the interpretation of the functional or evolutionary significance of complexity within groups that exhibit modular growth may need to be considered under criteria modified from those used to interpret complexity in solitary organisms. Primary modules, corresponding to individuals, are the fundamental building blocks of a colonial organism. Groups of primary modules commonly form a second-order modular unit, such as a branch, which may then be iterated to form a more complex colony. Aspects of overall colony form, along with their implications for ecology and evolution, are reflected in second-order modular (structural) units to a far greater degree than by primary modular units (zooids). A colony generated by modular growth can be classified by identifying its second-order modular (structural) unit and then by characterizing the nature and relationships of these iterated units within the colony. This approach to classifying modular growth habits provides a standardized terminology and allows for direct comparison of a suite of functionally analogous character states among taxa with specific parameters of their ecology.
23016114|Synopsis White-nose syndrome (WNS) has caused alarming declines of North American bat populations in the 5 years since its discovery. Affected bats appear to starve during hibernation, possibly because of disruption of normal cycles of torpor and arousal. The importance of hydration state and evaporative water loss (EWL) for influencing the duration of torpor bouts in hibernating mammals recently led to "the dehydration hypothesis," that cutaneous infection of the wing membranes of bats with the fungus Geomyces destructans causes dehydration which in turn, increases arousal frequency during hibernation. This hypothesis predicts that uninfected individuals of species most susceptible to WNS, like little brown bats (Myotis lucifugus), exhibit high rates of EWL compared to less susceptible species. We tested the feasibility of this prediction using data from the literature and new data quantifying EWL in Natterer's bats (Myotis nattereri), a species that is, like other European bats, sympatric with G. destructans but does not appear to suffer significant mortality from WNS. We found that little brown bats exhibited significantly higher rates of normothermic EWL than did other bat species for which comparable EWL data are available. We also found that Natterer's bats exhibited significantly lower rates of EWL, in both wet and dry air, compared with values predicted for little brown bats exposed to identical relative humidity (RH). We used a population model to show that the increase in EWL required to cause the pattern of mortality observed for WNS-affected little brown bats was small, equivalent to a solitary bat hibernating exposed to RH of 95%, or clusters hibernating in 87% RH, as opposed to typical near-saturation conditions. Both of these results suggest the dehydration hypothesis is plausible and worth pursuing as a possible explanation for mortality of bats from WNS.
4485792|The colors of deep-sea species are generally assumed to be cryptic, but it is not known how cryptic they are and under what conditions. This study measured the color of approximately 70 deep-sea species, both pelagic and benthic, and compared the results with two sets of predictions: 1) optimal crypsis under ambient light, 2) optimal crypsis when viewed by bioluminescent "searchlights." The reflectances of the pelagic species at the blue-green wavelengths important for deep-sea vision were far lower than the predicted reflectances for crypsis under ambient light and closer to the zero reflectance prediction for crypsis under searchlights. This suggests that bioluminescence is more important than ambient light for the visual detection of pelagic species at mesopelagic depths. The reflectances of the benthic species were highly variable and a relatively poor match to the substrates on which they were found. However, estimates of the contrast sensitivity of deep-sea visual systems suggest that even approximate matches may be sufficient for crypsis in visually complex benthic habitats. Body coloration was generally uniform, but many crabs had striking patterns that may serve to disrupt the outlines of their bodies.
40863367|Biomineralization has mostly been studied in the class Anthozoa (Phylum Cnidaria), but very little is known about the evolution of the calcified skeleton in the class Hydrozoa or about the processes leading to its formation. The evolution of the calcified skeleton is here investigated in the hydrozoan family Hydractiniidae. A phylogenetic analysis of ribosomal, mitochondrial, and nuclear-protein-coding DNA sequences supported two independent origins of the calcified skeleton within the Hydractiniidae and indicates a case of parallel evolution, as suspected in the Anthozoa. Neither of the two origins of skeleton in the Hydractiniidae has led to either speciose or numerically abundant species, in contrast with other skeletonized hydrozoan families. Finally, we show that the origin of calcified skeletons in the Hydractiniidae is significantly correlated with the distribution of species with calcium carbonate granules within a polyp's gastrodermal cells. This suggests that the presence of these granules precedes the origin of a full skeleton.
40931200|The oxidative stress theory and its correlate the mitochondrial theory of aging are among the most studied and widely accepted of all hypotheses of the mechanism of aging. To date, most of the supporting evidence for these theories has come from investigations using common model organisms such as Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, and laboratory rodents. However, comparative data from a wide range of endotherms provide equivocal support as to whether oxidative stress is merely a correlate, rather than a determinant, of species' maximum lifespan. The great majority of studies in this area have been devoted to the relationship between reactive oxygen species and maximal longevity in young adult organisms, with little emphasis on mitochondrial respiratory efficiency, age-related alterations in mitochondrial physiology or oxidative damage. The advantage of studying a broader spectrum of species is the broad range of virtually every biological phenotype/trait, such as lifespan, body weight and metabolic rate. Here we summarize the results from a number of comparative studies in an effort to correlate oxidant production and oxidative damage among many species with their maximal lifespan and briefly discuss the pitfalls and limitations. Based on current information, it is not possible to accept or dispute the oxidative stress theory of aging, nor can we exclude the possibility that private mechanisms might offer an explanation for the longevity of exceptionally long-lived animal models. Thus, there is need for more thorough and controlled investigations with more unconventional animal models for a deeper understanding of the role of oxidative stress in longevity.
40405972|Circulating hormone levels can mediate changes in the quality of courtship signals by males and/or mate choice by females and may thus play an important role in the evolution of courtship signals. Costs associated with shifts in hormone levels of males, for example, could effectively stabilize directional selection by females on male signals. Alternatively, if hormone levels affect the selection of mates by females, then variation in hormone levels among females could contribute to the maintenance of variability in the quality of males' signals. Here, I review what is known regarding the effects of hormone levels on the quality of acoustic signals produced by males and on the choice of mates by females in anuran amphibians. Surprisingly, despite the long history of anuran amphibians as model organisms for studying acoustic communication and physiology, we know very little about how variation in circulating hormone levels contributes to variation in the vocal quality of males. Proposed relationships between androgen levels and vocal quality depicted in recent models, for example, are subject to the same criticisms raised for similar models proposed in relation to birds, namely that the evidence for graded effects of androgens on vocal performance is often weak or not rigorously tested and responses seen in one species are often not observed in other species. Although several studies offer intriguing support for graded effects of hormones on calling behavior, additional comparative studies will be required to understand these relationships. Recent studies indicate that hormones may also mediate changes in anuran females' choice of mates, suggesting that the hormone levels of females can influence the evolution of males' mating signals. No studies to date have concurrently addressed the potential complexity of hormone-behavior relationships from the perspective of sender as well as receiver, nor have any studies addressed the costs that are potentially associated with changes in circulating hormone levels in anurans (i.e., life-history tradeoffs associated with elevations in circulating androgens in males). The mechanisms involved in hormonally induced changes in signal production and selectivity also require further investigation. Anuran amphibians are, in many ways, conducive to investigating such questions.
23016117|Synopsis Phenotypic flexibility in shorebirds has been studied mainly in the context of adjustments to migration and to quality of food; little is known on how birds adjust their phenotype to harsh winter conditions. We showed earlier that red knot (Calidris canutus islandica) can acclimate to cold by elevating body mass. This goes together with larger pectoral muscles, i.e., greater shivering machinery, and thus, better thermogenic capacity. Here, we present results of a yearlong experiment with indoor captive knots to determine whether this strategy is part of their natural seasonal phenotypic cycle. We maintained birds under three thermal regimes: constant cold (5C), constant thermoneutrality (25C) and natural seasonal variation between these extremes (922C). Each month we measured variables related to the birds' endurance to cold and physiological maintenance [body mass, thickness of pectoral muscles, summit metabolic rate (M<sub>sum</sub>), food intake, gizzard size, basal metabolic rate (BMR)]. Birds from all treatments expressed synchronized and comparable variation in body mass in spite of thermal treatments, with a 1718% increase between the warmest and coldest months of the year; which appeared regulated by an endogenous driver. In addition, birds living in the cold exhibited a 10% higher average body mass than did those maintained at thermoneutrality. Thickness of the pectoral muscle tracked changes in body mass in all treatments and likely contributed to greater capacity for shivering in heavier birds. Consequently, M<sub>sum</sub> was 13% higher in cold-acclimated birds compared to those experiencing no thermoregulation costs. However, our data also suggest that part of maximal heat production comes from nonshivering processes. Birds facing cold conditions ate up to 25% more food than did birds under thermoneutral conditions, yet did not develop larger gizzards. Seasonal variation in BMR followed changes in body mass, probably reflecting changes in mass of metabolically active tissues. Just as cold-exposed birds, red knots in the variable treatment increased body mass in winter, thereby improving cold endurance. During summer, however, they maintained a lower body mass and thermogenic capacity compared to cold-exposed birds, similar to individuals kept at thermoneutrality. We conclude that red knots acclimate to seasonal variations in ambient temperature by modulating body mass, combining a preprogrammed increase in mass during winter with a capacity for fine-tuning body mass and thermogenic capacity to temperature variations.
3884842|Colonial hydrozoans represent some of the most diverse and complex body plans within the Metazoa. Complex hydrozoans colonies are more physiologically and structurally integrated than their simple colonial relatives. Colonial integration is commonly associated with the regulation of the general structural plan of the colony, the division of labor, and the physiological integration of the colony. In the hydrozoan Hydractinia, these features are manifested through evolutionary innovations involving the spatial regulation of polyps within the colony, the development of polyp polymorphs, and the acquisition of a stolonal mat. These innovations all involve evolutionary changes in the regulation of polyp and colony-wide patterning systems. In Hydractinia, the ParaHox gene, Cnox-2, is expressed in a spatially restricted manner along the axes of stolons and polyps, suggesting that changes in the regulation of this gene may be in part responsible for the evolutionary innovations important for colonial complexity.
25160209|In most versions of theories of the segmentation of the vertebrate head, a premandibular segment is present rostral to the jaw-forming mandibular segment. These theories posit that in ancient fishes this segment included a gill and a gill-supporting skeleton, which then was modified to support the anterior brain. However, we find no recent evidence for existence of such a premandibular segment. Rather, new findings from studies of fate mapping and gene expression show that the "premandibular" territory is in fact the maxillary region of the mandibular arch. A signaling cascade, beginning with dorsal midline mesoderm in the gastrula and relayed through neural ectoderm and then oral ectoderm, greatly expands the skeletal derivatives of maxillary neural crest in a manner fully consistent with the Gans-Northcutt theory of the vertebrate new head.
40863361|The metaphor of marathon running is inadequate to fully capture the magnitude of long-distance migratory flight of birds. In some respects a journey to the moon seems more appropriate. Birds have no access to supplementary water or nutrition during a multi-day flight, and they must carefully budget their body fat and protein stores to provide both fuel and life support. Fatty acid transport is crucial to successful non-stop migratory flight in birds. Although fat is the most energy-dense metabolic fuel, the insolubility of its component fatty acids makes them difficult to transport to working muscles fast enough to support the highly aerobic exercise required to fly. Recent evidence indicates that migratory birds compensate for this by expressing large amounts of fatty acid transport proteins on the membranes of the muscles (FAT/CD36 and FABPpm) and in the cytosol (H-FABP). Through endogenous mechanisms and/or diet, migratory birds may alter the fatty acid composition of the fat stores and muscle membranes to improve endurance during flight. Fatty acid chain length, degree of unsaturation, and placement of double bonds can affect the rate of mobilization of fatty acids from adipose tissue, utilization of fatty acids by muscles, and whole-animal performance. However, there is great uncertainty about how important fatty acid composition is to the success of migration or whether particular types of fatty acids (e. g., omega-3 or omega-6) are most beneficial. Migratory bats provide an interesting example of evolutionary convergence with birds, which may provide evidence for the generality of the bird model to the evolution of migration by flight in vertebrates. Yet only recently have attempts been made to study bat migration physiology. Many aspects of their fuel metabolism are predicted to be more similar to those of migrant birds than to those of non-flying mammals. Bats may be distinct from most birds in their potential to conserve energy by using torpor between flights, and in the behavioral and physiological trade-offs they may make between migration and reproduction, which often overlap.
4540160|Synopsis Larger organisms have more potentially carcinogenic cells, tend to live longer and require more ontogenic cell divisions. Therefore, intuitively one might expect cancer incidence to scale with body size. Evidence from mammals, however, suggests that the cancer risk does not correlate with body size. This observation defines "Peto's paradox." Here, we propose a novel hypothesis to resolve Peto's paradox. We suggest that malignant tumors are disadvantaged in larger hosts. In particular, we hypothesize that natural selection acting on competing phenotypes among the cancer cell population will tend to favor aggressive "cheaters" that then grow as a tumor on their parent tumor, creating a hypertumor that damages or destroys the original neoplasm. In larger organisms, tumors need more time to reach lethal size, so hypertumors have more time to evolve. So, in large organisms, cancer may be more common and less lethal. We illustrate this hypothesis in silico using a previously published hypertumor model. Results from the model predict that malignant neoplasms in larger organisms should be disproportionately necrotic, aggressive, and vascularized than deadly tumors in small mammals. These predictions may serve as the basis on which to test the hypothesis, but to our knowledge, no one has yet performed a systematic investigation of comparative necrosis, histopathology, or vascularization among mammalian cancers.
3885013|Recent advances in quantifying biochemical and cellular-level responses to thermal stress have facilitated a new exploration of the role of climate and climate change in driving intertidal community and population ecology. To fruitfully connect these disciplines, we first need to understand what the body temperatures of intertidal organisms are under field conditions, and how they change in space and time. Newly available data logger technology makes such an exploration possible, but several potential pitfalls must be avoided. Body temperature during aerial exposure is driven by multiple, interacting climatic factors, and extremes during low tide far exceed those during submersion. Moreover, because of effects of body size and morphology, two organisms exposed to identical climatic conditions can display very different body temperatures, which can also be substantially different from the temperature of the surrounding air. These same factors drive the temperature recorded by data loggers, and one logger type is unlikely to serve as an effective proxy for all organisms at a site Here I describe the difficulties involved in quantifying patterns of body temperature in intertidal organisms, and explore the implications of this complexity for intertidal physiological ecology. I do so using data from temperature loggers designed to mimic the thermal characteristics of the mussel Mytilus californianus, and deployed at multiple sites along the West Coast of the United States. Results indicate a highly intricate pattern of thermal stress, where the interaction of climate with the dynamics of the tidal cycle determines the timing and magnitude of temperature extremes, creating a unique "thermal signal" at each site.
25160181|A locus that we name SubA was discovered during large-scale sequencing and characterization of a bacterial artificial chromosome library from an emu, Dromaius novaehollandiae. This locus yields a significantly negative Tajima's D in emus and is conserved across emu, chicken, mouse, and human. Expression of SubA orthologs has been reported in human ovaries and in mouse testes, but remains unknown in emus. The locus was physically mapped onto a pair of microchromosomes in emus by fluorescent in situ hybridization and also in chicken as previously reported. By characterizing emu SubA in this article, we aim to improve current descriptions of the cascade of genes associated with avian sex differentiation. Future experimentation will report the expression of SubA in ratites, other birds, and nonavian reptiles.
40405999|Apart from detecting sounds, vertebrate ears occasionally produce sounds. These spontaneous otoacoustic emissions are the most compelling evidence for the existence of the cochlear amplifier, an active force-generating process within the cochlea that resides in the motility of the hair cells. Insects have neither a cochlea nor hair cells, yet recent studies demonstrate that an active process that is equivalent to the cochlear amplifier occurs in at least some insect ears; like hair cells, the chordotonal sensory neurons that mediate hearing in Drosophila actively generate forces that augment the minute vibrations they transduce. This neuron-based force-generation, its impact on the ear's macroscopic performance, and the underlying molecular mechanism are the topics of this article, which summarizes some of the recent findings on how the Drosophila organ of hearing works. Functional parallels with vertebrate auditory systems are described that recommend the fly for the study of fundamental processes in hearing.
23016046|Synopsis Many species of frogs and salamanders, in at least 12 families, alter their timing of hatching in response to conditions affecting mortality of eggs or larvae. Some terrestrially laid or stranded embryos wait to hatch until they are submerged in water. Some embryos laid above water accelerate hatching if the eggs are dehydrating; others hatch early if flooded. Embryos can hatch early in response to predators and pathogens of eggs or delay hatching in response to predators of larvae; some species do both. The phylogenetic pattern of environmentally cued hatching suggests that similar responses have evolved convergently in multiple amphibian lineages. The use of similar cues, including hypoxia and physical disturbance, in multiple contexts suggests potential shared mechanisms underlying the capacity of embryos to respond to environmental conditions. Shifts in the timing of hatching often have clear benefits, but we know less about the trade-offs that favor plasticity, the mechanisms that enable it, and its evolutionary history. Some potentially important types of cued hatching, such as those involving embryoparent interactions, are relatively unexplored. I discuss promising directions for research and the opportunities that the hatching of amphibians offers for integrative studies of the mechanisms, ecology and evolution of a critical transition between life-history stages.
3884810|A body wall musculature comprising an outer layer of circular fibers and an inner layer of longitudinal fibers is generally seen as the basic plan in Annelida. Additional muscles may be present such as oblique, parapodial, chaetal, and dorsoventral muscles. The longitudinal muscle fibers do not form a continuous layer but are arranged in distinct bands in polychaetes. Mostly there are four to six bands, usually including prominent ventral and dorsal bands. However, other patterns of muscle band arrangement also exist. The ventral nerve cord lies between the two ventral bands in certain polychaetes, and is covered by an additional longitudinal muscle band of comparatively small size. In many polychaetes with reduced parapodia and in Clitellata a more or less continuous layer of longitudinal fibers is formed. Clitellata is the only group with a complete layer of longitudinal musculature. Circular fibers are usually less developed than the longitudinal muscles. However, recent investigations employing phalloidin staining in combination with confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed that absence of circular muscles is much more widely distributed within the polychaetes than was previously known. This necessitates thorough reinvestigations of polychaete muscle systems, and this feature has to be taken into account in further discussions of the phylogeny and evolution of Annelida.
23016060|Synopsis There is a deep and rich literature of comparative studies of jaw muscles in mammals but no recent analyses employ modern phylogenetic techniques to better understand evolutionary changes that have occurred in these muscles. In order to fully develop and utilize the Feeding Experiments End-user Database (FEED), we are constructing a comprehensive ontology of mammalian jaw muscles. This process has led to a careful consideration of nomenclature and homologies of the muscles and their constituent parts. Precise determinations of muscle attachments have shown that muscles with similar names are not necessarily homologous. Using new anatomical descriptions derived from the literature, we defined character states for the jaw muscles in diverse mammalian species. We then mapped those characters onto a recent phylogeny of mammals with the aid of the Mesquite software package. Our data further elucidate how muscle groups associated with the feeding apparatus differ and have become highly specialized in certain mammalian orders, such as Rodentia, while remaining conserved in other orders. We believe that careful naming of muscles and statistical analyses of their distributions among mammals, in association with the FEED database, will lead to new, significant insights into the functional, structural, and evolutionary morphology of the jaw muscles.
4540210|Synopsis A key focus of evolutionary developmental biology (evo-devo) in recent years has been to elucidate the evolution of developmental mechanisms as a means of reconstructing the hypothetical last common ancestors of various clades. Prominent among such reconstructions have been proposals as to the nature of the mysterious "Urbilateria," originally defined as the last common ancestor of the extant Bilateria (protostomes and deuterostomes). Indeed, drawings of this animal can now be found, as well as detailed information on the genetics and morphological processes that it used to construct its gut, heart, eyes, appendages, segments, and body regions. Perhaps surprisingly, however, no explanations have yet been offered as to how this animal might have achieved the successful reproduction that must have been necessary for it to give rise to those lineages that are ancestral to today's diverse clades. The present article examines the comparative data available to date on the specification of the only cells containing the genetic hereditary material, the germ cells, and speculates on the possible evolutionary and developmental origin of the Urbilaterian germ line.
3884589|For a standing animal to be statically stable, a vertical line through its centre of mass must pass through the polygon of support defined by its feet. Statically stable gaits are possible for quadrupeds but do not seem to be used. Physical and mathematical models have shown that bipedal gaits can be dynamically stable. Accelerations and decelerations of animals may be limited by muscle strength, by the coefficient of friction with the ground or by considerations of stability. Cornering ability similarly may be limited by strength or by the coefficient of friction. It may be faster to use a longer route involving corners of larger radius than a shorter one with sharper corners.
40306107|The mechanical properties of a healing bone fracture depend not only on the geometry of the fracture callus but also on the material properties of the callus tissues. Despite the biomechanical importance of callus tissues in restoring mechanical integrity to the injured bone, little is known about the material properties of these tissues and whether these properties can be estimated non-invasively. This study used nanoindentation to quantify the spatial variations in indentation modulus throughout the fracture callus and correlated the measurements of modulus with measurements of tissue mineral density (TMD) obtained from images from micro-computed tomography (CT). Fracture calluses were harvested from rats 24 days following creation of a full-thickness, transverse osteotomy in the femoral mid-diaphysis. Calluses were imaged using CT, and the average TMD and the median grayvalue (X-ray attenuation) of five, pre-defined volumes of interest (VOIs) in each callus were computed. Nanoindentation was then performed at multiple, regularly spaced locations across 150 m-thick, sagittal sections of the calluses. The indentation modulus ranged from 0.51 to 1680 MPa throughout the callus, with the highest moduli in the center of the fracture gap and the lowest in the periphery of the gap (P<0.05). TMD was also highest in the center of the gap (P<0.05). An increasing trend in both modulus and TMD was observed in the regions of the callus adjacent to the periosteal surfaces of the cortex. While no correlation was found between the average indentation modulus in a given VOI and the median grayvalue of that VOI, the average indentation modulus and the average TMD were positively correlated (R = 0.70, P< 0.05). Together, these findings establish the spatial heterogeneity in the mechanical behavior of tissues in fracture calluses and indicate that the indentation modulus of these tissues can be estimated by non-invasive measurements of tissue mineralization.
4485830|How homing pigeons displaced into unfamiliar territory find their way home has been the subject of extensive experimentation and debate. One reason for the controversy is that pigeons seem to use multiple cues. Clock-shifting experiments show that experienced pigeons use the sun as a preferred compass; when it is not available they rely on magnetic cues. That pigeons can home successfully while wearing frosted lenses suggests that landmarks, while not an essential navigational cue, are important in the final stages. The sensory basis of the "map" or position finding system is probably equally or even more complicated. When conditions around the loft are suitable, pigeons may use olfactory cues to find their way or might use some feature of the earth's magnetic field for their navigation. The Wiltschkos (1989) showed that pigeons raised without free access to ambient odors are not disoriented when anosmic while their siblings raised with free access to the prevailing wind were disoriented. Similarly, sibling pigeons from two lofts in Lincoln, Massachusetts. were well oriented or totally disoriented when released at magnetic anomalies under sunny skies depending upon which of the two lofts they had been reared in. All of these experiments and many more suggest that pigeons use multiple and redundant cues to find their way home. Further, there is the suggestion that which cues they adopt may well be influenced by the characteristics of the area around the home loft in which they were reared.
3884591|For both historical and technological reasons, most robots, including those meant to mimic animals or operate in natural environments, use actuators and control systems that have high (stiff) mechanical impedance. By contrast, most animals exhibit low (soft) impedance. While a robot's stiff joints may be programmed to closely imitate the recorded motion of an animal's soft joints, any unexpected position disturbances will generate reactive forces and torques much higher for the robot than for the animal. The dual of this is also true: while an animal will react to a force disturbance by significantly yielding position, a typical robot will greatly resist. These differences cause three deleterious effects for high impedance robots. First, the higher forces may cause damage to the robot or to its environment (which is particularly important if that environment includes people). Second, the robot must acquire very precise information about its position relative to the environment so as to minimize its velocity upon impact. Third, many of the self-stabilizing effects of natural dynamics are "shorted out" by the robot's high impedance, so that stabilization requires more effort from the control system. Over the past 5 yr, our laboratory has designed a series of walking robots based on "Series-Elastic Actuators" and "Virtual Model Control." Using these two techniques, we have been able to build low-impedance walking robots that are both safe and robust, that operate blindly without any model of upcoming terrain, and that add minimal control effort in parallel to their self-stabilizing passive dynamics. We have discovered that it is possible to achieve surprisingly effective ambulation from rather simple mechanisms and control systems. After describing the historical and technological motivations for our approach, this paper gives an overview of our methods and shows some of the results we have obtained.
3884951| Body size and temperature are the two most important variables affecting nearly all biological rates and times, especially individual growth or production rates. By favoring an optimal maturation age and reproductive allocation, natural selection links individual growth to the mortality schedule. A recent model for evolution of life histories for species with indeterminate growth, which includes most fish, successfully predicts the numeric values of two key dimensionless numbers and the allometry of the average reproductive allocation versus maturation size across species. Here we use this new model to predict the relationships of age-at-maturity, adult mortality and reproductive effort to environmental temperature and maturation size across species. Age-at-maturity, adult mortality and the proportion of the body mass given to reproduction per year are predicted to show 0.25 power allometries with mass at maturity, and an exponential (Boltzmann) temperature dependence. Temperature is assumed to affect only body size growth, so the temperature linkages of maturation, mortality and reproductive effort are indirect via life history optimization; this is briefly contrasted with the idea that (for example) temperature directly affects mortality. 
25160115|Aeroecology is a discipline that embraces and integrates the domains of atmospheric science, ecology, earth science, geography, computer science, computational biology, and engineering. The unifying concept that underlies this emerging discipline is its focus on the planetary boundary layer, or aerosphere, and the myriad of organisms that, in large part, depend upon this environment for their existence. The aerosphere influences both daily and seasonal movements of organisms, and its effects have both short- and long-term consequences for species that use this environment. The biotic interactions and physical conditions in the aerosphere represent important selection pressures that influence traits such as size and shape of organisms, which in turn facilitate both passive and active displacements. The aerosphere also influences the evolution of behavioral, sensory, metabolic, and respiratory functions of organisms in a myriad of ways. In contrast to organisms that depend strictly on terrestrial or aquatic existence, those that routinely use the aerosphere are almost immediately influenced by changing atmospheric conditions (e.g., winds, air density, precipitation, air temperature), sunlight, polarized light, moon light, and geomagnetic and gravitational forces. The aerosphere has direct and indirect effects on organisms, which often are more strongly influenced than those that spend significant amounts of time on land or in water. Future advances in aeroecology will be made when research conducted by biologists is more fully integrated across temporal and spatial scales in concert with advances made by atmospheric scientists and mathematical modelers. Ultimately, understanding how organisms such as arthropods, birds, and bats aloft are influenced by a dynamic aerosphere will be of importance for assessing, and maintaining ecosystem health, human health, and biodiversity.
3884682|Research on symbiosis (including antagonistic and mutualistic associations) wrestles, directly or indirectly, with the paradox: why are symbiotic associations so prevalent in the biosphere in the face of ubiquitous immune or antibiotic defenses among organisms? The symposium "Living Together: the Dynamics of Symbiotic Interactions" considered several questions: 1. How do symbiotic species partners come together? Do symbioses share similar patterns of signal recognition and response? 2. What roles do nutrients and metabolites play in symbiotic interactions, and how are metabolic exchanges affected by environmental changes? 3. In what ways do the dynamics of multispecies symbioses differ from two-species associations? 4. How do antagonistic (parasitic, pathogenic) symbioses differ from mutualistic ones? In what ways do changes in the biotic and physical environment affect the evolutionary balance of symbiotic associations? 5. What are the coevolutionary patterns of symbiotic associations? 6. Which research techniques, and strategies of experimental design, might be useful across a broad range of symbiotic associations? Two themes emerged from the symposium. First, all the participants have incorporated multiple techniques and perspectives into their work, approaches which facilitate the understanding of symbiotic dynamics at several levels of biological organization. Secondly, many of the papers addressed genetic and environmental variation in symbiotic interactions. Such approaches are useful tools for analysis of the mechanics of interspecies interactions and for characterization of the most important factors which influence them. They provide us with the tools to evaluate symbioses in a world of complexity, variation and change.
23016044|Synopsis In parasites, environmental cues may influence hatching of eggs and enhance the success of infections. The two major endoparasitic groups of parasitic platyhelminths, cestodes (tapeworms) and digeneans (flukes), typically have high fecundity, infect more than one host species, and transmit trophically. Monogeneans are parasitic flatworms that are among the most host specific of all parasites. Most are ectoparasites with relatively low fecundity and direct life cycles tied to water. They infect a single host species, usually a fish, although some are endoparasites of amphibians and aquatic chelonian reptiles. Monogenean eggs have strong shells and mostly release ciliated larvae, which, against all odds, must find, identify, and infect a suitable specific host. Some monogeneans increase their chances of finding a host by greatly extending the hatching period (possible bet-hedging). Others respond to cues for hatching such as shadows, chemicals, mechanical disturbance, and osmotic changes, most of which may be generated by the host. Hatching may be rhythmical, larvae emerging at times when the host is more vulnerable to invasion, and this may be combined with responses to other environmental cues. Different monogenean species that infect the same host species may adopt different strategies of hatching, indicating that tactics may be more complex than first thought. Control of egg assembly and egg-laying, possibly by host hormones, has permitted colonization of frogs and toads by polystomatid monogeneans. Some monogeneans further improve the chances of infection by attaching eggs to the host or by retaining eggs on, or in, the body of the parasite. The latter adaptation has led ultimately to viviparity in gyrodactylid monogeneans.
3884801|Marine invertebrates belonging to a broad range of taxa disperse aquatic spermatozoa to fertilize eggs that are retained rather than spawned. We outline the occurrence of this mechanism, which we refer to as spermcast mating, and identify tentative generalizations relating to it. Contrasts are drawn where appropriate with broadcast spawning of both eggs and sperm for external fertilization, and with copulation or pseudocopulation. Spermcast mating may involve the gradual accumulation of long-lived spermatozoa from dilute suspension, probably during suspension feeding, and the subsequent storage of spermatozoa by the recipient (acting female) prior to fertilization. This process may involve extensive contact between spermatozoa and recipient (maternal) tissue. Mating may be influenced by compatibility systems, and receipt of compatible allosperm may trigger female investment, giving apparent scope for sexual conflict over levels of maternal investment. External fertilization of cohesive egg masses remaining close to the acting female may appear somewhat intermediate between spermcast mating and broadcast spawning but, while it may be possible to envisage a continuum between the 2 modes, the end points are distinct, commonplace, and involve contrasting reproductive characteristics. Three variants of the typical pattern of spermcast mating are briefly discussed: the spawning of zygotes (rather than the more usual brooding of progeny), polyembryony, and the dispersal of spermatophores rather than individual spermatozoa.
3884779|Although the capacity of cells to respond to environmental challenges such as oxidative damage are ancient evolutionary developments that have been carried through to modern higher vertebrates as "innate" immunity, the characteristic immune response of vertebrates is a relatively recent evolutionary development that is present only in jawed vertebrates. The vertebrate "combinatorial" response is defined by the presence of lymphocytes as specific antigen recognition cells and by the complete panel of antibodies, T cell receptors, and major histocompatibility complex molecules all of which are members of the immunoglobulin family. Its emergence in evolution was an extremely rapid event (approximately 10 million years) that was catalyzed by the horizontal transfer of recombinase activator genes (RAG) from microbes to an ancestral jawed vertebrate. RAGs occur in jawed vertebrates, but have not been found in invertebrates and other intermediate species. We propose that antigen recognition capacity contributed by this novel combinatorial mechanism gave jawed vertebrates the ability to recognize the entire range of potential antigenic molecular structures, including self components and molecules of infectious microbes not shared with vertebrates. The contrast within the vertebrates is striking because the most ancient extant jawed vertebrates, sharks and their kin, have the complete panoply of T-cell receptors, antibodies, MHC products and RAG genes, whereas agnathans possess cells resembling lymphocytes but ostensibly lack all of the molecules definitive of combinatorial immunity. Another vertebrate innovation may have been the utilization of nuclear receptor superfamily, in the regulation of lymphocytes and other cells of the immune lineage. Unlike, RAG, however, this superfamily occurs in all metazoans with the exception of sponges.
3884702|The ability to change reproductive tactics during adult development in response to environmental variation is predicted to enhance fitness. Many organisms show phenotypic plasticity early in non-embryonic development, but later exhibit phases of developmental inflexibility (=canalization). Therefore, we studied reproduction-related hormones and proteins and their relationships to plasticity in the Eastern lubber grasshopper. Diet-switching experiments demonstrated plasticity early in the egg production cycle, but a switch to canalization late in the cycle. We measured developmental titers of 4 hemolymph compounds from single individuals from adult molt until first oviposition. These 4 compounds were the egg-yolk precursor protein vitellogenin, juvenile hormone (the central regulator of insect reproduction), major hemolymph proteins, and ecdysteroids (the arthropod molting hormone that ultimately is stored in the egg). Using diet manipulations, we investigated how these developmental titers relate to the switch from plastic to canalized egg production. All 4 hemolymph compounds reached their peak levels during the canalized phase, about 12 day before oviposition. Diet switches after these peak levels did not affect the timing to oviposition. Therefore, these peak titers were physiological events that occurred after the individual committed to laying. We compared these patterns in reproduction to the development toward adult molt, another major life-history event in insects. We observed an extended canalized phase before the adult molt. This canalized phase always included a peak of ecdysteroids. The similar patterns in the physiology of these life-history events suggested that common limitations may exist in major developmental processes of insects that are directed by hormones.
3884678|Despite enormous progress during the last twenty years in understanding the mechanistic basis of aquatic animal propulsion-a task involving the construction of a substantial data base on patterns of fin and body kinematics and locomotor muscle function-there remains a key area in which biologists have little information: the relationship between propulsor activity and water movement in the wake. How is internal muscular force translated into external force exerted on the water? What is the pattern of fluid force production by different fish fins (e.g., pectoral, caudal, dorsal) and how does swimming force vary with speed and among species? These types of questions have received considerable attention in analyses of terrestrial locomotion where force output by limbs can be measured directly with force plates. But how can forces exerted by animals moving through fluid be measured? The advent of digital particle image velocimetry (DPIV) has provided an experimental hydrodynamic approach for quantifying the locomotor forces of freely moving animals in fluids, and has resulted in significant new insights into the mechanisms of fish propulsion. In this paper we present ten "lessons learned" from the application of DPIV to problems of fish locomotion over the last five years. (1) Three-dimensional DPIV analysis is critical for reconstructing wake geometry. (2) DPIV analysis reveals the orientation of locomotor reaction forces. (3) DPIV analysis allows calculation of the magnitude of locomotor forces. (4) Swimming speed can have a major impact on wake structure. (5) DPIV can reveal interspecific differences in vortex wake morphology. (6) DPIV analysis can provide new insights into the limits to locomotor performance. (7) DPIV demonstrates the functional versatility of fish fins. (8) DPIV reveals hydrodynamic force partitioning among fins. (9) DPIV shows that wake interaction among fins may enhance thrust production. (10) Experimental hydrodynamic analysis can provide insight into the functional significance of evolutionary variation in fin design.
3884714|The evolution of male courtship signals such as the bioluminescent flashes of freflies may be shaped, at least in part, by female preference for particular characteristics of the male signal. These female preferences for male courtship signals may arise as a result of the benefits of choosing males with particular traits. One possible benefit of mate choice occurs if females can use male courtship signals as an honest indicator of male nutritional contributions at mating, nuptial gifts. This paper reviews female preference for male flash characteristics in Photinus fireflies (Coleoptera: Lampyridae), and the potential for females to use male flash characteristics to predict nuptial gift quality. In Photinus firefly species with single pulse flashes females preferentially respond to flashes of greater intensity and duration. Male Photinus provide a nuptial gift to females at mating in the form of a spermatophore and flash duration serves as a good predictor of spermatophore mass for males collected early in the season. However, Photinus fireflies do not feed as adults, so spermatophore mass decreases with subsequent matings. In response, nutrient-limited females may stop preferentially responding to longer duration flashes, increasing their overall responsiveness later in the mating season as they forage for spermatophores. Therefore, the evolution of male courtship signals in Photinus fireflies is the product not only of female preference for male flash characteristics, but also the costs and benefits of female choice that shape these preferences.
41319649|Plants and their pollinators are excellent examples of mutualistic associations that range in specialization, from obligate to generalized mutualisms, with many pollinators interacting with diverse species of flowers while still maintaining specialized associations. Although floral odors have been implicated in mediating these interactions, identification of the odors and how the odors are represented in the olfactory system has been elusive, and the manner in which olfactory learning mediates the generalized plant-insect interactions in the field remains unclear. This review details the composition of floral bouquets that elicit strong attraction in pollinators, demonstrating that for some species of plants the composition of the bouquet plays an important role in exploiting the insect's olfactory system, thereby driving innate attraction, whereas other bouquets can be learned as an associative cue for the nectar reward. By associative learning of nonattractive floral odors with a nectar reward through octopamine-associated modulation of neurons in the antennal lobe insects have the ability to exploit alternate floral resources when their preferred flowers are no longer present. Such neural mechanisms, present in specialist and generalist pollinators, provides the means by which pollination associations can range from specialized to generalized while permitting insects to exist within a dynamic floral environment.
4540190|Speakers in this symposium presented examples of respiratory regulation that broadly illustrate principles of evolution from whole organ to genes. The swim bladder and lungs of aquatic and terrestrial organisms arose independently from a common primordial "respiratory pharynx" but not from each other. Pathways of lung evolution are similar between crocodiles and birds but a low compliance of mammalian lung may have driven the development of the diaphragm to permit lung inflation during inspiration. To meet the high oxygen demands of flight, bird lungs have evolved separate gas exchange and pump components to achieve unidirectional ventilation and minimize dead space. The process of "screening" (removal of oxygen from inspired air prior to entering the terminal units) reduces effective alveolar oxygen tension and potentially explains why nonathletic large mammals possess greater pulmonary diffusing capacities than required by their oxygen consumption. The "primitive" central admixture of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood in the incompletely divided reptilian heart is actually co-regulated with other autonomic cardiopulmonary responses to provide flexible control of arterial oxygen tension independent of ventilation as well as a unique mechanism for adjusting metabolic rate. Some of the most ancient oxygen-sensing molecules, i.e., hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha and erythropoietin, are up-regulated during mammalian lung development and growth under apparently normoxic conditions, suggesting functional evolution. Normal alveolarization requires pleiotropic growth factors acting via highly conserved cell-cell signal transduction, e.g., parathyroid hormone-related protein transducing at least partly through the Wingless/int pathway. The latter regulates morphogenesis from nematode to mammal. If there is commonality among these diverse respiratory processes, it is that all levels of organization, from molecular signaling to structure to function, co-evolve progressively, and optimize an existing gas-exchange framework.
3884834|Sponges [Porifera] are the phylogenetically oldest metazoan phylum still extant today; they share the closest relationship with the hypothetical common metazoan ancestor, the Urmetazoa. During the past 8 years cDNAs coding for proteins involved in cell-cell- and cell-tissue interaction have been cloned from sponges, primarily from Suberites domuncula and Geodia cydonium and their functions have been studied in vivo as well as in vitro. Also, characteristic elements of the extracellular matrix have been identified and cloned. Those data confirmed that all metazoan phyla originate from one ancestor, the Urmetazoa. The existence of cell adhesion molecules allowed the emergence of a colonial organism. However, for the next higher stage in evolution, individuation, two further innovations had to be formed: the immune- and the apoptotic system. Major defense pathways/molecules to prevent adverse effects against microbes/parasites have been identified in sponges. Furthermore, key molecules of the apoptotic pathway(s), e.g., the proapoptotic molecule comprising two death domains, the executing enzyme caspases, as well as the anti-apoptotic/cell survival proteins belonging to the Bcl-2 family have been identified and cloned from sponges. Based on these results-primarily obtained through a molecular biological approach-it is concluded that cell-cell- and cell-matrix adhesion systems were required for the transition to a colonial stage of organization, while the development of an immune system as well as of apoptotic processes were prerequisites for reaching the integrated stage. As the latter stage already exists in sponges, it is therefore likely that the hypothetical ancestor, the Urmetazoa, was also an "integrated colony."
3884732|Per-offspring maternal investment is an integral part of life-history theory. To understand the evolution of per-offspring maternal investment in marine invertebrates, a number of mathematical models have been developed. These models examine how selection affects the proportion of maternally derived egg energy used to produce a newly metamorphosed juvenile (s) and make predictions about the distribution of s in nature. However, there are very few published values of s and therefore it is difficult to evaluate how well these models match nature. We present several equations to empirically estimate values of s for any group of marine invertebrate, and use data from echinoderms to compare the different equations. The calculations that directly estimate s require information on the amount of egg energy, juvenile energy, and energy metabolized during development. Currently, there are few data available for directly estimating s, and thus generating distributions of s derived from direct estimates is not possible. Furthermore, the direct estimations of s are informative for planktotrophy but not for lecithotrophy. We have developed an equation that can be used to directly estimate s for lecithotrophs. The calculations to indirectly estimate s only require egg energy or egg size for the species in question and the value of s and egg energy or size for a reference species. This reference species replaces the need to measure juvenile energy and energy metabolized during larval development. Because egg energy or size is currently available for many species, the indirect estimates will be useful for generating distributions of s, and will allow comparisons with models. Although these indirect methods are good for generating distributions of s, they do not provide reliable estimates of s for any particular species. Estimating values of s to compare models is a critical gap in our current evaluations of marine invertebrate life-history models.
4540188|A gas-exchange structure interacts with the environment and is constantly challenged by contaminants that may elicit defense responses, thus compromising its primary function. It is also exposed to high concentrations of O<sub>2</sub> that can generate reactive oxygen species (ROS). Revisiting the lung of mammals, an integrative picture emerges, indicating that this bronchi-alveolar structure deals with inflammation in a special way, which minimizes compromising the gas-exchange role. Depending on the challenge, pro-inflammatory or antiinflammatory responses are elicited by conserved molecules, such as surfactant proteins A and D. An even broader picture points to the participation of airway sensors, responsive to inflammatory mediators, in a loop linking the immunological and nervous systems and expanding the role played by respiratory organs in functions other than gas-exchange. A byproduct of exposure to high concentration of O<sub>2</sub> is the formation of superoxide (<tex-math>$O_{2}^{\bullet -}$</tex-math>), hydrogen peroxide (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>), hydroxyl radical (<tex-math>$HO^\bullet$</tex-math>), and other ROS, which are known to be toxic to different types of cells, including the lung epithelium. A balance between antioxidants and oxidants exists; in pulmonary epithelial cells high intracellular and extracellular levels of antioxidants are found. Antioxidant adaptations related to plant and animal life-styles involve a broad range of overlapping strategies based on well-conserved molecules. Glutathione (GSH) is an abundant and ubiquitous thiol-tripeptide antioxidant, also present in lungs, whose role in providing information on the intracellular redox state of animals and plants is well established. In these organisms, GSH influences gene expression associated with stress, maximizing defense responses. Several enzymatic antioxidants, such as glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase, glutathione S-transferase, and glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase participate in the redox system; in animals that are stress-tolerant GPx is a key element against oxidative assaults. Most importantly, alternative roles of ROS as signaling molecules have been found in all plants and animals. For example, alveolar macrophages produce <tex-math>$O_{2}^{\bullet -}$</tex-math> that act as second messengers, in addition to having a bactericidal role. The nonradical ROS H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> signals inflammation in mammalian lungs, apoptosis in different animal tissues, and is also involved in stomatal closure, root development, gene expression, and defense responses of plants. Antioxidant adaptations in some water-breathing animals involve the excretion of H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> by diffusion through gas-exchange structures. The fine balance among a multitude of factors and cells makes the difference between damage and protection in animals and plants. Knowledge about the mechanisms and consequences of these molecular interactions is now starting to be integrated.
3884690|Classic ectomycorrhizal symbioses are mutualisms that involve the exhange of fixed carbon for mineral nutrients between plant roots and fungi. They are unique in the way they contain features of both intimate and diffuse symbioses. The degree of host specificity varies, particularly among the fungi. Here we examine two exceptional cases of specificity to see what they tell us about the advantages of specificity, how it is initiated, and the potential role that it plays in complex ecosystems. The first case involves non-photosynthetic epiparasitic plants, which contrary to virtually all other plants, exhibit high levels of specificity toward their fungal hosts. The second case involves suilloid fungi; this is the largest monophyletic group of ectomycorrhizal fungi that is essentially restricted to associations with a single plant family. In both cases, new symbioses are initiated by dormant propagules that are stimulated to germinate by chemical cues from the host. This reduces the cost of wasting propagules on non-hosts. The advantages of specificity remain unclear in both cases, but we argue that increased benefit to the specialist may result from specialized physiological adaptations. We reexamine the idea that specialist fungi may help their hosts compete in complex ecosystems by reducing facultative epiparasitism by other plants, and suggest an alternative hypothesis for the observed pattern.
3884611|Simultaneous studies of both nuclear and mitochondrial markers were undertaken in two wide-spread Indo-West Pacific (IWP) marine invertebrates to compare and contrast the ability of these markers to resolve genetic structure. In particular, we were interested in the resolution of a genetic break between the Indian and Pacific Oceans due to historical isolation. Sequence variation from the nuclear gene encoding myosin heavy chain (MyHC) and the mitochondrial gene cytochrome oxidase I (COI) were examined for the snapping shrimp Alpheus lottini from wide-ranging populations throughout the Indian and Pacific Oceans. A previously identified genetic break between oceans based on COI sequences appears to have been an artifact caused by the inadvertent inclusion of pseudogene sequences; our new COI data provide evidence only of a break between IWP and East Pacific populations. Distribution of a single nucleotide polymorphism in MyHC, on the other hand, shows evidence of a cline between Indian and Pacific Oceans. New allozyme and mtDNA sequence data were also obtained for the starfish Linckia laevigata. Allozyme data show a clear genetic break between Indian Ocean populations and Pacific (including western Australian) populations, whereas the distribution of mtDNA haplotypes shows a region of overlap in the central IWP. Comparisons of our data for both Alpheus and Linckia with data from other population genetic studies in the IWP suggest that nuclear markers (allozymes, sequence data and morphological characters) may in some instances reveal historical patterns of genetic population structure whereas mtDNA variation better reflects present day patterns of gene flow.
25160162|Steroid hormones have long been studied by behavioral ecologists as a nongenetic means whereby females can influence the development of their offspring. In oviparous vertebrates, steroids are present in the yolk at the time of oviposition and have been shown to affect numerous traits of the offspring. To date, most studies have focused on the functional relationship between yolk steroids and offspring development. In this article we used a mechanistic approach to investigate the effects of yolk steroids in an attempt to decipher how lipophilic steroids may make it from the lipidrich yolk to the developing embryo. First, we examined the distribution of radioactive and nonradioactive estradiol following the exogenous application of each to developing eggs of the red-eared slider. Second, we quantified sulfotransferase activity in various components of the egg as a potential mechanism for the metabolism of steroids. Results indicate that exogenous estradiol is converted to a water-soluble form during the first 15 days of development, concurrent with an increase of sulfotransferase activity in the yolk and extra-embryonic membranes. Based on these data, we propose a mechanistic model based upon the sulfotransferase/sulfatase pathway as a means through which developing eggs can convert steroids to a water-soluble form that can be transported to the embryo. These sulfonated steroids may then serve as precursors for subsequent steroid production via sulfatase activity. This model utilizes a mechanism known to be important for the modulation of maternal steroid signals in placental mammals, at the same time addressing several previously unanswered questions regarding the mechanisms underlying the effects of yolk steroids.
4485839|Programmed cell death occurs in most, if not all life forms. It is used to sculpt tissue during embryogenesis, to remove damaged cells, to protect against pathogen infection and to regulate cell numbers and tissue homeostasis. In animals cell death often occurs by a morphologically and biochemically conserved process called apoptosis. A novel group of cysteine proteases, referred to as caspases, constitute the central component of this process. Caspases are activated following the induction of apoptosis and cleave a variety of cellular substrates, thus giving rise to the characteristic morphological events of apoptosis. Apoptosis is rapid and cell corpses are removed by phagocytosis. Recent work has shown that apoptosis also occurs in Cnidaria and Porifera, thus extending the origin of this evolutionary innovation down to the first metazoan nimal phyla. Here, we review several examples of the role of apoptosis in cnidarians and then summarize new results on the subcellular localization of caspases and the control of apoptosis in Hydra. We show by immuncytochemistry that caspases in Hydra are localized in mitochondria. Following induction of apoptosis caspases are released from mitochondria as proenzymes and then activated by proteolytic cleavage in the cytoplasm. We also present evidence that apoptosis in Hydra is dramatically stimulated by inhibitors of PI3-kinase. Since PI3-kinase is a central component of growth factor signaling cascades in higher metazoans, this result suggests that control of apoptosis by growth factors is also evolutionarily conserved. We speculate on the role of growth factors in the evolution of apoptosis.
3884876|Unshelled cephalopods have a remarkable ability to alter their appearance, using textural, postural, and chromatic elements to generate a myriad of body patterns. Of the unshelled cephalopods, it is generally acknowledged that cuttlefish express the most detailed and widest range of body patterns, including static and dynamic patterns. In this paper we present data on the neuronal mechanisms underlying this amazing behavior, focusing on the neuroregulation of the chromatic elements, the chromatophore organs, in the European cuttlefish Sepia officinalis. Cephalopod chromatophore organs, including those in Sepia, are unlike those in any other animal taxa; each consists of a pigment-containing chromatophore cell that expands in response to the coordinated activation of a set of radial muscles which are directly attached to the chromatophore cell. We show that the chromatophore muscles are regulated by 2 different excitatory transmitters, glutamate and the family of FMRFamide-related peptides (FaRPs). Glutamate mediates rapid and transient chromatophore cell expansion whereas the FaRPs are responsible for slower, more sustained responses. Using retrograde dye filling, immunocytochemical and in situ hybridization techniques, we demonstrate that the cell bodies of the glutamatergic and FaRPs-containing motoneurons innervating the fin chromatophore muscles are primarily localized to the posterior chromatophore and fin lobes in the posterior subesophageal mass of the Sepia brain. Data are also presented showing that some fin chromatophore motoneurons have multiple axons in different nerve branches, which accounts for overlapping chromatophore motor fields by adjacent peripheral nerves.
3884708|Highlights of the research careers of John and Elisabeth Buck are presented, illustrating their importance as investigators of firefly biology including taxonomy, morphology, physiology and behavior, and as catalysts of collegial exchanges advancing progress among investigators of bioluminescence in its widest aspects over the past 50 years.
4540221|Oceanography has seen the recent development of many new tools and techniques. The subfield of pelagic visual ecology in particular has benefited from the development of more reliable, portable, and economic tools and techniques that can be taken to sea including spectrometers, microspectrophotometery, electroretinography, and ultraviolet and polarization imaging systems. These advances have led to a relative wealth of data on the visual physiology of pelagic species and on the optical properties of these species and their environment. These data, particularly in combination with computational methods, have tested long-standing hypotheses in pelagic ecology and led to new hypotheses and research directions. While the ability to study pelagic species still lags far behind what is possible in terrestrial and coastal environments, a renaissance may be developing in the study of the integrative biology of pelagic species.
4540203|Synopsis The past two years have seen a dramatic increase in the available data on gene sequence and gene expression for cnidarians and other "lower" Metazoa, and a flurry of recent papers has drawn on these to address the origins of bilaterality. Cnidarian homologs of many genes that play key roles in the specification of both the A/P and D/V axes of bilaterians have been characterized, and their patterns of expression determined. Some of these expression patterns are consistent with the possibility of conservation of function between Cnidaria and Bilateria, but others clearly differ. Moreover, in some cases very different interpretations have been made on the basis of the same, or similar, data. In part, these differences reflect the inevitable uncertainties associated with the depth of the divergence between cnidarians and bilaterians. In this article, we briefly summarize the cnidarian data on gene expression and organization relevant to axis formation, the varying interpretations of these data, and where they conflict. Our conclusion is that the presently available data do not allow us to unequivocally homologize the single overt axis of cnidarians with either of the bilaterian axes.
40793120|In dissecting the transition from invertebrates to vertebrates at the molecular level, whole-genome duplications are recognized as a key event. This gave rise to more copies of genes in jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes), such as the four Hox clusters in the human, compared to the single ancestral cluster in invertebrates. To date, as the most early-branching lineages in vertebrates, cyclostomes (hagfishes and lampreys) have been used for comparative analyses of gene regulations and functions. However, assignment of orthology/paralogy for cyclostomes' genes is not unambiguously demonstrated. Thus, there is a high degree of incongruence in tree topologies between gene families, although whole genome duplications postulate uniform patterns in gene phylogeny. In this review, we demonstrate how expansion of an ancient genome before the cyclostome-gnathostome split, followed by reciprocal gene loss, can cause this incongruence. This is sometimes referred to as 'hidden paralogy'.
3884775|Because tunicates rely on innate immunity, their hemocytes are important contributors to host defense. Styela clava, a solitary ascidian, have eight hemocyte subtypes. Extracts of their total hemocyte population contained multiple small (2-4 kDa) antimicrobial peptides. When purified, these fell into two distinct families that were named styelins and clavanins. Styelins A-E are phenylalanine-rich, 32 residue peptides with activity against marine bacteria and human pathogens. They show considerable sequence homology to pleurocidins, antimicrobial peptides of the flounder, Pseudopleuronectes americanus. Styelin D, one of the five styelins identified by peptide isolation and cDNA cloning, was remarkable in containing 12 post-translationally modified residues, including a 6-bromotryptophan, two monohydroxylysines, four 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanines (DOPA), four dihydroxylysines and one dihydroxyarginine. These modifications enhanced Styelin D's bactericidal ability at acidic pH and high salinity. A novel histochemical stain for DOPA suggested that Styelin D was restricted to granulocytes. Clavanins A-E are histidine-rich, 23 residue peptides that are C-terminally amidated and most effective at acidic pH. Clavaspirin is a newly described family member that also has potent cytotoxic properties. By immunocytochemistry, clavanins were identified in the granules of five eosinophilic granulocyte subtypes and in macrophage cytoplasm. Transmission and scanning electron micrographs of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and E. coli that had been treated with Styelin D and clavaspirin suggested that both peptides induced osmotic disregulation. Treated bacteria manifested cytoplasmic swelling and extrusion of cytoplasmic contents through their peptidoglycan cell wall. The diverse array of antimicrobial peptides in S. clava hemocytes constitutes an effective host defense mechanism.
40405965|While recent studies have begun to address how hormones mediate whole-animal performance traits, the field conspicuously lags behind research conducted on humans. Recent studies of human steroid use have revealed that steroid use increases muscle cross-sectional area and mass, largely due to increases in protein synthesis, and muscle fiber hypertrophy attributable to an increased number of satellite cells and myonuclei per unit area. These biochemical and cellular effects on skeletal muscle morphology translate into increased power and work during weight-lifting and enhanced performance in burst, sprinting activities. However, there are no unequivocal data that human steroid use enhances endurance performance or muscle fatigability or recovery. The effects of steroids on human morphology and performance are in general consistent with results found for nonhuman animals, though there are notable discrepancies. However, some of the discrepancies may be due to a paucity of comparative data on how testosterone affects muscle physiology and subsequent performance across different regions of the body and across vertebrate taxa. Therefore, we advocate more research on the basic relationships among hormones, morphology, and performance. Based on results from human studies, we recommend that integrative biologists interested in studying hormone regulation of performance should take into account training, timing of administration, and dosage administered when designing experiments or field studies. We also argue that more information is needed on the long-term effects of hormone manipulation on performance and fitness.
25160121|Bats are among the few predators that can exploit the large quantities of aerial insects active at night. They do this by using echolocation to detect, localize, and classify targets in the dark. Echolocation calls are shaped by natural selection to match ecological challenges. For example, bats flying in open habitats typically emit calls of long duration, with long pulse intervals, shallow frequency modulation, and containing low frequencies-all these are adaptations for long-range detection. As obstacles or prey are approached, call structure changes in predictable ways for several reasons: calls become shorter, thereby reducing overlap between pulse and echo, and calls change in shape in ways that minimize localization errors. At the same time, such changes are believed to support recognition of objects. Echolocation and flight are closely synchronized: we have monitored both features simultaneously by using stereo photogrammetry and video-grammetry, and by acoustic tracking of flight paths. These methods have allowed us to quantify the intensity of signals used by free-living bats, and illustrate systematic changes in signal design in relation to obstacle proximity. We show how signals emitted by aerial feeding bats can be among the most intense airborne sounds in nature. Wideband ambiguity functions developed in the processing of signals produce two-dimensional functions showing trade-offs between resolution of time and velocity, and illustrate costs and benefits associated with Doppler sensitivity and range resolution in echolocation. Remarkably, bats that emit broadband calls can adjust signal design so that Doppler-related overestimation of range compensates for underestimation of range caused by the bat's movement in flight. We show the potential of our methods for understanding interactions between echolocating bats and those prey that have evolved ears that detect bat calls.
3885000|Serotonin (5HT) induces short-term and long-term synaptic facilitation (STF and LTF, respectively) at sensory neuron to motor neuron (SN-MN) synapses in Aplysia, and these forms of plasticity are thought to contribute to short-term and long-term memory for behavioral sensitization. Recent evidence in Aplysia has identified a third phase of synaptic facilitation-intermediate-term facilitation (ITF)-that is temporally and mechanistically distinct from STF and LTF. Here, we review the findings of recent studies that have examined this unique intermediate-term phase at molecular, cellular, and behavioral levels. The results indicate that, at tail SN-MN synapses, multiple forms of ITF can be distinguished; they are induced via distinct mechanisms and use parallel molecular pathways for their expression. Moreover, we have incorporated the temporal and molecular features of these different forms of ITF at tail SN-MN synapses into behavioral analyses, and found that they accurately predict distinct forms of intermediate-term memory for sensitization of the tail-elicited siphon withdrawal reflex. These findings indicate that different types of experiences engage distinct molecular pathways in the service of memory retention over the same time domain.
3884976| Numerous physical parameters that influence insect physiology vary substantially with altitude, including temperature, air density, and oxygen partial pressure. Here, we review existing literature and present new empirical data to better characterize the high-altitude environment, and then consider how this environment affects the physiology and evolution of insects. Using weather balloon data from fifty-three sites across the globe, we estimate a mean altitudinal temperature lapse rate of 6.0 C/km. We also present empirically determined lapse rates for
4485796|Fruit flies alter flight direction by generating rapid, stereotyped turns, called saccades. The successful implementation of these quick turns requires a well-tuned orchestration of neural circuits, musculo-skeletal mechanics, and aerodynamic forces. The changes in wing motion required to accomplish a saccade are quite subtle, as dictated by the inertial dynamics of the fly's body. A fly first generates torque to begin accelerating in the intended direction, but then must quickly create counter-torque to decelerate. Several lines of evidence suggest that the initial turn is initiated by visual expansion, whereas the subsequent counter-turn is triggered by the gyroscopic halteres. This integrated analysis indicates how the functional organization of neural circuits controlling behavior is rigidly constrained by the physical interaction between an animal and the external world.
4485815|We used a novel mouse model to study the effects of selective breeding for high locomotor activity (14 generations) on relative organ sizes, hematocrit (Hct), and blood hemoglobin (Hb) concentration. We also examined effects of exercise training and genotype-by-environment interactions by housing animals for 8 weeks with wheels that were either free to rotate or locked. Mice from the four replicate High-Runner (HR) lines were smaller in total body mass but had larger body mass-adjusted kidneys relative to the four Control lines (P<0.05). Control and HR lines did not differ significantly for mass-adjusted tail length or masses of the "triceps surae" hindlimb muscle group, heart (ventricle), spleen, liver, adrenal glands or gonads. Wheel access caused a reduction in body mass and an increase in relative heart mass. In females only, wheel access caused a reduction in relative spleen mass. Wheel access did not affect relative tail length or relative mass of the triceps surae, liver, adrenal gland or gonads. Significant interactions between selection history and wheel access were observed in females for spleen, liver, and gonad mass as well as Hct and Hb. Wheel access caused increases in both Hct and Hb, mainly in the HR lines. The mini-muscle phenotype, caused by a Mendelian recessive allele that halves hindlimb muscle mass, was significantly associated with several other body composition traits, including reduced body mass, increased tail length, increased heart mass, increased liver mass (females only), increased mean adrenal gland mass (females only), increased mean kidney mass (males only), and reduced Hct (wheel-access females only). Results are discussed in context of the beneficial acclimation hypothesis, genotype-by-environment interactions, and the potential for "nurture" to be self-reinforcing of "nature" in some complex behavioral-physiological phenotypes.
25160208|Segmentation of the vertebrate head emerges out of earlier processes that establish the anterior-posterior (A-P) axis. Recent genetic studies and comparisons across species have led to a better understanding of the links between A-P patterning and segmentation. These point to similar signals acting on both head and trunk, such as retinoic acid and fibroblast growth factors. These form interacting networks of diffusible morphogen gradients that pattern both hindbrain rhombomeres and mesodermal somites. New computational models, particularly for retinoic acid, have revealed how morphogen gradients are established and made robust to changes in signaling levels. However, the orientations of these gradients, as well as how they interact to generate segments, differ remarkably between germ layers and body regions. Thus, the vertebrate head is, in part, built through modifications of the same processes that link A-P patterning and segmentation in the trunk, but fundamental differences in how these processes are deployed lend further doubt to the notion that head and trunk segments are homologous.
40306106|In many muscles, the tendinous structures include both an extramuscular free tendon as well as a sheet-like aponeurosis. In both free tendons and aponeuroses the collagen fascicles are oriented primarily longitudinally, along the muscle's line of action. It is generally assumed that this axis represents the direction of loading for these structures. This assumption is well founded for free tendons, but aponeuroses undergo a more complex loading regime. Unlike free tendons, aponeuroses surround a substantial portion of the muscle belly and are therefore loaded both parallel (longitudinal) and perpendicular (transverse) to a muscle's line of action when contracting muscles bulge to maintain a constant volume. Given this biaxial loading pattern, it is critical to understand the mechanical properties of aponeuroses in both the longitudinal and transverse directions. In this study, we use uniaxial testing of isolated tissue samples from the aponeurosis of the lateral gastrocnemius of wild turkeys to determine mechanical properties of samples loaded longitudinally (along the muscle's line of action) and transversely (orthogonal to the line of action). We find that the aponeurosis has a significantly higher Young's modulus in the longitudinal than in the transverse direction. Our results also show that aponeuroses can behave as efficient springs in both the longitudinal and transverse directions, losing little energy to hysteresis. We also test the failure properties of aponeuroses to quantify the likely safety factor with which these structures operate during muscular force production. These results provide an essential foundation for understanding the mechanical function of aponeuroses as biaxially loaded biological springs.
4540150|Synopsis Males and females are known to differ in a whole suite of characteristics, such as morphology, physiology, ecology, and behavior. Intersexual differences are generally believed to arise because of differences in selective pressures on either sex. In this study, we investigated whether intersexual differences in escape behavior exist in lizards of the genus Anolis, and whether these could be explained by intersexual differences in body size and/or microhabitat use. To do so, we compared the behavioral response to an approaching human predator in the field in males and females of 12 Anolis species. We found that ecomorphs and sexes differ greatly with respect to escape behavior. Twig anoles have the shortest approach distance (i.e., distance between the observer and the lizard when it starts fleeing) and final distance (i.e., distance between the observer and the lizard when it stops moving), compared with the other ecomorphs. The distance fled, on the contrary, is greatest in twig anoles. Also, females flee less soon and run over shorter distances than do males. Since twig anoles are considered the most cryptic anoles, and females may be less conspicuous than males, these results corroborate the idea that well camouflaged animals allow predators to come closer. The interspecific variation in sexual dimorphism in escape behavior, however, cannot be explained by the interspecific variation in sexual size dimorphism or sexual dimorphism in microhabitat use. Thus, escape behavior appears determined by different factors in males and females.
3884726| Many studies suggest that migratory guidance cues within the developing brain are diverse across many regions. To better understand the early development and differentiation of select brain regions, an in vitro method was developed using selected inbred and transgenic strains of embryonic mice. In particular, organotypic slices are used to test factors that influence the movements of neurons during brain development. Thick 250 m slices cut on a vibrating microtome are prepared and maintained in vitro for 0-3 days. Nissl stain analyses often show a uniform distribution of cells in the regions of interest on the day of plating (embryonic days 12-15). After 3 days in vitro, cellular aggregation suggesting nuclear formation or the changing position of cells with a defined phenotype show that reasonably normal cell movements occur in several regions. Movements in vitro that mimic changes in vivo suggest that key factors reside locally within the plane of the slices. Video microscopy studies are used to follow the migration of fluorescently labeled cells in brain slices from mice maintained in serum-free media for 1 to 3 days. Transgenic mice with selective promoter driven expression of fluorescent proteins allow us to view specific cell types (e.g., neurons expressing gonadotropin-releasing hormone). The accessibility of an in vitro system that provides for relatively normal brain development over key brief windows of time allows for the testing of important mechanisms. 
3884685|The hindgut microbiota of termites includes an abundant and morphologically diverse population of spirochetes. However, our understanding of these symbionts has remained meager since their first observation in termite guts by Leidy over a century ago, in part because none had ever been isolated in culture. Recently, this situation has changed dramatically with the application of cultivation-independent molecular methods to determine their phylogeny, and with the isolation of the first pure cultures. The emerging picture is that earth's termites constitute an enormous reservoir of novel spirochetes, which possess metabolic properties (
4485767|Certain anthropogenic chemicals, most notably xeno-oestrogens, are known to have the potential to disrupt vertebrate endocrine systems. For example, induction of the female-specific protein, vitellogenin, in male fish is a well-known effect of exposure to xeno-oestrogens and serves as a biomarker of such exposure. There have been few comparable studies of putative biomarkers of endocrine disruption in invertebrates. An exception is the upregulation of vitellin-like larval storage protein (LSP) expression in the barnacle cypris larva following exposure to oestrogenic chemicals. The current study aimed to establish whether larvae of the glass prawn, Palaemon elegans, are likewise susceptible to xeno-oestrogen exposure. Using a polyclonal antiserum to P. elegans apolipovitellin, an 86 kDa polypeptide was detected by western blotting in the larval and early postlarval stages of this species. An indirect ELISA applied to the soluble protein fraction of larval homogenates determined that the titre of this putative LSP ranged, depending on larval stage, from 0.48-0.67 ng g. Exposure of P. elegans larvae to the xeno-oestrogen 4-n-nonylphenol (4-NP), at 0.2-20 g L, resulted in a significant, concentration-independent increase in putative LSP levels of 5-18%. Conversely, exposure to the natural oestrogen, 17-oestradiol (E), at 0.2 and 20 g L, led to a significant concentration-independent decline (up to 11%) in LSP levels. Whether the effect of 4-NP results from endocrine disruption is not known, however, an oestrogen receptor-mediated effect is unlikely. Other than a slight increase in larval mortality when exposed to 4-NP at 2 g L, neither 4-NP nor E significantly affected development, growth or survival of P. elegans larvae.
3884837|Our inability to answer many questions regarding the development of metazoan complexity may be due in part to the prevailing idea that most eukaryote "phyla" originated within a short period of geologic time from simple unicellular ancestors. This view, however, is contradicted by evidence that larger groups of eukaryotes share characters, suggesting that these assemblages inherited characters from a common ancestor. Because molecular analyses have had limited success in resolving the relationships of higher eukaryote taxa, we have undertaken a phylogenetic analysis based primarily on morphological characters. The analysis emphasizes characters considered to have a high probability of having evolved only once. Transitions between taxa are evaluated for the likelihood of character-state transformations. The analysis indicates that the evolutionary history of the clade containing the Metazoa has been complex, encompassing the gain and loss of a secondary and perhaps a primary photosynthetic endosymbiont with accompanying changes in trophic level. The history also appears to have included a hetero-autotrophic ancestor that possessed a "conoid" feeding apparatus and may have involved a transformation from a flagellate to an amoeboid body form, a trend toward increased intracellular compartmentation, and the development of complex social behavior. Such changes could have been critical for establishing the underlying complexity required for a rapid diversification of cell and tissue types in the early stages of metazoan evolution.
3884695|Malaria has been invoked, perhaps more than any other infectious disease, as a force for the selection of human genetic polymorphisms. Evidence for genome-shaping interactions can be found in the geographic and ethnic distributions of the hemoglobins, blood group antigens, thalassemias, red cell membrane molecules, human lymphocyte antigen (HLA) classes, and cytokines. Human immune responses and genetic variations can correspondingly influence the structure and polymorphisms of Plasmodium populations, notably in genes that affect the success and virulence of infection. In Africa, where the burden from Plasmodium falciparum predominates, disease severity and manifestations vary in prevalence among human populations. The evolutionary history and spread of Plasmodium species inform our assessment of malaria as a selective force. Longstanding host-pathogen relationships, as well as recent changes in this dynamic, illustrate the selective pressures human and Plasmodium species place on one another. Investigations of malaria protection determinants and virulence factors that contribute to the complexity of the disease should advance our understanding of malaria pathogenesis.
3884724|Microarray technology is a powerful technique that allows the simultaneous study of thousands of gene transcripts. During the past two years there has been an explosion of publications describing experiments utilizing microarray technology that range from original research findings from biological paradigms to mathematically modeled systems. However, neuroscientists using microarray technology face significant challenges due to high tissue complexity, low abundance transcripts, and small magnitude changes in transcript levels that have significant biological impact. This manuscript describes a series of studies designed to address issues regarding microarray sensitivity, ability of microarrays to detect subtle changes, and reproducibility of microarray experiments, all in the context of neuronal tissue. From the presentation of these studies, the authors argue that although microarray technology is limited with regards to sensitivity, the outcome of these experiments, if approached with appropriate skepticism, can be fruitful in the generation of hypotheses and seeding of future experiments.
4485837|Sea anemones (Phylum Cnidaria; Class Anthozoa, Order Actiniaria) exhibit a diversity of developmental patterns that include cloning by fission. Because natural histories of clonal and aclonal sea anemones are quite different, the gain and loss of fission is an important feature of actiniarian lineages. We have used mitochondrial DNA and nuclear intron DNA phylogenies to investigate the evolution of longitudinal fission in sixteen species in the genus Anthopleura, and reconstructed an aclonal ancestor that has given rise at least four times to clonal descendents. For A. elegantissima from the northeastern Pacific Ocean, a transition to clonality by fission was associated with an up-shore habitat shift, supporting prior hypotheses that clonal growth is an adaptation to the upper shore. Fission in Actiniaria likely precedes its advent in Anthopleura, and its repeated loss and gain is perplexing. Field studies of the acontiate sea anemone Aiptasia californica provided insight to the mechanisms that regulate fission: subtidal Aiptasia responded to experimentally destabilized substrata by increasing rates of pedal laceration. We put forth a general hypothesis for actiniarian fission in which sustained tissue stretch (a consequence of substratum instability or intrinsic behavior) induces tissue degradation, which in turn induces regeneration. The gain and loss of fission in Anthopleura lineages may only require the gain and loss of some form of stretching behavior. In this view, tissue stretch initiates a cascade of developmental events without requiring complex gene regulatory linkages.
40406000|The relation between somatosensory input and motor output is asymmetric. Somatosensation is associated with every movement an animal makes, but movement is not required for somatosensation. This symposium paper proposes a classification scheme for movement, in which movements are placed along a continuum that describes the role that somatosensory information plays during the movement. Fine sensorimotor controlmanipulation and explorationare found to fall to one extreme of the spectrum, and exploratory movements in particular are shown to possess characteristics that clearly distinguish them from other varieties of movement. Specifically, the exploratory process must permit animals to extract an object's features independently of the sequence of movements executed to explore the object. Based in part on our work on the rat vibrissal system, we suggest that exploration of objects may consist of two complementary levels of sensorimotor prediction operating in parallel. At the cognitive level, the animal might move so as to perform hypothesis testing about the identity or nature of the object. The particular hypothesis tests chosen by the animal might be implemented through sequences of control-level predictions that could be generated at the level of the brainstem and cerebellum.
25160126|Powered flapping flight has evolved independently in many different taxa. For flapping fliers, wingbeat parameters such as frequency and amplitude are the primary determinants of these animals' energetic expenditure during flight. Here we present data on wingbeat frequency and amplitude for three New World thrush species during 15 entire nocturnal migratory flights over the Midwestern United States. Using continuous (non-pulsing) radio transmitters, we were able to measure wingbeat frequency and relative amplitude of wingbeats as well as the characteristics of flap-pauses. Contrary to previous telemetric findings, all of the individuals we followed used both flapping-only and flap-pause flight. During migratory flights, wingbeat frequency, effective wingbeat frequency, and amplitude were highest during initial ascent. Effective wingbeat frequency and amplitude were lowest during final descent. We show that identification of species based solely on characteristics of the wingbeat e.g., during radar studies, can be difficult because variables such as wingbeat frequency and amplitude, wingbeat pausing, and pattern of beats and pauses vary between individuals of the same species and even within individual flights. We also show that observed wingbeat frequencies were lower than those predicted by theoretical models. We speculate that this may be because theoretical predictions are generally based on (1) data from larger birds and (2) data from diurnal flights. We found that diurnal wingbeat frequencies of thrushes were generally higher than were those during nocturnal migratory flight. Finally, we suggest that rather than remaining at a single altitude during flight or climbing slightly as theoretical models predict, thrushes often moved up and down in the air column, perhaps searching for favorable atmospheric conditions.
3884881|Multiple small-scale transcriptome studies have been undertaken for various members of the Penaeidae. Penaeid shrimp are important both as members of diverse ecosystems around the world and for their importance as commercial commodities. Of the many shrimps, the most important from this family is the Pacific whiteleg shrimp, Litopenaeus vannamei, as it is the primary shrimp used in worldwide aquaculture. The sequencing and analysis of 13 656 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from this species is presented. ESTs were derived from multiple tissue-specific cDNA libraries with an emphasis being placed on those tissues with predicted immune function. Assembly of the sequences into non-overlapping clusters yielded 7466 putative unigenes (1981 contigs and 5485 singletons). Multiple approaches were taken to assign putative function to each transcript; sequence homology searches using BLASTX (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool: Translated query versus protein database) of the National Center for Biotechnology Information's (NCBI) GenBank Database and Gene Ontology annotation, and still a significant portion of the shrimp ESTs (62%) had no homology with known proteins in the public databases. The sequence and complete annotation of all ESTs is available at www.marinegenomics.org, a publicly accessible database. In addition to providing the basic resources for microarray construction, transcript profiling, and novel gene discovery, this study constitutes the largest combined analysis of ESTs from any shrimp species and is a prelude to an even larger effort aimed at identifying and depleting highly redundant genes from shrimp cDNA libraries toward the goal of sequencing 100 000 shrimp ESTs.
4485825| Laboratory selection experiments play a prominent role in understanding organismal adaptation. Although bacteria are not yet commonly used for such experiments, they are well suited for analyses of both the organismic and the genetic basis of adaptation. Bacteria can be maintained in large populations while occupying limited laboratory space, have short generation times, are well characterized physiologically, biochemically, and genetically, and are readily frozen and revived from the freezer. In addition, the genomes of many species are completely sequenced and knowledge of gene function is unparalleled. Here we review general aspects of selection experiments, the history of using selection experiments in combination with thermal biology and genomics, and highlight findings from six lines of Escherichia coli adapted to high temperature (41.5C), including changes in organismal fitness, physiological performance, gene complement and gene expression. Our results are an example of the powerful insights that can be discovered by combining the tools and analyses of many biological disciplines including genomics, evolutionary biology, genetics, and evolutionary physiology. 
3884856|The Cambrian radiation is that key episode in the history of life when a large number of animal phyla appeared in the fossil record over a geologically short period of time. Over the last 20 years, scientific understanding of this radiation has increased significantly. Still, fundamental questions remain about the timing of the radiation and also the tempo of evolution. Trilobites are an excellent group to address these questions because of their rich abundance and diversity. Moreover, their complex morphology makes them readily amenable to phylogenetic analysis, and deducing the nature of macroevolutionary processes during the Cambrian radiation requires an understanding of evolutionary patterns. Phylogenetic biogeographic analysis of Early Cambrian olenellid trilobites, based on a modified version of Brooks Parsimony Analysis, revealed the signature of the breakup of Pannotia, a tectonic event that most evidence suggests is constrained to the interval 600 to 550 Ma. As trilobites are derived metazoans, this suggests the phylogenetic proliferation associated with the Cambrian radiation was underway tens of millions of years before the Early Cambrian, although not hundreds of millions of years as some have argued. Phylogenetic information from Early Cambrian olenellid trilobites was also used in a stochastic approach based on two continuous time models to test the hypothesis that rates of speciation were unusually high during the Cambrian radiation. No statistical evidence was found to support this hypothesis. Instead, rates of evolution during the Cambrian radiation, at least those pertaining to speciation, were comparable to those that have occurred during other times of adaptive or taxic radiation throughout the history of life.
23016059|Synopsis The Feeding Experiments End-user Database (FEED) is a research tool developed by the Mammalian Feeding Working Group at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center that permits synthetic, evolutionary analyses of the physiology of mammalian feeding. The tasks of the Working Group are to compile physiologic data sets into a uniform digital format stored at a central source, develop a standardized terminology for describing and organizing the data, and carry out a set of novel analyses using FEED. FEED contains raw physiologic data linked to extensive metadata. It serves as an archive for a large number of existing data sets and a repository for future data sets. The metadata are stored as text and images that describe experimental protocols, research subjects, and anatomical information. The metadata incorporate controlled vocabularies to allow consistent use of the terms used to describe and organize the physiologic data. The planned analyses address long-standing questions concerning the phylogenetic distribution of phenotypes involving muscle anatomy and feeding physiology among mammals, the presence and nature of motor pattern conservation in the mammalian feeding muscles, and the extent to which suckling constrains the evolution of feeding behavior in adult mammals. We expect FEED to be a growing digital archive that will facilitate new research into understanding the evolution of feeding anatomy.
4485793|The goal of my research program is to employ biochemical and molecular techniques to gain ecological insight into the role of temperature in setting species' distribution patterns in the marine environment. Our central focus is the study of the environmental regulation of gene expression, where we are particularly interested in a set of inducible molecular chaperones, the heat-shock proteins (Hsps), and how the expression of these genes varies with the thermal history of organisms in natural populations. The primary study organisms are intertidal invertebrates and marine fish that experience dramatic changes in body temperature on varying temporal and spatial scales. In this review, I present studies that address the variable expression of Hsps, how these genes are differentially regulated in ectothermic animals in response to ecologically relevant temperature conditions, and how such plasticity in gene expression contributes to physiological plasticity in the environment.
3884987|Coevolutionary interactions depend upon a phenotypic interface of traits in each species that mediate the outcome of interactions among individuals. These phenotypic interfaces usually involve performance traits, such as locomotion or resistance to toxins, that comprise an integrated suite of physiological, morphological and behavioral traits. The reciprocal selection from species interactions may act directly on performance, but it is ultimately the evolution of these underlying components that shape the patterns of coevolutionary adaptation in performance. Bridging the macroevolutionary patterns of coevolution to the ecological processes that build them therefore requires a way to dissect the phenotypic interface of coevolution and determine how specific components of performance in one species exert selection on complimentary components of performance in a second species. We present an appraoch for analyzing the strength of selection in a coevolutionary interaction where individuals interact at random, and for identifying which component traits of the phenotypic interface are critical to mediating coevolution. The approach is illustrated with data from a predator-prey arms race between garter snakes and newts that operates through the interface of tetrodotoxin (TTX) and resistance to it.
40931185|Recent progress in reconstructing animal relationships enables us to draw a better picture of the evolution of important characters such as organ systems and developmental processes. By mapping these characters onto the phylogenetic framework, we can detect changes that have occurred in them during evolution. The spiral mode of development is a complex of characters that is present in many lineages, such as nemerteans, annelids, mollusks, and polyclad platyhelminthes. However, some of these lineages show variations of this general program in which sub-characters are modified without changing the overlying pattern. Recent molecular phylogenies suggest that spiral cleavage was lost, or at least has deviated from its original pattern, in more lineages than was previously thought (e.g., in rotifers, gastrotrichs, bryozoans, brachiopods, and phoronids). Here, I summarize recent progress in reconstructing the spiralian tree of life and discuss its significance for our understanding of the spiral-cleavage character complex. I conclude that more detailed knowledge of the development of spiralian taxa is necessary to understand the mechanisms behind these changes, and to understand the evolutionary changes and adaptations of spiralian embryos.
3884739|Compromises between swimming and feeding affect larval form and behavior. Two hypotheses, with supporting examples, illustrate these feeding-swimming trade-offs. (1) Extension of ciliated bands into long loops increases maximum clearance rates in feeding but can decrease stability of swimming in shear flows. A hydromechanical model of swimming by ciliated bands on arms indicates that morphologies with high performance in swimming speed and weight-carrying ability in still water differ from morphologies conferring high stability to external disturbances such as shear flows. Instability includes movement across flow lines from upwelling to downwelling water in vertical shear. Thus a hypothesis for the high arm elevation angles of sea urchin larvae, which reduce speed in still water, is that they reduce a downward bias imposed by the vertical shear in turbulence. Observations of sea urchin larvae in vertical shear and comparisons among brittle star larvae are consistent with the performance trade-offs predicted by the model. (2) Structures and behaviors that reduce swimming speed can enhance filtering for feeding. In the opposed-band feeding mechanisms of veligers and many trochophores, cilia push water to swim but movement of cilia relative to the water occurs when cilia overtake and capture particles. Features that may increase clearance rates at the expense of speed and weight capacity include structures that increase drag or body weight and a ciliary band that beats in opposition to the feeding-swimming current. Larval feeding mechanisms inherited from distant ancestors result in different swimming-feeding trade-offs. The different trade-offs further diversify larval form and behavior.
3884731|Complex life-histories are common in nature, have many important biological consequences, and are an important focal area for integrative biology. For organisms with complex life-histories, a legacy is something handed down from an ancestor or previous stage, and can be genetic, nutritional/provisional, experiential, as well as the result of random chance and natural variation in the environment. As we learn more about complex life-histories, it becomes clear that legacies are inexorably linked in the short- and long-term through ecology and evolution. Understanding the consequences and drivers of life-history patterns can therefore only be understood by considering all types of legacies and integrating legacies across the entire life cycle. Larry McEdward was a leader in the field of ecological physiology, and evolutionary ecology of marine invertebrate larvae with complex life-histories. Through his scientific work and publications, devotion to students, colleagues, family, and friends, Larry has left a lasting legacy that will impact the future development of the field of larval ecology and complex life-histories.
4485821|Laboratory selection for desiccation resistance, which has been imposed on five replicate populations of Drosophila melanogaster for >200 generations, has resulted in enhanced survivability during periods of extreme water stress. The ability of these populations to persistently resist the fatal effects of desiccation is correlated with evolved physiological traits, namely preferential storage of carbohydrates (associated with reduced lipid reserves) and a dramatic increase in blood volume, which has led to a significant increase in extracellular sodium and chloride content, as well as body mass. When compared to other populations of this drosophilid species, these adaptive traits are unique. While some may argue against the value of evolved traits that have not been found in natural populations, we counter that such traits are of considerable value to the analyses of physiological functions, as well as the underlying mechanisms and evolutionary trajectories of these functions. We propose that multiple physiological consequences almost certainly derive from the evolution of these singular traits; and, furthermore, we discuss future directions for the elucidation of such consequences.
3885009|The enhanced synthesis of heat-shock proteins (hsps), called the heat-shock (or stress) response, is activated when environmental stress denatures proteins. Hsp synthesis is activated at the upper temperatures of an organism's thermal range and is therefore thought to be critical for enhancing thermal tolerance limits in ectothermic animals. Here I show that the two temperate sister species T. brunnea and T. montereyi that occupy the subtidal and low-intertidal zone differ from the low- to mid-intertidal T. funebralis (and the subtropical mid-intertidal T. rugosa) in (i) heat tolerance, (ii) the onset temperature of their main hsp, hsp70 (70 kDa), (iii) the temperature of maximal hsp70 synthesis, (iv) the upper temperature of hsp synthesis, and (v) the recovery from a thermal stress typical for the mid-intertidal zone. A regulatory model in which hsps themselves regulate their own transcription and synthesis through a negative autoregulatory feedback mechanism can explain acclimation-induced but not interspecific variation in the onset temperature of hsp70 synthesis. Transplanting species across their vertical distribution limits showed that interspecific differences in the stress response are likely to prevent species occurring lower from inhabiting sites higher in the rocky intertidal zone. Endogenous levels of a hsp of a molecular mass of 72 kDa, hsp72, changed little with heat stress in a species' native thermal environment. The results therefore confirm the importance of interspecific differences in the stress response for setting limits to an organism's thermal environment. However, the role of hsps as short-term indicators of sublethal heat stress within a species' native thermal environment may be limited without a better understanding of their functional and regulatory characteristics.
3884615|Boxfishes (Teleostei: Ostraciidae) are rigid-body, multi-propulsor swimmers that exhibit unusually small amplitude recoil movements during rectilinear locomotion. Mechanisms producing the smooth swimming trajectories of these fishes are unknown, however. Therefore, we have studied the roles the bony carapaces of these fishes play in generating this dynamic stability. Features of the carapaces of four morphologically distinct species of boxfishes were measured, and anatomically-exact stereolithographic models of the boxfishes were constructed. Flow patterns around each model were investigated using three methods: 1) digital particle image velocimetry (DPIV), 2) pressure distribution measurements, and 3) force balance measurements. Significant differences in both cross-sectional and longitudinal carapace morphology were detected among the four species. However, results from the three interrelated approaches indicate that flow patterns around the various carapaces are remarkably similar. DPIV results revealed that the keels of all boxfishes generate strong longitudinal vortices that vary in strength and position with angle of attack. In areas where attached, concentrated vorticity was detected using DPIV, low pressure also was detected at the carapace surface using pressure sensors. Predictions of the effects of both observed vortical flow patterns and pressure distributions on the carapace were consistent with actual forces and moments measured using the force balance. Most notably, the three complementary experimental approaches consistently indicate that the ventral keels of all boxfishes, and in some species the dorsal keels as well, effectively generate self-correcting forces for pitching motions-a characteristic that is advantageous for the highly variable velocity fields in which these fishes reside.
23016127|Synopsis Red algae (Rhodophyta) are an ancient group with unusual morphological, biochemical, and life-history features including a complete absence of flagella. Although the red algae present many opportunities for studying speciation, this has rarely been explicitly addressed. Here, we examine an aspect of paternal gene flow by determining fertilization success of female Neosiphonia harveyi (Ceramiales), which retains a morphological record of all successful and unsuccessful female gametes. High fertilization rates were observed except when there were no males at all within the tidepool, or in a submerged marina environment. Small numbers of reproductive males were able to saturate fertilization rates, suggesting that limited availability of sperm may be less significant in red algae than previously thought. In another member of the Ceramiales, Antithamnion, relatively large chromosomes permit karyological identification of polyploids. The Western Pacific species Antithamnion sparsum is closely related to the diploid species Antithamnion defectum, known only from the Eastern Pacific, and appears to have evolved from it. Molecular evidence suggests that A. sparsum is an autopolyploid, and that the European species known as Antithamnion densum is divergent from the A. sparsum/defectum complex.
4485873|The sex-specific slopes of Bateman's gradients have important implications for understanding animal mating systems, including patterns of sexual selection and reproductive competition. Intersexual differences in the fitness benefits derived from mating with multiple partners are expected to yield distinct patterns of reproductive success for males and females, with variance in direct fitness predicted to be greater among males. These analyses assume that typically all adults are reproductive and that failure to produce offspring is non-adaptive. Among some species of cooperatively breeding birds and mammals, however, nonbreeding adult alloparents are common and may comprise the majority of individuals in social groups. The presence of a large number of non-breeding adults, particularly when coupled with greater social suppression of reproduction among females, may alter the relative variance in direct fitness between the sexes, thereby generating an apparent contradiction to Bateman's Paradigm. To explore quantitatively the effects of nonbreeding alloparents on variance in reproductive success, we used genetic estimates of parentage and reproductive success drawn from the literature to calculate the relative variability in direct fitness for females and males in alloparental and "other" societies of birds and mammals. Our analyses indicate that in mammals and, to a lesser extent, in birds, variability in direct fitness is greater among females in species characterized by the presence of non-breeding alloparents. These data suggest that social interactions, including social suppression of reproduction, are powerful determinants of individual direct fitness that may modify sex-specific patterns of reproductive variance from those described by Bateman.
25160199|Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) controls the reproductive physiology and behavior of vertebrates by stimulating synthesis and release of gonadotropin from the pituitary gland. In 2000, another hypothalamic neuropeptide, gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH), was discovered in quail and found to be an inhibiting factor for gonadotropin release. GnIH homologs are present in the brains of vertebrates, including birds, mammals, amphibians, and fish. These peptides, categorized as RF amide-related peptides (RFRPs), possess a characteristic LPXRF-amide (X = L or Q) motif at their C-termini. GnIH/RFRP precursor mRNA encodes a polypeptide that is possibly cleaved into three mature peptides in birds and two in mammals. The names of these peptides are GnIH, GnIH-related peptide-1 (GnIH-RP-1) and GnIH-RP-2 in birds, and RFRP-1 and RFRP-3 in mammals. GnIH/RFRP is synthesized in neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus in birds and the dorsomedial hypothalamic area in mammals. GnIH neurons project to the median eminence, thus providing a functional neuroanatomical infrastructure to regulate anterior pituitary function. In quail, GnIH inhibits gonadal activity by decreasing synthesis and release of gonadotropin. The widespread distribution of GnIH/RFRP immunoreactive fibers in all animals tested suggests various actions within the brain. In accordance, GnIH/RFRP receptor mRNA is also expressed widely in the brain and the pituitary. GnIH/RFRP immunoreactive axon terminals are in probable contact with GnRH neurons in birds and mammals, and we recently demonstrated expression of GnIH receptor mRNA in GnRH-I and GnRH-II neurons in European starlings. Thus, GnIH/RFRP may also inhibit gonadotropin synthesis and release by inhibiting GnRH neurons in addition to having direct actions on the pituitary gland. Intracerebroventricular administration of GnIH/RFRP further inhibits reproductive behaviors in songbirds and rodents, possibly via direct actions on the GnRH system. The expression of GnIH/RFRP is regulated by melatonin which is an internal indicator of day length in vertebrates. Stress stimuli also regulate the expression of GnIH/RFRP in songbirds and rodents. Accordingly, GnIH/RFRP may serve as a transducer of environmental information and social interactions into endogenous physiology and behavior of the animal. Recently, it was shown that GnIH/RFRP and its receptor are also expressed in the gonads of birds, rodents and primates. In sum, the existing data suggest that GnIH/RFRP is an important mediator of reproductive function acting at the level of the brain, pituitary, and the gonad in birds and mammals.
3884687|Molecular tools based on small subunit (SSU) rDNA gene sequences offer a powerful and rapid tool for the analysis of complex microbial communities found in the gastrointestinal tracts (GIT) of food animal species. Extensive comparative sequence analysis of SSU rRNA molecules representing a wide diversity of organisms shows that different regions of the molecule vary in sequence conservation. Oligonucleotides complementing regions of universally conversed SSU rRNA sequences are used as universal probes, while those complementing more variable regions of sequence are useful as selective probes targeting species, genus, or phylogenetic groups. Different approaches derive different information and this is highly dependent on the type of target nucleic acid employed and the conceptual and technical basis used for nucleic acid probe design. Generally these approaches can be divided into DNA-based methods employing empirically characterized probes and rRNA-based methods based on comparative sequence analysis for design and interpretation of "rational" probes. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based techniques can also be applied to the analysis of microbial communities in the GIT. Direct cloning of SSU rDNA genes amplified from these complex communities can be used to determine the extent of diversity in these GIT communities. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) is another powerful tool for profiling microbial diversity of microbial communities in GI tracts. Sequence analysis of the excised DGGE amplicons can then be used to presumptively identify predominant bacterial species. Examples of how these molecular approaches are being used to study the microbial diversity of communities from steers fed different diets, swine fed probiotics, and Atlantic salmon fed aquaculture diets are presented.
4485760|The single and synergistic effects of man-made changes to the environment, such as habitat destruction, climate change, introduction of novel, long-lived chemicals into the environment, transport of exotic species and pathogens into new geographical areas, and other factors are predicted to cause wide-spread population declines and species extinctions of plants and animals in this century. From its inception, physiology has dealt with organismal capacities to deal with environmental change. This essay argues that physiologists, their methods and concepts can make more substantial contributions to Conservation Biology than they have to date. A few of the many ways in which physiologists can participate in Conservation Biology include formulating standards for proof of cause-and-effect relations and providing information about how environmental change could affect organismal energetics, host-pathogen relations, immune defenses, and others.
4485862|Bryophytes are a non-monophyletic group of three major lineages (liverworts, hornworts, and mosses) that descend from the earliest branching events in the phylogeny of land plants. We postulate that desiccation tolerance is a primitive trait, thus mechanisms by which the first land plants achieved tolerance may be reflected in how extant desiccation-tolerant bryophytes survive drying. Evidence is consistent with extant bryophytes employing a tolerance strategy of constitutive cellular protection coupled with induction of a recovery/repair mechanism upon rehydration. Cellular structures appear intact in the desiccated state but are disrupted by rapid uptake of water upon rehydration, but cellular integrity is rapidly regained. The photosynthetic machinery appears to be protected such that photosynthetic activity recovers quickly. Gene expression responds following rehydration and not during drying. Gene expression is translationally controlled and results in the synthesis of a number of proteins, collectively called rehydrins. Some prominent rehydrins are similar to Late Embryogenesis Abundant (LEA) proteins, classically ascribed a protection function during desiccation. The role of LEA proteins in a rehydrating system is unknown but data indicates a function in stabilization and reconstitution of membranes. Phylogenetic studies using a Tortula ruralis LEA-like rehydrin led to a re-examination of the evolution of desiccation tolerance. A new phylogenetic analysis suggests that: (i) the basic mechanisms of tolerance seen in modern day bryophytes have changed little from the earliest manifestations of desiccation tolerance in land plants, and (ii) vegetative desiccation tolerance in the early land plants may have evolved from a mechanism present first in spores.
23016064|Synopsis Movement of the jaw during molar occlusion is determined by the sequence of activity in the adductor muscles and this sequence is one way to define a masticatory motor program. Based on the similarity of molar structure, it is probable that the American opossum and the early Tertiary mammals that gave rise to all Australian marsupials probably shared a common "primitive" masticatory motor program. The distinct and various patterns of movement of the jaw in the major groups of Australian marsupial herbivores (diprotodontids) are achieved by both subtle and substantial shifts in the timing of the primitive sequence. All diprotodonts divide jaw movements during occlusion into a vertical Phase Im and horizontal Phase IIm, but the number of muscles involved and the level of activity associated with each phase varies considerably. In macropodids (potoroos and kangaroos) Phase Im dominates; in wombats Phase IIm dominates and in koalas the two phases are more evenly divided, with a more equal distribution of muscles between them. The motor program of koalas parallels that of some placental ungulates, while both macropodids and wombats have motor programs unique among mammals.
4540138|The evolution of cranial design in lepidosaurians is characterized by a general trend toward the loss of cranial elements. The evolution of relatively lighter skulls in squamates appears tightly coupled to a reduction in relative mass of the jaw adductor, implying functional consequences for bite force and feeding behavior. Interestingly, among squamates the postorbital bar was reduced or lost at least twice independently and taxa characterized by the loss of these cranial elements (e.g., geckos and varanids) are generally reported as having a mobile skull. In Gekkotans, the loss of the postorbital bar was accompanied by a reduction of the supratemporal bar, resulting in a pronounced cranial kinesis. Our data show that having a kinetic skull has functional consequences and results in a reduction in bite force. The lower bite force may in turn be responsible for the decreased feeding efficiency as reflected in the longer duration of intra-oral transport cycles. Gekkotans, however, appear to exploit their intracranial mobility in ways that increases the velocity of jaw movement during opening and closing, which may allow them to capture more elusive prey. The morphological changes observed in the evolution of the cranial system in squamates appear tightly linked to functional and constructional demands on the skull, making squamate skull evolution a model system to investigate the consequences of morphological changes in a complex integrated system of performance, behavior, and ecology.
41319659|In lower vertebrates, locomotor burst generators for axial muscles generally produce unitary bursts that alternate between the two sides of the body. In lamprey, a lower vertebrate, locomotor activity in the axial ventral roots of the isolated spinal cord can exhibit flexibility in the timings of bursts to dorsally-located myotomal muscle fibers versus ventrally-located myotomal muscle fibers. These episodes of decreased synchrony can occur spontaneously, especially in the rostral spinal cord where the propagating body waves of swimming originate. Application of serotonin, an endogenous spinal neurotransmitter known to presynaptically inhibit excitatory synapses in lamprey, can promote decreased synchrony of dorsal-ventral bursting. These observations suggest the possible existence of dorsal and ventral locomotor networks with modifiable coupling strength between them. Intracellular recordings of motoneurons during locomotor activity provide some support for this model. Pairs of motoneurons innervating myotomal muscle fibers of similar ipsilateral dorsoventral location tend to have higher correlations of fast synaptic activity during fictive locomotion than do pairs of motoneurons innervating myotomes of different ipsilateral dorsoventral locations, suggesting their control by different populations of premotor interneurons. Further, these different motoneuron pools receive different patterns of excitatory and inhibitory inputs from individual reticulospinal neurons, conveyed in part by different sets of premotor interneurons. Perhaps, then, the locomotor network of the lamprey is not simply a unitary burst generator on each side of the spinal cord that activates all ipsilateral body muscles simultaneously. Instead, the burst generator on each side may comprise at least two coupled burst generators, one controlling motoneurons innervating dorsal body muscles and one controlling motoneurons innervating ventral body muscles. The coupling strength between these two ipsilateral burst generators may be modifiable and weakening when greater swimming maneuverability is required. Variable coupling of intrasegmental burst generators in the lamprey may be a precursor to the variable coupling of burst generators observed in the control of locomotion in the joints of limbed vertebrates.
40931189|In spite of the great diversity of forms found in nature, most metazoans are organized along an anteriorposterior and a dorsoventral axis. These two orthogonal axes define the left and right sides of animals. While most animals show overall bilateral symmetry, in some cases, specific features or organs display consistent left and right asymmetries that can be critical for their normal functioning. Descriptions of these asymmetries and the mechanisms behind them are available mainly for deuterostomes, whereas information for other groups like spiralians is rather scarce. Here I review previous and recent data, highlighting the relevance of the cleavage program in establishing the dorsoventral axis and therefore the left and right sides of spirally cleaving embryos of groups like platyhelminthes, nemerteans, mollusks, and annelids. In addition, I summarize morphological asymmetries detected throughout embryogenesis and in the adult forms of these groups as well as the mechanisms involved in these processes. This information contributes to our understanding of how bilateral asymmetries are regulated in spiralians and provides additional insights into the evolution of left-right asymmetries through the evolutionary history of bilaterians.
4485805|On Caribbean coral reefs, some sponge species produce chemical defenses, while others do not and are non-fatally grazed by predatory fishes. It has been hypothesized that the latter may compensate for fish grazing by growing faster or rapidly healing wounds. Rates of wound-healing were measured for chemically defended and undefended tubular and vase-shaped sponges on patch reefs in the Florida Keys and Bahamas in 2002. Healing rates were significantly faster during the first few days of the experiment, with rates leveling off after the third day. Chemically undefended sponges healed at significantly faster rates (Callyspongia plicifera, 8% area regenerated per day; Callyspongia vaginalis, 6%; Niphates digitalis, 6%; Xestospongia muta, 6.5%) than chemically defended sponges (Cribrochalina vasculum, 2%; Ircinia campana, 2%; Verongula gigantea, 0%). Orientation of wounds relative to the tidal current had no influence on healing rates. Specimens of Niphates digitalis growing in tubular form had faster healing rates than individuals with vasiform shapes. Our results suggest that Caribbean reef sponges followed two different evolutionary trajectories: chemically defended species deter fish predation and have slow healing rates, while chemically undefended species allocate resources to rapid wound-healing in response to grazing.
25160202|How does living in a social environment influence the brain? In particular, we ask the following questions: How do animals perceive and use social information? How does the perception of social information influence the reproductive system? Where is this represented in the brain? We present a model system in which these questions can be addressed, focusing on the brain's role in integrating information. In the social fish, Astatotilapia burtoni (Haplochromis), the relationship between social status and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH1) has been well established. Change in status results in numerous changes in the physiology of A. burtoni at every level of organization. Social status can regulate reproduction via the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis. GnRH1 is used by the brain to signal the pituitary about reproductive state so reproductive control depends on regulation of this signaling peptide. In this fish, social dominance is tightly coupled to fertility. Here, we have exploited this link to understand the regulatory systems from circulating hormones, brain volume to gene expression.
40406002|Vertebrates inhabit and communicate acoustically in most natural environments. We review the influence of environmental factors on the hearing sensitivity of terrestrial vertebrates, and on the anatomy and mechanics of the middle ears. Evidence suggests that both biotic and abiotic environmental factors affect the evolution of bandwidth and frequency of peak sensitivity of the hearing spectrum. Relevant abiotic factors include medium type, temperature, and noise produced by nonliving sources. Biotic factors include heterospecific, conspecific, or self-produced sounds that animals are selected to recognize, and acoustic interference by sounds that other animals generate. Within each class of tetrapods, the size of the middle ear structures correlates directly to body size and inversely to frequency of peak sensitivity. Adaptation to the underwater medium in cetaceans involved reorganization of the middle ear for novel acoustic pathways, whereas adaptation to subterranean life in several mammals resulted in hypertrophy of the middle ear ossicles to enhance their inertial mass for detection of seismic vibrations. The comparative approach has revealed a number of generalities about the effect of environmental factors on hearing performance and middle ear structure across species. The current taxonomic sampling of the major tetrapod groups is still highly unbalanced and incomplete. Future expansion of the comparative evidence should continue to reveal general patterns and novel mechanisms.
40405987|This article derives from a society-wide symposium organized by Timothy Bradley and Adriana Briscoe and presented at the 2009 annual meeting of the Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology in Boston, Massachusetts. David Grimaldi provided the opening presentation in which he outlined the major evolutionary events in the formation and subsequent diversification of the insect clade. This presentation was followed by speakers who detailed the evolutionary history of specific physiological and/or behavioral traits that have caused insects to be both ecologically successful and fascinating as subjects for biological study. These include a review of the evolutionary history of the insects, the origins of flight, osmoregulation, the evolution of tracheal systems, the evolution of color vision, circadian clocks, and the evolution of eusociality. These topics, as covered by the speakers, provide an overview of the pattern and timing of evolutionary diversification and specialization in the group of animals we know as insects.
4540177|In animals, networks of central neurons, called central-pattern generators (CPGs), produce a variety of locomotory behaviors including walking, swimming, and flying. CPGs from diverse animals share many common characteristics that function at the system level, circuit level, and cellular level. However, the relative roles of common CPG characteristics are variable among different animal species, in ways that suit different forms of locomotion in different environmental contexts. Here, we examine some of these common features within the locomotor CPG in a model system used to investigate changes in locomotory speed-the swim system of the pteropod mollusk, Clione limacina. In particular, we discuss the role of one cellular characteristic that is essential for locomotor pattern generation in Clione, postinhibitory rebound.
3884948| Drosophila subobscura is a European (EU) species that was introduced into South America (SA) approximately 25 years ago. Previous studies have found rapid clinal evolution in wing size and in chromosome inversion frequency in the SA colonists, and these clines parallel those found among the ancestral EU populations. Here we examine thermoplastic changes in wing length in flies reared at 15, 20, and 25C from 10 populations on each continent. Wings are plastically largest in flies reared at 15C (the coldest temperature) and genetically largest from populations that experience cooler temperatures on both continents. We hypothesize that flies living in cold temperatures benefit from reduced wing loading: ectotherms with cold muscles generate less power per wing beat, and hence larger wings and/or a smaller mass would facilitate fight. We develop a simple null model, based on isometric growth, to test our hypothesis. We find that both EU and SA flies exhibit adaptive plasticity in wing loading: flies reared at 15C generally have lower wing loadings than do flies reared at 20C or 25C. Clinal patterns, however, are strikingly different. The ancestral EU populations show adaptive clinal variation at rearing a temperature of 15C: flies from cool climates have lower wing loadings. In the colonizing populations from SA, however, we cannot reject the null model: wing loading increases with decreasing clinal temperatures. Our data suggest that selective factors other than flight have favored the rapid evolution of large overall size at low environmental temperatures. However, selection for increased flight ability in such environments may secondarily favor reduced body mass. 
3885014|One aspect of the physiological ecology of intertidal organisms is their mechanical design, which can be explored at many hierarchical levels, from molecules to ecosystems. Mechanical structures, as with any other physiological feature, require energy to construct and maintain, are subject to manufacturing and evolutionary constraints, and influence ecological performance. This contribution focuses on the ecomechanics of mussel attachment, which contributes to the competitive dominance of mussels on many waveswept shores. Examples are presented to illustrate the hierarchical nature of mussel attachment, how levels of the hierarchy are interrelated, and where gaps in our knowledge remain. For example, water motion generates forces that mechanically deform byssal threads, but may also enhance the rate at which threads subsequently restore their original toughness. Furthermore, the ability of mussels to sense and respond to changes in their flow environment by producing a stronger attachment may be subject to physiological constraints, which in turn may have important consequences for the ecological response of mussels to shifts in wave climate. Thus an integrative approach to the study of byssal attachment is needed to fully understand this important aspect of the physiological ecology of mussels on rocky intertidal shores.
4540154|Synopsis Sexual segregation is very common in vertebrates that live in groups. In this article, I will review proximate and ultimate causes of sexual segregation in social species and in particular in ungulates in which the bulk of research on the topic has been carried out. In most social ungulate species, males and females live in separate groups outside the breeding season, sometimes using different home ranges and types of habitat. In most of these species, males are larger than females. Dimorphism in body size can lead to sexual differences in ecology and behavior making it difficult for the two sexes to stay in the same group. It is important for our better understanding of the evolution of sociality, sexual dimorphism and different mating systems to determine why sexual segregation is so widespread not only in ungulates but also in other vertebrates. In this article, I discuss the ecology of the two sexes by reviewing proximate and ultimate causes of sexual segregation. To do this, I compare a range of studies of ruminants and include explanations for social segregation as well as for habitat segregation by gender. This leads into a review and updates current knowledge of the phenomenon. Although I present a number of different hypotheses, I focus in particular on predation risk, forage selection and activity budget and discuss the social-factors hypothesis. I stress that the key in solving the enigma of sexual segregation lies in clearly separating hypotheses that try to explain social segregation and habitat segregation, as well as in including experiments or model systems. To that end, I present a preliminary study on a test of the activity-budget hypothesis in three-spine sticklebacks and explain why I believe that shoaling fish are useful for analysing the underlying processes and mechanisms that lead to sexual segregation in animals. Lastly, I argue that it is unlikely that a single factor can explain social segregation or habitat segregation but that a model integrating different factors and different levels of segregation might succeed in describing proximate and ultimate causes of sexual segregation.
3884661|An allochthonous input can modify trophic relationships, by providing an external resource that is normally limiting within a system. The subsidy may not only elicit a growth response of the primary producers via a bottom-up effect, but it also may lead to runaway herbivore growth in the absence of increased predation. If the consumer is migratory and predation is similarly dampened in the alternative system, the increased numbers may produce a top-down cascade of direct and indirect effects on an ecosystem that may be a great distance from the source of the subsidy. In an extreme case, it can lead to a catastrophic shift in ecosystem functioning as a result of biotic exploitation that produces an alternative stable state. The loss of resilience is particularly sensitive to herbivore density which can result in two different outcomes to the vegetation on which the consumer feeds. Over-compensatory growth of aboveground biomass gives way to sward destruction and near irreversible changes in soil properties as density of a herbivore increases. A striking temporal asymmetry exists between a reduction in the consumer population and recovery of damaged vegetation and degraded soils.
4540132|In recent years, comparative biomechanics, while anything but a new subject, has by an odd concatenation of circumstances emerged from obscurity to become a widely recognized and active area of biology-remarkably diverse in questions asked and techniques employed but with clear intellectual coherence. In North America the Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology currently represents the center of gravity in this field.
41319664|Diverse taxa of animals exhibit remarkable aerial capacities, including jumping, mid-air righting, parachuting, gliding, landing, controlled maneuvers, and flapping flight. The origin of flapping wings in hexapods and in 3 separate lineages of vertebrates (pterosaurs, bats, and birds) greatly facilitated subsequent diversification of lineages, but both the paleobiological context and the possible selective pressures for the evolution of wings remain contentious. Larvae of various arboreal hemimetabolous insects, as well as many adult canopy ants, demonstrate the capacity for directed aerial descent in the absence of wings. Aerial control in the ancestrally wingless archaeognathans suggests that flight behavior preceded the origins of wings in hexapods. In evolutionary terms, the use of winglets and partial wings to effect aerial righting and maneuvers could select for enhanced appendicular motions, and ultimately lead to powered flight. Flight behaviors that involve neither flapping nor wings are likely to be much more widespread than is currently recognized. Further characterization of the sensory and biomechanical mechanisms used by these aerially capable taxa can potentially assist in reconstruction of ancestral winged morphologies and facilitate our understanding of the origins of flight.
4540148|Synopsis Sexual dimorphism in phenotypic traits associated with the use of resources is a widespread phenomenon throughout the animal kingdom. While ecological dimorphisms are often initially generated by sexual selection operating on an animal's size, natural selection is believed to maintain, or even amplify, these dimorphisms in certain ecological settings. The trophic apparatus of snakes has proven to be a model system for testing the adaptive nature of ecological dimorphisms because head size is rarely under sexual selection and it limits the maximum ingestible size of prey in these gape-limited predators. Significantly less attention has been paid to the evolution of ecological dimorphisms in lizards, however, which may be due to the fact that lizards' feeding apparatus can be under both sexual and natural selection simultaneously, making it difficult to formulate clear-cut hypotheses to distinguish between the influences of natural and sexual selection. In order to tease apart the respective influences of natural selection and sexual selection on the feeding apparatus of squamates, we take an integrative approach to formulate two hypotheses for snakes and lizards, respectively: (1) For gape-limited snakes, we predict that natural selection will act to generate differences in maximum gape, which will translate into differences in maximum ingestible prey size between the sexes. (2) For lizards which mechanically reduce their prey, we predict that the degree of dimorphism in head size should be positively correlated to the degree of dimorphism in bite force which, in turn, should be correlated to dimorphism in aspects of size or hardness of prey. Finally, we predict that functional differences in the feeding apparatus of these animals will also be linked with differences in sex-based feeding behavior and with selection of prey.
3884887|Immune defenses have been suggested to play an important role in mediating life history trade-offs. Detecting and understanding such trade-offs, however, is complicated by the complexity of the immune system. The measurement of multiple immune indices in studies of "eco-immunology" has only recently become more common, but has great potential for furthering an understanding of the ecological and evolutionary forces driving immunological variation. Building on previous proposals, I create a framework integrating immunological and life history axes that can be used to formulate predictions and interpret variation in multiple types of immune defense at both the individual and species levels in vertebrates. In particular, this framework predicts that "fast-living" species (those with high reproductive and low survival rates) should rely more heavily on nonspecific and inflammatory immune defenses, while "slow-living" species should exhibit stronger specific and especially antibody-mediated immunity. At the level of individuals within species, nonspecific and inflammatory responses should be downregulated, and specific defenses upregulated (1) in individuals experiencing the greatest demands on their resources (for example, undertaking large reproductive efforts); (2) in the sex investing more in a particular activity (for example, females during reproduction); and (3) during the most demanding periods of the year (for example, the breeding season). A review of the literature reveals that incorporating multiple facets of the immune system into a model of the relationship between immune defense and life histories brings disparate questions and systems into a common context, and helps explain empirical results that are sometimes counterintuitive.
3884648|I review studies on decapod crustaceans to draw conclusions about the importance of effects of past environmental conditions on development, phenotype, performance, and survival in animals. I consider 3 critical points of the life cycle: the allocation of reserves into eggs, the hatching of larvae, and metamorphosis from the larval to the juvenile phase. Biomass allocated to eggs varies among females as a response to changes in environmental conditions. These variations are propagated to the larval stages, influencing the biomass at hatching, subsequent larval developmental pathways, and survival during periods of limited starvation. Suboptimal conditions experienced by embryos increase the loss of mass during embryogenesis; size or biomass of the juvenile is either positively or negatively correlated with initial biomass. Positive correlations may be the normal pattern; negative correlations occur when individuals hatched with low initial biomass follow developmental pathways that lead to increased biomass at metamorphosis. In estuarine crabs, salinity experienced by embryos leads to salinity acclimation in early larval stages. Phenotypic links originate as transgenerational effects that propagate to the juvenile stages. There are least 3 types of effects: disruption of physiological processes; direct adaptive responses; and indirect consequences of adaptive mechanisms. All types appear within a species; they are produced as a response to a single environmental factor. Variability in phenotype remains latent and is expressed in terms of survival according to the environmental conditions experienced by a particular stage. The fate of individuals is thus affected by interactions between their immediate developmental processes and their environmental history.
40405968|We used the "morphology-performance-fitness" paradigm (Arnold, 1983) as our framework to investigate endocrine control of performance and fitness in Sceloporus undulatus (Eastern Fence Lizard). Focusing on males, we used the "natural experiments" of seasonal, sexual, and developmental variation in growth and in exercise endurance to identify testosterone and corticosterone as potential modulators of performance and related traits of interest. We followed with experimental manipulations of testosterone to investigate functional relationships, both in the laboratory and in the field. Further, we used focal observations and demographic studies, coupled with genetic determination of paternity, to test associations between performance and fitness, measured as reproductive success. We found that in males, endurance and plasma concentrations of testosterone and corticosterone are at their peaks in the spring breeding season, when lizards are most actively engaged in patrolling home ranges and in reproductive behavior. At that time, plasma concentrations of testosterone are correlated with body size; plasma concentrations of corticosterone and parameters of home range, including area and the number of overlapped females, are correlated with home-range overlap between males and females. During prereproductive development, males (but not females) experience a maturational increase in plasma testosterone. At about the same time, they become more active, expand their home ranges, and grow less quickly than do females, suggesting a trade-off in the allocation of energy, mediated by testosterone. Experimentally, testosterone has positive effects on fitness by stimulating endurance and reproductive activity and increasing home-range area, but it exacts costs in fitness by increasing ectoparasitism, decreasing growth, and decreasing survivorship. We found evidence of selection on body size, endurance, and home-range size (and thus access to potential mates). Despite having positive effects on performance traits, plasma concentrations of testosterone were not correlated with number of offspring sired by males. However, we found a strong correlation between the level of plasma corticosterone and the number of offspring sired. We also found evidence of size-assortative mating, indicating that for males, both the number and the size (and thus, fecundity) of their mates increase with body size. Our studies exemplify the power of natural history combined with experimental endocrine manipulations to identify hormonal regulators of performance and linkages to fitness. Furthermore, our results illustrate ecological and evolutionary significance of individual variation in endocrine traits.
3884999|Previous models of behavioral choice have described two types of hierarchy, a decision hierarchy, in which different classes of decisions are made at each level (Tinbergen, 1951), and a behavioral hierarchy, in which one behavior will take precedence over others (Davis, 1985). Most experimental work on the neuronal basis of decision-making has focussed on the latter of these: a behavioral hierarchy is described for an animal, and the neuronal basis for this hierarchy, hypothesized to depend on inhibitory interactions, is investigated. Although the concept of "dedicated command neurons" has been useful for guiding these studies, it appears that such neurons are rare. We present evidence that in the leech, most neurons, including high-level decision neurons, are active in more than one behavior. We include data from one newly-identified neuron that elicits both swimming and crawling motor patterns. We suggest that decisions are made by a "combinatorial code": what behavior is produced depends on the specific combination of decision neurons that are active at a particular time. Finally, we discuss how decision neurons may be arranged into a decision hierarchy, with neurons at each sequential level responsible for choosing between a narrower range of behaviors. We suggest additional sensory information is incorporated at each level to inform the decision.
25160226|Many species of macroalgae have flat, strap-like blades in habitats exposed to rapidly flowing water, but have wide, ruffled "undulate" blades at protected sites. We used the giant bull kelp, Nereocystis luetkeana, to investigate how these ecomorphological differences are produced. The undulate blades of N. luetkeana from sites with low flow remain spread out and flutter erratically in moving water, thereby not only enhancing interception of light, but also increasing drag. In contrast, strap-like blades of kelp from habitats with rapid flow collapse into streamlined bundles and flutter at low amplitude in flowing water, thus reducing both drag and interception of light. Transplant experiments in the field revealed that shape of the blade in N. luetkeana is a plastic trait. Laboratory experiments in which growing blades from different sites were subjected to tensile forces that mimicked the hydrodynamic drag experienced by blades in different flow regimes showed that change in shape is induced by mechanical stress. During growth experiments in the field and laboratory, we mapped the spatial distribution of growth in both undulate and strap-like blades to determine how these different morphologies were produced. The highest growth rates occur near the proximal ends of N. luetkeana blades of both morphologies, but the rates of transverse growth of narrow, strap-like blades are lower than those of wide, undulate blades. If rates of longitudinal growth at the edges of a blade exceed the rate of longitudinal growth along the midline of the blade, ruffles along the edges of the blade are produced by elastic buckling. In contrast, flat blades are produced when rates of longitudinal growth are similar across the width of a blade. Because ruffles are the result of elastic buckling, a compliant undulate N. luetkeana blade can easily be pushed into different configurations (e.g., the wavelengths of the ruffles along the edges of the blade can change, and the whole blade can twist into left- and right-handed helicoidal shapes), which may enhance movements of the blade in flowing water that reduce self-shading and increase mass exchange along blade surfaces.
40931229|The shape of the body affects how organisms move, where they live, and how they feed. One body plan that has long engaged the interest of both evolutionary biologists and functional morphologists is axial elongation. There is a growing interest in the correlates and evolution of elongation within different terrestrial and aquatic vertebrate clades. At first glance, Anguilliformes may appear to exhibit a single cylindrical form but there is considerable diversity underlying this seemingly simplified body plan. Here, we explore evolution of the axial skeleton in 54 anguilliform taxa and some close relatives. We describe the diversity of axial elongation as well as investigate how characters such as head length, branchial-arch length, and shape of the pectoral fins correlate with vertebral number to possibly facilitate changes in absolute diameter of the body. Overall, we find that precaudal vertebral numbers and caudal vertebral numbers are evolving independently across elopomorph fishes. We also find that precaudal and caudal vertebral aspect ratios are evolving together across elopomorph fishes. When focusing within Anguilliformes we find striking diversity in the mechanisms of elongation of the body, including almost every trend for axial elongation known within actinopterygian fishes. The three major clades of eels we examined have slightly different mechanisms of elongation. We also find a suite of morphological characters associated with elongation in anguilliform fishes that appears to coincide with a more fossorial lifestyle such as high elongation ratios, a more posteriorly extended-branchial region, and a reduction in the size of the pectoral fins. Lastly, we point out that a diverse range of derived behaviors such as head- and tail-first burrowing, rotational feeding, and knotting around prey are only found in long cylindrical vertebrates.
4540204|Synopsis Cnidaria have traditionally been viewed as the most basal animals with complex, organ-like multicellular structures dedicated to sensory perception. However, sponges also have a surprising range of the genes required for sensory and neural functions in Bilateria. Here, we: (1) discuss "sense organ" regulatory genes, including; sine oculis, Brain 3, and eyes absent, that are expressed in cnidarian sense organs; (2) assess the sensory features of the planula, polyp, and medusa life-history stages of Cnidaria; and (3) discuss physiological and molecular data that suggest sensory and "neural" processes in sponges. We then develop arguments explaining the shared aspects of developmental regulation across sense organs and between sense organs and other structures. We focus on explanations involving divergent evolution from a common ancestral condition. In Bilateria, distinct sense-organ types share components of developmental-gene regulation. These regulators are also present in basal metazoans, suggesting evolution of multiple bilaterian organs from fewer antecedent sensory structures in a metazoan ancestor. More broadly, we hypothesize that developmental genetic similarities between sense organs and appendages may reflect descent from closely associated structures, or a composite organ, in the common ancestor of Cnidaria and Bilateria, and we argue that such similarities between bilaterian sense organs and kidneys may derive from a multifunctional aggregations of choanocyte-like cells in a metazoan ancestor. We hope these speculative arguments presented here will stimulate further discussion of these and related questions.
3884806|Androdioecy (populations consisting of males and hermaphrodites) is a rare mating system in plants and animals: up to 50 plants and only 36 animals have been described as being androdioecious, with most of the latter being crustaceans. To date, a thorough comparative analysis of androdioecy in animals has not been undertaken. Herein we present such an analysis. Androdioecy has only been extensively surveyed in 2 animal taxa: the nematode Caenorhabditis and the clam shrimp Eulimnadia. The other major taxon having androdioecious species is the Cirripedia (barnacles), but there are only limited studies on androdioecy in this group. In animals, androdioecy is found either in species that have morphologically and ecologically distinct sexes (that is, hermaphrodites and small, "complemental" males) that are derived from hermaphroditic ancestors (that is, the barnacles) or in species that have similarly-sized males and hermaphrodites that have been derived from dioecious ancestors (the remaining androdioecious species). We suggest that the barnacles have evolved a sexual specialization in the form of these complemental males that can more efficiently use the constrained habitats that these barnacles often experience. For the remaining species, we suggest that androdioecy has evolved as a response to reproductive assurance in species that experience episodic low densities. Additionally, we hypothesize that the development of mechanisms allowing reproductive assurance in species with a number of sexually differentiated traits is most likely to result in androdioecy rather than gynodioecy (mixtures of females and hermaphrodites), and that these species may be developmentally constrained to stay androdioecious rather than being capable of evolving into populations solely consisting of efficient, self-compatible hermaphrodites. We conclude by suggesting several areas in need of further study to understand more completely the evolution and distribution of this interesting mating system in animals.
4485844|Glucocorticoid secretion occurs in a circadian pattern and in response to stress. Among the broad array of glucocorticoid actions are multiple effects in the brain, including negative feedback regulation of hypothalamic hormone secretion. The negative feedback of glucocorticoids occurs on both rapid and delayed time scales, reflecting different regulatory mechanisms. While the slow glucocorticoid effects are widely held to involve regulation of gene transcription, the rapid effects are too fast to invoke genomic mechanisms. We provide a brief overview of multiple lines of evidence for membrane-associated glucocorticoid receptors in the brain, with an emphasis on our recent findings of a rapid, G protein-dependent glucocorticoid action in the rat hypothalamus. We have observed a novel mechanism of rapid glucocorticoid inhibition of parvocellular neuroendocrine cells of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) mediated by the retrograde release of endocannabinoids and suppression of synaptic glutamate release. This acute glucocorticoid action may underlie the rapid inhibitory effect of glucocorticoids on hypothalamic neuroendocrine function, and provides a potential model for the rapid glucocorticoid effects that occur in several areas of the brain.
3884947|Ectothermic animals exhibit two distinct kinds of plasticity in response to temperature: Thermal performance curves (TPCs), in which an individual's performance (e.g., growth rate) varies in response to current temperature; and developmental reaction norms (DRNs), in which the trait value (e.g., adult body size or development time) of a genotype varies in response to developmental temperatures experienced over some time period during development. Here we explore patterns of genetic variation and selection on TPCs and DRNs for insects in fluctuating thermal environments. First, we describe two statistical methods for partitioning total genetic variation into variation for overall size or performance and variation in plasticity, and apply these methods to available datasets on DRNs and TPCs for insect growth and size. Our results indicate that for the datasets we considered, genetic variation in plasticity represents a larger proportion of the total genetic variation in TPCs compared to DRNs, for the available datasets. Simulations suggest that estimates of the genetic variation in plasticity are strongly affected by the number and range of temperatures considered, and by the degree of nonlinearity in the TPC or DRN. Second, we review a recent analysis of field selection studies which indicates that directional selection favoring increased overall size is common in many systems-that bigger is frequently fitter. Third, we use a recent theoretical model to examine how selection on thermal performance curves relates to environmental temperatures during selection. The model predicts that if selection acts primarily on adult size or development time, then selection on thermal performance curves for larval growth or development rates is directly related to the frequency distribution of temperatures experienced during larval development. Using data on caterpillar temperatures in the field, we show that the strength of directional selection on growth rate is predicted to be greater at the modal (most frequent) temperatures, not at the mean temperature or at temperatures at which growth rate is maximized. Our results illustrate some of the differences in genetic architecture and patterns of selection between thermal performance curves and developmental reaction norms.
41319647|The main premise of this article is that various cognitive functions involved in signal analysis, memory, and decision making, all modulated by the animal's internal milieu, can generate selection for the forms of signals used in social interactions. Thus, just as an animal's view of its world, its Umwelty determines how it interacts with its ecological niche, it can influence the evolution of its social niche. Thus, the brain is not only a landscape on which selection can act, but also it is a powerful source of selection on the animal's social niche.
3884874| The marine mollusc, Aplysia californica is a powerful experimental model in cellular and systems neuroscience. Aplysia neurons are large, colored, and located at the ganglionic surface. Because of this, many neurons can be easily identified in terms of their physiological properties, synaptic connections, and behavioral roles. Simple networks can be reconstructed in cell culture and have been widely useful for cellular and molecular biological studies of neuronal growth, synaptogenesis, and learning and memory mechanisms. Here, we show that Aplysia neurons can form truly gigantic growth cones reaching up to 630 m in diameter making them the largest growth cones ever reported in the animal kingdom. Second, using time-lapse video microscopy we have characterized the dynamics of neuronal outgrowth for 3 identified cell types (mechanosensory neurons, L7 motoneurons, and modulatory MCC neurons) representing 3 major functional classes of neurons. We show both cell-specific and neurite-specific growth characteristics and an irregular oscillatory rate of outgrowth ranging from 20 to 100 m/h. Third, we characterized the dynamics of axotomy-induced neurite outgrowth as well as extrasomatic localization of -tubulin mRNA in restricted regions of neuronal processes including growth cones and varicosities. The extrasomatically located mRNAs can be an important pool of neuronal transcripts supporting semiautonomous behavior of growth cones and localized synthesis of proteins in distinct and distant neuronal compartments. The reported data are compared with the existing literature from Lymnaea and Helisoma neurons as well as vertebrate preparations. Finally, our observations can provide an illustrated guide to complex behavior of neurons and glia in cell culture as well as their dependence upon various trophic factors and responses to neuronal injury. 
23016053|Synopsis Collision-based expenditure of mechanical energy and the compliance and geometry of the leg are fundamental, interrelated considerations in the mechanical design of legged runners. This article provides a basic context and rationale for experiments designed to inform each of these key areas in Boston Dynamic's BigDog robot. Although these principles have been investigated throughout the past few decades within different academic disciplines, BigDog required that they be considered together and in concert with an impressive set of control algorithms that are not discussed here. Although collision reduction is an important strategy for reducing mechanical cost of transport in the slowest and fastest quadrupedal gaits, walking and galloping, BigDog employed an intermediate-speed trotting gait without collision reduction. Trotting, instead, uses a spring-loaded inverted pendulum mechanism with potential for storage and return of elastic strain energy in appropriately compliant structures. Rather than tuning BigDog's built-in leg springs according to a springmass model-based virtual leg-spring constant kleg, a much stiffer distal leg spring together with actuation of the adjacent joint provided good trotting dynamics and avoided functional limitations that might have been imposed by too much compliance in real-world terrain. Adjusting the directional compliance of the legs by adopting a knee-forward, elbow-back geometry led to more robust trotting dynamics by reducing perturbations about the pitch axis of the robot's center of mass (CoM). BigDog is the most successful large-scale, all-terrain trotting machine built to date and it continues to stimulate our understanding of legged locomotion in comparative biomechanics as well as in robotics.
4485836|Studies of environmental signaling in animals have focused primarily on organisms with relatively constrained responses, both temporally and phenotypically. In this regard, existing model animals (e.g., "worms and flies") are particularly extreme. Such animals have relatively little capacity to alter their morphology in response to environmental signals. Hence, they exhibit little phenotypic plasticity. On the other hand, basal metazoans exhibit relatively unconstrained responses to environmental signals and may thus provide more general insight, insofar as these constraints are likely traits derived during animal evolution. Such enhanced phenotypic plasticity may result from greater sensitivity to environmental signals, or greater abundance of suitable target cells, or both. Examination of what is known of the components of environmental signaling pathways in cnidarians reveals many similarities to well-studied model animals. In addition to these elements, however, macroscopic basal metazoans (e.g., sponges and cnidarians) typically exhibit a system-level capability for integrating environmental information. In cnidarians, the gastrovascular system acts in this fashion, generating local patterns of signaling (e.g., pressure, shear, and reactive oxygen species) via its organism-wide functioning. Contractile regions of tissue containing concentrations of mitochondrion-rich, epitheliomuscular cells may be particularly important in this regard, serving in both a functional and a signaling context. While the evolution of animal circulatory systems is usually considered in terms of alleviating surface-to-volume constraints, such systems also have the advantage of enhancing the capacity of larger organisms to respond quickly and efficiently to environmental signals. More general features of animals that correlate with relatively unconstrained responses to environmental signals (e.g., active stem cells at all stages of the life cycle) are also enumerated and discussed.
3884870|Various lipophilic signals, including ecdysone, retinoic acid, estradiol, cortisol, testosterone, and progesterone, act through nuclear receptors, a large group of transcription factors that regulate differentiation and development, which are central to metamorphosis. Here, we focus on environmental factors (for example climate and chemicals) in the evolution of nuclear receptors and other signal-transduction proteins that interact with heat-shock protein 90 (Hsp90), a chaperone that promotes the proper folding and trafficking in cells of proteins. Hsp90 also promotes functional folding of some mutant signal proteins, which would be otherwise destabilized. Stress diverts Hsp90 from stabilizing mutant signal-transduction proteins and toward promoting proper folding of stress-damaged proteins and preventing the aggregation of denatured proteins. Reduced Hsp90 levels allow expression of cryptic mutations in signal-transduction proteins and new developmental patterns. Thus, environmental stress in the form of extreme climate can influence the evolution of metamorphosis. We discuss how extreme cooling called "Snowball Earth," which occurred in the late Proterozoic, diverted Hsp90 from chaperoning signal-transduction proteins. As a result, pre-existing mutant signal-transduction proteins were expressed in animals. Some mutations were selectively advantageous in animals that are seen in the Cambrian, when diverse pathways for metamorphosis in metazoans first appear in the fossil record. Other environmental factors, such as biological chemicals (for example the antibiotic geldanamycin) can reduce the levels of active Hsp90 providing another mechanism for the emergence of mutant signaling pathways.
3884935| In traditional classification schemes, the Annelida consists of the Polychaeta and the Clitellata (the latter including the Oligochaeta and Hirudinida). However, recent analyses suggest that annelids are much more diverse than traditionally believed, and that polychaetes are paraphyletic. Specifically, some lesser-known taxa (previously regarded as separate phyla) appear to fall within the annelid radiation. Abundant molecular, developmental, and morphological data show that the Siboglinidae, which includes the formerly recognized Pogonophora and Vestimentifera, are derived annelids; recent data from the Elongation Factor-1 (EF-1) gene also suggest that echiurids are of annelid ancestry. Further, the phylogenetic origins of two other lesser-known groups of marine worms, the Myzostomida and Sipuncula, have recently been called into question. Whereas some authors advocate annelid affinities, others argue that these taxa do not fall within the annelid radiation. With advances in our understanding of annelid phylogeny, our perceptions of body plan evolution within the Metazoa are changing. The evolution of segmentation probably is more plastic than traditionally believed. However, as our understanding of organismal evolution is being revised, we are also forced to reconsider the specific characters being examined. Should segmentation be considered a developmental process or an ontological endpoint? 
40306080|In vertebrates, thyroid hormones (THs, thyroxine, and triiodothyronine) are critical cell signaling molecules. THs regulate and coordinate physiology within and between cells, tissues, and whole organisms, in addition to controlling embryonic growth and development, via dose-dependent regulatory effects on essential genes. While invertebrates and plants do not have thyroid glands, many utilize THs for development, while others store iodine as TH derivatives or TH precursor molecules (iodotyrosines)or produce similar hormones that act in analogous ways. Such common developmental roles for iodotyrosines across kingdoms suggest that a common endocrine signaling mechanism may account for coordinated evolutionary change in all multi-cellular organisms. Here, I expand my earlier hypothesis for the role of THs in vertebrate evolution by proposing a critical evolutionary role for iodine, the essential ingredient in all iodotyrosines and THs. Iodine is known to be crucial for life in many unicellular organisms (including evolutionarily ancient cyanobacteria), in part, because it acts as a powerful antioxidant. I propose that during the last 34 billion years, the ease with which various iodine species become volatile, react with simple organic compounds, and catalyze biochemical reactions explains why iodine became an essential constituent of life and the Earth's atmosphereand a potential marker for the origins of life. From an initial role as membrane antioxidant and biochemical catalyst, spontaneous coupling of iodine with tyrosine appears to have created a versatile, highly reactive and mobile molecule, which over time became integrated into the machinery of energy production, gene function, and DNA replication in mitochondria. Iodotyrosines later coupled together to form THs, the ubiquitous cell-signaling molecules used by all vertebrates. Thus, due to their evolutionary history, THs, and their derivative and precursors molecules not only became essential for communicating within and between cells, tissues and organs, and for coordinating development and whole-body physiology in vertebrates, but they can also be shared between organisms from different kingdoms.
40863356|Atmospheric dynamics strongly influence the migration of flying organisms. They affect, among others, the onset, duration and cost of migration, migratory routes, stop-over decisions, and flight speeds en-route. Animals move through a heterogeneous environment and have to react to atmospheric dynamics at different spatial and temporal scales. Integrating meteorology into research on migration is not only challenging but it is also important, especially when trying to understand the variability of the various aspects of migratory behavior observed in nature. In this article, we give an overview of some different modeling approaches and we show how these have been incorporated into migration research. We provide a more detailed description of the development and application of two dynamic, individual-based models, one for waders and one for soaring migrants, as examples of how and why to integrate meteorology into research on migration. We use these models to help understand underlying mechanisms of individual response to atmospheric conditions en-route and to explain emergent patterns. This type of models can be used to study the impact of variability in atmospheric dynamics on migration along a migratory trajectory, between seasons and between years. We conclude by providing some basic guidelines to help researchers towards finding the right modeling approach and the meteorological data needed to integrate meteorology into their own research.
40793144|The introduction of non-native species represents unprecedented large-scale experiments that allow us to examine ecological systems in ways that would otherwise not be possible. Invasion by novel ecological types into a community can press a system beyond the bounds normally seen and can reveal community interactions, local drivers and limits within systems that are otherwise hidden by coevolution and a long evolutionary history among local players, as well as local adaptation of species. The success of many invaders is attributed to their ability to thrive in a wide range of habitat types and physical conditions, setting the stage for direct examination of ecological impacts of a species across a range of habitat and community contexts. Bivalves are well-known ecosystem engineers, especially oysters, which are the target of wild-caught fisheries and aquaculture. The Pacific oyster, Crassostrea gigas, is grown worldwide for aquaculture, and is presently invading shores on virtually every continent. As a consequence, this non-native species is having large impacts on many systems, but the types of impacts are system specific, and greatly depend on substrate type, how physiologically stressful the environment is for intertidal zone species, and the presence of native engineering species. A novel type of engineering effect is identified for this non-native species, whereby it alters not only the physical environment, but also the thermal environment of the community it invades. The impacts of engineering by this non-native species will depend not only on whether it facilitates or inhibits species but also on the trophic level and ecological role of the species affected, and whether similar ecological types are found within the system.
3884587|While useful in describing the efficiency of maneuvering flight, steady-state (i.e., fixed wing) models of maneuvering performance cannot provide insight to the efficacy of maneuvering, particularly during low-speed flapping flight. Contrasted with airplane-analogous gliding/high speed maneuvering, the aerodynamic and biomechanical mechanisms employed by birds at low flight speeds are violent, with rapidly alternating forces routinely being developed. The saltatory nature of this type of flight results in extreme linear and angular displacements of the bird's body; however, birds isolate their heads from these accelerations with cervical reflexes. Experiments with pigeons suggest this ability to isolate the visual and vestibular systems is critical to controlled flapping flight: birds wearing collars that prohibited the neck from isolating the head from the angular accelerations of induced rolls frequently exhibited (50% of flights) a loss of vestibular and/or visual horizon and were unable to maintain controlled flight.
23016126|Synopsis Matching was developed in the 1960s to match such entities as residents and hospitals, colleges and students, or employers and employees. This approach is based on "preference lists," whereby each participant ranks potential partners according to his/her preferences and tries to match with the highest-ranking partner available. Here, we discuss the implications of matching for the study of mate choice and speciation. Matching differs from classic approaches in several respects, most notably because under this theoretical framework, the formation of mating pairs is context-dependant (i.e., it depends on the configuration of pairings in the entire population), because the stability of mating pairs is considered explicitly, and because mate choice is mutual. The use of matching to study mate choice and speciation is not merely a theoretical curiosity; its application can generate counter-intuitive predictions and lead to conclusions that differ fundamentally from classic theories about sexual selection and speciation. For example, it predicts that when mate choice is mutual and the stability of mating pairs is critical for successful reproduction, sympatric speciation is a robust evolutionary outcome. Yet the application of matching to the study of mate choice and speciation has been largely dominated by theoretical studies. We present the hamlets, a group of brightly colored Caribbean coral reef fishes in the genus Hypoplectrus (Serranidae), as a particularly apt system to test empirically specific predictions generated by the application of matching to mate choice and speciation.
3884777|The prototypic forms of teleost novel immune-type receptors (NITRs) consist of a variable (V) region, a unique V-like C2 (V/C2) domain, a transmembrane region and a cytoplasmic tail containing immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motifs (ITIMs). NITRs encode diversified V regions in large multigene families but do not undergo somatic rearrangement. Studies in four different bony fish model systems have identified a number of different organizational forms of NITRs. Specifically, NITR genes encode Nterminal ectodomains of the V-type but otherwise vary in the: total number of extracellular immunoglobulin domains, number and location of joining (J) region-like motifs, presence of transmembrane regions, presence of charged residues within transmembrane regions, presence of cytoplasmic tails, and/or distribution of ITIM(s) within the cytoplasmic tails. V region-containing NITRs constitute a far more complex family than recognized originally and currently include individual members that potentially function through inhibitory as well as activating mechanisms. The genomic organization of the NITR gene cluster as well as the structural diversity and overall architecture of the NITR proteins is reminiscent of genes encoded at the mammalian leukocyte receptor cluster (LRC); however, there presently is no functional evidence to support an orthologous relationship between NITR and LRC gene products. Comparisons of the predicted structures of the NITRs have identified several short regions of sequence identity and a novel cloning strategy has been devised that selects for secretory and transmembrane proteins that encode these short motifs. Using this approach, related genes termed immune-type receptors (ITRs) have been identified in cartilaginous fish. Taken together, these studies indicate that leukocyte regulatory receptors, including those that mediate natural killer function, might have emerged early in vertebrate evolution and that the NITR/ITR genes represent a new and potentially highly significant link between innate and adaptive immune responses.
25160123|Long-distance migration of adult corn earworm moths (Helicoverpa zea), and several other noctuid moth species, facilitates seasonal expansion of pest populations and consequent increased infestations of agricultural crops on a continental scale in North America. Long-term field studies of population dynamics and migratory flights of H. zea and fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda) in the United States were evaluated using X-band radar observations and profiles of atmospheric conditions. These studies identified characteristic patterns of migratory flight that are largely associated with vertical profiles of temperature and wind speed. Collective patterns of moth migrations were generally highly correlated with wind headings, but often at a significant angular deviation. Preliminary analyses are presented between moth distributions in the aerosphere estimated from discrete moth counts using X-band radar and bulk reflectivity data from NEXRAD Doppler radar. Identification of associations between atmospheric factors and noctuid population dynamics and migratory flights will improve the ability to predict infestations by pest species throughout their broad seasonal range expansion.
3884814|Progress in both molecular techniques and phylogenetic methods has challenged many of the interpretations of traditional taxonomy. One example is in the recognition of the animal superphylum Lophotrochozoa (annelids, mollusks, echiurans, platyhelminthes, brachiopods, and other phyla), although the relationships within this group and the inclusion of some phyla remain uncertain. While much of this progress in phylogenetic reconstruction has been based on comparing single gene sequences, there are also higher order features of genomes, such as the relative order of genes, that have contributed, and this seems likely to be even more fruitful in the future. Even though tremendous progress is being made on the sequence determination of whole nuclear genomes, the dataset of choice for genome-level characters for many animals across a broad taxonomic range remains mitochondrial genomes. We review here what is known about mitochondrial genomes of the lophotrochozoans and how comparisons of some of these features may be useful in discerning the phylogeny of this group.
3884961|Understanding the evolutionary ecology of ethanol production may yield insights into why humans are prone to excessive consumption of ethanol. In particular, Dudley (2000) suggested that human ancestors developed a genetically based attraction to ethanol because they could use its odor plume to locate fruiting trees and because of health benefits from its consumption. If so, ethanol should be common in wild fruits and frugivores should prefer fruits with higher ethanol content. A literature review reveals that ethanol is indeed common in wild fruits but that it typically occurs in very low concentrations. Furthermore, frugivores strongly prefer ripe over rotting fruits, even though the latter may contain more ethanol. (Data on ethanol content of ripe and rotting wild fruit are lacking.) These results cast doubt on Dudley's hypothesis and raise the question of how humans became exposed to sufficiently high concentrations of ethanol to allow its excessive consumption. Because fermentation is an ancient and widespread practice, I suggest that humans "discovered" ethanol while using fermentation as a food preservation technique. They may have been predisposed to consume ethanol from previous and beneficial exposure to much lower doses or they may have become addicted to it at high concentrations because of fortuitous physiological responses.
3884584|The Draper Laboratory Vorticity Control Unmanned Undersea Vehicle (VCUUV) is the first mission-scale, autonomous underwater vehicle that uses vorticity control propulsion and maneuvering. Built as a research platform with which to study the energetics and maneuvering performance of fish-swimming propulsion, the VCUUV is a self-contained free swimming research vehicle which follows the morphology and kinematics of a yellowfin tuna. The forward half of the vehicle is comprised of a rigid hull which houses batteries, electronics, ballast and hydraulic power unit. The aft section is a freely flooded articulated robot tail which is terminated with a lunate caudal fin. Utilizing experimentally optimized body and tail kinematics from the MIT Robo Tuna, the VCUUV has demonstrated stable steady swimming speeds up to 1.2 m/sec and aggressive maneuvering trajectories with turning rates up to 75 degrees per second. This paper summarizes the vehicle maneuvering and stability performance observed in field trials and compares the results to predicted performance using theoretical and empirical techniques.
23016062|Synopsis Descriptive and quantitative analyses of electromyograms (EMG) from the jaw adductors during feeding in mammals have demonstrated both similarities and differences among species in chewing motor patterns. These observations have led to a number of hypotheses of the evolution of motor patterns, the most comprehensive of which was proposed by Weijs in 1994. Since then, new data have been collected and additional hypotheses for the evolution of motor patterns have been proposed. Here, we take advantage of these new data and a well-resolved species-level phylogeny for mammals to test for the correlated evolution of specific components of mammalian chewing motor patterns. We focus on the evolution of the coordination of working-side (WS) and balancing-side (BS) jaw adductors (i.e., Weijs' Triplets I and II), the evolution of WS and BS muscle recruitment levels, and the evolution of asynchrony between pairs of muscles. We converted existing chewing EMG data into binary traits to incorporate as much data as possible and facilitate robust phylogenetic analyses. We then tested hypotheses of correlated evolution of these traits across our phylogeny using a maximum likelihood method and the Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo method. Both sets of analyses yielded similar results highlighting the evolutionary changes that have occurred across mammals in chewing motor patterns. We find support for the correlated evolution of (1) Triplets I and II, (2) BS deep masseter asynchrony and Triplets I and II, (3) a relative delay in the activity of the BS deep masseter and a decrease in the ratio of WS to BS muscle recruitment levels, and (4) a relative delay in the activity of the BS deep masseter and a delay in the activity of the BS posterior temporalis. In contrast, changes in relative WS and BS activity levels across mammals are not correlated with Triplets I and II. Results from this work can be integrated with dietary and morphological data to better understand how feeding and the masticatory apparatus have evolved across mammals in the context of new masticatory demands.
40405969|The endocrine system is the key mediator of environmental and developmental (internal) information, and is likely to be involved in altering the performance of animals when selection has favored phenotypic plasticity. The endocrine control of performance should be especially pronounced in animals that undergo a developmental shift in niche, such as occurs in migratory species. By way of example, I review the developmental and environmental control of the preparatory changes for seawater entry of juvenile salmon (known as smolting) and its hormonal regulation. There is a size threshold for smolt development in juvenile Atlantic salmon that results in greater sensitivity of the growth hormone and cortisol axes to changes in daylength. These hormones, in turn, have broad effects on survival, ion homeostasis, growth and swimming performance during entry into seawater. Migratory niche shifts and metamorphic events are extreme examples of the role of hormones in animal performance and represent one end of a continuum. A framework for predicting when hormones will be involved in performance of animals is presented. Endocrine involvement in performance will be more substantial when (1) selection differentials on traits underlying performance are high and temporally discontinuous over an animal's lifetime, (2) the energetic and fitness costs of maintaining performance plasticity are less than those of constant performance, (3) cues for altering performance are reliable indicators of critical environmental conditions, require neurosensory input, and minimize effects of lag, and (4) the need for coordination of organs, tissues and cells to achieve increased performance is greater. By examining these impacts of selection, endocrinologists have an opportunity to contribute to the understanding of performance, phenotypic plasticity, and the evolution of life-history traits.
25160144|Quantification of anatomical and physiological characteristics of the function of a musculoskeletal system may yield a detailed understanding of how the organizational levels of morphology, biomechanics, kinematics, and muscle activity patterns (MAPs) influence behavioral diversity. Using separate analyses of these organizational levels in representative study taxa, we sought patterns of congruence in how organizational levels drive behavioral modulation in a novel raking prey-processing behavior found in teleosts belonging to two evolutionarily distinct lineages. Biomechanically divergent prey (elusive, robust goldfish and sedentary, malleable earthworms) were fed to knifefish, Chitala ornata (Osteoglossomorpha) and brook trout, Salvelinus fontinalis (Salmoniformes). Electromyography recorded MAPs from the hyoid protractor, jaw adductor, sternohyoideus, epaxialis, and hypaxialis musculature, while sonomicrometry sampled deep basihyal kinesis and contractile length dynamics in the basihyal protractor and retractor muscles. Syntheses of our results with recent analyses of cranial morphology and raking kinematics showed that raking in Salvelinus relies on an elongated cranial out lever, extensive cranial elevation and a curved cleithrobranchial ligament (CBL), and that both raking MAPs and kinematics remain entirely unmodulated-a highly unusual trait, particularly among feeding generalists. Chitala had a shorter CBL and a raking power stroke involving increased retraction of the elongated pectoral girdle during raking on goldfish. The raking MAP was also modulated in Chitala, involving an extensive overlap between muscle activity of the preparatory and power stroke phases, driven by shifts in hypaxial timing and recruitment of the hyoid protractor muscle. Sonomicrometry revealed that the protractor hyoideus muscle stored energy from retraction of the pectoral girdle for ca. 5-20 ms after onset of the power stroke and then hyper-extended. This mechanism of elastic recoil in Chitala, which amplifies retraction of the basihyal during raking on goldfish without a significant increase in recruitment of the hypaxialis, suggests a unique mechanism of modulation based on performance-enhancing changes in the design and function of the musculoskeletal system.
3884823|The evolutionary mechanisms responsible for the loss of eyes in cave animals are still unresolved. Hypotheses invoking natural selection or nuetral mutation have been advanced to explain eye regression. Here we describe comparative molecular and developmental studies in the teleost Astyanax mexicanus that shed new light on this problem. A. mexicanus is a single species consisting of a sighted surface-dwelling form (surface fish) and many blind cave-dwelling forms (cavefish) from different caves. We first review the evolutionary relationships of Astyanax cavefish populations and conclude that eye degeneration may have evolved multiple times. We then compare the mechanisms of eye degeneration in different cavefish populations. We describe the results of experiments showing that programmed cell death of the lens plays a key role in controlling eye degeneration in these cavefish populations. We also show that Pax6 gene expression and fate determination in the optic primordia are modified similarly in different cavefish populations, probably due to hyperactive midline signaling. We discuss the contributions of the comparative developmental approach toward resolving the evolutionary mechanisms of eye degeneration. A new hypothesis is presented in which both natural selection and neutral mutation are proposed to have roles in cavefish eye degeneration.
25160156|Knockout mice lacking myostatin (Mstn), a negative regulator of the growth of skeletal muscle, develop significant increases in the relative mass of masticatory muscles as well as the ability to generate higher maximal muscle forces. Wild-type and Mstn-deficient mice were compared to investigate the postnatal influence of elevated masticatory loads due to increased jaw-adductor and bite forces on the biomineralization of mandibular articular and cortical bone, the internal structure of the jaw joints, and the composition of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) articular cartilage. To provide an interspecific perspective on the long-term responses of mammalian jaw joints to altered loading conditions, the findings on mice were compared to similar data for growing rabbits subjected to long-term dietary manipulation. Statistically significant differences in joint proportions and bone mineral density between normal and Mstn-deficient mice, which are similar to those observed between rabbit loading cohorts, underscore the need for a comprehensive analysis of masticatory tissue plasticity vis--vis altered mechanical loads, one in which variation in external and internal structure are considered. Differences in the expression of proteoglycans and type-II collagen in TMJ articular cartilage between the mouse and rabbit comparisons suggest that the duration and magnitude of the loading stimulus will significantly affect patterns of adaptive and degradative responses. These data on mammals subjected to long-term loading conditions offer novel insights regarding variation in ontogeny, life history, and the ecomorphology of the feeding apparatus.
3884809|In this article we review the phylogenetic distribution of major chaetal types within the Polychaeta, discuss what has been demonstrated about chaetal function in modern worms, and examine what is known about the evolution of chaete through the fossil record. We conclude with specific cautions about how chaetae are treated in phylogenetic analyses and make suggestions about how they could be used to provide a stronger phylogenetic signal.
3884666|The length of the snow-free season has a significant influence on reproduction and growth in northern alpine environments, and these life history traits may provide sensitive indicators of the responses of organisms to climate change. We examined growth rates and timing of parturition of collared pikas (Ochotona collaris) from 1995-2002 in the Ruby Range, Yukon Territory, Canada. Growth rates were best described using a Gompertz model, in which the asymptotic mass, determined from the average male and female weights, was 157 g, the growth rate constant (K) was 0.0557, and the age at inflection (I) was 18.12 days, for a birth weight of 10 g. The maximum growth rate for North American pikas (O. collaris and O. princeps) increased with latitude, with maximum growth rates being approximately one-third greater in northern populations where the snow-free season is less than three months long. The mean parturition date varied significantly among years from 3 June to 3 July, and delayed parturition was correlated with indices of high snow accumulation and, to a lesser extent, late spring snowmelt. However, parturition date did not significantly affect the subsequent over-winter survival of juveniles in this population, suggesting that pikas are able to adjust to seasonal uncertainty associated with highly variable spring conditions.
3884849|Molecular data is ideal for exploring deep evolutionary history because of its universality, stochasticity and abundance. These features provide a means of exploring the evolutionary history of all organisms (including those that do not tend to leave fossils), independently of morphological evolution, and within a statistical framework that allows testing of evolutionary hypotheses. In particular, molecular data have an important role to play in examining hypotheses concerning the tempo and mode of evolution of animal body plans. Examples are given where molecular phylogenies have led to a re-examination of some fundamental assumptions in metazoan evolution, such as the immutability of early developmental characters, and the evolvability of bauplan characters. Molecular data is also providing a new and controversial time-scale for the evolution of animal phyla, pushing the major divisions of the animal kingdom deep into the Precambrian. There have been many reasons to question the accuracy and precision of molecular date estimates, such as the failure to account for lineage-specific rate variation and unreliable estimation of rates of molecular evolution. While these criticisms have been largely countered by recent studies, one problem has remained a challenge: could temporal variation in the rate of molecular evolution, perhaps associated with "explosive" adaptive radiations, cause overestimation of diversification dates? Empirical evidence for an effect of speciation rate, morphological evolution or ecological diversification on rates of molecular evolution is examined, and the potential for rate-variable methods for molecular dating are discussed.
40405963|Hormones coordinate developmental, physiological, and behavioral processes within and between all living organisms. They orchestrate and shape organogenesis from early in development, regulate the acquisition, assimilation, and utilization of nutrients to support growth and metabolism, control gamete production and sexual behavior, mediate organismal responses to environmental change, and allow for communication of information between organisms. Genes that code for hormones; the enzymes that synthesize, metabolize, and transport hormones; and hormone receptors are important targets for natural selection, and variation in their expression and function is a major driving force for the evolution of morphology and life history. Hormones coordinate physiology and behavior of populations of organisms, and thus play key roles in determining the structure of populations, communities, and ecosystems. The field of endocrinology is concerned with the study of hormones and their actions. This field is rooted in the comparative study of hormones in diverse species, which has provided the foundation for the modern fields of evolutionary, environmental, and biomedical endocrinology. Comparative endocrinologists work at the cutting edge of the life sciences. They identify new hormones, hormone receptors and mechanisms of hormone action applicable to diverse species, including humans; study the impact of habitat destruction, pollution, and climatic change on populations of organisms; establish novel model systems for studying hormones and their functions; and develop new genetic strains and husbandry practices for efficient production of animal protein. While the model system approach has dominated biomedical research in recent years, and has provided extraordinary insight into many basic cellular and molecular processes, this approach is limited to investigating a small minority of organisms. Animals exhibit tremendous diversity in form and function, life-history strategies, and responses to the environment. A major challenge for life scientists in the 21st century is to understand how a changing environment impacts all life on earth. A full understanding of the capabilities of organisms to respond to environmental variation, and the resilience of organisms challenged by environmental changes and extremes, is necessary for understanding the impact of pollution and climatic change on the viability of populations. Comparative endocrinologists have a key role to play in these efforts.
4485871|Bateman demonstrated differences in variance for fertility and mating success between the sexes, with males usually having a greater variance than females. Thus in general, male reproductive success increases with number of mates acquired. These results have been referred to as "Bateman's principles" and taken together with other parameters (e.g., relative parental investment) have been proposed to estimate a component of sexual selection. For this review I examine patterns of parental care and sexual selection in teleost fishes (substrate brooding and with internal fertilization). I present data for the pumpkinseed sunfish Lepomis gibbosus, in which I estimated cost of paternal care and compared direct measures of the intensity of selection on possible sexually selected traits to measures of sexual selection based on Bateman's principles. Despite high levels of paternal care in substrate brooding fishes, sexual selection tends to act more strongly on males than on females, which suggests that maternal investment is higher than paternal investment and that parental care does not limit the reproductive rate for males. In pumpkinseed sunfish, selection favors parents with high levels of defense that may exclude predators more effectively and, as suggested by Bateman's measures, alternative reproductive strategies may decrease the opportunity for sexual selection within the parental strategy. In teleost fishes with internal fertilization, patterns of parental investment and intensity of sexual selection seem to support Bateman's principles, but further studies using these systems and these measures of selection will improve the understanding of factors affecting the intensity of sexual selection and its relation to mating systems.
41319651|Territorial animals can be expected to distinguish among the types of competitors and noncompetitors that they encounter on a regular basis, including prospective mates and rivals of their own species, but they may not correctly classify individuals of other species. Closely related species often have similar phenotypes and this can cause confusion when formerly allopatric populations first come into contact. Errors in recognizing competitors can have important ecological and evolutionary effects. I review what is known about the mechanisms of competitor recognition in animals generally, focusing on cases in which the targets of recognition include other species. Case studies include damselflies, ants, skinks, salamanders, reef fishes, and birds. In general, recognition systems consist of a phenotypic cue (e. g., chemical, color, song), a neural template against which cues are compared, a motor response (e. g., aggression), and sensory integration circuits for context dependency of the response (if any). Little is known about how competitor recognition systems work at the neural level, but inferences about specificity of cues and about sensory integration can be drawn from the responses of territory residents to simulated intruders. Competitor recognition often involves multiple cues in the same, or different, sensory modalities. The same cues and templates are often, but not always, used for intraspecific and interspecific recognition. Experiments have shown that imprinting on local cues is common, which may enable templates to track evolved changes in cues automatically. The dependence of aggression and tolerance on context is important even in the simplest systems. Species in which mechanisms of competitor recognition are best known offer untapped opportunities to examine how competitor-recognition systems evolve (e. g., by comparing allopatric and sympatric populations). Cues that are gene products (peptides, proteins) may provide insights into rates of evolution. There are many avenues for further research on the important but understudied question of how animals recognize competitors.
3884854|The accumulation of multiple phylogenetic hypotheses for the Metazoa invites an evaluation of current progress in the field. I discuss three case studies from the recent literature to assess how cladistic analyses of metazoan morphology have contributed to our understanding of animal evolution. The first case study on cleavage cross patterns examines whether a decade of unanimous character scoring across different cladistic studies can be considered a reliable indicator of accumulated wisdom. The two remaining case studies illustrate how the unique strength of cladistic analyses to arbitrate between competing hypotheses can be crippled when insufficient attention is directed towards the construction of the data matrix. The second case study discusses a recent morphological cladistic analysis aimed at providing insight into the evolution of larval ciliary bands (prototrochs) in the Spiralia, and the third case study evaluates how four subsequent morphological cladistic analyses have contributed to our understanding of the phylogenetic placement of a problematicum, the Myzostomida. I conclude that current phylogenetic analyses of the Metazoa have not fully exploited the power of cladistics to test available alternative hypotheses. If our goal is to generate genuine progress in understanding rather than stochastic variation of opinions through time, we have to shift our attention from using cladistics as an easy tool to generate "novel" hypotheses of metazoan relationships, towards employing cladistics more critically as an effective instrument to test the relative merit of available multiple alternative hypotheses.
4485855|Desiccation tolerance is a wide-spread phenomenon in the plant kingdom, particularly in small propagules lacking own root or rhizome system, such as seeds, pollen, spores of spore plants, and whole moss plants, but rare in whole, vascular plants. Longevities in the desiccated state vary from a few days in some pollen and spore types to many decades in some seeds and moss spores, green vegetative tissues being intermediate in that respect. Therefore, small size of a propagule does not appear to be a factor limiting life span. The formation of a glassy state in the cytoplasm upon water loss considerably increases viscosity and slows deteriorative chemical reactions. Intermolecular hydrogen bonding strength and length in the glassy cytoplasm have been suggested to play a role in desiccation tolerance and longevity. To further explore this, a comparative Fourier transform IR study among dried anhydrobiotic plant propagules belonging to different phyla was conducted. This study indicated that strong hydrogen bonding does not correlate with long life span, but rather depends on the composition of the glass forming compounds. By contrast, a large number of double bonds in the acyl chains of the polar lipids correlated with short life span. This result suggests that deteriorative processes in membranes rather than in the glassy cytoplasm determine the rate of aging of dried anhydrobiotic propagules. This would agree with the view that lipids form the only fluid or semi-fluid phase in the dried propagules, which renders them comparatively susceptible to free radical attack.
25160159|Vertebrate morphologists often implicate functional adaptations of bone to mechanical milieus when comparing animals with distinct behavioral repertoires. Functional morphologists frequently use comparative osteology and locomotor behavior to construct correlative form-function relationships. While some experimental work has investigated functional adaptations of bone elicited by specific locomotor behaviors, these studies usually manipulate repertoires by introducing artificial situations (e.g., treadmills) or creating differences in the level of activity (i.e., exercise), either of which can compromise extrapolations to free-ranging animals. Here, we present trabecular bone morphology and microarchitecture from an inbred mouse model in which components of naturalistic locomotor repertoires were accentuated. Using inbred mice, we control for genetic variability, further isolating the osteogenic responses to these behaviors. Single female (BALB/cByJ) mice (n = 10 per group) were housed for 8 weeks beginning at 30 days postbirth in custom-designed cages that accenuated either linear quadrupedalism or turning. Concurrently, mice in a control group were housed singly in open cages. The distal femoral metaphysis was scanned by micro-computed tomography at the end of the 8-week experiment protocol. The experimental groups, particularly the "linear" group, differed significantly from the control group (simulated "free-ranging" condition) in several variables: bone volume fraction ("linear" 42% less than controls; "turning" 24% less than controls), trabecular number ("linear" 12% less than controls; "turning" 9% less than controls), connectivity density ("linear" 43% less than controls; "turning" 35% less than controls), and a characterization of trabecular surfaces ("linear" 15% greater than controls; "turning" 11% greater than controls). No differences in the degree of anisotropy were observed among groups, and generally, "linear" and "turning" groups did not differ significantly from one another in any measures of trabecular microarchitecture. Considering the distinct differences in locomotor behaviors between the "linear" quadrupedalism and "turning" groups, these data suggest that comparisons at the distal femoral metaphysis of trabecular microarchitecture or orientation between different groups of animals may be somewhat limited in accurately reconstructing the loading conditions associated with different locomotor modes.
23016054|Synopsis The humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae) is exceptional among the large baleen whales in its ability to undertake aquabatic maneuvers to catch prey. Humpback whales utilize extremely mobile, wing-like flippers for banking and turning. Large rounded tubercles along the leading edge of the flipper are morphological structures that are unique in nature. The tubercles on the leading edge act as passive-flow control devices that improve performance and maneuverability of the flipper. Experimental analysis of finite wing models has demonstrated that the presence of tubercles produces a delay in the angle of attack until stall, thereby increasing maximum lift and decreasing drag. Possible fluid-dynamic mechanisms for improved performance include delay of stall through generation of a vortex and modification of the boundary layer, and increase in effective span by reduction of both spanwise flow and strength of the tip vortex. The tubercles provide a bio-inspired design that has commercial viability for wing-like structures. Control of passive flow has the advantages of eliminating complex, costly, high-maintenance, and heavy control mechanisms, while improving performance for lifting bodies in air and water. The tubercles on the leading edge can be applied to the design of watercraft, aircraft, ventilation fans, and windmills.
25160201|Close to 30 forms of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) and at least five GnRH receptors have been identified in a wide variety of vertebrates and some invertebrates. One form, now called GnRH II, has the broadest distribution and the most ancient and conserved phylogeny. The distribution of the neurons that produce this peptide are completely nonoverlapping with any other GnRH forms. Fibers that project from these neurons overlap with GnRH I cells and/or fibers in a few regions, but are primarily divergent. The musk shrew (Suncus murinus) continues to be the most tractable mammalian species to use for studies of the function of GnRH II. The brain of the musk shrew has two GnRH genes (I and II), two GnRH receptors (types-1 and -2), and two different behaviors can be influenced by central infusion of GnRH II, but not by GnRH I; receptivity and feeding. Here, we summarize research on the musk shrew relative to the behavioral functions of GnRH II. First, female musk shrews are continually sexually receptive by virtue of their lack of an ovarian and/or behavioral estrus cycle. This feature of their reproductive ecology may be related to their semi-tropical distribution and their breeding season is highly dependent on changes in the availability of food. When food is not abundant, females stop mating, but brief bouts of feeding reinstate reproductive behavior. Likewise, intake of food is related to GnRH II mRNA and peptide content in the brain; after mild food restriction both decline. When GnRH II is infused centrally, at times when its content is low, it can both enhance receptivity and inhibit food intake. Simultaneous administration of a type-1 antagonist does not change the effect of GnRH II and use of an analog (135-18) that is a specific GnRH II agonist as well as a type-1 antagonist has the same effect as the endogenous GnRH II peptide. We propose that GnRH II plays a critical role by orchestrating the coordination of reproduction with the availability of nutritional support for these activities. Humans are bombarded with copious nutritional opportunities and at present obesity is a larger threat to health in many parts of the world than is under nutrition. It is our hope that understanding neuropeptides such as GnRH II that regulate food intake can ultimately lead to products that may curb appetite and thus decrease obesity and related risks to health.
3884617|Animal generated water movements are visualized and quantified using two-dimensional particle image velocimetry (PIV). The resulting vector flow fields allow for the study of the distribution of velocity, vorticity and vortices. Structural and temporal aspects of animal-induced flows covering a range of Reynolds (Re) numbers between less than 1 to more than 10
3884646|Experimental studies have demonstrated that for many marine invertebrate species, variability in larval condition or quality at settlement may have important effects on post-settlement, early juvenile performance. Relatively few studies, however, explicitly examine natural variability in larval condition at settlement. This study examines natural variability in larval attributes (size and lipid index) at settlement for terminal-stage larvae of intertidal mussels (Mytilus sp.) and barnacles (Pollicipes polymerus and Chthamalus dalli) from southern California. Despite significant differences among cohorts in larval attributes, for all 3 species a greater percentage of the variance in larval length (80-100%) and lipids (58-83%) occurred among individuals within a cohort, rather than among cohorts. For all 3 species, coefficients of variation within a cohort for length were much smaller (3-8%) than those for lipid index (30-93%), suggesting that lipid storage is a much more plastic attribute than size for larvae. For mussels, settlement intensity and larval attributes were decoupled, such that average larval condition of a cohort was not related to the number of larvae that settled. At the cohort level, Mytilus and Pollicipes settling together across 3 dates showed similar trends of decreasing lipid index over time, suggesting that environmental conditions may influence co-occurring planktonic larvae similarly across species. This work highlights the need for further experiments in the field on the effects of larval history on recruitment success in natural populations, and further studies to determine what factors influence larval attributes for planktonic larvae in the field.
3884700|The endocrine mechanisms controlling the development and reproduction of flight-capable (long-winged) and flightless (short-winged or wingless) morphs of wing-polymorphic insects have been intensively investigated. The "classical model," put forward in the early 1960s, postulates that morph-specific differences in development and reproduction are caused by variation in the titers of juvenile hormone (JH) and/or ecdysone. Despite decades of study, the importance of these hormones in regulating wing polymorphism in aphids and planthoppers remains uncertain. This uncertainly is largely a consequence of technical and size constraints which have severely limited the types of endocrine approaches that can be used in these insects. Recent studies in wing-polymorphic crickets (Gryllus) have provided the first direct evidence that the in vivo blood titers of juvenile hormone and ecdysone, and especially the activity of the JH regulator, juvenile hormone esterase, differ between nascent morphs. Morph differences are largely consistent with the classical model, although some types of data are problematic, and other explanations are possible. Adult morphs differ dramatically in the JH titer but titer differences are more complex than those proposed by the classical model. Detailed endocrine information is thus far available only for a few species of crickets, and the hormonal control of wing polymorphism for insects as a whole remains poorly understood. Future studies should continue to investigate the role of JH and ecdysteroids in morph development and reproduction, and should expand to include studies of morph-specific differences in hormone receptors and neurohormones.
3884926|Behavioral interaction during social situations is a continuum of action, response, and reaction. The temporal nature of social interaction creates a series of stressful situations, such as aggression, displacement from resources, and the variable psychological challenge of adapting to dynamic social hierarchies. The ebb and flow of neurochemical and endocrine secretions during social stress provide a unique tool for understanding individualized responses to stress. Each social station is an adaptive response to a stressful social condition, resulting in unique neuroendocrine and behavioral responses. By examining the temporal changes of limbic monoamines and plasma glucocorticoids, aspects of mechanisms for adaptation emerge. The similarity of temporal patterns induced by social stress among fish, reptiles and primates are remarkable. Even different specific coping mechanisms point out the similarity of vertebrate stress responses. The lizard Anolis carolinensis exhibits a unique sign stimulus generated during social stress by the sympathetic nervous system that serves as a temporal landmark to distinguish neuroendocrine patterns. During social interaction dominant males have a shorter latency to eyespot darkening than opponents, inhibiting aggressive display. Eyespot coloration can be delayed using a serotonin reuptake inhibitor, causing dominant social status in many animals to be lost. Reversal of social status via serotonergic activation appears to mimic chronic serotonergic activity. The pattern of eyespot darkening, faster in dominant males, is coincident with that for serotonergic activity. The fundamental temporal relationship between dominant and subordinate limbic monoaminergic activity over a continuous course of social interaction appears to be a two-phase response, temporally specific to brain region, and always faster in dominant individuals.
3884703| Amphibian larvae respond to heterogeneous environments by varying their rates of growth and development. Several amphibian species are known to accelerate metamorphosis in response to pond drying or resource restriction. Some of the most extensive studies to date on developmental responses to pond drying have been conducted on species of spadefoot toads (family Pelobatidae). We have found that tadpoles of two species of spadefoot toad accelerate metamorphosis when exposed to water volume reduction in the laboratory (to simulate a drying pond). Furthermore, Western spadefoot toad (Spea hammondii) tadpoles accelerated metamorphosis in response to food restriction, which was intended to simulate a decline in resource availability in the larval habitat. Metamorphic acceleration was accompanied by increased whole body 3,5,3-triiodothyronine and hindbrain corticotropin-releasing hormone content by 24 hr after transfer of tadpoles from high to low water. Food restriction for 4 day accelerated metamorphosis and elevated whole body thyroid hormone content. Although tadpoles accelerated metamorphosis and activated their thyroid axis in response to the two environmental manipulations, the kinetics of the responses were greater for water volume reduction than for resource restriction. The modulation of hormone secretion and action by environmental factors provides a mechanistic basis for plasticity in the timing of amphibian metamorphosis, and the neuroendocrine stress axis may play a central role in developmental plasticity. 
23016048|Synopsis Biomechanical forces govern the behaviors of organisms and their environment and examining these behaviors to understand the underlying phenomena is an important challenge. One experimental approach for probing these interactions between organisms and their biomechanical environment uses biologically-inspired, artificial surrogates that reproduce organic mechanical systems. For the case of complex, multicellular organisms, robot surrogates have been particularly effective, such as in the analysis of the fins of fish and insects' wings. This biologically-inspired approach is also exciting when examining cell-scale responses as multicellular organisms' behavior is directly influenced by the integrated interactions of smaller-scale components (i.e., cells). In this review, we introduce the burgeoning field of engineering of artificial cells, which focuses on developing cell-scale entities replicating cellular behaviors. We describe both a bottom-up approach to constructing artificial cells, using molecular components to directly assemble artificial cells, as well as a top-down approach, in which living cells are encapsulated in a single entity whose behavior is determined by its constituent members. In particular, we discuss the potential role of these artificial cells as implantable controllers, designed to alter the mechanical behavior of a host organism. Eventually, artificial cells designed to function as small-scale controllers may help alter organisms' phenotypes.
3884936|Ectoprocts, phoronids and brachiopods are often dealt with under the heading Tentaculata or Lophophorata, sometimes with entoprocts discussed in the same chapter, for example in Ruppert and Barnes (1994). The Lophophorata is purported to be held together by the presence of a "lophophore," a mesosomal tentacle crown with an upstream-collecting ciliary band. However, the mesosomal tentacle crown of pterobranchs has upstream-collecting ciliary bands with monociliate cells, similar to those of phoronids and brachiopods, although its ontogeny is not well documented. On the contrary, the ectoproct tentacle crown carries a ciliary sieving system with multiciliate cells and the body does not show archimery, neither during ontogeny nor during budding, so the tentacles cannot be characterized as mesosomal. The entoprocts have tentacles without coelomic canals and with a downstream-collecting ciliary system like that of trochophore larvae and adult rotifers and serpulid and sabellid annelids. Planktotrophic phoronid and brachiopod larvae develop tentacles at an early stage, but their ciliary system resembles those of echinoderm and enteropneust larvae. Ectoproct larvae are generally non-feeding, but the planktotrophic cyphonautes larvae of certain gymnolaemates have a ciliary band resembling that of the adult tentacles. The entoprocts have typical trochophore larvae and many feed with downstream-collecting ciliary bands. Phoronids and brachiopods are thus morphologically on the deuterostome line, probably as the sister group of the "Neorenalia" or Deuterostomia sensu stricto. The entoprocts are clearly spiralians, although their more precise position has not been determined. The position of the ectoprocts is uncertain, but nothing in their morphology indicates deuterostome affinities. "Lophophorata" is thus a polyphyletic assemblage and the word should disappear from the zoological vocabulary, just as "Vermes" disappeared many years ago.
4540134|Paleozoic chondrichthyans had a large gape, numerous spike-like teeth, limited cranial kinesis, and a nonsuspensory hyoid, suggesting a feeding mechanism dominated by bite and ram. Modern sharks are characterized by a mobile upper jaw braced by a suspensory hyoid arch that is highly kinetic. In batoids, the upper jaw is dissociated from the cranium permitting extensive protrusion of the jaws. Similar to actinopterygians, the evolution of highly mobile mandibular and hyoid elements has been correlated with extensive radiation of feeding modes in elasmobranchs, particularly that of suction. Modern elasmobranchs possess a remarkable variety of feeding modes for a group containing so few species. Biting, suction or filter-feeding may be used in conjunction with ram to capture prey, with most species able to use a combination of behaviors during a strike. Suction-feeding has repeatedly arisen within all recent major elasmobranch clades and is associated with a suite of morphological and behavioral specializations. Prey capture in a diverse assemblage of purported suction-feeding elasmobranchs is investigated in this study. Drop in water pressure measured in the mouth and at the location of the prey shows that suction inflow drops off rapidly with distance from the predator's mouth. Elasmobranchs specializing in suction-feeding may be limited to bottom associated prey and because of their small gape may have a diet restricted to relatively small prey. Behavior can affect performance and overcome constraints imposed by the fluid medium. Suction performance can be enhanced by proximity to a substrate or by decreasing distance from predator to prey using various morphological and/or behavioral characteristics. Benthic suctionfeeders benefit by the increased strike radius due to deflection of water flow when feeding close to a substrate, and perhaps require less accuracy when capturing prey. Suction and ram-suction-feeding elasmobranchs can also use suction inflow to draw prey to them from a short distance, while ram-feeding sharks must accelerate and overtake the prey. The relationship between feeding strategy and ecology may depend in part on ecological, mechanistic or evolutionary specialization. Mechanistic suction-feeding specialist elasmobranchs are primarily benthic, while most epibenthic and pelagic elasmobranchs are generalists and use ram, suction, and biting to catch a diversity of prey in various habitats. Some shark species are considered to be ecological specialists in choosing certain kinds of prey over others. Batoids are evolutionary specialists in having a flattened morphology and most are generalist feeders. Filter-feeding elasmobranchs are ecological, mechanistic, and evolutionary specialists.
4540187|The objective of this symposium at the First International Congress of Respiratory Biology (ICRB) was to enhance communication between comparative biologists and cancer researchers working on O<sub>2</sub> sensing via the HIF pathway. Representatives from both camps came together on August 13-16, 2006, in Bonn, Germany, to discuss molecular adaptations that occur after cells have been challenged by a reduced (hypoxia) or completely absent (anoxia) supply of oxygen. This brief "critters-to-cancer" survey discusses current projects and new directions aimed at improving understanding of hypoxic signaling and developing therapeutic interventions.
3884925|Stress inhibits feeding behavior in all vertebrates. Data from mammals suggest an important role for hypothalamic neuropepetides, in particular the melanocortins and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-like peptides, in mediating stress-induced inhibition of feeding. The effects of CRH on food intake are evolutionarily ancient, as this peptide inhibits feeding in fishes, birds, and mammals. The effects of melanocortins on food intake have not been as extensively studied, but available evidence suggests that the anorexic role of neuronal melanocortins has been conserved. Although there is evidence that CRH and the melanocortins influence hypothalamic circuitry controlling food intake, these peptides may have a more primitive role in modulating visuomotor pathways involved in the recognition and acquisition of food. Stress rapidly reduces visually guided prey-catching behavior in toads, an effect that can be mimicked by administration of CRH, while corticosterone and isoproterenol are without effect. Melanocortins also reduce prey-oriented turning movements and, in addition, facilitate the acquisition of habituation to a moving prey item. The effects of these neuropeptides are rapid, occurring within 30 min after administration. Thus, changes in neuroendocrine status during stress may dramatically influence the efficacy with which visual stimuli release feeding behavior. By modulating visuomotor processing these neuropeptides may help animals make appropriate behavioral decisions during stress.
40931226|The body shape of fishes encompasses a number of morphological traits that are intrinsically linked to functional systems and affect various measures of performance, including swimming, feeding, and avoiding predators.Changes in shape can allow a species to exploit a new ecological niche and can lead to ecological speciation. Body shape results from the integration of morphological, behavioral and physiological traits. It has been well established that functional interdependency among traits plays a large role in constraining the evolution of shape, affecting both the speed and the repeated evolution of particular body shapes. However, it is less clear what role genetic or developmental constraints might play in biasing the rate or direction of the evolution of body shape. Here, we suggest that the threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) is a powerful model system in which to address the extent to which genetic or developmental constraints play a role in the evolution of body shape in fishes. We review the existing data that begins to address these issues in sticklebacks and provide suggestions for future areas of research that will be particularly fruitful for illuminating the mechanisms that contribute to the evolution of body shape in fishes.
25160118|Lore and indirect evidence from previous studies suggest that nocturnally migrating vertebrates (perhaps bats but mostly birds) sometimes fly widely dispersed from each other, but in flocks. The observations include stationary and scanning radars, recordings of flight calls, and watching the moon with telescopes. Direct observations of such flocks have been lacking. This article presents data from novel tracking of nocturnal aggregations of radar targets. Statistical analysis of straight, detailed flight paths supported the hypothesis that vertebrates, almost certainly birds, flying within about 200-300 m of each other fly parallel (in the same direction at the same speed) more often than do vertebrates flying farther apart. This inference was strengthened by comparisons with a partial control for wind and for small-scale atmospheric structure: namely, small nocturnal arthropods tracked by the identical method did not fly parallel. Radar data also indicated that birds flying together may have similar wing beats, suggesting taxonomic similarity between birds flying parallel. Possible functions include not only mutual benefits on the ground during migratory stopover (habitat use, avoidance of predators, and social feeding) but also in-flight sharing of information about orientation.
40306092|A central goal in understanding the ecology and evolution of animals is to identify factors that constrain or expand breadth of diet. Selection of diet in many animals is often constrained by chemical deterrents (i. e., secondary metabolites) in available food items. The integration of chemistry and ecology has led to a significant understanding of the chemical complexity of prey (e. g., animals, plants, and algae) and the resultant foraging behavior of consumers. However, most of the literature on chemical defenses of marine and terrestrial prey lacks a mechanistic understanding of how consumers tolerate, or avoid, chemically-defended foods. In order to understand ecological patterns of foraging and co-evolutionary relationships between prey and consumers, we must advance our understanding of the physiological mechanisms responsible for chemical interactions. Such mechanistic studies require the integration of the discipline of pharmacology with ecology, which we call "PharmEcology." Pharmacology provides the tools and insight to investigate the fate (what the body does to a chemical) and action (what a chemical does to the body) of chemicals in living organisms, whereas ecology provides the insight into the interactions between organisms (e. g., herbivores) and their environment (e. g., plants). Although, the general concepts of pharmacology were introduced to ecologists studying plantherbivore interactions over 30 years ago, the empirical use of pharmacology to understand mechanisms of chemical interactions has remained limited. Moreover, many of the recent biochemical, molecular and technical advances in pharmacology have yet to be utilized by ecologists. The PharmEcology symposium held at a meeting of the Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology in January of 2009 was developed to define novel research directions at the interface of pharmacology and ecology.
4540149|Synopsis Males and females from several animal taxa differ in locomotor performance traits such as sprinting and jumping. These performance dimorphisms may be explained at least partially by sexual differences in physiology or morphology. In ectotherms such as reptiles, however, thermal ecology places an additional constraint on realized locomotor performance. I review recent studies on reptiles examining sexual differences in locomotor capacity and related thermoregulatory behavior, and discuss potential causes, constraints, and selective pressures that might drive intersexual divergence in capacity for locomotor performance in reptiles. In several cases where such differences occur, sexual dimorphisms in body size do not account for all the observed variation in performance. However, while sex-specific locomotor capacities might be evident in the laboratory, ecological performance in nature is likely the result of complex interactions among sex, thermal sensitivity, habitat type, and behavioral locomotor compensation. Results from laboratory studies of dimorphisms in maximum locomotor capacity are therefore likely to be poor predictors of realized ecological differences in performance. Nonetheless, sex differences in performance are potentially important modifiers of male and female behavioral strategies and overall fitness, and consequently are deserving of more attention than they have thus far received.
40931190|Like most polychaete annelids, Capitella teleta (formerly Capitella sp. I) exhibits a highly Stereotypie program of early development known as spiral cleavage. Animals with spiral cleavage have diverse body plans, and homologous embryonic cells can be readily identified among distantly related animals. Spiralian embryos are particularly amenable to studies of fate-mapping, and larval fates of identified cells are conserved among diverse taxa. One cell of particular importance in spiralian development is 2d, or the primary somatoblast, which generates ectoderm of the body posterior to the prototroch. We are interested in the evolution of the primary somatoblast, and thus far, the 2d sublineage has only been analyzed in a few species. In Capitella teleta, 2d generates ectoderm of the segmented trunk and post-segmental pygidium. In this study, development of the 2d lineage was characterized in detail through intracellular injections of Dil, and time-lapse as well as confocal microscopy to analyze cleavage patterns and the fates of larval cells. Analysis of cleavage patterns reveals that the first bilateral division in the 2d sublineage occurs with the division of 2d, the same 2d daughter cell that first divides bilaterally in the polychaete Platynereis dumerilii Larval fates of blastomeres 2d, 2d, 2d, 2d, 2d, 2d, and 2d were determined. All cells show Stereotypie descendant clones that are consistent with segregation within sublineages. In the first few divisions of the 2d sublineage, larval-specific structures (neurotroch and telotroch) and pygidial ectoderm are segregated from segmental ectoderm and ventral nerve cord. The daughters of the first bilateral division, 2d and 2d, generate the right and left halves of the segmental ectoderm and ventral nerve cord respectively, although the clones are consistently asymmetric across the dorsal midline. The pattern of cleavage divisions and the fates of the 2d daughters in Capitella teleta are compared to those in other spiralians with special attention to annelids.
3884835|We consider three issues that appear to be important in the interpretation of developmental genetics in an evolutionary context. The three issues under discussion are 1) evolutionary loss as applied to evo-devo data; 2) the limits on our ability to infer ancestry based on tree reconstruction; and 3) "type 2" errors in the assessment of homology of developmental gene expression data. Lack of consideration of any or all of these disparate issues narrows the set of hypotheses under consideration. We examine these issues through examples drawing on new data on POU domain genes as well as through reference to published work on Distal-less, engrailed and Nk2 genes.
3884899| This study uses a spatially explicit microclimate/biophysical approach to examine the potential distribution of the Po'ouli on Maui to find either new habitats to search for existence or refine search efforts in previously occupied areas. We used specific physiological and behavioral ecology bird data, and Po'ouli morphological and spectral data obtained from museum specimens to address ecological and conservation-related questions about the Po'ouli that are otherwise very difficult to quantify. Laboratory and field tested microclimate and biophysical-behavioral animal computer models were integrated with remote sensing technologies. To show that the generic microclimate and endotherm models can predict metabolic and water loss requirements of Hawaiian Honeycreepers, we used the 2 species with known physiological properties, the Hawaiian Amakihi, Hemignathus virens, and the Hawaiian Anianiau, Hemignathus parvus. Predictions were within experimental measurement error of the laboratory measurements. Then using field rather than laboratory conditions as input data, we predict the field distribution of the Amakihi on Maui as the first spatial test of the models applied to birds. Results are consistent with Amakihi field distribution data. Fossils show that the Po'ouli once lived on Maui at low elevations in dry/mesic habitats on a likely diet of native tree snails and insects. The arrival of lethal mosquito-borne avian malaria in Hawaii exterminated low elevation Po'ouli forcing a population shift to mountain rainforests and possibly a snail diet instead of insects. To explore the maximum consequences of such a diet shift we assumed exclusive diets of snails versus insects at both low and high elevations. Snail diets require 4 times higher foraging rates than do insect diets, making a predominantly snail diet an unlikely prospect for the Po'ouli. Landscape scale simulations suggest that a snail diet would force a Po'ouli distribution inconsistent with observations. A predominantly insect diet is consistent with distribution observations. We show that as local environmental conditions change across the landscape in space and diurnal/seasonal time it is possible to quantify animal physiological and behavioral consequences of those variations in their local environment. This enables quantification of the requisite spatial and temporal distribution and amount or availability of resources that may affect species' potential for survival, growth, reproduction and distribution. 
4485866|I introduce the term "Darwin-Bateman Paradigm" to include several proposals stemming from the writings of Charles Darwin and A. J. Bateman, including the notions that (a) male reproductive success is more variable than that of females, (b) males gain more in reproductive success from repeated matings than do females, and (c) males are generally eager to mate and relatively indiscriminate whereas females are more discriminating and less eager. I trace this paradigm from Darwin's The Descent of Man through Bateman's research and beyond. I try to clarify the terminology used in applying Bateman's results and discuss both the impact and the criticisms the paradigm has engendered. I then broaden the context of the Darwin-Bateman Paradigm to show related conceptions in disparate fields that evolved in parallel with it. I conclude that gender stereotypes appear to have influenced these conceptions. The paradigm has been of great heuristic value but is in need of further empirical investigation in view of numerous exceptions to these general rules.
3884671|The discipline of functional morphology grew out of a comparative anatomical tradition, its transformation into a modern experimental science facilitated largely by technological advances. Early morphologists, such as Cuvier, felt that function was predictable from organismal form, to the extent that animals and plants represented perfect adaptations to their habits. However, anatomy alone could not reveal how organisms actually performed their activities. Recording techniques capable of capturing fast motion were first required to begin to understand animal movement. Muybridge is most famous for his pioneering work in fast photography in the late 19th century, enabling him to "freeze" images of even the fastest horse at a full gallop. In fact, contemporary kinematic analysis grew directly out of the techniques Muybridge developed. Marey made perhaps an even greater contribution to experimental science through his invention of automatic apparati for recording events of animal motion. Over the first half of the 20th century, scientists developed practical methods to record activity patterns from muscles of a living, behaving human or animal. The technique of electromyography, initially used in clinical applications, was co-opted as a tool of organismal biologists in the late 1960s. Comparative anatomy, kinematic analysis and electromyography have for many years been the mainstay of vertebrate functional morphology; however, those interested in animal form and function have recently begun branching out to incorporate approaches from experimental biomechanics and other disciplines (see accompanying symposium papers), and functional morphology now stands at the threshold of becoming a truly integrative, central field in organismal biology.
25160223| Mussels rely on a strong byssal attachment to persist in a range of habitats with differing rates of water flow. Recent studies, however, suggest that the ability of one mussel species to sense and respond adaptively to the flow in its environment is limited under even modest flow conditions because the process of byssal thread formation is disrupted. This study extends these findings to four mussel species, Mytilus trossulus, M. galloprovincialis, M. californianus, and Modiolus modiolus. Collectively, the response of byssal thread formation decreased with rates of flow above 25 cm/s and the critical flow threshold was estimated to be &lt;50 cm/s. How can mussels persist on shores where flow is an order of magnitude higher? Using a combination of techniques for measuring flow, velocity profiles were obtained above and within mussel aggregations in the laboratory and in the field. Flow was greatly reduced within mussel aggregations, ranging from 0.1% to 10% of free-stream velocity. These results suggest one key to the success of mussels in habitats with high rates of flow is the ability to form aggregations that ameliorate flows to a level that is conducive to byssal thread formation. 
4485843|Amacrine cells are interneurons that have diverse functions in retinal signal processing. In order to study signaling and modulation in retinal amacrine cells, we employ a simplified culture system containing identifiable GABAergic amacrine cells. Immunocytochemistry experiments indicate that GABAergic amacrine cells express metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5), a group I mGluR usually linked to the IP3 signaling pathway. Ca
25160177| The feather beta () keratins of the white leghorn chicken (order Galliformes, Gallus gallus domesticus) are the products of a multigene family that includes claw, feather, feather-like, and scale genes (Presland et al. 1989a). Here we characterize the feather -keratin genes in additional bird species. We designed primers for polymerase chain reactions (PCR) using sequences available from chicken, cloned the resulting amplicons to isolate individual copies, and sequenced multiple clones from each PCR reaction for which we obtained amplicons of the expected size. Feather -keratins of 18 species from eight avian orders demonstrate DNA sequence variation within and among taxa, even in the protein-coding regions of the genes. Phylogenies of these data suggest that Galliformes (fowl-like birds), Psittaciformes (parrots), and possibly Falconiformes (birds of prey) existed as separate lineages before duplication of the feather -keratin gene began in Ciconiiformes (herons, storks, and allies), Gruiformes (cranes, rails, and allies), and Piciformes (woodpeckers and allies). Sequences from single species of Coraciiformes (kingfishers) and Columbiformes (pigeons) are monophyletic and strikingly divergent, suggesting feather -keratin genes in these birds also diverged after these species last shared a common ancestor with the other taxa investigated. Overall, these data demonstrate considerable variation in this structural protein in the relatively recent history of birds, and raise questions concerning the origin and homology of claw, feather-like, and scale -keratins of birds and the reptilian -keratins. 
3884658|Northern environments present ecological and physiological problems for homeotherms that require adaptations to cope with severe and less predictable physical factors while at the same time continuing to have to cope with the biological ones, such as competition and predation. The stress axis plays a central role in these adaptations and I discuss the range of solutions that birds and mammals have evolved. The stress response in these animals is not static when a challenge occurs, but may be modulated depending on the biological function during the annual cycle (breeding versus nonbreeding), either under-responding to permit reproduction (some song birds) or responding vigorously, yet not having this compromise reproduction (Arctic ground squirrels). Both may trade off survival for reproduction. In contrast, the snowshoe hare shows the expected stress response to chronic high predation risk over 2-3 years: body resources are geared to survival and reproduction is inhibited. Two long term, persistent, and pervasive changes will confront northern birds and mammals in the
41319662|Locomotor behavior in mammals requires a complex pattern of muscle activation. Neural networks, known as central pattern generators (CPGs) and located entirely within the spinal cord, are responsible for generating much of the timing and pattern required for locomotor movements. Historically, identification of interneuronal components of the locomotor CPG in walking mammals has proven troublesome, primarily because of the difficulty in identifying functionally homogeneous groups of neurons in the spinal cord. Recently, a molecular approach has been used to identify populations of genetically similar interneurons based on the expression of transcription factors early in embryonic development. Preliminary work on these cell populations has shown that many comprise essential components of the locomotor CPG. Here I identify populations of genetically-defined interneurons that are candidate "first-order" cells of this neural network, potentially responsible for generating the locomotor rhythm in the mammalian spinal cord. Identification of the cell population(s) responsible for this key function will provide valuable insight into the structure and function of the locomotor CPG and could potentially lay the groundwork for the development of strategies aimed at regeneration motor pathways following injury to the spinal cord.
3884866|Metamorphosis in many animal groups involves a radical transition from a larval to a juvenile/adult body plan and the challenge of orchestrating 2 overlapping developmental programs simultaneously, that is, larval development and juvenile development. Metamorphic competence directly precedes this radical change in morphology and can be best described as the developmental potential of a larva to undergo the radical transition in response to internal or external signals. Several studies have employed genomic approaches (for example, microarrays or subtractive hybridization methods) to gain insights into the complexity of changes in gene expression associated with metamorphic transitions. Availability of this technology for an increasing number of organisms from diverse taxonomic groups expands the scope of species for which we can gain detailed understanding of the genetic and epigenetic architecture underlying metamorphosis. Here, we review metamorphosis in insects, amphibians, and several marine invertebrate species including the sea hare Aplysia californica and summarize mechanisms underlying the transition. We conclude that all metamorphoses share at least 4 components: (1) the differentiation of juvenile/adult structures, (2) the degeneration of larval structures, (3) metamorphic competence, and (4) change in habitat. While transcription levels detected by microarray or other molecular methods can vary significantly, some similarities can be observed. For example, transcripts related to stress response, immunity, and apoptosis are associated with metamorphosis in all investigated phyla. It also appears that signaling mediated by hormones and by nitric oxide can contribute to these stress-related responses and that these molecules can act as regulators of metamorphic transitions. This might indicate either that all of these distantly related organisms inherited the same basic regulatory machinery that was employed by their most recent common ancestor (RCA) in orchestrating life history transitions. Alternatively, these regulatory modules may have been used by the RCA for other purposes and have been independently co-opted to regulate metamorphic transitions in a variety of distantly related animals. We propose that such instances of independent origin or homoplasy in the evolution of metamorphosis might have resulted from specific constraints in signal transduction pathways. Modern genomic tools can help to further explore homoplastic signaling modules when used in a comparative context.
3884945|Although most species of animals examined to date exhibit Bergmann's clines in body size, squamates tend to exhibit opposing patterns. Squamates might exhibit reversed Bergmann's clines because they tend to behaviorally regulate their body temperature effectively; the outcome of this thermoregulation is that warmer environments enable longer daily and annual durations of activity than cooler environments. Lizards of the genus Sceloporus provide an opportunity to understand the factors that give rise to contrasting thermal clines in body size because S. undulatus exhibits a standard Bergmann's cline whereas S. graciosus exhibits a reverse Bergmann's cline. Interestingly, rapid growth by individuals of both species involves adjustments of physiological processes that enable more efficient use of food. Patterns of adult body size are likely the evolutionary consequence of variation in juvenile survivorship among populations. In S. undulatus, delayed maturation at a relatively large body size is exhibited in cooler environments where juveniles experience higher survivorship, resulting in a Bergmann's cline. In S. graciosus, high juvenile survivorship is not consistently found in cooler environments, resulting in no cline or a reversed Bergmann's cline, i.e., geographic patterns in body size aren't necessarily produced by natural selection. Thus, discerning the mechanistic links between the thermal physiology of an organism and environment-specific rates of mortality will be critical to understanding the evolution of body size in relation to environmental temperature.
41319652|Information transfer influences food-web dynamics in the marine environment, but infochemicals involved in these processes are only beginning to be understood. Dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) is produced by phytoplankton and other marine algae, and has been studied primarily in the context of sulfur cycling and regulation of global climate. My laboratory has been investigating DMSP and its breakdown product, dimethyl sulfide as infochemicals associated with trophic interactions in marine habitats, including sub-Antarctic and coral reef ecosystems. Using a neuroecological approach, our work has established that these biogenic sulfur compounds serve as critical signal molecules in marine systems and provides us with a more mechanistic understanding of how climate change may impact information transfer within marine food webs.
40793142|Ecosystem engineers are species that alter the physical environment in ways that create new habitat or change the suitability of existing habitats for themselves or other organisms. In marine systems, much of the focus has been on species such as corals, oysters, and macrophytes that add physical structure to the environment, but organisms ranging from microbes to jellyfish and finfish that reside in the water column of oceans, estuaries, and coastal seas alter the chemical and physical environment both within the water column and on the benthos. By causing hypoxia, changing light regimes, and influencing physical mixing, these organisms may have as strong an effect as species that fall more clearly within the classical category of ecosystem engineer. In addition, planktonic species, such as jellyfish, may indirectly alter the physical environment through predator-mediated landscape structure. By creating spatial patterns of habitats that vary in their rates of mortality due to prdation, planktonic predators may control spatial patterns and abundances of species that are the direct creators or modifiers of physical habitat.
25160149|Electromyography is often used to infer the pattern of production of force by skeletal muscles. The interpretation of muscle function from the electromyogram (EMG) is challenged by the fact that factors such as type of muscle fiber, muscle length, and muscle velocity can all influence the relationship between electrical and mechanical activity of a muscle. Simultaneous measurements of EMG, muscle force, and fascicle length in hindlimb muscles of wild turkeys allow us to probe the quantitative link between force and EMG. We examined two features of the force-EMG relationship. First, we measured the relaxation electromechanical delay (r-EMD) as the time from the end of the EMG signal to time of the end of force. This delay varied with locomotor speed in the lateral gastrocnemius (LG); it was longer at slow walking speeds than for running. This variation in r-EMD was not explained by differences in muscle length trajectory, as the magnitude of r-EMD was not correlated with the velocity of shortening of the muscle during relaxation. We speculate that the longer relaxation times at slow walkign speeds compared with running may reflect the longer time course of relaxation in slower muscles fibers. We also examined the relationship between magnitude of force and EMG across a range of walking and running speeds. We analyzed the force-EMG relationship during the swing phase separately from the force-EMG relationship during stance phase. During stance, force amplitude (average force) was linearly related to mean EMG amplitude (average EMG). Forces during swing phase were lower than predicted from the stance phase force-EMG relationship. The different force-EMG relationships during the stance and swing phases may reflect the contribution of passive structures to the development of force, or a nonlinear force-EMG relationship at low levels of muscle activity. Together the results suggest that any inference of force from EMG must be done cautiously when a broad range of activities is considered.
